K820x#14complaint
Miss and Mrs As complaint is that unsuitable investments were  recommended to them by 
MSR Partners LLP (MSR). They are legally represented. Their complaint features MSRs 
recommendation of an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS) to Mrs A in 2011 
(the first UCIS)  and its recommendation of another UCIS to Miss and Mrs A (jointly) in 2013 
(the second  UCIS).
background
Miss and Mrs As solicitors submitted a comprehensive complaint on their behalf, which 
detailed background and key events between the parties and between  2011 and 2016. Their 
submissions include the following:
Mrs As dealings  with MSR began in 2011  after her late husband passed away.  
Previously, her husband had overseen their significant assets.  Mrs A was 62 years 
old at the time, she was not in employment, she had no previous investment 
experience, she was in sole possession of pensions  and investments  worth over £1 
million (the management of which was subject to MSRs advice) and she had 
become the sole owner of her mortgage free house worth almost £2 million. She 
sought investment  advice from MSR, with the objectives of maintaining the value of 
her investments, drawing  more income  as she grew  older and planning for tax 
efficient inheritance. She had a low risk profile.
MSR advised Mrs A in April 2011. Its suitability  letter was preliminary  in nature. More 
risk profile assessment by MSR was to follow. It referred to an objective of drawing 
£50,000 net annual income  in a tax efficient manner.  It recommended  the 
consolidation and liquidation of existing investments and pensions, resulting in 
investible cash of around £850,000.  It recommended that Mrs A invest £600,000 
(£400,000 in a Discounted Gift and Interest Trust (DGIT), £100,000 in an Enterprise 
Investment Scheme (EIS) and £100,000 in an investment account) and retain 
£250,000 in cash. 
In July 2011 two further suitability letters were issued by MSR, revising some aspects 
of its earlier recommendations  including substitution of the first UCIS investment for 
the EIS it previously recommended and use of an investment bond to hold the DGIT. 
The revisions were made in the context of Inheritance Tax (IHT)  planning, with the 
first UCIS investment projected  to offer a 40% IHT saving after two years.  It appears  
that the parties agreed that Mrs A was prepared  to take more risk with the UCIS for 
this reason and because  it represented  less than 10% of her pension  and liquid 
assets.
In August 2011 MSR issued a letter to Mrs A, about the promotion of UCIS and about  
her classification  as a Category 8 individual (an individual capable of making  his/her 
own investment decisions  and of understanding the risks involved). It sought her 
signature in order  for her to receive  promotions of UCIS investments.
Around February 2013 Miss and Mrs A met with MSR. Shortly  thereafter MSR issued 
a further suitability letter in which it recommended that they each  invest £100,000 in 
the second UCIS investment. It noted  that investment in the second  UCIS would 
attract Capital Gains Tax (CGT),  however by investing  in both names  they could 
Ref: DRN92546192double the annual CGT  allowance for the investment, which  increased  the amount of 
tax free withdrawals.
Miss and Mrs As solicitors say their complaint, in the main, is as follows:
Both UCIS recommendations (and investments) were unsuitable for them.  The 
investments were not properly explained to them; the investments  were 
recommended without proper assessments of their investor profiles and without 
proper assessments of suitability; the risks in the investments (and the risks 
associated with UCIS investments in particular) were too high for them and were not 
explained to them;  and the risks in the investments  made  their portfolio vulnerable to 
significant reductions in value.
Both UCIS investments were promoted  and/or recommended to Miss and Mrs A in 
breach of regulations at the time  regulations  detailed within  the solicitors 
submissions.
MSR disputes the complaint. In the main, it says:
Only Mrs A invested in 2011 and evidence shows that it properly assessed her 
profile, including her objective  and attitude to risk (ATR). The Supplementary Terms 
of Business she signed in February  2011  accurately  and expressly  recorded,  at the 
outset, her objective to reinvest  in a tax efficient manner to provide income for the 
remainder of her life. In March 2011, prior to issuing its suitability letter, it met Mrs A 
and its notes of the meeting show that it explored and sought  to understand her 
overall profile. It sent her a number  of letters in March and April 2011  with information 
about its profile assessments, its risk assessment was in progress during this period, 
it was completed by May 2011  and it met Mrs A soon thereafter to discuss the 
investment report. This body of evidence defeats the allegations  that it did not 
properly assess her profile and did not properly explain  its advice  (and risks) to her.
With regards to the first UCIS investment, it highlights a statement by Mrs As 
solicitors in which it accepts that MSR  outlined the risks of this investment in clear 
and comprehensible  terms in the 21 July Advice  Letter. It asserts that this 21 July 
advice letter did precisely that and that it also included the following notice to Mrs A  
 you have confirmed you are happy to be treated as a Category 8 client in respect 
of this investment  recommendation, as these types of schemes cannot be promoted 
to the general  public. It wrote to her on 1 August 2011 with more detailed information  
about UCIS and then met her the following day during which, as confirmed by its 
notes of the meeting, it explained the unregulated  nature of UCIS investments even 
further; it referred to the lack of regulatory  protection for such  investments; it 
confirmed her understanding  of the higher risks involved; and it confirmed her 
agreement to have  such schemes promoted to her and to invest  in such a scheme 
given the potential IHT benefits and given that it represented a small part of her 
overall wealth. She signed another Supplementary Terms of Business on this date 
which explained her Category  8 classification.  Given this sequence of events it 
rejects any assertion that the first UCIS  investment  was not properly  promoted.
A similar sequence of events applied to the second UCIS investment, including Mrs A 
signing (alongside  Miss A) another Supplementary Terms of Business in February  
2013 which explained the Category  8 classification. By 2013, she had the experience  
of having invested  in the first UCIS since 2011. It rejects any assertion that the risks 
in investing in UCIS funds were not clearly explained to Miss and Mrs A.
Ref: DRN92546193One of our investigators  looked into the merits of the complaint. He concluded that the 
complaint should  not be upheld, for reasons  broadly similar to those  submitted by MSR. Miss 
and Mrs As solicitors disagreed. In the main, they said:
We should be mindful that Mrs A was an inexperienced investor in 2011.
The investigator accepts that there is no evidence of Mrs A being classified as a 
Category 8 investor before  recommendation of the first UCIS in July 2011. This is 
because it did not happen  contrary to regulations   and the implication of this 
classification was never verbally explained  to her.
In addition, there is no evidence of written  consent from Mrs A, prior to 
recommendation of the first UCIS, to receive promotion of UCIS investments  which 
regulation at the time required before such promotion could take place.
No proper investor assessment took place  in 2013 in relation to Miss A.
The UCIS investments conflicted with MSRs assessment of a low ATR for Mrs A.
The investigator was not persuaded to change his view. He noted evidence that suggested 
promotion related  issues  raised by the solicitors would not have made  a difference  to Mrs A 
investing in the first UCIS and referred to evidence  that she was given written  information 
about the Category 8 classification  even if it was not verbally explained  to her. In terms of 
Mrs As inexperienced profile  in 2011,  the investigator was satisfied that MSR held sufficient 
meetings and discussions with her to inform her investment decision(s). With regards to the 
assessment of Miss A in 2013, the investigator noted that she was added to the investment 
mainly for CGT allowance purposes,  the recommendation was made to Mrs A and the 
money invested belonged  to Mrs A. He viewed the need to assess Miss As profile in this 
context.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I consider that Mrs As profile was adequately assessed  in 2011 and that 
she (and her capital) remained  the main subject in 2013, so there was arguably  less of a 
need to assess  Miss A; I am not persuaded that MSRs recommendations to Miss and Mrs A 
were unsuitable;  like the investigator, I do not consider that the promotion  related issues  
would have made a difference  to Mrs As investment in 2011; and I consider she was 
adequately informed about  the Category 8 classification.
Miss and Mrs As solicitors have competently detailed  regulatory issues  which they say are 
associated with the complaint. Their complaint to this service is, in the main,  for the purpose  
of obtaining redress  for alleged  financial losses arising from what  they consider to be 
unsuitable investment  advice.  My task is to address this and I do so within the regulations  
relevant to the overall investment advice process.  I consider as follows:
2011 Events
I accept that Mrs A was an inexperienced  investor at the outset and that she had an 
overall low ATR.  Her engagement with MSR appears to have been  defined by the 
need to review and restructure pensions and investments which  her late husband 
Ref: DRN92546194had previously overseen. The change  in her circumstances at the time also gave  rise 
to her objectives to generate income  and plan ahead for IHT. The assets she had to 
oversee were significant in value and were,  mainly, already invested. She was not 
comparable to the type of novice investor who was moving assets, for the first time, 
from a no risk status into a risk based  status. Instead and on the one hand,  she was 
essentially continuing what  her late husband had started and, on the other  hand,  she 
sought to review and adjust some arrangements based on her profile  and objectives.  
Mrs As investor profile should be viewed in this context.
There is sufficient information  about the communications between MSR and Mrs A in 
2011. 
I accept the point made by Mrs As solicitors  about promotion of the first UCIS. It was 
promoted and recommended (around 21 July) to her around  a week  before the 
requisite UCIS promotion notice (to her) and written consent (from her) took place 
(on 1 and 2 August respectively). The opposite  that is, requisite notice and consent 
taking place before promotion and recommendation  should  have been the case.  
The regulatory implications of this are beyond  my remit. In terms of its effect  on the 
merits of Mrs As complaint about  the first UCIS I am not persuaded that this issue  
made or makes a difference.
MSRs recommendation letter to Mrs A of 21 July included content  about UCIS 
investments, about their risks,  about  the lack of protection  for them  and about  their 
suitability for only a certain  type of investor.  The notice letter  of 1 August presented a 
more detailed picture, but the recommendation letter sufficiently informed Mrs A 
about what a UCIS  investment was and how, in the main, it differed from regulated  
investments. I do not suggest that this provides an excuse for the lack of proper 
notice and consent prior to promotion and recommendation.  However,  it supports the 
argument that implicit notice was within  the recommendation  letter and Mrs As 
implicit consent in accepting that notice (in the recommendation) was closely 
followed, within around a week, by her written consent of 2 August. Furthermore, 
both parties met on 2 August  and I consider the meeting  notes to be reliable 
evidence that they met for around  two hours and discussed  the recommendation of 
21 July and the notice of 1 August. 
The Supplementary Terms of Business  Agreement  that Mrs A signed, also on 2 
August, shows that the Category 8 classification was brought to her attention, 
explained to her and agreed  by her  all in writing.  In light of this, I do not consider 
there is value in the argument that it was not verbally explained  to her. 
In terms of MSRs assessment of Mrs As investor profile  and her understanding of 
the assessment,  there is evidence of sufficient  meetings and advice letters (and the 
notice and consent mentioned above) between the parties, and between  March and 
August 2011,  that suggests  an adequately thorough  investment advice process  took 
place. Matters do not appear  to have been rushed and Mrs A appears to have  had 
ample time and opportunity to consider  her decisions  including  a further meeting on 
30 August when the recommendation of the first UCIS was reviewed and discussed  
again before  she issued  the cheque to invest in it; the investment then taking place 
thereafter in September. Her circumstances,  details of investments and capital, her 
objectives, her ATR, information about her planned expenditure and repeated 
discussions and reviews  of the recommendations were captured  and agreed in this 
process during  these  six months.  Risk warnings  were  given  (and explained) and 
Ref: DRN92546195detailed advice documents were  issued. Overall, I am not persuaded by the 
allegation that MSR did not properly  assess Mrs As profile and that she did not 
understand the process (and its contents).
There is evidence, from the meeting notes in August that Mrs A sought to step 
outside her overall low ATR in order to take on the higher risks of the first UCIS  in 
return for IHT benefits. There is also evidence  in the July advice letter  and in the 
information about the UCIS fund which suggests, on balance, that it was a suitable  
match for that purpose. She and her solicitors  might consider that an alternative 
recommendation could have been better, but that does  not automatically mean the 
fund was unsuitable. MSRs responsibility  was to make a suitable recommendation  
not to make the most  suitable recommendation. 
The fund came under the Business Property  Relief (BPR) scheme, so it stood to 
serve the purpose of business relief for IHT purposes,  after two years,  as MSR 
explained to Mrs A. Evidence says that the fund was a partnership with underlying 
tangible assets  and revenue  generating  trade  conducted on the basis  of such  assets 
 with investments  in hotels, care homes, childrens nurseries and land development. 
It was not expected  to incur debt (or not expected  to incur, for liquidity  purposes,  debt 
of more than 10% of total capital) and it had no exit charges or penalties. I am not 
dismissive of the fact that it was a UCIS product with a risk profile higher than Mrs 
As overall low ATR, but I consider that it was within  the scope of her decision to 
have a higher  risk investment  for less than 10% of her capital and for the specific  IHT 
purpose.
2013 Events
By 2013,  Mrs A already had investment  experience in UCIS funds, so MSRs 
recommendation of the second  UCIS investment should be viewed in this context  
and I also view it in the context  of my finding that the 2011  UCIS investment was not 
unsuitable.
As stated in the background section above,  a similar investment  advice  process took 
place  this time involving Miss A as a named joint investor. Another Supplementary 
Terms document was signed (this time,  by Miss and Mrs A individually), in which  
notice of the Category 8 classification was given. The suitability letter issued in 
February confirms that Mrs A was the subject of the investment,  that it was her 
money being invested, that it was her profile  and objective  that mattered and that 
Miss As inclusion was for the CGT  purpose  I mentioned in the background section 
above. As such, the investment risks belonged to Mrs A  which appears to explain 
why Miss As profile  was not properly assessed.  Again,  MSR promoted  and/or 
recommended the second UCIS  prior to receiving written  consent,  from Mrs A (and 
Miss A), to such  promotion. However,  the same  considerations  I expressed for the 
2011 events apply here too as the recommendation letter  also gives  notice about the 
unregulated feature  of the fund  furthermore, Mrs A already had the requisite notice 
in relation to the UCIS promotion in 2011  and gave  consent  at that time.
Mrs As objective in 2013  was stated as achieving  a return  in excess  of cash  over 
the medium term after all charges had been taken into account and she retained the 
same overall low ATR  she did not require  income from the investment. The second  
UCIS  which invested in the student  accommodation  sector  appears  to have been 
recommended mainly on the basis of its past performance.  Information  about this 
Ref: DRN92546196was given in the suitability  letter, but it also warned that past performance could not 
be relied upon as an indication of future  performance. MSR said the fund had 
potential to deliver returns in excess of cash, even after deduction of advisory  and 
platform fees.
The second UCIS investment does not appear to have resulted from a specific  
objective, decision and agreement from Mrs A (and Miss A) to go beyond a low ATR 
profile for a specific purpose. That was the case in 2011, it was not the case in 2013. 
For this reason it could  be argued that the recommendation of a UCIS fund in 2013, 
in isolation, to a low risk investor(s) is questionable  or unsuitable.  There  could be 
merit in such an argument,  depending on surrounding circumstances. 
However, events in 2013 should  not be viewed  in isolation. By then Mrs A had 
already established an appetite, to some  extent, for the promotion  and 
recommendation of UCIS investments  as she had previously  invested in one. I 
accept that a range of other  and regulated  investments  could have been 
considered in order to match her objective for returns in excess of cash. However,  
overall, on balance,  given her previous UCIS investment, in light of her investing 
another small proportion of her wealth (£200,000 out of around  £2 million  in cash  and 
over £1 million in investments at the time)  in another UCIS fund and in the context of 
balancing her overall  portfolio with a small percentage of higher risk (and UCIS) 
investment(s), I do not consider that the recommendation  was unsuitable.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold the complaint  from Miss and Mrs A.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 September 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9254619