K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy QIC Europe Ltd (QIC)  declined  to settle a claim made under his home  
insurance policy, for damage to a collapsed retaining wall.
background
Mr F has said that in November 2017  the area in which he lives experienced heavy rainfall  
and high wind speeds. And hes said this severe  weather  caused  a retaining wall in his 
garden to collapse.  Mr F contacted his home insurer to make  a claim for the damage to his 
wall.
QIC didnt have any surveyors within the area Mr F lives.  So it asked him to obtain  a survey 
on the damage to the wall, alongside  photographs,  and two quotes for the work to be carried 
out. Mr F obtained this information, and provided  it to QIC. He has said he had to fund the 
report  and this cost him around £600.
QIC considered this information, and declined Mr Fs claim. It said it had checked the 
weather conditions at the time of the loss, and the weather present wasnt severe enough to 
be termed as a storm, in line with the terms of Mr Fs policy. It also said that Mr Fs 
surveyors report said the retaining wall was poorly designed and didnt meet necessary 
structural standards  and damage  caused  by poor workmanship and design was excluded  
under Mr Fs policy.
Mr F didnt agree with QICs decision.  So, he referred his complaint to this service  for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered the complaint and felt it should be upheld. She said that whilst 
the definition within Mr Fs policy didnt consider that rainfall could amount to a storm, she felt 
the heavy rain Mr Fs area suffered from should  be considered as storm conditions. And she 
felt the evidence  provided suggested  the damage  was ultimately caused by the storm 
conditions that were present at the time of the loss.
Our investigator also said she didnt think QIC could rely on the exclusion in the policy noting 
that damage caused by poor workmanship and design wasnt covered. She said she hadnt  
seen any evidence to suggest the wall didnt meet the relevant building  requirements when it 
was built.
So, she felt QIC should settle Mr Fs claim for the wall, in line with the rest of the policy  
terms. She also said QIC should reimburse  Mr F for the cost he had incurred in appointing a 
surveyor to review the damage to his property  he had been told he had to source  an expert  
as QIC couldnt. And pay him interest  on this amount.
Mr F agreed  with our investigators opinion. But, QIC didnt  agree. It again  noted the weather 
conditions at the time of the damage didnt amount to a storm. And it said if the wall had 
been correctly  constructed and backfilled it didnt think  it would have failed. So, it maintained  
its position that it felt the problem had happened gradually  and had just been highlighted in 
November 2017  when the wall collapsed.
Because QIC didnt agree this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
Ref: DRN98109332I sent a provisional  decision  to Mr F and QIC on 29 January 2019. In this I said;
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I intend on upholding this 
complaint in part. Ive explained why below.
Ive looked at Mr Fs policy, to see what cover it provides.  And it does provide cover for 
damage to Mr Fs building (which includes walls) as a result  of a storm. But QIC has said Mr 
Fs claim isnt covered  under this section of the policy. So, Ive needed to decide whether 
QIC has acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, as well as whether this is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  a complaint about storm damage we consider  the following three 
questions;
Has it been  proven,  on balance, there  were  storm  conditions on or around the date 
the problem occurred?
Is the nature of the damage  consistent with storm  damage?
Were the prevailing weather conditions the main  or dominant cause of the damage?
If the answer to all of the above  questions  is yes the claim would  be covered. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is no the claim wouldnt be successful. So, Ive 
thought about these  questions when reaching  my decision.
has it been proven,  on balance,  there were storm conditions on or around the date the 
problem occurred?
QIC has said that the weather at the time of the damage to the wall at Mr Fs property wasnt  
severe enough to be called a storm, as per the terms of the policy. So, Ive looked at the 
definition of storm within the policy, as well as weather  records at the time the loss 
occurred.
Mr Fs policy says;
we will cover loss or damage caused  by storm winds of Force  10 or above  (as defined under 
the internationally recognised Beaufort  Scale).
So, I can see that the policy notes storm is winds of force 10 and above.  And, from looking at 
the weather records  at the time of the loss Im aware the maximum gust of wind recorded  
near Mr Fs home was 53mph  which falls below the wind speeds at force 10 of the 
Beaufort scale. So, I accept the weather at the time of the damage doesnt satisfy the policy  
definition of storm.
But, Ive also needed to think about  what  is fair and reasonable  when looking at this policy  
definition. And, whilst it is often the case that a storm is identified by heavy winds,  
sometimes accompanied by rain or snow, it is well recognised by this service  that rainfall 
alone can be severe enough to be considered a storm.  This is commonly recognised  in 
home insurance policies  too. So, I think it is fair to consider whether the rain alone  would be 
considered severe  enough to constitute  a storm.
Ref: DRN98109333Having done this, I do think the rainfall alone  at the time of the loss can be considered  a 
storm.  Im aware there was an occasion  of exceptionally heavy rainfall around the time of the 
loss. So, Im satisfied the answer  to this question  is yes.
is the nature  of the damage consistent with storm damage?
The reported  damage in this instance is the collapse of the boundary  wall, and Mr F has said 
this is because of the heavy rain and winds at the time. I do think  its possible for a wall to fall 
during a storm. So, I think the nature  of the damage  is consistent  with that caused  by a 
storm.
were the prevailing  weather conditions the main or dominant cause of the damage?
QIC noted  it wasnt  the weather conditions that were the main cause of the damage to the 
wall. Instead, it said it felt the main cause of the damage was the condition of the wall  that 
wouldve been getting worse over time.  And it said Mr Fs surveyor had mentioned the wall 
was inadequately designed. So, it felt it was reasonable to decline the claim.
Mr Fs contractor does  say that the wall was constructed entirely  in masonry  and this 
would not meet the necessary standards. And says the ground adjacent  to the wall would  
need to filled with a graded crushed stone sub-base, with weep holes inserted.
QIC hasnt provided me with evidence  to show the wall was poorly  constructed or poorly 
designed at the time it was built.  I would need  to be satisfied this was the case,  based  on the 
building standards at the time the wall was first erected in order  to say QIC had acted  
reasonably by noting the loss was excluded due to this issue. And Im not.
But, Ive reviewed the report by Mr Fs surveyor. And it says the cause of the damage was 
high water pressure  on the wall. And that the pressure of high rainfall onto the ground  
allowed water  to enter the sub-soil  below, with large  capacity  to retain  water.
Ive thought carefully about this. And, to clarify the information Mr Fs surveyor  provided I 
contacted it and asked it to expand on its report. It explained that water remaining behind  a 
retaining wall creates  pressure on the structure. And, if that pressure  builds up over time, the 
wall will collapse. It noted that in this instance, it was satisfied  that water had built up  and 
eventually the load on the wall had become too much, causing it to fall.
Given the above, and the information with the surveyors report, I dont think QIC acted 
unreasonably in saying Mr Fs claim wasnt covered under  this section of the policy. Im 
satisfied the evidence shows that it wasnt a one off event of storm that caused the wall to 
collapse. Instead, the storm at the time of the loss highlighted  an issue  with the wall that had 
been occurring  over a period of time.  So, Im not intending on recommending QIC do 
anything more here.
Ive considered the remaining events  in Mr Fs policy to see whether there  were  any other 
events that could cover  the damage  to Mr Fs wall. And, Im satisfied there  isnt another 
relevant event. So, I dont think QIC has acted unreasonably its decision to decline Mr Fs 
claim.
Ref: DRN98109334QIC asked Mr F to obtain a report into the loss at his property  as it didnt have someone it 
could appoint to come and look at loss. But, it hasnt reimbursed Mr F for this cost.  I dont 
think this is fair. Mr F only needed to obtain a report because  QIC werent able to source a 
surveyor  and bearing this cost this would usually be expected of an insurer  when it is 
considering a loss. So, I think QIC need to reimburse Mr F for the cost of this report. And pay 
him interest,  as detailed  below; to recognise the time he has been without the funds he 
needed to use to pay for the report.
QIC confirmed they had received my provisional  decision. QIC agreed with my findings   
and said it understood it would  need  to reimburse  Mr F for the report he obtained, upon 
receipt of this invoice.  Mr F also responded.  He said;
there were storm winds of force 10 at the time of the damage   and that his home is 
near the sea, and a wind farm; 
the wall that collapsed had weep holes,  but exceptional rainfall meant the ground  
became saturated, and this caused the wall to fall; 
the wall complied with the building standards that were  applicable when the wall was 
built;
and he questioned why insurers insure old houses if they werent  prepared  to cover  
them. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done this, Ive decided  to uphold 
this complaint, as detailed  in my provisional  decision.
Neither party has provided any further  information  to alter the findings noted in my 
provisional decision. Or, to alter what I think is fair and reasonable in light of those  findings.
So, my final decision  remains the same  as noted  in my provisional decision.
Mr F has noted  there were  storm conditions at the time the wall collapsed, and that the wall 
was correctly built. In my provisional  decision I accepted there were storm conditions  present 
at the time the wall at Mr Fs property collapsed. And that there  was no evidence  the wall 
had been built incorrectly when it was initially erected. 
But, I thought  QIC had acted fairly in noting  the weather conditions at the time of the loss 
werent the main  cause  of the damage to the wall. 
I appreciate Mr F has said there was exceptional rainfall saturating the ground.  But, for the 
loss to be covered  under  his policy, it needs  to be shown the problem was as a result of a 
single one off event. In this instance, although I think there was a storm at the time of the 
loss, and the damage could be consistent with that of a storm  the main cause of the 
damage needs to be the storm that occurred.  
The evidence from Mr Fs surveyor does show the damage wasnt as a result of the single 
event of storm. But was something that occurred at the time. The damage was caused  by 
pressure building  up on the wall over time.  Given this, Im satisfied the storm wasnt  the main  
cause of the damage  rather the build-up of water over time eventually  caused the wall to 
Ref: DRN98109335collapse  and the storm highlighted the issue. Because of this, I remain  of the decision it 
was fair for QIC to decline  to cover the damage to the wall.
In terms of the report QIC asked Mr F to obtain  QIC has accepted  it will need to reimburse 
the cost for this, on receipt of the invoice Mr F paid.  My decision in this remains  the same. 
Mr F only needed to get a report completed because QIC werent able to source a surveyor.  
Bearing the cost of this would usually be expected of an insurer. So, I think  QIC need  to 
reimburse Mr F for this cost of this report.  And pay him interest, as detailed below; to 
recognise the time Mr F has been  without  the funds he needed to use to pay for the report.
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require QIC 
Europe Ltd to;
Reimburse Mr F for the surveyors  report he needed to obtain. And, pay him an 
amount of 8% interest simple per annum on this amount, for the date of the invoice, 
to the date of settlement.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If QIC Europe Ltd deducts income tax from 
the interest it should tell Mr F how much has been taken off.  QIC Europe  Ltd should  give 
Mr F a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.  
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9810933