K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 1996. Mrs B says The Chorley  and District Building Society (CDBS) mis-sold 
her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
CDBS has said that the mortgage Mrs B applied for came with a reduced interest rate. But it 
has also said that Mrs B had to take out PPI in order to get that mortgage.
Just because Mrs B had to have  PPI with the mortgage she applied for, doesnt mean that 
the PPI was mis-sold. CDBS has sent us a copy of the mortgage offer letter for Mrs Bs 
mortgage. And this mentioned compulsory  unemployment insurance in the first paragraph. 
So I think CDBS made it clear to Mrs B that the she had to have the PPI with her mortgage.
If Mrs B didnt  want the PPI, I think  she could  have applied for a different mortgage with 
CDBS or applied to a different mortgage provider. So I think  Mrs B was happy to have the 
PPI in order to get the reduced  interest rate and the mortgage she wanted.
CDBS recommended the PPI to Mrs B, so it had to check that it was right for her. And, 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, 
she doesnt appear to have  been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover.
Mrs B has said she couldve  relied on her family and friends to make her mortgage 
repayments. And I dont  doubt that they wouldve wanted to help her. But peoples  financial 
circumstances can change. So they might  not have been able to help her when she needed 
it. The PPI meant Mrs B wouldnt have to rely on her family and friends if she wasnt  earning. 
So I still think it was right for her.
As well as checking it was right for her, CDBS had to give Mrs B clear  information about the 
PPI. Its possible the information  it gave her wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  been. But a 
mortgage is a serious  financial  commitment, and Mrs Bs property couldve been at risk if 
shed failed to make her repayments. So I think she couldve found the protection  the policy  
offered appealing. And, for the same  reasons I think it was right for her, it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put Mrs B off taking it out.
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs B paid on her PPI  and whether CDBS  treated 
her unfairly.
CDBS has told us that the commission  for Mrs Bs PPI was less than half of what she paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how CDBS has been working this out and based on what  
Ref: DRN93075002weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Bs commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. 
As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell her about the commission  so I dont think  
CDBS treated her unfairly. This means  it doesnt  need to pay Mrs B back  any of the 
commission she paid for the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9307500