K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
 
background 
Mr and Mrs M took out their first loan (ended  6501)  in March  1999.  In December the same 
year they took out the second loan (ended  3720). Both loans were  unsecured  loans and 
both were in joint names. At the same time they took out two PPI policies in Mr Ms name 
only.
On both occasions, the PPI was taken out with a single premium  which  was added  to the 
loans upfront and attracted interest.  
Mr and Mrs M complain  that they didnt  need  the PPI and it wasnt  right for their 
circumstances as Mr M was self-employed and he also had other cover in the form of an 
income protection policy. Theyve also told us that they were  led to believe  it was a 
requirement to take out the policies.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with 
this view and asked  that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
After taking account of all of the information,  I havent upheld this complaint. Ill explain  why 
below.
Nationwide has told us the policies were taken  out over the telephone.  Mr and Mrs M say 
that they took out the PPI at a meeting. Ive no doubt theyve given me their honest  
recollection but I can see a note from Nationwide showing the loan in March was taken out 
over the telephone. I have no reason to think the December loan wasnt taken  in the same 
way. In either case it doesnt make a difference to my decision. Nationwide no longer has a 
copy of a call recording available from the time.  This isnt surprising as the sale happened 
such a long time ago. But where the evidence is incomplete, I will make  my decision on 
balance what is more  likely to have  happened, taking into account what both parties have 
told me; the paperwork that is available and what we know about these types of sales.
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mr and Mrs M would  have known the PPI was 
optional and they didnt have to buy it if they didnt want it.
Mr and Mrs M have  said that Nationwide advised them  they had to take out the cover in 
order to obtain  the finance. Nationwide has provided  copies of the credit  agreements for both 
of the loans. I can see that the PPI is set out separately on the agreement  in March  and 
December under the heading Optional Credit  Insurance.  The cost of the PPI, the interest  
and the total payable as well as the monthly payment are listed  under this heading. And I 
can see that the insurance  was taken out in Mr Ms name only.  Mr and Mrs M have signed 
Ref: DRN93501802the agreements  and as they were taking on a new financial commitment, I think  they more 
likely read both agreements before signing  and would have understood they were taking out 
the cover. Taking all this into account,  I think its more likely that they were given a choice 
about taking out the PPI and they chose it knowing they could refuse it if they didnt  want it.
I dont think Nationwide  advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy. That meant  it didnt 
have to take reasonable steps  to make sure it was suitable for them.  But it still needed  to 
give Mr and Mrs M enough  clear information so that they could decide for themselves 
whether or not they wanted to it.
I cant say what was said at the time they took out the policies. And so its possible  that 
Nationwide didnt give as much information to Mr and Mrs M as it should  have done. But 
thinking about everything I dont think this would have put them off taking out the policy. I say 
this because:
Mr M the person  who was covered by the policy was working and in good health  and 
wouldnt have been affected by any of the main limitations  or exclusions which  might  
have made it more difficult to make  a claim. I note Mr M was self-employed when he 
took out the loans. But the terms of this particular policy wouldnt have  made it more  
difficult for Mr M as a self-employed  person to make a successful claim,  than if he 
was employed.
Mr M was self-employed so he wouldnt have received any sick pay. Mr and Mrs M 
have told us they had some  savings and that Mr M had an income protection  policy 
which paid out around £300  per week if he couldnt  work through accident or 
sickness. This policy was sold on a non-advised basis. So Nationwide  didnt need  to 
make sure it was suitable for their circumstances. It would have  been  up to Mr and 
Mrs M to decide if they wanted it taking into account their existing means. But I have 
thought about what theyve told me. This policy would  have  paid for up to 12 months 
if Mr M lost his job and it would have paid out until the end of his disability or when 
the loan was repaid whichever was sooner. So it would have paid out in addition to 
any other resources Mr and Mrs M had. And it would have  also meant they could 
have used their savings for other  important living expenses if they fell into difficulty. 
They might  soon  have  needed  these to repay  their other  obligations if Mr M couldnt 
work. In addition as Mr and Mrs M cant give us any other details about his income 
protection policy. So I cant say it would have  covered exactly  the same  things as the 
PPI. All in all I think the PPI would still have been  useful.
Some policies wouldnt have given Mr and Mrs M a pro-rata  refund if they were 
cancelled early. But I think this one did give back a proportionate refund. So I dont 
think Mr and Mrs M lost out because of anything  Nationwide did wrong.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs M.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI in relation to the loan ended  3720 
taken out in December 1999 to Mr and Mrs M because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because Nationwide 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN93501803To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any commission  and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium in relation to the loan ended  3720 taken out in 
December 1999.  Nationwide  should also pay back to Mr and Mrs M any extra interest  they 
paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs M the extra  they paid each month on the loan 
ended 3720 because the commission  and profit  share was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium - including any extra Mr and Mrs M paid if the loan was paid off early. Nationwide 
should also pay Mr and Mrs M 8%* simple  interest on the extra paid each  month. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  in relation to the loan 
ended 3720 taken out in December 1999. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9350180