K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that Acromas Insurance Company  Limited unfairly refused to renew 
his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr D has two cars, which Ill refer to as car A and car B. He used the same broker  to arrange 
the policies for both cars. Car A was insured with Acromas and car B with a different insurer.
Mr D contacted the broker to renew  his insurance for car A. While discussing that with the 
broker he mentioned  that hed been  in an accident,  which wasn't his fault, while driving  
car B. He said he was pursuing a claim against the other driver  for the repairs to his car and 
that his broker  had previously put him in touch with a claims handling company in order  to do 
so. 
The broker  told Mr D it would need  to speak with Acromas to see if the claim for car B 
affected the policy for car A. The broker then told Mr D that Acromas had refused to renew 
Mr Ds policy  as it considered he was too high a risk. The broker told Mr D it could offer him 
another policy, underwritten by a different insurer, but that premium  would  be an extra £85.
Mr D brought his complaint about Acromas  to us. Our investigator didnt think  Acromas had 
done anything  wrong. Mr D didnt agree so his complaint's been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
I understand that when Mr D spoke to his broker about claiming  for the accident  with car B 
the broker quickly identified that Mr D wasn't  to blame for the accident  and referred him to a 
claims handling company  which provided  a hire car. I understand that the claims handling 
company concerned will only provide hire cars when the claim is likely to be decided  as 
non-fault. So, given that the accident  in car B clearly  wasn't  Mr Ds fault, I can understand 
why he might find it unfair that Acromas found  this accident made him too high a risk for it to 
insure him for car A.
Ill say at the outset  that its not my role to tell an insurer  what  risks it must cover, or how to 
go about assessing those risks.  Thats  something  insurers are entitled  to decide for 
themselves. When considering whether  to offer a policy and if so for how much, insurers will 
consider numerous  different factors. And each insurer will do that in its own way. And thats 
something theyre entitled to do as a part of their wider business  requirements. So its not for 
me to tell an insurer what factors it should  consider or how it should assess the risks of those 
factors. Each individual insurer can make its own assessment of that.
In this case its clear that Acromas was happy  to allow Mr D to renew his premium  until it 
learned about the claim for car B. It seems that from Mr Ds perspective  the risk he posed to 
Acromas hadnt changed,  as he wasn't to blame for the accident in car B. And while  I can 
understand that point of view, that doesn't mean that Acromas has done anything wrong 
when assessing  risk.
Ref: DRN98223752Its common across  the insurance industry  for insurers to think  that involvement in any claim, 
whether the policyholder is to blame  or not, will increase the risk of that policyholder being 
involved in fault claims in the future. And insurers often produce statistics  to support that 
point of view.  And its also usual  for insurers to see drivers  with recent fault claims on their 
insurance history as higher risk than drivers  without such claims. 
It might help if I explain that the term fault when referring to the recording of an insurance 
claim is slightly misleading.  In this context fault  doesn't necessarily mean that the 
policyholder has done anything wrong  or is anyway to blame for the cause  of the claim. 
Instead insurers use the term fault to refer to a situation where a claimant or their insurer  
hasnt yet recovered their outlay - what theyve paid out to cover the cost of the claim - from 
another source. So when a claim is still open, an insurer will consider that claim to be a fault 
claim until the other side has reimbursed all the costs associated with the claim. Thats  the 
case even where the policyholder didnt cause the accident.
At the time Mr D was looking to renew his Acromas policy,  the claim for car B was still open. 
That is the other side hadnt settled  all of Mr Ds and the claims handling companys costs.  
So, when assessing the risk Mr D presented, Acromas considered  the claim as if it were  a 
fault claim.  And that meant that Mr D presented too high a risk for it to offer a policy using its 
underwriting criteria. So it didnt  offer him a renewal  policy. Thats  a decision it was entitled 
to come to. It follows that I dont  think it dealt with him unfairly.
I understand that because Acromas refused to renew Mr Ds policy he had to pay £85 more 
for a policy from a different insurer. But Acromas isnt responsible for the premium the other 
insurer charged. So its not fair to hold it responsible  for the increased premium  Mr D had to 
pay to insure car A.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9822375