K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that Metro Bank PLC hasnt made sufficient  adjustments to its telephone 
banking system to accommodate her particular needs. 
background
Miss S holds a number  of accounts with Metro. She uses  its telephone banking system to 
undertake various  transactions, which  include account balance queries and account to 
account transfers. These transactions require her to first satisfy Metros security  questions.
Miss S has dyslexia and shes asked  Metro if she can access  her account and undertake 
certain transactions over the telephone  using low level security.  Metro is aware of Miss S 
particular needs  and has recorded them on its system. Miss S believes that Metro should 
accommodate her needs by allowing her to access her account over the telephone by 
answering low level security questions.  
On 18 April 2019 Miss S telephoned Metro to make  an account to account transfer and to 
query the balance  on her cash card.  But she was unhappy with how that call was dealt with 
because Miss S felt the adviser asked inappropriate questions as part of Metros security 
verification process  and took excessive time in transferring her funds. When  Miss S 
complained about this call to Metro  it didnt uphold her complaint because it didnt feel the 
call was unnecessarily  lengthy. It also said it was satisfied that basic  security questions  were 
asked. 
On 22 April 2019 Miss S contacted Metro and requested to access her account using low 
level security so she could find out her balance. The adviser she spoke with told her she 
couldnt request  low level security as she couldnt  tell Metro which level of security to take 
her through. Miss S terminated the call as a result and complained  about  her inability to 
access her account using low level security. Metro offered its apologies  and explained that it 
was upholding  Miss S complaint and would  provide  staff feedback.
On 25 April 2019, during another call with Metro,  Miss S requested  her account balance. But 
she says she was asked  inappropriate  security questions, which  led to her terminating  this 
call. When Miss S complained about this call Metro  upheld her complaint and offered to 
provide staff feedback. But Miss S told Metro this was her third complaint within  a week and 
she felt feedback wasnt working.  She asked Metro  to compensate her for her call costs, 
which it agreed to do subject to seeing evidence from Miss S.
Being unhappy with the difficulties Miss S had experienced while  attempting  to access  her 
account and the way in which  Metro had dealt with her complaints she contacted  our 
service. Our investigator empathised with Miss S and felt that Metro hadnt responded to her 
complaint fairly. So, they upheld her complaint and thought Metro should  pay £100 
compensation to recognise the stress and inconvenience Miss S had been caused.  But 
Metro didnt agree. It didnt think compensation was fair and that providing staff feedback 
was an adequate resolution  to this complaint. So it asked  for Miss S complaint to be referred  
to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN98382912my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ill explain why Im 
upholding this complaint.
My role here is to consider this complaint  impartially and to be fair to both Miss S and Metro.  
So Ive carefully  considered  what  each  party has said here. Miss S feels very strongly  about  
this matter which is understandable. I can see that this experience must have been very 
embarrassing and frustrating for her. Metros said its agreed to allow Miss S to access  her 
account and undertake certain transactions using low level security  even though  this is much 
less secure. I think this demonstrates  that Metros  acknowledged that it needs to make  
reasonable adjustments here to assist Miss S.
I recognise that Miss S has encountered problems  in accessing her account on at least two 
occasions during  April 2019. Its clear  from the call recordings Ive heard that when Miss S 
contacts Metro by telephone  she asks at the outset of the conversation  if she can go through  
low level security.  In doing so, Im satisfied that Miss S is informing Metro that she needs 
reasonable adjustments to access her account. But there is a marked difference as to how 
different members of staff have treated this request.
I can see from Metros system notes that Miss S has been registered for low level security. I 
think Miss S requirement for low level security is reasonable given her dyslexia. And Im 
satisfied that Metro is able to accommodate the reasonable  adjustments Miss S requires to 
access her account based on the evidence Ive seen.
I say this because  I understand that Miss S calls Metro regularly and is usually taken through  
low level security on request. The notes on her account tell staff to take her through  low 
level security on request when she calls. And they also inform staff to request that Miss S 
attends a branch if, during  calls,  she asks to undertake a transaction  for which enhanced  
security is needed. With that in mind, I think it should be clear to staff answering Miss S calls 
that reasonable adjustments should  be made to assist her in accessing her account.
From the calls Ive listened  to its clear that Miss S is able to satisfy the requirements of low 
level security with ease  when those questions are put to her. She isnt able to provide 
answers to many of the higher level security questions shes  been  asked in some of the calls 
she had with Metro  during  April. And its when  these questions are asked that problems in 
accessing her account arise.
When Miss S is not asked  low level security  questions  I think shes placed at a 
disadvantage, in comparison with other customers, as she isnt able to verify herself 
adequately or gain access to her account.  I think that when this happens Metro isnt making  
the reasonable adjustments Miss S requires. And this is unfair. 
Metro has offered to provide feedback to staff with the aim of reducing  the likelihood of this 
happening again and I think this is a good course  of action to take here. But I can also 
understand Miss S perspective that shes experienced the same problems in trying to 
access her account on at least two occasions in April 2018 alone. So, from her perspective 
she doesnt feel the feedback is working  and its also inconveniencing  her to continue  to 
have to contact  Metro to report  her concerns  and to complain.
Ref: DRN98382913To put matters right Metros already offered to pay Miss S call costs.  Before  compensating 
her for these though its asked to see evidence  documenting any charges incurred. I think 
this is reasonable  and I cant  fairly  criticise Metro for requesting this evidence.  I understand 
that Miss S has declined  to provide this.
In upholding  Miss S complaints about  two of the calls she made  to it during April, Metro  has 
acknowledged that on occasions it didnt  dealt with Miss S telephone banking  transactions 
as well as it might have done.  In recognition  of its shortcomings its offered to feedback to 
colleagues about this but our investigator  recommended that it pay Miss S £100 in 
compensation. Its clear  that Metro doesnt  think that a compensation award is fair here. Its 
told us about a complaint that Miss S referred to our service in 2017  where  compensation 
wasnt awarded. But we look at cases individually. So the circumstances of a previous  
complaint arent something I need  to consider here.  
Metro also feels that Miss S hasnt suffered a financial loss as she terminated the calls she 
made on 22 and 25 April 2019  these being the calls where Metro upheld her complaints. 
And its said our role isnt to fine or punish  a business but to determine  whats  fair and 
reasonable for Miss S. But Id like to remind Metro that this service makes awards to 
compensate individuals who have suffered distress and inconvenience. And here I agree  
with our investigator that an award should be made  to reflect  the upset Miss S was caused.  
Ill explain  why.
During the call of 22 April Miss S calls to check her account balance  and asks the adviser  
three times to allow her to access her account  using low level security. Its clear from the call 
recording that shes very upset and frustrated when the adviser  tells her she isnt able to tell 
Metro which  level of security she completes. This advice was wrong in Miss S case. And its 
clear to me that the adviser hadnt  properly  read the notes  on Miss S account as regards the 
reasonable adjustments she needs when accessing  her account. When  Miss S discusses 
her complaint about this with Metro shes still upset  by whats  happened and is told that 
feedback will be provided.
On 25 April Miss S calls Metro to, again, check her account balance.  But she isnt able to 
access her account due to not being  taken  through low level security. I think its 
understandable that Miss S would be extremely upset in these circumstances  particular 
where Metro assured  her on 23 April that feedback to reduce the likelihood of her 
encountering problems would be provided.  When Miss S discusses her complaint about  that 
call with Metro she questions the feedback thats being provided to staff and states it isnt 
working. I think thats a fair comment for her to make  given her experiences. Shes clearly 
frustrated and upset  by whats happened. She tells Metro  that she has the right to query  her 
account balance  over the telephone and that shes been very much  inconvenienced. 
In these circumstances I agree with our investigator that a distress  and inconvenience  award  
is appropriate and I think £100 fairly reflects Miss S experiences over the telephone on 22 
and 25 April 2019. So Metro must  pay that sum to Miss S in compensation here. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint for the reasons stated above. Metro Bank 
PLC should  pay Miss S £100  in compensation to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2019.
Ref: DRN98382914Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9838291