K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Sainsburys  Bank Plc (Sainsburys) has declined their Section  
75 complaint and provided  poor service. 
background
Mr and Mrs H appointed  an estate  agent to sell Mr Hs late mothers  house. Mr H paid for 
this service using a Sainsburys credit card. Mrs H was the account holder and Mr H was an 
additional card holder.  
The estate  agent  fee included £300 to provide a service in which  it carried  out all the 
viewings on the property. But Mr and Mrs H carried  out one of the viewings. Given  this, and 
some other issues around the sale, they felt the contract had been  breached  and took their 
complaint to The Property Ombudsman (TPO) and notified  Sainsburys of this. 
TPO upheld the complaint  in part and awarded  £250. It didnt uphold  the aspect  of the 
complaint relating to Mr and Mrs H carrying out the viewing.  Mr and Mrs H signed their 
acceptance of the ombudsmans  proposed decision in full and final settlement of their 
complaint against  the estate agent. 
Unhappy that they hadnt received  the full amount paid to the estate agent  back,  Mr and 
Mrs H pursued  a complaint with Sainsburys for a full refund under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  But Sainsburys  declined this. It explained why it didnt think 
there had been  a misrepresentation or breach of contract but also noted that the decision  
reached by TPO had been  accepted.  So Mr and Mrs H brought  the complaint to us. They 
remained unhappy with the service theyd  received  from the estate agent but also felt 
Sainsburys had treated them unfairly  as it had been aware  they were  pursuing a complaint 
through TPO so didnt  think it should  use this as a reason to decline their claim.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He didnt feel there was a valid debtor-credit-
supplier (DCS)  chain  as required under Section  75. But Mr and Mrs H disagreed so the 
complaint was passed to me.
Ive been corresponding with Mr and Mrs H to provide further  thoughts around this matter.  In 
summary, I explained that we could, where  appropriate, dismiss a complaint if it had been 
considered by another alternative  dispute resolution (ADR)  scheme,  such  as TPO. But I 
also explained that it was reasonable for the outcome  reached  by TPO to be taken into 
account; that I didnt  think  Sainsburys  had treated them unfairly overall;  and that it was 
questionable whether this complaint came  under  the remit of a Section 75 claim.  Mr and 
Mrs H disagreed so Im now issuing my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question I must consider here is whether Sainsburys has acted  fairly  and lawfully  in 
declining Mr and Mrs Hs Section 75 complaint. And I think  it has. So, while  this will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs H, I wont be upholding their complaint  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN94080052I note that Mr and Mrs H said that Sainsburys gave them  clear  direction to go to TPO, but it 
would appear  it was their own choice  to do this. I say this because, in an email to 
Sainsburys, they said It was made  clear  at a very early stage that we would be making a 
complaint to The Property Ombudsman (TPO) & you were  informed  of this at the earliest 
opportunity. Mr and Mrs H say they were  told to keep Sainsburys informed of the progress 
they made with TPO. 
I note that TPO investigated  a complaint  made directly against the estate agent that provided 
the service. A Section  75 complaint involves a like claim  being  made  against  the creditor.  In 
either event,  the supplier  would most  likely be required to provide information  about what  
happened. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Sainsburys to ask to be kept aware of 
the progress of the complaint with TPO; the outcome of this wouldve been a relevant 
consideration for its own investigation into the Section 75 complaint.
Looking at the action that Sainsburys took following the outcome from TPO, I can see that it 
didnt refuse  the claim simply  because  it had been considered  elsewhere.  Instead, it said 
that the dispute had been  closed because  Mr and Mrs H had accepted the offer made in the 
decision in full and final settlement of the complaint. 
Its worth  noting at this point that our investigator  felt this complaint didnt fall under the remit 
of Section 75 as he said there wasnt a valid DCS chain.  As noted above, I think this is 
questionable, but Sainsburys didnt raise this and considered the claim regardless. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether, that aside, the claim was fairly handled. 
Section 75 says creditors, with suppliers, are jointly and severally  liable to debtors. So once 
the liability of the estate  agent had been  determined by TPO and accepted in full and final 
settlement, it could then be argued  that Sainsburys also wouldnt be liable for anything 
further in relation to that matter. This is because, under the CCA, it effectively steps  into the 
shoes of the estate  agent. But, while it could be considered that this alone  would  be 
sufficient to decline the Section 75 claim,  Sainsburys still considered  the issues raised  and 
made it clear  it didnt think there had been  a misrepresentation  or breach of contract and 
provided reasons,  albeit  brief, for this. So Im satisfied  it considered  a Section 75 claim in line 
with its requirements under the CCA but chose  to decline it, giving appropriate  reasons. 
Based on all the evidence, I dont think it would  be fair to say that Sainsburys has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in assessing  this Section 75 complaint. I note that Mr and Mrs H are 
unhappy as they think Sainsburys shouldve made them aware that by continuing their 
complaint with TPO, it could impact  their ability to make a Section 75 claim. But I disagree. I 
dont think it was required to give advice around ways in which  Mr and Mrs H could or should  
pursue a complaint. And, as Ive said above,  it hasnt  refused the claim just because it had 
already been considered by TPO. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint against Sainsburys Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2020.
Ref: DRN9408005