K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains about the quality of a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement 
provided by RCI Financial Services Limited  (RCI). She says the car has had several issues  
including it unexpectedly emergency braking. 
background
Miss D acquired a new car in September 2018. The car cost £25,961. Miss D paid a deposit 
of £2,775 and the remaining balance was covered by a hire purchase agreement taken with 
RCI. 
Miss D says she began  to have problems with the car around a month later.  She says while 
driving, the car came up with warnings  for objects in the road that werent there. And she 
said on some occasions  the car had emergency  braked unexpectedly. It appears this was 
due to the Intelligent Emergency Braking (IEB) system fitted to the car.
In October  2018 the dealer reprogramed the radar control unit associated with the IEB 
system. It said there  were  no fault codes and physical  tests couldnt replicate the fault.
Miss D says she continued to have  issues  with the IEB system and in December 2018 she 
says the car emergency braked with her partner  and baby in the car. In January 2019 the car 
went to the dealer. It said there was a fault code stored, but it couldnt find a fault with the 
system. The dealer  replaced the front radar unit. But, Miss D says the issue  continued.
In March 2019 Miss D contacted RCI and complained about the issue.  At this point she 
initially said she wanted a replacement for the car. 
Also in March 2019, the car was returned to the dealer for extended testing. The dealer  said 
it was unable to replicate  the fault,  but it did say a fault code was recorded on the car. 
The dealer  also reviewed some photos  from Miss D but said these showed the system 
operating as it should. 
Miss D says the issue still continued intermittently and she purchased  a dash cam to record 
footage of what was happening. She gave photos and a video to RCI who forwarded to the 
dealer. The dealer said it didnt think these showed a fault. Around this time Miss D also told 
RCI she wished to reject the car.
In May 2019  RCI issued  its final response  letter. It said the photos and videos given by 
Miss D didnt show a fault with the system. It also said no fault had been found by the 
manufacturer when  it was tested. And it said if a fault was confirmed, it should be addressed 
under the warranty.
Miss D brought  her complaint to this service and in June 2018 an investigator issued an 
opinion, explaining they didnt think the complaint should be upheld. They said they didnt 
think it was likely there was a fault with the car. Miss D was unhappy  with this and asked the 
investigator to get in touch with a specific contact  at the dealer for their comments.
The dealer  gave some further details. It said it had driven over 200 miles road testing the car 
but couldnt find a fault.  It said it thought the car was of satisfactory quality when Miss D got 
it.
Ref: DRN94671342Our investigator then contacted Miss D and RCI to say the new information didnt change 
their opinion.
Miss D then sent in some  videos and asked for an ombudsman to review  the case. Before 
the case was passed  to an ombudsman,  another investigator reviewed the case  and the 
further evidence  sent in by Miss D. 
While this was happening, in September 2019  Miss D forwarded an email from the dealer 
saying the manufacturer bought out a recall for an update on your (car)  for the forward  
emergency braking.  RCI says this wasnt a recall.  But, either  way, it appears the car needed 
a software update to the system. Miss D initially didnt take the car back  for the update. A 
few days later she forwarded another email, that appears to be from the dealer, giving 
further details  about the update  and explaining certain conditions in which the system might 
not work  properly.
The second  investigator then issued their opinion. They said they thought the complaint 
should be upheld.  They explained having reviewed  the evidence,  along with the videos given 
by Miss D, that they thought there was a fault with the IEB system on Miss Ds particular car 
which meant it wasnt of satisfactory quality  when it was supplied. They said RCI should  put 
things right by ending the agreement, collecting the car, returning  the deposit,  returning 10% 
of all the monthly payments made towards  the agreement  and removing any adverse 
information from Miss Ds credit file. They also said RCI should  pay Miss D £300 to reflect  
the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Miss D accepted the investigators opinion. While awaiting a response  from RCI, in 
December 2019  Miss D said the car had broken down. She explained the dealer had told her 
if she took it in for repair, the update to the IEB system would be applied. Later the same 
month, she explained the update had taken  place, but the system  had sounded  alerts  again 
and appeared  to be over sensitive. Around this time Miss D told us the car issued false 
warnings around four times a week, and the car braked unexpectedly around every other 
month.
RCI responded and said it didnt agree with the investigators view. It said, in summary, that 
a recall hadnt been issued on the car. And it said while  it could be seen that the IEB 
operated in the videos, it couldnt see the road conditions or if there were objects in the road 
when the car braked.
The case  was then passed for an ombudsmans  decision. While awaiting to be assigned to 
an ombudsman, Miss D got in touch  again and said the car had emergency over the 
weekend which she caught  on her dashcam. She said this time someone  was driving behind 
her and was very concerned about  this causing  an accident.
Miss D provided a video  from her dashcam. Our investigator reviewed the footage  and said 
he thought this showed the IEB system braking the car outside its normal operation.  He 
reiterated to RCI that he thought this meant the complaint  should  be upheld.
RCI responded and said it thought the videos showed the IEB working as it should. It said 
there were pedestrians  or other objects to the left of the car when the IEB activated, which is 
what the system is supposed to do.
Ref: DRN94671343In July 2020 Miss D contacted us to say the car had broken  down again  and required  a new 
battery. In August  2020 she said the car had required another  repair  as the alarm was going 
off and the radio/sat nav stopped working due to an issue with a fuse. In September 2020  
Miss D said the sat nav and radio  stopped working again. 
In October  2020 Miss D said the car was subject to a recall for the child locks.  A few days 
later she said her young child had managed to open  a locked door when  she was driving.
The case  has now been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  this complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
Miss D has raised several issues with the car aside from the problems with the IEB system. 
These include problems  with the parking sensors  and the most recent issues  with the child 
locks, battery and sat nav/radio. I have very limited  information and evidence  about what 
happened here. And these issues dont appear to have been  included in the original 
complaint to RCI. Having  considered everything, these issues,  while  potentially  serious,  
wouldnt affect the outcome Ive reached. So, I havent considered these further  in my 
decision. 
There is quite a lot of evidence on this case.  I want to reassure Miss D and RCI that I have 
reviewed all of the available information available on the complaint.  But, to keep things 
simple, Im going to focus on what I think are the key facts  and evidence here.
Miss D acquired her car using a hire purchase  agreement provided by RCI. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement. So, Im satisfied this service can consider Miss Ds 
complaint against  RCI.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant  to this complaint. This says 
under a contract to supply goods,  the supplier  RCI in this case   had a responsibility  to 
make sure the goods were of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what  a reasonable 
person would expect   taking into account any relevant  factors.  In this case,  I would consider 
relevant factors  to include,  amongst others, the cars age, price, description and mileage.
The car that was supplied  to Miss D was brand new and cost over £25,000. Ill take into 
account that I think a reasonable person would expect to have a significant  amount of 
trouble free motoring bearing this in mind.
What I need to consider in this case is whether the car supplied  to Miss D was of satisfactory  
quality or not. There is clearly some disagreement over whether the car has a fault with the 
IEB system. Miss D clearly thinks there  is, whereas RCI says it is operating as it should.  So, 
Ill consider if I think this is the case or not.
Ive considered everything RCI has provided about the IEB system. When  thinking about  
whether there is a fault with the system or not, Ive thought carefully about what  the cars 
handbook says, its intended  purpose, how it works and when it may not function.
Ref: DRN94671344Ive reviewed the video  footage sent in by Miss D. I appreciate  RCIs point that the dashcam 
is not placed in an ideal  position as it is slightly behind the driver. I accept that this doesnt  
show a totally unobstructed view of the road.  But, having spent some time considering  these, 
I think the videos  are clear enough  to draw some  conclusions from. Ill consider several of 
these videos here by the date recorded  on the dashcam footage:
5 May 2019  - it appears the car is being driven in a car park.  The car appears to emergency 
brake. I cant  see any obstructions  in the path of the car.
22 September 2019  it appears the car is being driven in clear conditions  on an open road. 
The car is steered  into a slight right hand corner, with some pedestrians to the passenger  
side on the pavement. The car appears to emergency brake. Im satisfied here there was 
apparently no danger of the pedestrians causing  a collision,  as they were not in the road nor 
the path of the car. I cant  see any other obstructions  in the road.
25 September 2019  again this appears  to be a clear day. The car appears to be being 
driven in an urban environment on a two way street.  The IEB system emits  a warning when 
the car passes a bollard in between the lanes. I cant tell from the video if the car brakes.
5 January 2020  it appears  the car is being  driven on a clear day on a straight road.  There  
is a pedestrian on the pavement  to the passenger side. The car is being driven in a straight 
line and appears  to emergency  brake around the time it passes the pedestrian.  Im satisfied 
there was no risk of a collision with the pedestrian and I cant see anything  in the path of the 
car.
16 June 2020   it appears the car is being  driven on a clear day. The car approaches a right 
hand bend with two pedestrians on the pavement to the passenger  side.  The car appears to 
emergency brake. The pedestrians were not in the road, nor could I see any other objects in 
the path of the car. 
Ive considered what the manufactures  handbook  says about the system. This says, in 
summary, that the system  will warn the driver  if a collision is detected and then apply the 
brakes if there is still the possibility of a forward collision. It says the brakes will apply if a 
risk of forward collision with a pedestrian is imminent.
Ive considered what RCI said about  these  videos. It said that the system was working  as it 
should, as there were  people or objects  to the left of the car when the IEB system activated. 
I accept in several videos  there were pedestrians to the left of the car. But, this is quite 
different to objects or pedestrians being  in front of the car, which  is when I would expect to 
see the IEB system braking.
I accept some of the videos are a little unclear. But, Im satisfied the videos dated 5 May 
2019, 22 September 2019, 5 January 2020 and 16 June 2020  show  the car emergency 
braking when there were no objects in the road and there wasnt  a risk of a collision being 
imminent. Having considered everything  Miss D and RCI have shown, including the cars 
handbook in relation  to the IEB system, Im satisfied the IEB system on Miss Ds particular  
car wasnt functioning as it should here.
Ive considered the testimony provided  by Miss D. I appreciate  she didnt have a camera  in 
the car when  she first got it. But, she has been  very consistent with what  shes  said about 
the IEB system and the car braking unexpectedly.  Miss D has raised  the same issue  over an 
extended period  of time and has described what happened to the dealer, RCI and us.
Ref: DRN94671345Ive thought about the fact that the dealer couldnt replicate the apparent fault with the IEB 
system Miss D describes. And I appreciate the car was test driven for over 200 miles to 
investigate this. But, Miss D has said the fault is intermittent.  So, Im not surprised  that a fault 
wasnt found when  the dealer investigated.
Thinking about  all of this, Im satisfied on Miss Ds particular car that there is an underlying 
fault with the IEB system. Given how soon after getting the car Miss D describes the issues 
beginning, Im satisfied  this fault was present when Miss D got the car. And, thinking  about 
the fact the car was brand new, and the IEB system activating unnecessarily could 
potentially be a safety hazard, Im satisfied a reasonable person would consider the car to 
have been of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Ive thought about the repairs and the recent  update to the system to consider if the fault has 
now been fixed. I accept the update  could  potentially have affected the situation from the 
video dated 05 May 2019, as the car is being  driven  in a car park  which is one of the 
scenarios the email  mentioned the system may not function as it should. But, considering 
what Miss D has told us, along with the videos taken on 5 January 2020 and 16 June 2020  - 
which were after the update appears to have taken place - I think its most  likely the fault with 
the IEB system is still there.
I now need to consider  what  would be fair and reasonable to put things right. Given that 
repairs have been  attempted several times and Im satisfied  these  havent  been successful, I 
dont think a further attempt at repair seems  reasonable. So, I think  Miss D should  be able to 
reject the car. 
I need to consider that Miss D has had use of the car and this was an intermittent  fault. But, I 
appreciate what she has told us about  not trusting  the car and feeling unsafe. Even though  
the fault was intermittent,  I think its fair to say the car hasnt been performing as it should 
since she got it. So, I think Miss D should get back 10% of all the repayments shes made 
towards the finance.
Miss D has also told us this issue has caused  her a lot of distress.  I can understand this fault 
wouldve caused her some stress due to the issue. And shes had to take time out to return 
the car to the dealer several times. So, I think RCI should pay her £300 to reflect  this.
Ref: DRN94671346my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct RCI Financial Services  Limited to 
put things right by doing the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Collect the car at no cost to Miss D at a time and date suitable for her
Reimburse Miss D the deposit  paid - £2,775*
Refund 10% of all monthly payments  made towards the finance*
Pay Miss D £300  for the distress and inconvenience caused
Remove any adverse  information from Miss Ds credit file in relation  to this 
agreement
*These amounts should have 8% simple interest  added from the time of payment to the time 
of reimbursement.  HM Revenue and Customs  require RCI Financial Services  Limited to 
deduct tax from this interest.  RCI Financial Services Limited should give Miss D a certificate  
showing how much  tax has been deducted, if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December  2020.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9467134