K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI)  sold by Lloyds Bank 
plc, trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G). 
It seems  Mr and Ms W took out an initial  C&G mortgage in 1999. They  then borrowed more  
money on four more  occasions. 
In total, we now know that of these five borrowing events Mr and Ms W took out MPPI on 
four occasions i.e. on the original 1999  mortgage, twice with further  borrowing in 2000 and 
once in 2002. A further advance borrowing event in 2001 doesnt  seem to have had any 
MPPI attached. Mr and Ms W say all the MPPI cover was mis-sold to them. 
For consistency Ill refer to C&G in my decision.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  into this case and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. But 
Mr and Ms W disagreed and so the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt  Mr and Ms Ws honesty  when  they say 
they now feel the policies were mis-sold. However,  these  sales  date back some  20 years  
and its obviously possible they simply dont remember everything that took place.
Only Mr W was covered by the MPPI.  The central  points of complaint are that they were 
made to feel they had to take out the MPPI and that they didnt need it. 
However, my experience  from the many  C&G  mortgage sales  Ive seen  from around  the time 
period in question is that consumers were usually  asked  to choose whether or not they 
wanted MPPI on their mortgage(s) when they completed a mortgage  application  form. 
Another step was then usually required in the form of a separate  Payment Protection  
Proposal Form. Typically, this went in to more detail about the type of protection the 
consumer(s) wanted and who should  be covered.
I began by looking at Mr and Ms Ws 1999  mortgage  application.  There was a question in 
the application form about having MPPI and there  were yes and no option boxes for Mr 
and Ms W to choose from depending  on whether or not they wanted  the cover. I note the 
yes box was ticked on their form and they both signed the application. Ive also seen  they 
filled out a specific  Payment Protection  Proposal  Form asking for such  a policy to be set up.
So I think this shows that Mr and Ms W would have been able to see the policy was optional. 
Instead of selecting the yes option, they could  have left this part blank and selected no 
Ref: DRN97726552option instead. And by filling out a separate / additional Payment Protection  Proposal Form, I 
think this adds to the MPPI being  independent of their mortgage application.
When Mr and Ms W took out more borrowing in the first half of 2000 I also think  they agreed 
to have MPPI. Ive seen  they filled out a specific Payment Protection  Proposal Form again 
asking for such a policy to be set up and we also have a copy  of a letter  sent to Mr W which 
confirmed the application that had been  made for MPPI. In July 2000 and again  in May 2002 
Mr and Ms W seem to have followed exactly the same process. 
So in my view, on each of these occasions, we have reliable and comprehensive evidence 
showing they specifically  asked for MPPI. There are also numerous  examples of Mr W 
regularly corresponding  with C&G  confirming the MPPI transactions  and the costs  involved.
Collectively, from all the documentation and information Ive seen, I think there is strong  
evidence that Mr and Ms W wanted  to buy the MPPI cover on each occasion. And what  Ive 
described above shows me that they would have been able to see they had a choice on 
each occasion  and they would have known they didnt need to take on such cover  unless it 
was something they particularly  wanted  to have.
We also have the apparent  anomaly  of their 2001 further advance borrowing where no MPPI 
was selected.  I cant  say why this was but in my view it demonstrates  that MPPI wasnt  
something that was compulsory. By not choosing it Mr and Ms W must  have been able to 
see they had a choice about  such matters.
As far as being told they had to have MPPI is concerned, I understand the argument being 
put forward. But the evidence to the contrary is strong and of course Id need to believe that 
Mr and Ms W were  told something that was plainly wrong on four separate occasions  if I 
were to uphold their complaint on this basis.
In short  I find the evidence compelling that Mr and Ms W asked for the policies to be set up 
each time because they wanted to have  the protection they offered. I think C&G properly got 
their consent  on the four occasions  Ive mentioned above.
Its not disputed  that the MPPI  was recommended  each  time to Mr and Ms W as part of 
advised sales. This means C&G had a duty to ensure the MPPI was suitable  for them.  I 
think it was.
I say this because  Mr W, the person covered,  was eligible for the MPPI and not caught  by 
any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  types of policy.  It also looks  like he 
would have been able to make a claim if hed needed to. The cost of the MPPI seems  
affordable on each occasion,  given  the protection the policies offered. 
Mr W probably had moderate sickness protection provided through  his job but the 
mortgage(s) were also secured against his and Ms Ws home and so the consequences  of 
not being able to make the repayments  could have been serious.  In the event of a 
successful claim  for example, the MPPI wouldve paid out a monthly sum for up to 12 
months and this would  have  been in addition to any other means Mr and Ms W had.
Mr W also strongly made the point that his parents would have always  stepped in to help if 
something unexpected had happened. He said that because of their implied  support, he and 
Ms W didnt  need the MPPI. Mr W thinks our adjudicator was wrong  to say that help from his 
parents couldnt  be guaranteed.
Ref: DRN97726553Im afraid I disagree with Mr W about  this. Im sure his parents  would  have always wanted to 
help. But relying  on this method of help, from older relatives, for the duration of a mortgage 
simply isnt something that can be guaranteed  for a whole host of reasons. I therefore  dont  
think C&G recommending MPPI was unreasonable. I think  the cover was suitable  for them.
C&G also had to provide information  that was clear,  fair and not misleading. I obviously cant 
confirm what would  have  been said to Mr and Ms W each time over the 3 year period of the 
sales and its possible C&G could have done  a better job in explaining  things. But from what  
Ive seen, I think the disclosure of information looks comprehensive on each of the occasions 
they were sold MPPI. 
I also think its almost  certain Mr and Ms W would have known the precise costs involved  
and I see they were provided  with documents explaining the terms. So I think Mr and Ms W 
had enough information on which to make  an informed choice about what  they wanted  to do.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Ms W but I dont think any of the MPPI policies were mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Ms Ws complaint. And I dont direct 
Lloyds Bank  plc, trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester, to do anything  to put matters right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 October  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9772655