K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Debt Managers (Services) Limited pursued him in relation to a disputed  
balance with a third party finance  company and registered a default on his credit file.
background
In August  2015  Mr R was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with a third party finance  company. Approximately half way through the agreement  Mr R 
exercised his right to voluntary  terminate. 
After Mr R voluntary terminated  the agreement the finance company  placed an outstanding 
balance on the account relating to damage  charges.
Mr R disputes the charges. He provided  photos  of the car taken when it was handed back.
In its final response Debt Managers Services said that the account  had been sold to it in 
November 2018  and that it had acted on the information provided by the original creditor  in 
good faith.
Mr R wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said hed expect the business to have supplied 
pictures with the inspection report  so that the damage could be considered in accordance 
with the relevant BVLRA guidelines  on fair wear  and tear. The investigator felt that based on 
the pictures provided by Mr R, the damage  couldnt be identified.  He recommended  that 
Debt Managers Services stopped pursuing Mr R and removed any adverse information from 
his credit file.
Debt Managers Services didnt agree.  It said the outcome should be upheld  against the 
original creditor and that it was unfair to hold it responsible for acting in good  faith on 
information supplied  when it purchased the debt. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what  Ive seen, Im satisfied that when the account was sold to Debt  Managers 
Services, the outstanding balance on Mr Rs account was £401. This relates to damage 
charges when Mr R voluntary terminated his finance  agreement.
Debt Managers Services has said that it relied on information supplied by the original 
creditor and that it acted in good  faith.
Id expect Debt Managers Services to take steps  before  pursuing  a debt, such as (amongst 
other things)  completing a proper person trace and checking what the debt relates to.
In circumstances  where the debt is disputed, such as this one, Id expect Debt Managers 
Services to make further enquiries of the original  creditor to satisfy itself that the debt is 
justified before it took steps to pursue it. In this case,  I can see that despite Mr R disputing 
Ref: DRN97237982the debt, Debt  Managers  Services registered a default on his credit file before it had 
investigated his concerns.
I dont think Debt Managers Services carried out a full and proper  investigation when Mr R 
queried the debt.  In its final response it advised Mr R that it would  contact the original 
creditor. However, it wasnt  until this service became involved that details of the damage 
charges were obtained. I think  Debt Managers  Services  could have done more to satisfy 
itself that the debt was justified before it took steps  to pursue it.
Mr R has said that he sent copies of his pictures to Debt Managers Services  when he first 
disputed the debt. Debt Managers Services has said that it cant  see that it ever received 
these. On balance,  and given that Mr R was able to provide these pictures to this service 
upon request,  I think its more likely  that he provided them  to Debt Managers  Services when 
he initially  disputed the debt.
Having reviewed the inspection report and looked  the pictures supplied by Mr R, Im not 
satisfied that the damage is chargeable, taking into account the relevant guidelines. Because  
of this I dont think the charges are fair.
Aside from this, I dont think Debt Managers Services  has acted fairly. I wouldve expected it 
to have taken  reasonable  steps to check that the debt was justified before pursuing  it. In this 
case I dont think it did enough.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Debt Managers Services Limited  must  
Stop pursuing the debt from Mr R.
Remove any adverse  inflation from Mr Rs credit file
Pay compensation of £100 for distress  and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9723798