K820x#14complaint
Miss R is unhappy with the compensation and explanations provided by MBNA  Limited  
(MBNA) about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside a 
credit card. 
background
Miss R took out a credit card with MBNA  in October 2002 and at the same  time PPI was 
applied to the account. The PPI was cancelled in June 2003.
Miss R complained that the PPI was mis-sold.  MBNA agreed the policy  had been  mis-sold 
and offered compensation to Miss R to settle her complaint.
Miss R wasnt  happy with the information provided by MBNA about the compensation and 
how the PPI came to be added to her account, so she brought  her complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said what MBNA had worked  out as the compensation for the mis-sold PPI 
was fair.
But Miss R remained unhappy with the information  provided by MBNA and asked that an 
ombudsman consider her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss R complained to MBNA that the PPI on her credit card had been mis-sold it 
upheld her complaint  and offered compensation to settle the complaint. As it is some 
18 years  since  the credit  card and PPI were taken  out, MBNA does not have a copy of any 
application form and does not know how the PPI was sold.  I know  Miss R wanted an 
explanation of how the PPI came to be added to her credit  card account but the records  now 
available do not show that information. 
However, MBNA has agreed  to uphold the complaint that the PPI was mis-sold,  and that 
means it must put her back as far as possible in the position she would have been in if she 
had never  taken out the PPI. 
So in reality how the PPI was added to the account and why it was mis-sold no longer 
makes any difference.  The PPI policy should not have  been sold to Miss R and now MBNA 
are paying  full compensation to put Miss R in the position as if the PPI never  had been  
added to the account.
MBNA records  show the PPI started when the card was taken out in October 2002 and the 
last premium paid was in June  2003.  The total Miss R paid in premiums was £183.75.  
To work out how much  Miss R paid in interest  charged on the premiums  MBNA has carried  
out a reconstruction of the credit card account,  removing the premiums  each month and 
adjusting the interest  by the amount caused  by the PPI premiums added. This showed 
Miss R paid £285.69 in interest caused by the premiums being  added to the account. 
Ref: DRN95516412In its calculation MBNA has also taken account of how much Miss R was out of pocket each  
month as she paid for the costs of the PPI that had been included  in her account. And it has 
worked out 8% simple  interest on all these payments  from the date Miss R was out of 
pocket. This compensatory interest comes to £212.92 before tax.
So in total MBNA offered and paid to Miss R £639.77, after tax, for the PPI costs and some 
compensatory interest.  So it has refunded  everything Miss R paid for the PPI plus 
compensated her for being out of pocket.  This puts her as far as possible in the position she 
would have been in if she had never had PPI added  to her credit card account.
From the calculations provided by MBNA  I think  it has worked  out fairly what  the 
compensation to Miss R should be.
As MBNA has no information  about the time of the sale of the PPI it cannot provide any 
more information  about how the PPI was sold, which I know  Miss R wanted.  But as I have 
said, the compensation should put Miss R as far as possible in the position she would have 
been in if she had not taken out the PPI. So the lack of information  from the point of sale 
makes no difference  to the outcome in this complaint. 
my final decision
I think what MBNA Limited has offered in compensation for the mis-sale of a PPI policy to 
Miss R associated with her credit card is fair and Im not telling it to do anything more.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9551641