K821x#15Complaint
Miss H has complained that Saga  Services  Limited mis-sold a car insurance policy  to her 
and shes unhappy  with the way it handled  a claim she made. 
background
In April 2018 Miss H bought a car insurance policy through a broker, Saga Services Limited. 
In September  2018 Miss H was unfortunately  involved in an incident which wasnt  her fault. 
She reported the incident to Saga. She told Saga that she wanted to use her own garage. 
Saga passed Miss Hs claim to an accident  management company (AMC) to deal with her 
claim as a non fault hire service. In other words, Miss H would be entitled to a replacement 
car similar to her own while  her car was being repaired.
Miss H complained to Saga. She was unhappy  that her claim was handled poorly. Miss H 
said the AMC told her after two weeks and several hours spent in calls that it couldnt 
provide a replacement car because she wasnt using an approved repairer.  And the AMC 
told her not to accept  an offer from the third party insurer of a hire car  which  happened on 
the day she reported the incident  because the AMC said it would provide one. Miss H told 
Saga she was going to use her own garage. She explained that the garage  gave  her priority 
as it was aware of her personal circumstances. So Miss H said Saga was also responsible 
for the poor handling of her claim.  Miss H said Saga shouldnt have referred her to the AMC 
because she wasnt going to use an approved repairer. 
Miss H also complained that shed made  it clear  in a call to Saga when she bought her policy 
in April 2018 that she would want to use her own garage in the event  of a claim and would 
need a replacement car. 
Saga said Miss H didnt  mention that she would use her preferred garage  in the event of a 
claim when  she bought the policy.  And it said that it wasnt  responsible  for the actions of the 
AMC. It said it had correctly  registered the claim. 
Miss H asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our investigator explained that we cant look at her complaint about the AMC as this isnt 
within our jurisdiction. And he thought that Miss H hadnt said she intended to use her 
preferred garage  in the event of a claim when she bought the policy  in April 2018. 
But because Miss H had told Saga when she reported the incident that she wanted to use 
her preferred  garage,  he thought Saga shouldnt have referred Miss H to the AMC. And so 
he thought Saga was partly responsible for the distress and inconvenience she was caused. 
Saga didnt give Miss H the option  to claim through her insurer. Given the information 
available to it, the investigator  recommended  Saga pay Miss H £150 compensation.
Miss H didnt agree. She said that she spent 10 hours dealing  with Saga, the AMC and the 
insurer in what was a straight forward claim. She says she is self employed and the £150  
doesnt reflect the time she spent in calls. She said she was anxious about  the possibility of 
not having a replacement car while her car was being repaired. Miss H believes a fairer  
compensation sum is £250.
Saga didnt reply. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN95458602my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. 
I think the investigators recommendations to put things right are fair. Ill explain why. 
As the investigator  explained, we are able to look at Miss Hs complaint about the broker  
Saga. We cant look at her complaint against the AMC. But we know that the AMC replied to 
Miss Hs complaint and has paid her some compensation for the poor service  it provided. 
Its also important to clarify that any complaint  that Miss H has about  the claim - once the 
insurer started dealing  with it - will need to be referred to the insurer.  
Saga has provided  a recording of the sales call from April 2018. Miss H didnt mention that 
she would  use her preferred garage  in the event of a claim. Its a standard  term across  most 
 if not all motor insurance policies that a claim for repairs will be dealt with under a network  
of approved repairers. And so the availability of a replacement vehicle can be offered under 
this term. Some  insurers  allow a customer to use their preferred garage  but on the 
condition that the customer pays a higher excess. 
Miss Hs policy  explained  that she wouldnt have the use of a replacement  car if she chose 
not to use an approved  repairer. And as Miss H didnt specify this requirement in the sales  
call, I think Saga did enough  to explain this in the policy documents  it sent to her. 
Miss H called Saga claim services  as instructed in her policy  - to report the incident on the 
day it happened in September  2018. She told Saga that she wanted  to use her preferred 
garage. 
Saga told our investigator that its aware  that the AMC wouldnt have been able to arrange  a 
replacement car if Miss H didnt use an approved repairer. However,  Saga referred Miss H to 
the AMC anyway.  I dont think this was reasonable   and I therefore think  Saga contributed  
to the distress and inconvenience Miss H was caused. I think Saga should have given 
Miss H the option to claim through her insurer based  on what Miss H told it  and this is what  
ultimately happened. Miss H said she would have accepted the offer of a hire car which she 
received from the third party  insurer  also on the day she reported  the incident.  But she 
didnt accept this because the AMC advised  her not to - as it said it would provide cover.
I understand Miss H doesnt believe £150  compensation  is enough. I think its reasonable to 
expect to spend some of our own time dealing with a claim.  It isnt something that happens 
every day and so its inevitable that it will cause some inconvenience  and time.  
And while I think Saga is responsible for some of the inconvenience Miss H was caused, I 
dont think its responsible for all of her time spent dealing  with the claim. So I think £150 
compensation is a fair and reasonable sum for the inconvenience Saga caused Miss H. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. I 
require Saga Services Limited to pay Miss H £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her in the way it handled her initial  contact with it about  her claim.
Ref: DRN95458603Saga Services Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which  we 
tell it Miss H accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate 
of 8% a year.
If Miss H considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Miss H how much  its taken  off. It should also give Miss H a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9545860