K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined two claims on her income 
protection policy.
background
Miss H has income protection insurance  underwritten by Great  Lakes Insurance  SE  a 
policy designed to provide  a monthly benefit in the event of accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment rendering  her unable to work. 
Miss H cared for her grandparents and, in 2017,  made two claims on her policy  stemming 
from that. 
The first claim  Miss H made was for a monthly  sickness benefit, because  she was off work 
caring for her grandparents. But Great Lakes declined that claim and said Miss Hs ill health 
didnt meet the terms and conditions of her policy. 
The second  claim  Miss H made  was for a monthly unemployment benefit, because shed 
taken a lot of time off work to care for her grandparents and had consequently been 
dismissed from her job. But Great Lakes declined that claim too, and said the reasons which  
had led to Miss Hs dismissal werent  covered under  her policy either.  
Unhappy with Great Lakes decisions  Miss H approached this service and asked us to 
review whether her claims had been declined fairly. One of our investigators looked into 
what had happened. And, having done so, thought Great Lakes had declined  Miss Hs 
claims fairly.  But they thought Great Lakes had caused Miss H some  trouble and upset in its 
handling of one the claims, so recommended it paid her £100 to compensate  for that. 
Great Lakes agreed  with those findings and the compensation recommended,  but Miss H 
didnt. She reiterated  her concerns about  the claims being declined  and said more  
compensation was warranted given everything thatd  happened. So as no agreement was 
reached the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules (which  are set out in full under ICOBS and are found in the FCA 
Handbook) say that Great Lakes are required to handle claims promptly  and fairly and 
mustnt unreasonably reject them. So Ive thought about that in relation  to the two claims 
Miss H made. 
The sickness claim
Great Lakes declined Miss Hs sickness claim on the grounds  that she hadnt met the terms 
and conditions of her policy. Her policy says:
We will not pay monthly benefit if the accident/sickness results  directly or indirectly from:
Ref: DRN99591272Stress, anxiety or depression or any mental  or nervous disorder unless the condition  has 
been diagnosed by a psychiatric consultant who certified that solely the condition prevents 
you from working and you are under the continued  supervision of and receiving treatment 
from a psychiatric consultant.
As part of assessing  her claim, Great Lakes reviewed Miss Hs medical records. Copies of 
those records have  been provided to this service and show  that; Miss Hs was signed off 
work with headaches in April and June  2016; notes about work stress, incident  with 
colleague at work [] poor sleep, anxious were recorded around the same time, and; 
Miss H was referred for a routine psychiatric referral in relation to depressive illness and 
anxiety in June 2017.  
Following her referral, Miss Hs medical records go on to show that her case  was discussed  
at a multidisciplinary team (MDT)  meeting  a meeting with a group of professionals  that 
specialise in a particular  field/condition. And, in response a consultant  psychiatrist wrote to 
Miss Hs GP and said:
Thank you for referring the above person for a psychiatric assessment. [] the referral was 
for mild/moderate possible depressive  and anxiety illness. [] From the description it would 
appear that she has been under a lot of stress which understandably  has likely caused  
distress and with that anxiety with possible secondary lowering in mood.
That consultant psychiatrist commented on the medication that Miss H had been prescribed 
as adequate  for her condition, and on the local care services that were available  for Miss H 
too. But, notably, their response to Miss Hs referral  concluded with:
We have not offered her psychiatric input at this time due to the mild presentation.
Miss Hs policy  was clear on the terms and conditions  that shed need  to satisfy in order  to 
receive a monthly  sickness  benefit.  As I cited above,  one of those terms required her both 
her condition(s)  to have  been diagnosed by a psychiatric consultant  and certified as the only 
reasons preventing her from work, and also required her to be under the continued  
supervision of a psychiatric  consultant  and receiving treatment from them  too. 
Miss H hadnt been offered psychiatric input though. And whilst thats not to say she wasnt  
suffering from ill health, Im not persuaded that shed satisfied the terms and conditions of 
her policy and I cant say that Great Lakes acted  unreasonably in declining  her sickness  
claim because  of that.
The unemployment claim
Referring to Miss Hs policy again, it says:
We will not pay benefit if:
Your unemployment is due to your own misconduct  including failure to meet standards  or 
targets, fraud, dishonesty,  breach  of contract  or any other circumstance that resulted in your 
employer taking disciplinary action against you.
Miss Hs former employment  was based on a contract  which, amongst other things, required 
her to work in a particular role for a particular number of hours  each week. In their dismissal  
letter, Miss Hs former employer said:
Ref: DRN99591273You have left us with no alternative therefore  but to hereby end your employment. In that 
you accept you are currently unable  to perform your duties. We confirm your employment 
with the company is terminated with immediate  effect.
The nature of Miss Hs sustained absence from work meant she was unable  to meet the 
terms of her employment contract. And, although  Miss Hs previous employer didnt take 
disciplinary action against her, I think its reasonable to say that her non-attendance at work 
could be seen to constitute a failure to meet standards or targets  and/or be in breach of 
contract. 
I dont doubt that Miss H found herself  in a difficult position trying to balance both her family  
and work  commitments.  But, again,  based  on the available evidence  I cant  say that 
Great Lakes acted unreasonably in declining her unemployment claim either. 
Miss Hs policy  does  have  a provision for paying unemployment benefit to those that may 
find themselves unemployed as a result  of becoming a carer though, and in relation to that 
Miss Hs policy  says:
If you are unemployed as a result  of you becoming a carer,  we will consider an 
unemployment claim if you can provide evidence that you are:
1)Required to care for a partner or relative  and
2)You are registered with your local social services department as a carer and are in 
receipt of or awaiting a carers allowance from the Department for Work and 
Pensions or any subsequent equivalent.
I have no reason to doubt that Miss H was caring  for her grandparents, and I can see she 
was working with her local carers  centre  in relation to that. But Miss H wasnt  in receipt of or 
awaiting a carers allowance, so I dont  think  she would have been able to satisfy the above 
terms. 
I appreciate that Miss H says she would have claimed a carers allowance had she been told 
she needed to do so. But Miss H was asked  if she was claiming one and told her insurer  that 
she wasnt because she was looking for work. Miss H also said that her grandparents had 
claimed a carers allowance  for one another and she didnt  feel right taking that money from 
them. Miss H was in receipt of job seekers  allowance/universal credit though, and in view of 
that I note that her policy also said:
We will not pay benefit for any period of being  a carer:
If you are also receiving  disability or unemployment benefits of any kind. 
So unfortunately I dont think Miss H would have been eligible to claim unemployment 
benefit under the carer provisions of her policy anyway.
The compensation amount
I can see that Miss H had to wait quite a while for Great Lakes to provide a response  to her 
unemployment claim and I can see that she had to chase Great Lakes  on a number of 
different occasions  too. And whilst the onus wouldve been on Miss H to read her policy  
Ref: DRN99591274documents, Great Lakes didnt  specifically  tell her what wouldve have been required of her 
had she wanted  to submit  a claim under  the carer provisions of her policy.  
However, Miss H was already going  through  a difficult time and the evidence  in this case 
shows that her wider circumstances were  having  a detrimental impact on her wellbeing.  So 
whilst I fully accept that Great Lakes actions were likely to have caused her frustration and 
inconvenience, Im not persuaded that I can fairly  say its actions were  solely  responsible for 
the way Miss H was feeling. Therefore, I think the £100 compensation recommend by our 
investigator fairly reflects the impact that Great Lakes actions had on Miss H. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Great  Lakes Insurance  SE should pay 
Miss H £100 in compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November  2019.
Jade Alexander
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9959127