K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Santander  UK Plc blocked their account after an attempted 
fraud and didnt keep their personal details safe.
background
Mr S received a call from Santander on 11 April 2019 after an attempted payment for £1,310 
using his debit  card details. His card was stopped and a new one issued. He wanted to 
understand what happened and use his account again. But he says he was given 
inconsistent information  about when the block would be removed.  And he was told that 
Santander had given the person trying  to use his account information about  his previous 
transactions when  that person had called.
Santander said that it couldnt  say how long a fraud investigation would take. The block  on 
the account was removed  on 6 May 2019.  But it accepted it had wrongly  told Mr S he would 
be able to listen to the call the fraudster  had made  and hadnt been clear  about  how long the 
block could last. So it paid a total of £150 in compensation.
Our investigator didnt  recommend it take any further action. The person trying to 
impersonate Mr S had obtained personal details about him. And this allowed that person to 
pass security  checks at Santander. So he didnt think Santander had made  a mistake in the 
way it dealt with the call. But it had provided  incorrect information about its process and paid 
appropriate compensation.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree and wanted  the complaint  to be reviewed. Mr S said that his issue 
wasnt so much about the monetary compensation but what  Santander did. The reason Mr S 
wanted the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman was because  he thought that the 
delay in Santander dealing with this was because an internal issue there was being covered  
up. He couldnt see how anyone could  have accessed his card details  in his wallet and if this 
was a simple fraud then he couldnt  see why their account was blocked  for so long.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear that Mr and Mrs S were the victims of an attempted fraud on their account. 
And I can understand why the actions  of the fraudster caused them distress and 
inconvenience. They havent suffered a financial loss but are concerned about what  
Santander did and want to understand more about  how the fraud happened.
Its a matter for the relevant authorities to investigate  reported fraud. That means I wont  be 
looking at just how someone was able to get hold of sufficient information about  Mr S to be 
able to impersonate  him on the phone with Santander. And so it wouldnt help me to listen  to 
the call that person made during which Santander accepts that information  about past 
payments Mr S had made on his account  was obtained. As Mr S states  that person was very 
bold having just tried to use his card details and when a payment  was declined then phoning 
to try and get more  information to take over his account.
In my view that background explains why the fraud  team  at Santander took this seriously  
and wanted to look into what happened. That took some time and although I can see why  
Ref: DRN98382632Mr S is suspicious about that nothing  Ive seen would support any adverse inference about  
Santander being drawn. But it didnt  help that Mr S was given incorrect  information  about 
what would  happen.  During one call on 12 April 2019, having  found their account  was still 
blocked, he was told that this should only be for 48 hours  or possibly over the coming  
weekend. And in another call he was told that he might be able to listen  to the call made  by 
the fraudster to see if he could recognise the person. But on 23 April 2019 Mr S was told that 
this wouldnt be possible and that the investigation may take some time.  Mr and Mrs S were 
paid £50 compensation that day. And on 21 May 2019 he further explained  to Santander 
that an important  cheque from the account  had been  returned unpaid due to the block  and 
remained dissatisfied about the communication.  A further £100 compensation was credited 
to their account on that day. 
I dont have a basis here to find that Santander  made a mistake in blocking the account  and 
taking steps including for increased checks with Mr and Mrs S before free access to the 
account was again given.  I understand that, with some issues,  they were  able to take money  
out in branch and a number of direct debits were still paid from the account. Im afraid that 
much of inconvenience here stemmed from the actions of the fraudster. They  didnt have a 
financial loss and I think that the amount of compensation  for the poor aspects of the service  
from Santander is adequate. So Im afraid I wont be asking it to do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9838263