K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  the car she bought with finance  from Startline  Motor  Finance Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
On 4 July 2018 Miss S acquired a car for £6,995 with the benefit of a hire purchase  
agreement with Startline.  At the point of sale the car was seven years old and had done 
98,000 miles.
Miss S says she didnt  have the chance  to test drive  the car before purchase.  A few days 
later however the engine management  light (EML) came on and she noticed a noise when 
depressing the clutch pedal. She could  also see there was rust coming through on the 
offside front wheel arch.
She says she contacted  the selling garage but was told to claim under the warranty.  But the 
issues werent covered  under the warranty so in August  she took the car to another  garage  
and paid £180 for repairing the problem relating to the EML. The car at this point had done 
99,386 miles.
But Miss S says there  were still problems with the clutch so in September  she emailed the 
dealership. It didnt reply  so she took the car to another garage for a service and review. This 
confirmed a fault with the clutch bearing and misting of the rear shock  absorbers as well as 
other issues regarding  the brake pads. 
At this point she complained to Startline who arranged for an independent report. This 
report, dated 25 October, reported  a noise from the clutch which it believed was caused by 
worn clutch  release bearings, misting on the rear shock absorbers,  rust on the offside front 
wheel arch and kerb damage  on the wheels. But taking into account the age and mileage  of 
the car, it concluded  these were wear and tear and that the car had been fit for purpose  at 
the point of sale. On that basis Startline rejected the complaint and said the car had been of 
satisfactory quality on delivery. It noted that under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 Miss S 
should have allowed the selling garage the chance to repair any faults but hadnt done so.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint in part. Looking at the age and mileage of this car, she 
felt it was reasonable to expect some problems  to occur through  wear  and tear and for that 
reason shed discounted some of the issues identified by the second garage.  But it was also 
necessary to look at what Miss S had paid for the car as well as when the faults had become 
known. In this case  Miss S had noted  the noise from the clutch within a few days and the 
problem with the engine management light had become clear a few weeks after that. Miss S 
had paid £180 to put this last fault right but at the service in October, further faults were 
noted in particular, a problem with the clutch bearings, the rear shock  absorbers  and rust on 
the rear wheel arch. The car at this point had done 2,114 miles since purchase.
Our adjudicator said some of the issues  were wear and tear only to be expected  of a car of 
this age. And as Miss S had had the chance to inspect the car before she acquired it when it 
was reasonable  to think shed have noticed  the rust or other bodywork issues. But given the 
price paid by Miss S for this car, she didnt  think it was fair for her to have to pay for the 
repairs to the clutch, the DPF sensor and the shock absorbers so soon  after she acquired it. 
Ref: DRN93213662The faults had been noted very soon after purchase  so on balance  she felt it likely theyd 
been present  or developing at the point of sale and, on that basis, the car hadnt been of 
satisfactory quality. She recommended Startline refund the cost of the repairs already 
carried out and arrange for the remaining repairs to the clutch to be done  at no cost to Miss 
S.
Miss S accepted  the recommendation.  Startline  however disagreed and relied on the 
independent report  that had concluded  the issues were all wear  and tear. It asked for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres no information  on any 
particular issue, or the information available is disputed as it is here on some points, then 
Ive made  my decision on the balance of probabilities, in other words whats more  likely than 
not to have happened. 
Under the legislation, in particular the Consumer Rights Act 2015,  Startline has a 
responsibility to ensure  that the car supplied to Miss S was of satisfactory quality.  That is 
what reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory taking into account all the relevant 
circumstances, which in the case of a car incudes the age, mileage and price. But theres a 
limit to Startlines responsibilities,  in particular that any faults must be present or developing 
at the point of sale.
Ive seen Miss Ss car was seven  years old and had done 98,000  miles when she acquired it 
and its only to be expected that with a car of this age and mileage, thered be some 
problems caused  by general wear  and tear. But this has to be seen in the context of the 
purchase price of the car and Miss Ss expectation  that the car would be in reasonable 
condition at the time she acquired it. 
As has been said, Miss S first noticed  a problem with the engine management light coming  
on within a few days of delivery. This was followed shortly after by a noise  from the clutch  
and a few months  later a problem with the rear shock absorbers, as well as a number of 
other, but less significant, problems. All of this happened within the first three months and 
the total cost of these repairs, based on the bills and estimates provided, was in the region of 
£1,000. And this was on top of the purchase  price of £6,995. Startline may feel that Miss S 
was simply unfortunate  but I dont think its fair or reasonable that she should have to pay 
such a significant  amount  for repairs of this type so soon after purchase when it seems  to 
me that such matters  should have been picked up by the selling garage before sale.
Looking at when  the problems began, I consider these issues  were  present or developing at 
the point of sale and on that basis I dont consider this car was of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.  For that reason I think its only fair and reasonable Startline now arrange  to 
put matters right. 
Ive taken account the conclusions of the independent  report  and its view the car was fit for 
purpose. But that seems  to me to be a slightly different question to the one Im considering 
which is whether, taking all the factors into account,  the car was of satisfactory quality. For 
the reasons given I dont consider it was in this case.
Ref: DRN93213663Startline says Miss S should have given the selling garage the chance to put matters  right.  
But Miss S says she did contact the garage and was told to claim under the warranty. 
Theres no objective information to clarify what happened but on balance  I think its more 
likely Miss S did contact the garage.  The car went wrong within  a few days  and I think Miss 
S would have wanted first to find out what was wrong and how it could be resolved rather  
than to go elsewhere and incur  additional costs for repairs that might otherwise have been 
done free of charge or under the warranty.
Ive seen Miss S paid £180 on 14 August to have the DPF pressure sensor replaced and 
£234 on 19 February 2019  for repairs to the rear shock absorbers. Shes also provided  the 
relevant receipts  to confirm this. I propose that Startline should reimburse these costs 
together with interest on these payments from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
In addition it should also arrange to have the clutch repaired or replaced at no cost to Miss 
S. I agree with the adjudicator that, if possible, this work should  be carried  out a local garage  
to minimise any further inconvenience to Miss S.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Startline Motor Finance  Limited  to:
reimburse Miss S £234 for the cost of the repairs to the rear shock  and £180 for the 
repairs to the DPF pressure sensor together with interest at 8% from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
arrange for the repair or replacement of the clutch at no cost to Miss S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June  2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9321366