K821x#15complaint
Ms O complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
Marks and Spencer  originally sold Ms O the PPI but Allianz Insurance  Plc (Allianz) have 
accepted responsibility for the sale and so the complaint  has been set up against them.
To keep  things simple,  Ive only referred to Allianz in this decision.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case in December 2018 explaining why I intended  to 
uphold Ms Os complaint.  A copy of my provisional  decision  is attached and forms part of my 
final decision.
I asked both Ms O and Allianz to provide me with any further  comments  and evidence they 
would like me to consider.  Ms O confirmed she had nothing further to add. Allianz agreed 
with my provisional decision to uphold Ms Os complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Os case.
As Ms O has nothing further  to add and Allianz  have agreed  with my provisional decision to 
uphold Ms Os complaint,  I see no reason to depart  from the findings as set out in my 
provisional decision.
It follows that I think Allianz mis-sold Ms O this PPI policy and uphold Ms Os complaint.
fair compensation
Allianz should put Ms O in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.Allianz should find out how much  Ms O would have owed when she closed  her charge 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Allianz should then refund  the difference between what Ms O owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms O made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Allianz can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.Allianz should add simple interest  on the difference between  what Ms O would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
Ref: DRN90766072The interest rate should be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
C.If  when  Allianz works  out what Ms O would  have  owed  each month without PPI  
Ms O paid more  than enough to clear her balance, Allianz should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Ms O paid.  And it should  carry on paying interest until the point 
when Ms O wouldve owed  Allianz something on her charge  card.  The interest  rate 
should be 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
D.Allianz should tell Ms O what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Allianz to take off tax from this interest. Allianz  must  give 
Ms O a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Ms Os complaint  against  Allianz  Insurance  Plc and require them  to pay the 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN90766073copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Ms O complains that she was mis-sold  a payment  protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.
Marks and Spencer originally sold Ms O the PPI but Allianz Insurance  Plc (Allianz) have accepted 
responsibility for the sale and so the complaint  has been set up against them.
To keep things simple,  Ive only referred to Allianz in this decision.
background
Ms O took out an account  card (chargecard)  in 1994. She was sold the PPI at the same time in 
connection with this card.
The PPI cost 64p per £100  of the monthly outstanding balance.  It was meant to pay 15% of the 
outstanding balance each month if Ms O was off work  sick or lost her job. And it would have 
continued to do so until the outstanding balance had been paid off.
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Os complaint should be upheld. Ms O didnt agree  with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Ms Os case.
Having done that Im currently intending to uphold  Ms Os complaint.
Allianz had to give Ms O clear  information  about the policy so that she could make an informed 
decision about whether or not to take PPI. From the evidence available, I dont think  they made it 
clear to Ms O that in order to make a successful  claim  for unemployment under the policy, she would  
have had to be entirely out of paid work. 
At the time of the sale Ms O has told us she was in regular paid employment as an employee but also 
worked on a freelance  (paid) self-employed  basis. I dont have  reason to doubt  what  Ms O has told us 
about also working  on a self-employed basis at the time of the sale and I think  its understandable that 
she no longer has evidence of this available given that the sale took place such  a long time ago.
However, what this means is that Ms O would not only have  had to lose her job as an employee but 
that she would also have had to stop working on a self-employed basis in order to make a successful 
claim under  the policy.  The self-employment terms were in themselves onerous  cover applies in 
the event of bankruptcyor  official termination of self-employed status due to failure  of business.
Based on the above, I think its unlikely  that Ms O would have been able to make successful claim  for 
unemployment under  the policy, or at the very least it would have been very difficult  for her to do so. 
I think  that if this had been  made clear to Ms O at the time of the sale, I dont think  she would have 
thought the policy was good value for money in her circumstances.  And I dont think  the fact that she 
may have been able to make a successful claim for disability if she couldnt  work at all makes up for 
the fact that an important part of the policy may have been of no use to her. Especially bearing  in 
Ref: DRN90766074mind that Ms O has told us she also had an income protection policy at the time of the sale which  
would have covered her for sickness.
So I think Allianz  mis-sold Ms O this PPI policy.
proposed fair compensation
Allianz should  put Ms O in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
E. Allianz should find out how much Ms O would  have owed when  she closed her charge card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges. 
Allianz should  then refund  the difference between what Ms O owed when she closed  her account  
and what she would have  owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms O made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Allianz can take off what  she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes her.  
F. Allianz  should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms O would  have owed when 
she closed her account from when she closed  it until she gets the refund. The interest rate 
should be 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
G. If  when  Allianz  works out what Ms O would  have owed each month without PPI  
Ms O paid more than enough to clear her balance, Allianz should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms O paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms O wouldve  owed 
Allianz something on her charge card. The interest rate should  be 15% a year until April 1993  
and 8% a year from then on.
H. Allianz should tell Ms O what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Allianz  to take off tax from this interest.  Allianz  must  give Ms O a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold Ms Os complaint against Allianz  Insurance  Plc.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9076607