K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited mis-sold 
them a of insurance policies which included permanent health insurance, life insurance and 
critical illness insurance (the insurance  package).
background
The insurance package  was sold to Mr and Mrs W in 2002 around the same time as 
applying for a mortgage. The insurance package was reviewed  and the cover increased - 
in 2004, around  the time Mr and Mrs W were looking to increase their borrowing. 
Mr and Mrs W can recall cancelling the insurance package at some stage, but they cant 
remember when. They only recall being told that they had no need  for it at a later stage and 
thats why they cancelled  it.
Mr and Mrs W say the insurance package was mis-sold. Theyve put forward  several 
reasons why including (but not limited to):
-they were led to believe the insurance package was compulsory;
-they both received  their usual pay for many weeks  if they were  off work sick;
-they werent told they could go elsewhere  to get a similar insurance package;  and
-they werent asked  whether they had existing cover.
L & G didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ws concerns, so they complained  to our Service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold their complaint. As Mr and Mrs W disagree, their complaint 
has now been passed to me to look at everything  afresh to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. Ill 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs W say the insurance package was presented  to them  as being compulsory; 
effectively they had to have  it, or they wouldnt get the mortgage / additional borrowing theyd 
applied for. They say because they were young,  they were taken advantage of. 
Its accepted by both parties that the insurance  package was initially sold at a meeting, and 
the review that occurred  in 2004  also took place in person. But given how long ago this all 
happened, L & G havent been able to provide us with a complete set of policy  documents.  
Thats not surprising.  However, theres  nothing in the documentation that L & G has been  
able to provide  us which suggests the insurance  package was compulsory. And Mr and Mrs 
W seem to have  been aware that they didnt need to take out cover should one or both 
become unemployed as from the application Ive seen dated April 2002, they opted not to 
include that cover. 
Mr and Mrs W say that L & Gs representative told them they had to have the insurance 
package. Ive taken what theyve said into account  and its possible  that did happen. But Im 
also conscious that memories tend to fade over time,  and this all happened back  in 2002 
Ref: DRN93229682and 2004. On the balance  of probabilities, and taking everything  into account, Im not 
persuaded that its more likely or not that the insurance was presented as compulsory. 
L & G recommended  the insurance package to Mr and Mrs W. So, not only did it have an 
obligation to ensure that it was suitable  for their needs, but it also had to provide them with 
clear, fair and not misleading information  about the main terms of each of the insurance  
policies at the point of sale.
I dont think the monthly premiums that Mr and Mrs W had to pay for each  of the policies  
made it unsuitable when compared  to the potential  benefits, if theyd made a successful 
claim. And Ive seen  nothing to say that Mr and Mrs W had duplicate cover already in place 
should they have been diagnosed with a critical illness or died during the lifetime  of the 
mortgage. 
It also looks like Mr and Mrs Ws sick pay was considered  by L & Gs representative when 
advising them in 2002 and 2004  to take out permanent  health insurance which couldve paid 
out a monthly  benefit if one or both were too ill to work.   
Mr W had to be off work sick for 8 weeks before being able to claim on the policy and Mrs W 
had to be off work sick for 26 weeks. Thats consistent with Mrs W saying that she was 
entitled to between 6 and 12 months  full sick pay from her employer. And I note that the 
monthly premium for Mrs Ws permanent health insurance was around half that of Mr Ws 
because of the length of time she had to absent  from work  due to sickness in order  to claim 
on that policy. I dont  think the period of time each of them  had to wait in order to claim 
permanent health  insurance made it unsuitable.  
I havent been provided with a copy of the terms and conditions of each policy  which made  
up the insurance package from the time.  But based  on what I know  about the sorts of 
exclusions that typically form part of these types of policies and given Mr and Mrs Ws other  
circumstances from the time,  Ive seen nothing to conclude that the insurance package was 
unsuitable for them. For example, the application form they signed in 2002  reflects that 
theyd been in full time employment  for some time and the application  forms from 2004  also 
suggest that they were still in the same jobs then. Further, the medical questions they 
answered in 2002 and 2004 dont suggest theyd had any pre-existing  health issues  which 
may have  restricted their ability to claim certain  benefits under each of the policies that made 
up the insurance package.
I also note that Mr and Mrs W say they didnt have any dependants, but I dont  think  that 
made the insurance package unsuitable. Should one of them became critically ill or died, the 
insurance package  wouldve  still been beneficial as it couldve paid, if not all, the vast 
majority of the mortgage, and the additional borrowing in 2004.  And in the event of a 
successful permanent health insurance claim, their monthly mortgage payments couldve 
been covered.  
Im not persuaded that L & Gs representative  was under an obligation  to tell Mr and Mrs W 
when the insurance  package  was sold to them in 2002, or reviewed in 2004, that they may 
have been able to get similar policies elsewhere with other providers. 
I dont know what information Mr and Mrs W were given in 2002 or 2004. And, in particular, I 
dont know whether they were given fair, clear and not misleading information about the 
main terms  of the insurance  package.  But even  if they werent  based on Mr and Mrs Ws 
circumstances in 2002 and 2004  and for the reasons why I dont think the insurance 
Ref: DRN93229683package was unsuitable for them - Ive seen nothing which  persuades me that had theyd 
been given all of the information  in the way in which that they shouldve, Mr and Mrs W 
wouldnt have taken  out the insurance  package in 2002, or increased their cover  in 2004. 
So, Im satisfied that the insurance package wasnt mis-sold to Mr and Mrs W in 2002 or 
when cover was increased in 2004.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 January 2021.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9322968