K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1992. 
Mr and Mrs G say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them  the PPI 
alongside their mortgage.
background
I issued my provisional decision in January 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this decision. 
In this I explained why I was intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. I asked everyone 
to send me any further comments and information  before  I reached  my final decision. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt have anything further to add. Nationwide sent me some additional 
comments and Ive now had the opportunity to consider them. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After considering Nationwides comments Ive decided to uphold this complaint, for the same 
reasons outlined in my provisional decision. 
Nationwide says that Mr and Mrs G wouldve been told about  the 90 day waiting period and 
it wouldve  been clear  from the documentation   and they still decided to take out this 
mortgage and PPI.  
Ive seen a copy  of the PPI leaflet Nationwide says wouldve  been  given  to Mr and Mrs G at 
the time but I dont think the information about  the waiting period was given sufficient 
prominence to draw  this term to their attention.  
Ive also looked  at the policy document  relevant  to the policy Mr and Mrs G took out. 
However, Nationwide says that this document wouldve been sent to Mr and Mrs G after the 
sale  so I cant say that Mr and Mrs G had this information  when deciding  whether to take 
out the PPI. In any case, I dont think this term was given sufficient prominence  in this 
document either. So Im not satisfied that the 90 day waiting period was sufficiently brought  
to Mr and Mrs Gs attention at the point of sale. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  I think this term wouldve been  important  to Mr and 
Mrs G based on their circumstances  at the time.  And on balance,  I dont think they wouldve 
still wanted to take out this PPI if they had known that they wouldnt have been able to make  
a claim for the first 90 days of the policy. I say this having looked at Mr and Mrs Gs limited  
other means  to keep  up their repayments at the time. And even though  the PPI was a 
standard feature, and they couldve taken a different mortgage  if they didnt want  the policy,  
this doesnt remove  the responsibility on Nationwide to provide  the information  Mr and Mrs G 
needed to decide if the policy  was right for their circumstances - and if they wished to 
proceed with this type of mortgage  on that basis.
  
Nationwide has referred to another ombudsmans decision about a different complaint in its 
response to my provisional  decision. But Im looking at the individual merits of Mr and 
Ref: DRN96162962Mrs Gs complaint and Im satisfied that in the particular circumstances of this complaint it 
should be upheld.
putting things right
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs G in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide  
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs G the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Nationwide  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mr and Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 1992.
Mr and Mrs G say Nationwide  Building  Society (Nationwide)  mis-sold them the PPI alongside their 
mortgage.
my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN96162963Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint,  and Ill explain why.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs G so it didnt  have to check  if the policy was right 
for them. But it did have to make sure they got the information they needed  to decide if the PPI was 
right for them.  Based on what Ive seen so far I dont think Nationwide  did this.
I say this because the PPI had a 90 day deferment period  meaning Mr G (as the insured  party) 
couldnt make  a claim if he was unemployed or too sick to work for the first three months. Then, upon 
a successful claim, the benefit wouldve been backdated to the 61st day. So if Mr G was off work  for 89 
days no benefit wouldve been due at all.
Nationwide says that as part of its process Mr and Mrs G wouldve been given a PPI leaflet  which 
included information  about the 90 day deferment period. I havent seen any evidence  that they 
actually received  a leaflet  of this kind, but I accept its possible they may have. So
Ive looked at the leaflets Nationwide says wouldve  been  provided around the time but Im not 
satisfied the information about the deferment period  was sufficiently prominent  to draw Mr and Mrs 
Gs attention to this term.
In this particular case I think this wouldve  mattered because Mr and Mrs G have said that Mr G 
wouldve only received statutory sick pay, and that they had less than 3 months  worth of savings at 
the time. And as they chose to cover Mr G only, I think they were heavily dependent on his income. 
So I think if Mr G was unable to work they wouldve struggled to keep up their mortgage repayments 
for the initial three months before they were able to make a claim. And I think  its more  likely than not 
that they wouldve  wanted  to be able to make  a claim on the PPI policy much sooner than 90 days  
particularly as they had such limited other means of making their repayments.
So, I dont think Mr and Mrs G wouldve  bought the policy if Nationwide had given them this 
information about the policy and I think Mr and Mrs G have lost out because  of what  Nationwide  did 
wrong.
Ive taken into account Nationwides recent comments including what its said about  the arrears 
management measures  it would have offered Mr and Mrs G if they were struggling to make their 
repayments during the 90 day waiting period. And its provided evidence to show its offered  this 
option to other  customers in the past. But these measures are informal  and are at the discretion of 
Nationwide, so theres no guarantee that this type of help wouldve been offered or available when  Mr 
and Mrs G may have needed it.
Ive also thought  about  what Nationwide has said about the PPI being  a standard  feature of the type 
of mortgage Mr and Mrs G took out at the time. But, in this particular case, even  though the PPI was a 
standard feature,  and they couldve taken a different mortgage  if they didnt want  the policy, this 
doesnt remove the responsibility on Nationwide to provide the information Mr and Mrs G needed to 
decide if the policy was right for their circumstances  - and if they wished to proceed with this type of 
mortgage on that basis.
So I dont think the points raised by Nationwide  make a difference to the outcome, and I still intend to 
uphold this complaint.
putting things  right
Nationwide should put Mr and Mrs G in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already,  and Nationwide should:
Ref: DRN96162964Pay Mr and Mrs G the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs G made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what  they 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide must  give 
Mr and Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I intend to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. I now invite both parties  
to respond with their comments by 15 February 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9616296