K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a loan account Mr R holds with Barclays  Bank UK PLC. Hes 
unhappy that when Barclays paid redress for an error in how it operated the loan, it wouldnt 
pay the money to his current account,  even though someone had told him this was possible.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in less detail  than theyve been  presented.  No 
discourtesys intended  by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome. Ive also rounded the 
figures involved is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr R when my decision is published. 
Mr R has held the loan since 2009.  In February  2019, Barclays wrote  to him saying it had 
charged the wrong amount of interest on the loan, resulting in the balance  being too high.  To 
put things right, it said would pay redress to the account. The redress was in two parts:
a little over £186 in interest overcharged historically; and
a little over £995 to mitigate against  the future impact of the error.
Mr R spoke to a staff member who told him hed be able to have the redress  credited to a 
current account rather than the loan. This turned out to be a mistake,  however, and Barclays 
credited the redress  to the loan account.  When he complained, Barclays  apologised and 
offered £100 compensation  for having given  him wrong information.
Our investigator thought that was fair, but Mr R wants his complaint reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But Ill make  some general observations 
before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. Were impartial, and we 
dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our 
investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone  else. So when 
Mr R refers to us an organisation that champions consumers, he has somewhat mis-directed 
himself.
Theres no suggestion here that Mr R thinks the redress hes received has been wrongly 
calculated; he simply wants it paid to his current account rather  than back  to the loan. I 
appreciate why hed want  that, but its not something Barclays  is obliged  to do and theres  no 
basis for me to order it to. 
Ref: DRN93139352Its unfortunate that Barclays raised Mr Rs expectations by telling him, wrongly,  that he 
could have the money paid to his current account.  But when a business  has given someone 
incorrect information, putting things right doesnt  mean placing the person in the position 
theyd be in if the wrong information had been  right. It means placing them  in the position 
theyd be in if the right information had been  given  in the first instance, and here thats 
already happened. 
For the inconvenience and nuisance value of having briefly misled  Mr R, Barclays  has 
offered reasonable compensation. Ill leave it to him to decide if, on further  reflection, he 
wishes to contact Barclays  directly  and accept its offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9313935