K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  with the settlement offered  by Lloyds Bank  General  Insurance 
Limited following  a claim  on their buildings insurance policy.
background 
Mr and Mrs D suffered  an escape of water  in their bathroom that also caused damage in the
lounge below. Lloyds  sent an assessor to agree what damage needed repairing or replacing.  
And it recommended a trusted repairer to carry out the work. Mr and Mrs D decided  they 
wanted to fit a shower tray in place of the bath. So they said they would meet  the additional 
plumbing costs. Lloyds repairer said that would be okay. But the cash settlement offered  by 
Lloyds left them with very little for the bathroom after replacing  the downstairs  flooring.
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  with the poor communication and behaviour from Lloyds
contractor. They want a fair cash settlement to put things right themselves. And theyd like
Lloyds to provide  a proper breakdown of its figures  or increase  its offer by at least  £700.
Lloyds said Mr and Mrs D had submitted a claim for water damage  to their property. It
recognised they were  concerned about  the service  they received from its appointed
consultant. It could see Mr and Mrs D were unhappy  with the work  carried  out by its 
contractors. They didnt  want them involved any more as they said theyd refused to carry 
out the work  as agreed. 
Lloyds said itd been in regular contact  with Mr and Mrs D. And it agreed  to look at their other
quotations. But they were much  higher  than Lloyds own contractors wouldve charged. And
Lloyds would only pay what  it expected to pay its contractors to do the same  repairs. The 
existing bathroom  suite wasnt damaged  and could be refitted. And the policy only covered  
repairing the water  damaged areas  - not refurbishing the full bathroom. So Lloyds had 
offered a cash settlement of £6651 to Mr and Mrs D.
Mr and Mrs D werent  satisfied with Lloyds response.  So they contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She thought Lloyds had acted unfairly towards Mr and
Mrs D. Thered been a lack of clarity from Lloyds with regards to the settlement offered.
After reviewing the calculations our investigator thought Lloyds  should  increase its offer and
pay an additional £1514.35 to Mr and Mrs D. And she said it should pay £250 compensation
for the distress and inconvenience caused.  Lloyds should also pay 8% simple  interest  for
delaying the payment to Mr and Mrs D.
Lloyds didnt agree. Its obligation was to pay the customer what  it wouldve cost to do the
repairs itself. The final settlement offer had been  made to Mr and Mrs D. But theyd asked
Lloyds not to issue a payment because they were waiting for the outcome of their complaint.
It was Mr Ds choice not to accept the £6651 so it didnt think interest  was warranted. 
my provisional findings
Because Lloyds  didn't agree, this complaint was passed to an ombudsman  to consider. I 
took a slightly  different  view to our investigator. So I issued a provisional decision setting out 
my view and inviting  further comments. In summary I said:
Ref: DRN92520622I dont think it would  be reasonable to ask Lloyds for exact  details of its contractors  
rates. Such information is business sensitive.  But I can see Lloyds has provided our 
investigator with further details about  its calculations for the repair  costs  to the 
bathroom, lounge  and hall. After agreeing an increase in the flooring cost Lloyds 
offered a cash settlement of £6651 to Mr and Mrs D. This breaks down into just over 
£4200 for downstairs  and nearly  £2400  to repair the bathroom.
Mr and Mrs D didnt think that was enough.  They wanted to make some alterations 
so a shower tray could be fitted. And they said they were happy to pay for the extra  
work. But there does  seem to have been some confusion about whether it was 
possible and how this was going  to be dealt  with.
I know Mr and Mrs D didnt want to put the old bathroom suite  back on top of the new 
tiled floor. But Lloyds contractors said they regularly take out and refit bathrooms. 
And Ive not seen  anything to suggest  it couldnt have been done on this occasion.  
Unfortunately Mr and Mrs D werent  happy  with how things  went  and asked the 
contractors not to return after the first days work.  And this left a bathroom suite  
outside their property. But it was Mr and Mrs Ds decision not to allow  the contractors 
to return and put things right.
Ive looked  at Mr and Mrs Ds buildings insurance policy. Lloyds responsibility is to 
put Mr and Mrs D back  as closely as possible to the position they were in before the 
leak. The policy covers any damage  the water  has caused  to the home.  And it covers 
the cost of repairing or replacing a damaged item - but not the set that its part of.
The policy says Lloyds will pay the cost of rebuilding or repairing the part of the home 
that is damaged  (using a suitable  equivalent  material wherever possible). And Lloyds 
can make  a money payment instead  of repairing or rebuilding.  But it would only pay a 
cash settlement equal to what it would pay its own contractors  to do the work.
Lloyds did offer to have the repair work carried out by its trusted contractors. But it 
wouldnt pay for the costs of purchasing  or fitting  a new bathroom suite. And the 
quotes Mr and Mrs D obtained were higher than Lloyds contractors wouldve cost.  So 
it only offered the amount its own contractors would  charge.
I know Mr and Mrs D have spent more than the settlement  offered  by Lloyds. By 
choosing to do the work themselves  Mr and Mrs D had the opportunity to repair or 
rebuild the bathroom however they wanted. But I wouldnt expect  Lloyds to offer any 
more than it estimates as the cost to carry out the repairs itself.
Our investigator asked Lloyds  to pay the settlement of £6651  to Mr and Mrs D while 
the complaint  was being investigated.  And I understand theyve now received the 
payment. The matter has taken a long time to resolve. But I cant  hold Lloyds solely  
responsible for any delays. 
Mr and Mrs D wanted to fit a shower tray during the repairs. And they spent time 
looking at replacement materials. Lloyds  only delayed making the settlement 
because they were instructed by Mr D not to pay them. So I dont think  it would be 
fair to ask Lloyds  to pay any additional interest  on the cash  settlement  already made.
Based  on everything Ive seen I think Lloyds settlement of £6651 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. And Ive not seen enough evidence  to suggest it 
Ref: DRN92520623should pay more.  The figure is in line with the terms of the buildings insurance policy.  
And I wont be asking it to increase the settlement amount.
But I do think Lloyds couldve handled  things  a little better. Mr and Mrs D have clearly 
been distressed  by the initial repair work and the disturbance  caused to their home. 
Taking everything into account  I think the suggested compensation of £250 for 
distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. But I wont 
be asking Lloyds  to increase the settlement amount of £6651 or pay interest on that 
sum.
responses to my provisional  findings
Mr and Mrs D responded  to clarify some issues and said theyd have been happy for Lloyds 
contractors to do the work if theyd said it was possible. Their own installers  had no problems 
installing the shower tray. Mr and Mrs D said Lloyds  had offered £6651  to finalise the claim. 
They hadnt  wanted to finalise the matter because itd been referred to our service. But they 
hadnt refused  to accept payment. 
Mr and Mrs D accepted  the suggested  £250  for the distress and inconvenience suffered. But 
theyd like the additional payment suggested  by our investigator so they can complete the 
work to the standard they wanted.  
Lloyds accepted the decision  of the provisional  report and said it had nothing  further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision 
and for the same  reasons.  
Mr and Mrs D provided a thorough response  to my provisional findings. And Ive carefully 
considered their comments.  I can see how much distress this has caused Mr and Mrs D. 
I understand as a loyal paying customer they feel let down by Lloyds. They  expected their 
claim to be dealt with quickly and without incident.  
Mr and Mrs D say they wouldve been  happy for Lloyds contractors to do the work.  And I 
think if there hadnt been any issues  or changes the repairs  couldve been completed quite 
quickly. Lloyds said the old bathroom  suite couldve been fitted on replacement tiles  in line 
with the policy.  But Mr and Mrs D wanted  a shower  tray installing instead. And this led to 
delays and a dispute with the preferred contractors.
Lloyds responsibility  was to put them back as closely as possible to the position they were in 
before the claim. But it didnt accept the alternative  quotes as the costs were higher than its 
own contractors were  going to charge. 
When changes are suggested to the proposed repairs, for example  replacing a bath with a 
shower, it can lead to issues relating to what can and cant  be done  within  the agreed scope 
of works and quoted costs. So I think Lloyds took the right approach by offering a cash 
settlement for the amount it wouldve paid its own contractors to carry out the repairs  
identified as covered  by the policy. 
Ref: DRN92520624Each party has provided its own comments on why there were delays to both the repair  work  
and paying the settlement figure. Lloyds wanted to finalise the claim by paying Mr and Mrs D 
the cash settlement.  Mr and Mrs D didnt want the matter finalising while their complaint was 
still ongoing, and I think that may have led to some  confusion  over whether the payment 
could be made but the complaint still be investigated.
I do appreciate how upsetting  this has been  for Mr and Mrs D. But based  on everything Ive 
seen, I think Lloyds acted  fairly in paying the amount  of money identified as the cost of 
replacing the damaged items  in line with the terms of their home insurance policy. And I 
think the suggested compensation of £250  for any distress or inconvenience caused while 
the complaint  was being resolved is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I partially  uphold this complaint. 
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited should pay Mr and Mrs D the settlement  figure  of 
£6651 without interest as it has already done. 
In addition Lloyds  Bank General Insurance Limited  should pay Mr and Mrs D £250 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9252062