K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) applied its standard 
mortgage rate when  their fixed interest  rate ended. They say the online application process 
for switching  rates  was unclear, and as a result,  theyve paid a higher  interest  rate. 
background
Mr and Mrs C have a mortgage  with Nationwide Building Society.  In November 2016 they 
fixed their mortgage rate at 1.64% for two years. The monthly  repayment  was £1,345.80.
In early November 2018, Nationwide  wrote  to Mr and Mrs C to explain  their fixed rate was 
ending that month,  and that its standard mortgage rate of 4.24% would apply if they didnt 
switch to another fixed rate. 
A few days  later, Mr and Mrs C made  an online application to switch  their mortgage rate. 
They switched to a fixed rate of 1.94% - the new monthly repayments  would be £1,368.40. 
They selected 1 February 2019 as their switch  date. 
Mr and Mrs C say they thought their current interest  rate of 1.64% would continue  until the 
new rate started  on their chosen switch  date. But when  their existing rate came  to an end, 
the standard mortgage rate was applied instead.
Mr and Mrs C think Nationwides online application process didnt make it clear that their 
existing interest rate of 1.64% wouldnt continue until the new rate began  in February 2019. 
Theyre unhappy theyve  had to pay higher mortgage payments in December 2018 and            
January 2019  as a result  of Nationwides  standard mortgage rate being  applied. 
Mr and Mrs C want the difference between  the standard mortgage  rate (4.24%) and their 
rate at the time (1.64%), to be refunded to them. 
Nationwide says it provided Mr and Mrs C with the option of choosing one of three  switch  
dates  the first being 1 December 2018  which allowed the new fixed rate to be in place 
when their existing  one ended. It said it wrote to Mr and Mrs C to let them  know their existing 
rate was coming  to an end and that they needed  to switch before 25 November 2018 to 
ensure their application  was completed in time.  
Our investigator looked at the complaint. She thought Nationwide  had taken steps to make  
Mr and Mrs C aware  that the standard mortgage rate would  be applied. And she noted that 
when Nationwide  became aware that Mr and Mrs C didnt intend the standard mortgage  rate 
to be applied, it offered  to bring the switch date forward to January 2019.
Because Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN97819532Ive first looked at what information Mr and Mrs C were provided with prior to switching their 
mortgage rate. When Mr and Mrs C initially switched to the interest rate of 1.64% in 
November 2016,  they were  provided  with documentation which said Nationwides standard 
mortgage rate would apply when the fixed  rate came  to an end. 
This message was reiterated in Nationwides  letter  on 7 November 2018 - which explained  
the fixed rate was coming to an end and that the standard  mortgage  rate would apply from            
1 December 2018 if Mr and Mrs C didnt switch to another fixed  rate before then. The letter 
told them  their monthly  payments would go up from 1 December 2018   and what the new 
payments would be.
Nationwide has said Mr and Mrs C were provided with a choice of three switch dates during 
the application  these  being 1 December 2018,  1 January 2019 and 1 February  2019.  So 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs C couldve had the new rate in place ahead of their existing rate 
ending, which wouldve prevented the standard mortgage rate being applied.
I understand Mr and Mrs C dont think the online  application process made  it clear  that the 
standard mortgage rate would apply in the interim  of their existing rate ending  and the new 
rate beginning. But the letter they were  sent made it clear their payments would go up from   
1 December 2018, and they were given the option  to start the new rate on that date. So I 
think Nationwide made it clear the standard mortgage rate would be applied  when their 
existing one came to an end, and it told them when  this would happen. 
Once Nationwide knew of Mr and Mrs Cs concerns,  it offered to bring  the switch  date 
forward to January 2019. But doing so would mean cancelling Mr and Mrs Cs selected rate, 
and applying  again for another. Mr and Mrs C said they didnt  do this because  the rate theyd 
applied for was no longer available, because Nationwide had changed its rates  in the 
meantime. Nationwide  has confirmed  that itd increased by 0.05%  a few days later.  Ive 
thought about whether this was a fair suggestion by Nationwide and Im satisfied  it was. I say 
this because even  if Mr and Mrs C had chosen the increased rate, they wouldve still been  in 
a better  position financially when compared  with staying on the standard mortgage rate until 
February 2019.
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied Nationwide has acted fairly and so I wont  be 
asking it to do anything  else.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2019.
Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9781953