K820x#14complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in 
my decision.
Mrs M says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs M took out on a store card account in June 1994. It 
was added to her account when  she applied for the card whilst shopping in the store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs M mainly says that she didnt realise that she had a choice about  having PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain  why.
I think FICL  made Mrs M aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. 
Based on what we know about  the way FICL sold PPI to customers taking out a store card 
I understand that Mrs M wouldve had to say if she wanted the PPI added on to her account.  
Either she wouldve had to tick a box or sign to say this was what  she wanted   PPI wouldnt 
have been added on to her account otherwise. 
So, I think its likely she decided at the time that PPI would be useful and she chose to take it 
out with her store card  even if, understandably, she has forgotten  this now.  
As Mrs M made this application in a store  I dont  think a recommendation was made by 
FICL. This means that FICL didnt have to check if the policy  was suitable for her. But it still 
needed to make sure it gave Mrs M enough  clear information to decide if the policy was right 
for her, taking into account her personal circumstances.
Its possible the information FICL  gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. So I need to consider if Mrs M wouldve acted differently, and not bought  the policy, if 
better information had been provided.  
On balance I dont think better  information  wouldve stopped Mrs M taking out the PPI.
Ref: DRN99062282Ive taken into account what Mrs M has told us about her circumstances at the time. But it 
looks like the policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay she was entitled to, which 
couldve been useful   especially if Mrs M mightve had some extra costs as a result of 
illness or disability.  And it couldve  paid her monthly  store card payments for as long as she 
was off work  sick  clearing her card balance  in full if she wasnt  ever well enough to return  
to work. 
The policy also provided cover if Mrs M lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
So I think Mrs M couldve benefitted  from having  PPI if shed needed to claim.
 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look like any of the main policy 
limitations or exclusions wouldve affected  Mrs M. So I dont think having more information  
about these policy terms wouldve  changed  her mind about taking out the PPI.
I dont think its likely  that FICL gave Mrs M clear  enough information about the costs  of the 
policy. But she chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  so she seems  to have 
wanted it at the time. Ive seen nothing  to suggest it wasnt  affordable for her. Looked at 
overall, given the benefits PPI offered Mrs M, I think it unlikely she wouldve made a different  
decision if better information had been provided.  On balance, I think she still wouldve taken 
out the policy. So I dont find that Mrs M has lost out as a result  of anything  that FICL may 
have done wrong   and theres nothing  it needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9906228