K820x#14complaint
Miss Bs complaint is about  the level of compensation Barclays  Bank UK Plc has offered her 
for the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy  she took out with a credit 
card.
background
In January 1998, Miss B took out a credit card with Barclays. At the same time she was sold 
a PPI policy to protect the monthly  repayments on her card.
Miss B complained to Barclays that the PPI policy had been mis-sold to her. Barclays upheld 
her complaint and offered to pay her compensation for this mis-sale of £957.11  (after  tax).
Barclays only has monthly data on what Miss B spent on her card,  and the PPI she was 
charged, from May 2001.  So for the period from when Miss B took out her card and PPI 
policy in 1998  to May 2001 it has made some assumptions about the monthly  balance  on 
her card account and the PPI she would have  been  charged. 
Miss B wasnt happy with the overall  amount of compensation that Barclays had calculated  
she was due and had offered to pay her. She thought this amount should have been higher 
given the very long period  of time during which her PPI policy  had been in place.
Our adjudicator looked at the way that Barclays had calculated its compensation offer, 
including the assumptions it had made for the period when it had no card account 
information available,  and she thought that this was fair. Miss B didnt agree with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Barclays agreed to settle Miss Bs PPI mis-sale complaint, I wont  be considering  how the 
policy was sold because  thats not in dispute. I will only be considering  whether I think  the 
approach Barclays  has taken to resolving  her PPI complaint is fair. 
When a business  agrees  to settle  a PPI complaint, as far as is possible, Id expect it to put 
the consumer  in the position they would  now be in if they hadnt taken out the policy. 
I have said as far as possible  because its not possible to know for sure what would have 
actually happened  on their card account  if a customer hadnt  been being charged  for PPI. 
And there are further difficulties in situations, like this one, where a full history of the account  
is not available.  This means that certain  assumptions need to be made about the monthly  
PPI charged and the monthly balance on the account for this missing  period. And its 
important that the assumptions the business  makes are reasonable ones, so that the 
consumer gets compensation  for the mis-sale that can be considered fair.
Ref: DRN99194902With a PPI policy attached to a credit card we normally consider that fair compensation for 
its mis-sale would involve the refund  of any overpayments a consumer made because of the 
PPI (usually the PPI premiums charged  and the interest on those  premiums),  any 
fees/charges directly caused by the PPI policy and 8% simple  interest  to compensate  the 
consumer for the time theyve been out of pocket. 
There is a period (between 1998  and 2001) where Barclays doesnt have any statement 
records for Miss Bs account  which isnt unusual as it was a long time ago. And Miss B 
hasnt been able to provide statements from this period either which,  again, isnt that 
surprising. So in these  circumstances,  Barclays has had to make some  reasonable 
assumptions as to how much PPI Miss B might have been  charged. 
Barclays has worked out the average  monthly PPI charged to her card account in the first 
twelve months in which  this information is available  (from May 2001 to April 2002). This 
gives an average monthly PPI charge of £4.10, which Im satisfied is correct  through 
checking this calculation against  Miss Bs monthly account data for this period. Ive also 
checked to ensure that the twelve months  of figures  used in this calculation  are not 
significantly lower than those for other periods where this information is available.  And I dont  
think they are.
Barclays has used this amount of £4.10 as an estimate of the PPI that Miss B is most likely 
to have been charged in April 2001.  From that point it has then slowly and steadily reduced  
the estimated  monthly PPI charged on Miss Bs account back  to a figure of £2.80 for January 
1998, when the policy commenced.  In doing  this, it has used trend information it has gained 
from similar card accounts  for other customers. And Im satisfied that the assumptions it has 
used to do this are fair. 
Ive also checked  Barclays  estimate  of the account  interest that is likely to have been 
charged on the PPI premiums for this missing period and Im satisfied that this has also been 
calculated fairly and in the way in which I would have expected.
Finally, I have checked the way in which Barclays has calculated the 8% simple interest that 
we would expect  it to offer Miss B for the time she has been out of pocket  because  of the 
payments shes made for her mis-sold PPI policy. And, once  again,  Im satisfied that this 
calculation has been undertaken correctly.
So on the basis of all the information available to me, I think  that Barclays  has calculated the 
compensation payable to Miss B in the way in which I would have expected it to do and that 
it is fair. And in the absence of anything further to suggest  that Miss B paid more  in PPI than 
what Barclays has assumed I wont be asking it to recalculate her offer.
Miss B has said that she would have expected the offer from Barclays  to have been higher 
given the length of time her policy was in force. And I can understand why she may think  
this. But looking at the available history of her card account, I can see that there was a 
significant period  (from  September  2008 until the PPI was cancelled in January 2016) when 
there was no month end balance outstanding on her account and so no PPI was charged.  I 
can also see that, for the whole period during  which card statements are available,  it was 
normally the case that Miss B paid off her outstanding monthly balance in full when payment 
became due. And this would also have reduced  the amount  of PPI (including interest)  that 
she was charged and, therefore, needed to be repaid by Barclays.
Ref: DRN99194903my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that the offer Barclays Bank Plc has made 
Miss B to resolve her PPI complaint is fair.
I understand that Barclays Bank  Plc has already paid Miss B this compensation, so I dont 
direct it to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9919490