K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a Signature Account (SA) by Clydesdale Bank  Plc 
(Clydesdale) in March  2012.
background
Mr M took out a current account with Clydesdale in August 2008.
He upgraded the account to an SA with a monthly fee in December 2010.
Mr M downgraded his account to a fee free current account in October 2011.
He then upgraded his account back to an SA with a monthly fee again in March  2012.
He finally  downgraded the account to a fee free account in January 2019.
Mr M complained to Clydesdale about the two SA sales. Clydesdale  upheld his complaint 
about the sale in December 2010 and has returned  the fees he paid from then until October 
2011 in line with this services approach.
Clydesdale did not uphold his complaint about the SA sale in March 2012.
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Ms complaint about  the March 2012  sale and did not uphold  
it. Mr M disagrees  and so the case has come to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ms complaint.
To be clear, as Clydesdale has upheld Mr Ms complaint about  the December 2010 SA sale,  
I will only be looking at the March 2012  sale.
Firstly Ive considered whether Mr M was given a choice whether to take out the SA in March 
2012 or not, and whether  he chose to take it out.
Mr M had had a fee free account with an overdraft facility from Clydesdale for five months 
before this sale. So I think he was aware  fee free accounts with overdrafts  were  available. 
Mr M says that he doesnt remember anything  about  the sale.  Clydesdale  has provided a 
copy of the application form for the SA which Mr M has signed and dated.  So I think  Mr M 
knew he had a choice  about whether to take out the SA and he chose to take it out.
Clydesdale says that it wasnt an advised sale, and Ive not seen any evidence such as an 
assessment of Mr Ms needs to show that it was. So, I think  its more  likely than not that it 
was a non advised sale and Clydesdale only needed to provide  Mr M with sufficient 
information about the SA to make an informed  choice.
The SA contained  a range  of benefits including  mobile phone cover, car breakdown cover,  
worldwide travel insurance and preferential interest  rates on an agreed overdraft facility. I 
Ref: DRN93139262dont know what Clydesdale said or what information it gave Mr M but Clydesdale  was trying 
to sell the SA to Mr M so I think its likely it gave him a full description of the benefits. 
I also think its likely that Mr M wouldve have been  interested in some  of the benefits. I say 
this because hed been overdrawn on many occasions in the months leading up to the sale.  
And Clydesdale has provided evidence that he benefitted from the better overdraft rates  
after the sale. He also didnt need to register for the travel insurance, car breakdown cover 
or mobile  phone insurance, so he had this cover whether he claimed  on it or not. And there 
was nothing Mr M has raised about  his personal  circumstances that would have prevented  
him from using the benefits. 
As this was an information  only sale, it was for Mr M to decide if he wanted the benefits and 
then arrange to use them if he wished. 
So in my view I can see why Mr M mightve  been  interested in the SA and there was no 
information that he didnt receive that would likely have put him off taking it out.
So I dont  think Clydesdale mis-sold the SA to Mr M.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before date 7 February 2020
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9313926