K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a store  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 1994. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer,  has taken responsibility for this sale. 
So in my decision Ill just refer to FICL as the PPI seller. Mr T says FICL mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case.
Having done so, I dont consider that the PPI was mis-sold because:
 No recording of the call in which Mr T was sold PPIs available,  which  is understandable 
given the time thats passed. But in the absence of enough evidence to suggest otherwise, 
and bearing in mind  the store card account  had been  running for several months before the 
PPI was added,  I think FICL likely made  Mr T aware he had a choice about buying the PPI 
and that he chose to take it before it was added. I can understand if he doesnt remember 
that now, after all this time.
 The parties agree FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T. So it didnt have to check if the 
PPI was right for him. But FICL should  have given him the information he needed to decide 
for himself if it was right for him. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have 
been. But I think he probably chose to take out the PPI  so it looks  like he wanted this type 
of cover. And I can see why as, despite  being  entitled to enhanced sick pay for a time and 
having savings,  the PPI benefits  were considerable and would have paid out for a significant 
time. I also think  its likely  Mr T realised  there  was a cost for the cover.
 Based  on what Ive seen of Mr Ts circumstances at the time, and on what  I know  of the 
policies FICL  typically sold, it doesnt  look like hed have been significantly affected by any of 
the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover  so it would have been useful to him if 
something went wrong. 
Overall, I dont  find that Mr Ts lost out because of how FICL sold him the PPI.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr Ts said, including that he had no need for the PPI 
because he could have  relied on his family for help. But Im mindful that the PPI benefits  were 
guaranteed, whereas there was no way of knowing  whether his family would have been  in a 
position to help him when he needed it. So this doesnt change my mind.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN93578652Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject 
my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9357865