K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the administration of his investment  by Fidelity under Financial 
Administration Services Limited (the business). 
Hes unhappy that the business  wasnt using all the available funds held in his account to 
purchase the maximum number of shares. He feels the business has underinvested.  
background
One of our investigators  initially  without being  provided with the business file despite 
making numerous requests  thought the business should purchase  further  shares with the 
money Mr W had earmarked  from January to March 2019, because  it hadnt made the 
process reasonably  clear  to Mr W.
But having  received the business file, he was satisfied that Mr W was made aware how the 
share purchase worked and he doesnt  think the complaint should be upheld.  In summary, 
he said:
In July 2017, the business sent Mr W an update regarding  its Regular  Savings Plans 
(RSP) charges that were to be implemented from August  2017  onwards.
The business explained that a new £1.50  dealing fee (per asset) would  apply to all 
regular transactions  which included his RSP. 
The update  also explained that the investments available through  online share 
dealing service will only be available in whole shares, which could  result  in some 
money being left over when shares  are purchased through a RSP. 
In relation to the January 2019 transaction, the business explained: 
oAt the point of receiving the order, the selected  shares had a value of £1.25  
and based on the value  it was calculated that Mr W could purchase 158 
shares. 
oHowever, when the order was placed  the share  value had dropped  to £1.2390  
meaning the same number of shares  could  be purchased for £197.26 
including the £1.50 dealing fee. 
He was satisfied  the business  has supplied evidence to demonstrate that it has 
clarified how the account would be administered such  as how shares would be 
purchased. Although  Mr W disagrees  with this approach its up to the business to set 
down its own approach. And it wouldnt be feasible for the business  to re-assess  
every trade it had carried for all its customers to see if any residual balances had 
been left over if the share prices  had dropped. 
The business would also be entitled to charge for this service.
He was satisfied  that the business  purchased the maximum number of shares based 
on the price quoted  at the time the order  was received. Due to the share price falling, 
when the purchase was made,  a residual  amount was left over.  But  the business 
would buy and sell at the best price  available.
There was nothing  to suggest that itd use or must use the residual balance to 
purchase more shares. 
The business accepts  its communication couldve been better. Whilst he agrees, he 
thinks the £50 compensation it offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr W disagrees with the investigators conclusions  and doesnt feel that his complaint has 
been addressed.  In summary, he said:
Ref: DRN94671962Hed like the investigator  to explain the relevance of the July 2017  correspondence 
from the business, as hes neither complaining about the dealing fee for regular 
transactions nor that a whole number  of shares  have  been bought. He has no 
communication from the business  to explain the order price and the share price as 
suggested by the investigator.
He assumes that the evidence the investigator is referring to  regarding  clarifying 
how the account would be administered  is the secure message sent dated April 
2019. Although  the business responded to his email on 3 April 2019 it didnt really 
explain that the process isnt in its literature. So how was he supposed to know that if 
he purchased shares via the RSP, he could  purchase less shares than the maximum 
at the price quoted less fees.
Although the business says it buys shares at the best price, hes not persuaded that 
it does, given that its wording is the same  as in a confirmation of investment letter   
for a one-off trade. 
Given that the business  admits that the process isnt described in any literature how 
is he to know that there  might  be any residual balance that could be used  to buy 
more shares and the maximum  might not be bought for the RSP. Especially given the 
wording is the same  for the one-off trade, the business isnt being clear  or 
transparent.
As far as he can see the 2017  letter only describes  the new service the business will 
be offering, namely the online dealing service, the ability to hold cash  within  the 
account, and a new website.  
The general information only states  that shares  will be invested and that market 
orders would be placed at the live price  and that a whole  number  of shares would  
be bought. 
To him that meant using the live price to determine the number of shares  to purchase 
and a whole  number of shares would be purchased. So, the maximum number of 
shares would  be purchased for the amount invested less the dealing  cost. It says 
nothing about  determining the number  of shares on one price  and then buying  this 
number of shares at a different price.   
The business only took the action  that he recommended  for RSP investment for 
January and February 2019, not including March 2019 which  occurred before the 
business secure email sent in April 2019.  
The investigators initial recommendation hasnt  happened, and he doesnt feel the 
outcome is fair. 
Having considered the additional points our investigator  wasnt persuaded to change  his 
mind. In short, he said:
The July 2017  communication  set out the dealing fees going forward  from this date, it 
explained that only whole shares  would be purchased. This is relevant because it 
forms part of how his transaction  will be administered.
The communication and explanation regarding the order  price and dealing price  was 
sent to our service  direct  the investigator  shouldve made this clear.
Section 13, of the terms sent in 2017,  confirm  that theres likely to be money left in 
Mr Ws account which there was. 
He wouldnt expect  a set of terms that set out every  possible scenario that a 
customer might face as it isnt feasible.  
Hes referred  to the confirmation of investment documents Mr Ws received because  
they confirm that the business makes  trades  using the best price  available.
Ref: DRN94671963The above information combined  with the 2017  terms makes reasonably clear that if 
the price drops the money will be left over.
Because the terms dont specify how the left-over balance  will be used, if at all, he 
cant say the business  has done  anything wrong by not making additional  trades 
using the left over money until its been used.
He doesnt  think itd be financially beneficial to the customers  to be charged an 
additional amount to make additional  trades using the money  left over.
The 2017 terms set out how the account  will be administered the business has 
adhered to these  terms. The business  hasnt made an error when following his 
instructions.
The business made residual purchases  in January and February 2019 as agreed  by 
Mr W, but it has also provided evidence to show that it made a purchase  on 
12 March 2019  for one share  at £0.89 pence using the residual balance from the 
March trades. 
He doesnt  consider  that the business  has made an error, and if it did, hed only 
recommend it uses his residual balance to purchase extra  shares for the months of 
January, February  and March  2019.  So if he upheld the complaint, he wouldnt ask 
the business to do anything further. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators last conclusions for substantially the same 
reasons. Im not going  to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr W says I dont  agree that the 
business misled him in regards to the process or that its done anything wrong by not making 
additional trades using the residual balance, ensuring that all the cash  is invested in shares. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ws strength of feeling  about this matter. 
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. 
My role is to consider the evidence  presented  by Mr W and the business, and reach  what  I 
think is an independent,  fair and reasonable decision based on the facts  of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
I appreciate Mr W says that although  the business  responded to his email  on 3 April 2019, it 
didnt really explain that the process  wasnt in its literature, so how was he to know  that if he 
Ref: DRN94671964purchased shares  via the RSP he could  purchase  less shares than the maximum at the price  
quoted less the fees. 
 
But I note the email response  dated 3 April,  made  reasonably clear the following:
They will calculate firstly the number of shares to purchase based on the live prices  
and then set the order.  In some instances  the value of the shares goes down, which  
means the amount of shares bought costs less than originally calculated. As you 
have received a cheaper price, there is cash left in your account. 
If the share price increases and we can buy fewer shares than we calculated,  this will 
be amended. We input the maximum amount  we can buy. As such were able to 
reduce this; however, we cannot increase this amount. Regrettably, this process isnt 
stated in the Doing Business with Fidelity  document. 
The response makes reasonably clear the position regarding the residual balance  if the price  
of shares increase or reduce. I understand that whilst it can reduce the number  of shares (if 
share prices go up) it cant  increase the number of shares if the price falls. It seems to me 
this is how the business  operates and its not for our service  to tell it how to run its business. 
If Mr W feels strongly about  this issue Im sure he knows  he can seek advice and try and go 
elsewhere.  
I also note that Section  13, of the terms sent in July 2017  which sets out the dealing  fees 
going forward from this date   explain that only whole  shares  would be purchased  which 
again suggest that theres likely to be money  left in Mr Ws account. At no point does the 
business suggest using any money  left over (that wasnt sufficient to buy a full share).  
On balance Im satisfied that the evidence read together makes  reasonably  clear  the 
business process and approach.  So, I think Mr W knew, or ought reasonably to have known 
that there  might be a residual balance after trading  that could potentially be used to buy 
more shares but the business wasnt obliged to do that. 
And depending on the share prices, on balance  I think  Mr W knew,  or ought reasonably to 
have known, it might not always  be possible to purchase the maximum shares using all the 
money in the account for the RSP. 
I agree  with the investigator that the business isnt obliged set out every single thing that 
might happen or even  how it might happen. I appreciate  the business didnt say that the 
exact same  price would  be used  to order the trade as the deal price; therefore  its 
reasonable to assume that the prices might  not be the same. Again this doesnt mean that 
the business didnt try to get the best price  or that it misled Mr W as to how the purchase 
would be made  or how the process  would  work.  I wouldnt  generally  expect to see a set of 
terms that set out every  possible scenario  that a customer might face because this just isnt 
reasonable.  
Mr W also had the opportunity to seek clarification  from the business  if something wasnt  
clear to him.  Instead  he drew his own conclusions, based on his own analysis without 
checking with the business  which I dont think is fair to the business.
In my opinion the documentation taken as a whole  and not in isolation makes  reasonably  
clear the conclusion that if the share price drops the money will be left over.  And because 
the terms dont specify  how the left-over balance will be used, if at all, he cant say the 
Ref: DRN94671965business has done anything wrong by not making additional trades  using the left over 
money.  Despite Mr Ws conclusions,  thats not what the business agreed to do. 
Notwithstanding the points made by Mr W, on balance Im satisfied that the business has 
endeavoured to buy shares at the best price.  Even  if its wording is the same as the 
confirmation of investment  letter  for a one-off trade, this doesnt mean it doesnt take steps to 
ensure the best price for its customers. 
I appreciate Mr Ws points  about the residual purchases in January and February 2019, but I 
also note that the business provided  evidence to show  that on 12 March  2019 a purchase  
was made  of one share at £0.89  pence  using  the residual balance from the March trades. 
Therefore on balance Im satisfied the period of January to March  is covered even though  
the investigator changed his mind and the business  wasnt obliged to follow  his initial  
findings and recommendation. 
Even if I were to accept  that Mr W didnt know prior to this how the process  would operate   
which I dont  Im satisfied that he does now, so like the investigator  I also wouldnt be 
asking the business to do anymore other  than to have  used the residual balance to purchase 
shares between January  and March 2019.    
I note Mr W is unhappy  about the £50 compensation now offered for trouble and upset but I 
think its broadly fair and reasonable  in the circumstances and broadly reflects  the time taken 
by the business to deal with Mr Ws complaint. 
I appreciate Mr W will be thoroughly  unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion  as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate  his 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business  to do anything.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr W 
what he wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I think the £50 compensation offered by the business is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9467196