K822xcomplaint
Ms C complained about the amount of compensation Financial Insurance Company Limited 
(FICL) offered to settle her complaint about  mis-sold  PPI taken out related to her store  card.
background 
Ms C took out a store card and PPI policy in June 2000. When she complained  the PPI was 
mis-sold, FICL agreed to uphold her complaint. It offered her a total of £151.75  
compensation to settle her complaint.
Ms C wasnt  happy with the amount  of compensation and brought  her complaint to this 
service. The full background to this complaint is set out in my provisional  decision, issued in 
November 2018,  a copy of which is attached and forms  part of this final decision.  
In that provisional  decision  I set out why I thought the compensation worked out by FICL was 
fair but that I also thought  Ms C should get an additional £50.00 for the way it had dealt with 
the complaint  and the trouble and upset caused  to Ms C.
FICL has not sent any response to my provisional  decision. 
Ms C has confirmed she received my provisional decision. She feels  the £50.00 doesnt 
cover her expenses and the stress  pursuing this complaint has caused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I indicated in my provisional decision that I thought how FICL had worked out the 
compensation due to Ms C, to refund the costs of the PPI and pay some  compensatory 
interest, was fair. 
FICL didnt  have full data for the account  but did know the total premiums ever paid whilst 
the PPI was active. It had used this to estimate  the interest that wouldve been paid by 
spreading this total cost over the whole period.
Ms C provided some  statements for the account  and the amounts shown as charged for the 
PPI on these came to slightly less than the total amount FICL had on its records.  But as I 
explained in my provisional decision,  there were two statements missing. And the amount 
most likely charged in those months  would make the total costs  for the PPI in line with the 
amount shown in FICL records. 
I also considered that FICL hadnt  dealt  with the complaint  very well and explained  
everything clearly. This meant that Ms C was put to some extra  cost and upset  in pursuing 
her complaint, so I said FICL should  pay an additional £50.00.
Ms C has responded  that she thinks this £50.00 should be more as it didnt  cover  her 
expenses on top of the stress this has caused her.
No evidence has been provided to show any actual expenses Ms C incurred. The 
information provided indicated some postage  over and above the normal amounts that would 
Ref: DRN99425032happen when  submitting  a claim were caused.  And whilst I understand  Ms C was stressed  
when pursing her complaint, all consumers who bring claims and complaints do suffer some 
upset and stress. 
Based on what I have seen I think the £50.00 provides for some extra costs and takes into 
the trouble and upset caused. But I havent  seen anything to persuade me this amount  
should be increased.
Therefore as I have  seen  nothing to persuade me differently, for the reasons set out in full in 
my provisional decision, which is attached and forms part of this final decision, I think that 
the offer of compensation made  by FICL  of £151.75 is fair. And that an additional amount of 
£50.00 should be paid to Ms C for the trouble and upset caused  to her.
Another card, ending  9766 has also been referred  to during this complaint. FICL  has 
provided no information that indicates this card was on the same  account as card ending 
4402. Therefore  as indicated in my provisional  decision FICL should investigate this account 
separately, to ascertain if there is any PPI associated with it and if so, if this PPI was also 
mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that the £151.75  offered as compensation for the mis-sold PPI with card 
account ending  4402 is fair. But Financial Insurance Company Limited should also pay Ms C 
an additional  £50.00 for the trouble and upset  caused by the way it handled her complaint.
FICL should also investigate card account ending 9766 to check if there  was every any PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Ms Cs complaint is about the compensation Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), has 
offered to settle her complaint about the mis-sale of a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out with a store  card.
background
In June 2000  Ms C took out a store card, ending  4402, and at the same time bought a PPI policy. The 
policy wasnt sold to Ms C directly by FICL  but its been agreed in this case  that, as the insurer, FICL 
will accept responsibility for the complaint. 
Ms C complained about the sale of the PPI added to her account. FICL  agreed to uphold the 
complaint and offered £151.75 compensation to settle it. A letter  sent in March  2018 to Ms C set out 
Ref: DRN99425033the offer and indicated this total compensation was made up of premiums of £36.05,  card rate interest 
paid on the premiums of £46.46 and some compensatory interest  for being  out of pocket of £86.55. 
The letter indicated that FICL only had data about the account from August  2005 onwards and for 
periods before this, assumptions  would  be made about what may have been charged for PPI if no 
statements were available. 
Ms C had already provided  some statements for periods between 2000 and 2004 to FICL but there 
was no indication in the letter that this statement  data had been used. When she questioned the offer,  
FICL wrote to her again in April 2018 saying it had used the statement  data she provided  and 
recalculated the compensation.  This had resulted in less compensation being  due to Ms C, so FICL 
said it would honour the higher offer.
Ms C then brought her complaint to this service as she wasnt happy with the offer and felt that FICL  
hadnt dealt with her complaint very well. She also thought that FICL had only worked  out the costs of 
the PPI from 2005 despite the statements she had sent showing she was paying  PPI in 2000.
Our adjudicator said what FICL had offered wasnt fair and it should recalculate  the compensation  due 
again using the statements  Ms C had provided.
FICL did not respond and so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Since FICL  were told this complaint was being  referred to an ombudsman it has been in touch to say 
it thought the complaint was settled and closed. It said it paid the compensation of £151.75 to Ms C in 
May 2018 as she had accepted  the offer.  
Ms C says she was told if she took the money offered, her complaint with this service  could still be 
progressed, so that is what she did. The acceptance form she signed did not indicate  she was 
accepting in full and final settlement. And I also note the acceptance form was the one from  the 
original offer made in March 2018 as this was the date on the for. Although Ms C didnt sign and 
return it until 2 May 2018 and I believe  it to be the one that was sent with the updated offer letter  in 
April 2018. 
FICL were only notified  by this service that the complaint had been set up on 2 May 2018 and it did 
not provide any evidence to this service  until 17 May 2018.  Also the recommendation of the 
adjudicator was not issued until June 2018, some weeks after FICL  made  the payment in May 2018. 
So FICL should clearly have known the complaint was open and it is not clear  why it did not respond 
to the adjudicators recommendation  before the matter was progressed  to an ombudsman for a 
decision.  
So this complaint has not been  settled and closed and it is unclear why FICL  thought that may be the 
case.  
Is there more than one store card account? 
It is unclear, from the evidence Ive seen, whether Ms C had one store  account which had linked 
cards ending  4402 and 9766 or two separate store  accounts  at different times. Ms C has provided 
some statements from June  2000 to August  2001 for the card ending 4402, and statements for card 
ending 9766 from September 2003 to August 2004. 
The evidence  provided by FICL shows the card account ending 4402 started  in June  2000 and it was 
closed in August 2001. The statements Ms C provided  cover the period for this card account from 
Ref: DRN99425034June 2000 to August 2001, with just two months statements missing.  The statements provided show 
that PPI was added to the balance every month. 
I also note on the statement  for card 4402 in July 2001  the balance is cleared and there is handwritten 
note that says the account  was closed.  It looks as if Ms C may have written this note as the 
handwriting is similar to that on earlier statements. This closure date of August 2001 on FICLs 
records, match the hand written note on the statements  from Ms C.
The other  statements Ms C provided for card ending  9766 cover the period from 2003 to 2004 and 
there are no PPI premiums  shown as charged on these statements. 
Although all the statements Ms C had available  between 2000 and 2004 were  sent to FICL with her 
complaint, in its submissions it has made no reference to card number 9766.  So it has not made  clear  
if this is an associated  card for the same account or is for a totally different account. Nor has it 
addressed if there  was any PPI ever attached  to this account card.
Taking the evidence provided so far I think it is most likely that Ms C had a store  card,  4402,  that ran 
from June  2000 to August  2001 and then the account was closed. If either party has any evidence to 
show that card 9766 was a linked card to this account that should be provided.  But without  further 
evidence I am assuming  these were  separate accounts.
Any complaint about PPI sold on a different account would need to be dealt with separately.  As Ms C 
sent in statements for account 9766, as well as for account 4402,  with her complaint about mis-sold 
PPI, FICL should  have  looked into any PPI on account 9766.  So it should  do so now as a separate 
complaint.
In this decision I am only looking at the compensation offered to settle Ms Cs complaint  about the PPI 
mis-sold on account  with card ending  4402.  This is because the evidence provided  so far shows this 
is the only account in relation to which  FICL has made an offer of compensation. 
is the compensation offered fair?
FICL has agreed to uphold Ms Cs complaint that the PPI was mis-sold on the account  with the card 
ending 4402. In this decision I am not looking  at how it came to be mis-sold, only at whether the 
compensation offered by FICL to settle the complaint  is fair.
FICLs records indicate this card account opened in June 2000  and closed in August 2001  and during  
that time a total of £36.05 was paid in premiums for PPI. I have also looked  at the statements 
provided by Ms C for this whole period.  These show PPI premiums  being charged of £30.46.  There 
are also two statements  missing, for January 2001 and May 2001. 
The difference  between the lifetime premiums shown by FICLs  records and the actual  PPI charges  
on the statements is £5.59. And looking at the amounts charged  each month around the missing 
statements in January  and May 2001 it is likely the premiums  charged in those months would have 
been around  £2.50/3.00  for each of the months. So I think the total premiums as shown on FICLs 
records are most likely to have been the £36.05.
FICL has then had to work out card rate interest and some compensatory  interest on the premiums 
paid. And the figures it has estimated based on £36.05 of premiums seem fair.
When FICL made its first calculation of compensation it seems likely it used its own records and took 
no account of the statements Ms C submitted. When working out the PPI costs the second time,  
based on the statements, its likely it only used the actual statement data provided which gives 
premiums paid of £30.46 rather than the £36.05. So the second calculation  meant less compensation 
was shown  as due to Ms C. 
Ref: DRN99425035FICL has said it will honour the higher offer, but in fact if they did base their second calculation only 
on the actual statement  data then that is why the later offer is lower and it would be inaccurate  as two 
statements were missing.
So I think, based on what I have seen so far, that the first offer FICL made  was based on accurate 
data taken from its records showing the total premiums. And the statement data from Ms C supports 
the figure of total premiums  that was used would  be accurate. 
FICL never  clearly explained  to Ms C exactly what figures it had used  in its calculations when  it was 
making its offers. In the first offer letter,  which was based on a standard template, the implication was 
that it had accurate data from 2005  which  it had used to work  out the compensation from that date 
onwards and for any earlier period it had made assumptions.  Also the letter suggested FICL would  
only be able to make  a more  accurate offer if the consumer provided  any statements  before 2005.  But 
in fact FICL had data for the account from 2000 to 2001 as it did have the total amount of premiums 
paid.
Ms C had already submitted  statements to FICL, which  it had ignored, and she thought  it was only 
offering for the period  after 2005 when  it had records, her understanding  being  based on what  the 
offer letter said. FICL never indicated to Ms C that its records  showed  the account was only open from 
2000 to 2001 and that it knew  the total premiums  paid during  this period.  And in fact its offer was only 
based on records  which indicated  the PPI costs between June 2000 and August 2001,  not actually on 
anything after 2005 when the account had been closed.
I also note there was some  loss of documents and chasing by Ms C when she first submitted her 
complaint to FICL, which meant she had to take time to chase a response and also to more than once 
submit her statements and information.
FICL has also never provided full calculations  for its second offer, which  would have shown how it had 
approached the calculation and that nothing after August 2001 had been considered  as the records 
indicated the account  closed at that date.
Taking into account all these factors I dont think FICL has been clear about  how it worked  out the PPI 
costs and that it was only looking at one account,  4402, which  only ran between 2000 and 2001. So I 
am intending to tell FICL to pay an additional amount of £50.00 to Ms C for the way it has dealt with 
this complaint and also for the trouble and upset caused. 
But based on the evidence I have seen from both parties I am intending to say that the compensation  
of £151.75 is fair to refund the costs of the PPI with card account  ending 4402 and also to pay Ms C 
some compensatory interest for being out of pocket.
I also think  FICL should look into card account  9766 to check if there was every any PPI.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above, but subject to the responses of both parties, Im intending to say 
that the offer of £151.75 is fair to compensate Ms C for the mis-sold PPI on account ending 4402.  
Financial Insurance  Company Limited  should look into card account ending 9766 separately about  
any PPI sold on that account.
Im also intending to tell Financial Insurance Company Limited to pay Ms C an additional  amount of 
£50.00 for the trouble and upset caused by the way Financial Insurance Company Limited has dealt  
with this complaint.  . 
Ref: DRN99425036This is all subject to any further information that is provided by either party by the date indicated at the 
start of this decision.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9942503