K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that A-Plan Holdings didnt provide clear enough information  about an 
endorsement on his contents insurance policy when it sold it to him. 
background
 
A-Plan acted as Mr Bs insurance broker when purchasing a contents  insurance policy  in 
February 2018. The policy it arranged also provided cover  for Mr Bs watch collection, 
subject to some additional  endorsements. 
In May 2018  Mr B lost one of his watches at work. The watch  was left unattended  in a 
bathroom for around 10 minutes before Mr B realised it was missing. He made  a claim 
through his insurer  but it was declined because the circumstances of the loss were  excluded 
by one of the endorsements listed in the policy  the personal  custody clause.  This 
endorsement states:
We will not pay for any loss of or damage  to the property insured by item 1.11.01 of 
Section 1 - Contents, Art and Jewellery unless, at the time of the loss or damage,  the 
item is
- damaged  by fire, or
- contained  in a locked  safe or bank safe deposit, or
- being  worn  or carried  under  your personal supervision and control, or
- in a room  in which you are present  within  a private  dwelling,  or
- in a hotel bedroom that is occupied by you.
Mr B has complained that A-Plan deliberately used loose language when explaining this 
particular endorsement  in order to attract his business. Mr B says if A-Plan explained this 
properly, he wouldnt have chosen  the policy. A-Plan  says the endorsement  was made clear 
to Mr B, both over the phone and in the documentation sent as part of the sale.  
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Bs complaint. She thought A-Plan  had drawn the 
personal custody clause to Mr Bs attention  and explained it clearly.  She didnt  think  A-Plan 
used loose language or that it mis-sold the policy to Mr B. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators opinion. So because  no agreement has been reached, 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made by both sides.
Mr B has raised several concerns about the wording  of the personal custody clause. He 
feels the wording is ambiguous and unclear. I wont be making  any findings on the policy 
wording in this decision  because this complaint is about A-Plan,  and A-Plan is not 
responsible for the policy wording  the insurer is. But A-Plan is responsible  for how it sold 
the policy to Mr B and this is what Ive considered when coming to my decision.
Ref: DRN93432982A-Plan sold the policy to Mr B on an advised basis. This means  it needed to ask enough 
questions to ensure  the policy it was recommending was suitable  for Mr Bs needs. It also 
needed to ensure that any unusual, onerous or restrictive terms were clearly highlighted to 
Mr B during  the sale.
Mr B had several phone  calls with A-Plan during the course of the sale.  It was clear from the 
calls that obtaining  cover for his watch collection was the most important part of his 
insurance needs. And I think  the policy A-Plan  sold him provided  suitable cover for these, 
based on the information Mr B provided.
During the sales calls the advisor explained  to Mr B that the policy included an endorsement 
for his most expensive  watch. He read out the personal custody clause  to Mr B in full and 
offered the following  further explanation:
In effect  the watch either  has to be in a safe,  worn or in a room that youre actually 
in. So say for instance at night if you take it off and put it on the bedside  table it would 
still be covered."
The endorsement was also prominently  displayed  on the first page of the written quotation 
provided to Mr B.
Mr B accepts that he was given this explanation and information. But he doesnt feel the 
explanation was clear enough.  He says the most  important part of the cover to him was 
cover for loss rather than cover for theft,  and hes questioned how something can be lost 
while in ones possession.  He feels that the language used requires him to deduct all the 
circumstances which arent covered in order to arrive at what was covered. 
I appreciate Mr Bs strength of feeling here.  But as Ive explained, Im not considering or 
making any finding on the wording of the policy, only the actions of A-Plan.  
I accept that Mr B wasnt told specifically that he would only be covered for loss if the watch  
fell from his person.  But I dont think  A-Plan  needed to be that specific. I think  the 
explanation it gave made it clear that the circumstances of cover required that the watch be 
worn, in a safe or in a room where Mr B was present in order  for it to be covered for loss or 
damage. I think that by reading  the clause to Mr B, sending it to him prominently in writing,  
and offering him an additional explanation that A-Plan fulfilled its responsibilities to Mr B 
during the sale.
It follows that I dont think A-Plan  acted  unfairly or unreasonably and I wont  be directing it to 
do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against  A-Plan  Holdings. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019 .
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN93432983
Ref: DRN9343298