K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Barclays Bank Plc, trading  as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr M applied  for a credit card in 2001  and bought the PPI policy over the phone shortly  after 
his account was opened. 
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ms complaint upheld it. Barclays  disagrees, so Mr Ms 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Mr M that the PPI policy  was optional and Mr M had to 
agree to take it. But I havent seen enough  information to make  me think its likely Barclays  
did this.
Barclays says it sold the PPI policy to Mr M on the phone after his card had been issued. 
Barclays has limited records about this call and isnt sure if it made the call to Mr M, or the 
other way round. It hasnt been  able to send us any notes or a recording of the call, or any 
script its adviser mightve  used. So I dont really have any details about this call, the reason 
for it or what was said. 
 
I havent seen  anything to show how it was presented to him on the phone call, or that he did 
agree to have  it. Barclays has referenced the industry codes it wouldve followed at the time. 
But I dont think it has clearly shown  that it did enough to get Mr Ms agreement  to the PPI 
being added to his credit card, or that it made  clear  he had a choice and he agreed  to have it.
Ive looked at all of Barclays comments in response to the adjudicators view, including what 
its said about the PPI being sold after the card was applied for  so he would have known that 
he didnt need  to have the cover. This call appears to have happened shortly  after the card 
was set up, but as Ive said above  Barclays  hasnt told us how this call came about.  And with 
so little information Im not persuaded Mr M knew the PPI was optional on this account  or that 
he chose to take it. So I still think its fair to uphold the complaint. Overall,  Im not persuaded 
that Ive seen enough information to show that Barclays gave Mr M a fair choice about taking 
PPI on this card  or that he agreed  to buy it. 
So I think Mr M has lost out because of what Barclays did wrong and so it should  put things 
right.
putting things right
Ref: DRN97479682Barclays should put Mr M in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
The card account  is closed and the PPI has been cancelled already so: 
A.Barclays should  find out how much Mr M would have  owed  when his credit card account  
was closed  if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr M owed when the account 
closed and what he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.Barclays should  add simple interest on the difference between what Mr M would have 
owed when  the account closed from when it closed until he gets the refund. The interest  
rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when Barclays  works out what Mr M would have owed each month  without PPI    
Mr M paid more  than enough to clear his balance, Barclays  should  also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr M paid. And it should  carry  on paying  interest  until the point  
when Mr M would have  owed Barclays something  on his credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year. 
D.Barclays should  tell Mr M what its done to work  out A, B and C. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN97479683my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9747968