K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr F says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr F didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he may not remember  this.
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mr Fs credit card application form. On the 
form theres an option to add PPI. An X has been  typed next to this option. There  
was also an option  for a different type of protection but it has been left blank. 
As this sale took place  in a meeting where Halifax  were making a recommendation to 
take PPI, I think that its more likely  than not that a discussion  took place about PPI 
and the Halifax  adviser  added  the X to the form to reflect what  Mr F wanted. Mr F 
also signed the overall application to agree to what he was applying  for. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr F so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover. Halifax also had to give Mr F 
good enough information so that he could decide if he wanted to take out the PPI. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. 
Mr F has complained that he wasnt made aware  of the cost of the PPI. Ive thought 
about this, but given  that the cost and benefit of this policy  is relatively comparable  to 
similar costing  policies offering a similar benefit sold around the time alongside what 
Mr F has told us about his existing means for making his repayments  if he was made 
unemployed or unwell  and unable to work,  I dont think that better information about 
the cost of the PPI would have changed Mr Fs decision  about taking the PPI. I say 
this as this policy would  have paid out for longer  than Mr Fs existing means  would 
have lasted - so I think he could have found it useful if he was unwell and unable to 
work or if he was made unemployed.
He also chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And as Ive 
already said, it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. 
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
Ref: DRN93525112But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr F because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr F about  that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr F, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr F has said, but these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back  to Mr F any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  If it has already done  
this, I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9352511