K821x#15complaint
Mr Ns complaint is that a representative of Positive  Solutions (Financial Services) Limited 
(now Quilter  Financial Planning Solutions  Limited) gave him unsuitable advice to invest 
within in his self-invested personal  pension (SIPP).   This  complaint  is about advice to invest  
in a Romania Property Fund in 2008.
background
At the time of the disputed advice Mr C was an adviser with Positive Solutions.   Soon after 
Mr N first complained Positive Solutions became part of Intrinsic Group and Intrinsic 
responded to the complaint.  Later  Positive  Solutions became Quilter Financial Planning 
Solutions Limited.   For convenience I will mostly refer to the firm as Positive Solutions as 
that is what it was called at the time of the events the complaint is about. 
The business model followed by Positive  Solutions was that it was an independent financial 
adviser firm authorised by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) (later the Financial 
Conduct Authority,  FCA).  It gave advice  through registered individuals who were  referred  to 
as Partners.  The Partners  were  self-employed agents of Positive  Solutions  not employees.   
Nor were Partners appointed representatives under  s.39 of the Financial Services  and 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).
Mr N works  in finance.  He had been dealing with Mr C for a number of years  and was on 
friendly terms with him.  As I understand it Mr C advised Mr N on a pension with Scottish  
Equitable in 2000 - before  he joined Positive  Solutions. Mr C had his own firm called Jones 
Plunkett Asset  Management  and later Regent Wealth.  He represented a number of other 
firms or networks and then Positive Solutions from 2004 to 2011. 
Mr C was a Partner of Positive Solutions   a registered individual who was an agent of 
Positive Solutions.  He used the trading style of Regent Wealth Management and/or 
Regent Wealth Management Consultants which was approved  by Positive Solutions and 
registered as trading  style for Positive Solutions with the FSA between  2004 and 2011.
Mr N had dealings with Mr C acting as a Partner  of Positive Solutions  and as I understand it 
there is no (or no longer)  dispute about those earlier dealings.  For example Mr C seems to 
have arranged for Mr N to take out another personal  pension with Scottish Equitable in the 
summer of 2005.
Also in 2005 Mr N invested in some Carbon Capital investment schemes  Mr C 
recommended to him.  (Mr N has complained about that advice and that was dealt  with in a 
different complaint.)
In 2006 Mr N and Mr C discussed a possible investment in a property fund investing in 
Poland offered  by Curzon Capital.   Mr C says Mr N went  to Poland on an expenses paid trip 
to check up on the fund and in the end decided not to invest.  Mr  N says it was more of a 
social trip aimed at advisers rather than investors  and that he did not have a detailed  
understanding of the fund as Mr C has since suggested.  He  says Mr C invited him to try to 
get him to encourage some of his colleagues to invest in the fund.
Mr N did sign a document dated  2 March 2006 from Curzon Capital headed Notice of 
Treatment as an Intermediate Customer relating  to the Poland fund.  Mr N also signed two 
documents from Regent Wealth Management Consultants at the same time:  a statement for 
Ref: DRN96981652self-certified sophisticated  investor  and a statement for certified high net worth  individual.   
Both of those documents had a footer  that said: 
Regent Wealth Management Consultants  are a trading  style of Positive Solutions (Financial 
Services) Ltd. Positive  solutions (Limited) [sic] is authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Services Authority.
In 2007 Mr C gathered  information about  Mr Ns personal pensions  with Scottish Equitable.   
So Mr C could do that Mr N signed an authority  headed Authority  to transfer  records, 
servicing and agency.   That  authorised  his pension provider  to send information to Mr C and 
any renewal commission to Positive Solutions.  The letter included a declaration that Mr N 
was aware that Mr C of Regent Wealth Management Consultants  is an independent financial 
adviser and a member  of Positive Solutions  Limited.
That authority  was faxed to Scottish Equitable on business stationery that said it was from 
Regent Wealth Management Consultants, had the Positive Solutions logo and said Positive 
Solutions (Financial  Services) Limited is authorised  and regulated  by the FSA and Regent  
Wealth Management is a trading style of Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Limited.
Mr C using Regent Wealth  Management Consultants note paper sent various papers to the 
SIPP provider James  Hay on 27 November 2007,  including:
An application for the self-invested personal  pension.  It gave the advisers  details as 
Regent Wealth Management and quoted Positive  Solutions  FSA number.
A request to transfer an existing Scottish  Equitable pension to James Hay.
An application for the PFB Data Centre  Fund  investment  with the instruction to invest  
£40,000 in that fund.
On 7 December  2007 Mr N emailed Mr C at Regent  Wealth Management Consultants.  
Mr N said:
Please could  you in future tell me of costs involved  when  changing my pension,  setting up 
this Sipp costs £290 plus £455 annual  administration  fee.  What am I paying  £455 for? 
Mr C replied the same day:
the James  Hay SIPP  is a far superior  product  than the bog standard pension  plan.  You 
cannot self invest through a standard  pension  plan hence the requirement of a SIPP.  You 
(we all) pay at least 1% annual  management  charge (reduces with the size of the fund) for our 
standard pension plans plus a fund charge  (normally.5%  dependent upon  the underlying 
fund).
  
In December 2007 Aegon/Scottish  Equitable  transferred  just over £40,000 to James  Hay.
James Hay invested in £40,000 in shares in the Data Centre Fund  in February  2008  on 
Mr Ns behalf as instructed.  
Mr N has not complained about the setting up of the SIPP.  He has complained about the 
advice to invest in the Data Centre Fund  and that complaint is dealt with in a separate  
complaint.
On 3 July 2008 Mr C emailed from his Regent  Wealth Management Consultants to tell him 
about the Romanian Geared Growth Fund and provide a Power  Point presentation about it:
Ref: DRN96981653Hi Mate
Attached PP re Romanian Geared Growth Fund.  I can arrange  for the fund mangers to meet 
with us/other interested parties if you so wish.
In June 2008 Mr N had made a lump sum contribution to the SIPP and in September 2008 
almost £10,000 was transferred in form another pension.  Three days  later Mr N invested in 
£20,000 from the SIPP in the Romania fund (leaving a cash balance of about  £3,000).  
This complaint concerns  that Romania investment.  Mr N says Mr C recommended  the 
investment.
On 2 October 2008 James Hay wrote  to Mr C at Positive Solutions Newcastle address.  The 
letter enclosed a trade conformation from Curzon Capital.  The trade  confirmation  said 
19,200 £1 shares  in the Romania Geared Growth Cell had been  bought.   It said there was a 
subscription fee of £800.  And  a note in relation to that fee said:
A subscription fee of GBP 800 is payable to Curzon Capital Investment management 
Limited.
If applicable a portion of this fee has been paid to: Regent Wealth  Management  Consultants
I note that on 30 March 2009  Mr N emailed Mr C:
Hi [Mr C], any update please on how Romania and the date fund is doing please.
Mr C replied the same day:
Hi [Mr N]
Romania holding  up well I am advised although no much  movement in marketplace  at 
moment due to you know  what, Fund Manager very pleased with stock purchased so far and 
very bullish long term.
Data Center [sic] fund going from strength to strength, they are having a third round  of funding 
due to success in UK and Europe thus far, seriously  thinking of getting  involved  myself
In the event the Romania Fund  was not a successful  investment.  Mr  N says he has lost over 
90% of the money he invested  when  the fund was wound up.
Mr N made  his complaints  to Positive Solutions in 2015.  Mr  N says that previously Mr C had 
advised him to invest the similar Poland fund which he decided not to do so.  Mr N says 
Mr C advised him to invest in the Romanian  fund so as not to miss out again.  Mr  N says this 
was pension money and he wanted a low risk investment but it has turned out to be a high 
risk. 
Mr N says in relation to this investment:
as with previous dealings with [Mr C] I was just told to sign a document  and he would fill in 
the rest for me.  I at the time was letting [Mr C] take control of all my financial dealings and 
therefore put full trust in himI  was not advised of the risks, I was only told of the gains I 
would make.
Mr N made  other complaints at the same time.  Positive Solutions  said the complaint about a 
Carbon Credit investment taken out in 2004 had been made too late.  It upheld a complaint 
about a later investment made in 2009  that had been marketed as a low risk but Positive  
Ref: DRN96981654Solutions said it should have been considered  a high risk. Positive Solutions did not uphold 
this complaint or the complaint and the Data Centre  Fund.  It made a number of points 
including:
Mr N had known Mr C for over 15 years by the time of the investment.
Mr C says discussion over the years had mostly been informal often over drinks.   
During those informal  discussion Mr C would  introduce various investment 
opportunities to Mr N who would make  up his own mind about  things.
Mr N had previously invested  in single company shares and start-up  ventures.  He  
was comfortable  with investments where his capital was at risk.
Mr N has always been interested in property-based investment and has some  buy to 
let properties.
Mr N had gone on an expenses paid trip to Poland to consider a different investment 
in 2006 and decided not to go ahead with it. 
Mr N worked  in finance with a high salary.  He signed a self-certified sophisticated 
investor and a high net worth investor  declaration in 2006.
Mr N was accordingly classified as an intermediate customer.  He  was aware of the 
non-regulated nature  of the investments and that he would not have access to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
In 2005 in respect of a different investment Mr Ns attitude to risk was recorded as 
adventurous and speculative.    
In Positives Solutions view Mr Ns attitude  to risk had not changed by 2008.
Positive Solutions also said:
We also consider that it is unreasonable to accept that you did not receive any 
documentation from [Mr C] and/or the product  providers.  You are undoubtedly a 
sophisticated investor who undertakes his own research and ultimately makes your own 
investment decisions.  It is therefore  reasonable to believe that you would  not have invested 
each respective tranche  of money without being provided  with any supporting documentation.  
Had you not been provided with relevant documentation, then we are sure you would have 
immediately raised the issue at that particular  time.
Having considered  all the information on file, we are therefore unable to uphold this part of 
your complaint.
Mr N therefore referred  his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  One of our 
adjudicators considered the complaint.  He thought Mr N had been advised to invest in the 
Romania fund and that the advice was unsuitable.
Positive Solutions did not agree with the adjudicator.  It said that under section 39 Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000 the principal of an appointed representative is only 
responsible for things  done in carrying on the business for which  it has accepted  
responsibility.  And Mr C was not authorised  to provide advice of the type complained of in 
this complaint.  Mr C was acting outside  his authority, and so Positive Solutions is not 
responsible.
We asked Positive Solutions to expand on its point.  Positive Solutions then corrected itself 
explaining that Mr C was not an appointed representative  rather he was an agent of 
Positive Solutions.  Apart from that the point  remained that the adviser  had acted outside his 
authority in this matter.   Positive Solutions did not go into more  detail in this case but in the 
Data Centre Fund Complaint Positive  Solutions  says Mr C was appointed as Registered 
Individual for the purpose only of introducing applications by Clients  for new Contracts for 
Ref: DRN96981655submission to Institutions specified and approved by Positive  Solutions.  And  the investment 
made was not in a Contract  with an Institution  approved by Positive Solutions.
The investment was not placed through Positive Solutions agency  and it was paid no 
commission in respect  of the investment.   Mr C was required to remit all monies that he 
receives for doing  business on behalf of Positive  Solutions and he did not do so in respect of 
the Data Centre Fund investment.   I assume  the same point applies to the Romania Fund
Also Positive Solutions says Mr C was classified as an intermediate  customer  and so cannot 
complain to the ombudsman service  in any event.
The complaint was referred  to me and I issued a provisional decision on 29 December 2020.  
I explained why I thought  we could consider Mr Ns complaint and why I thought it should be 
upheld and the steps Quilter Financial Planning Solutions should take to put things right.   I 
asked the parties  to let me have any comments the wished to make by 29 January 2021.
Mr N confirmed receipt of the provisional  decision.  He agreed with it.
Quilter Financial Planning  Solutions also confirmed receiving the provisional decision.   On 
29 January 2021  it said it had not finalised its response to the provisional  decision and said it 
would reply to the provisional decision that week.  The  investigator  agreed an extension  of 
time for Quilter to respond to 5 February  2021.  We have not heard further  from Quilter.
my findings  jurisdiction
Ive considered all the evidence  and arguments  in order to decide whether the Financial 
Ombudsman Service can consider Mr Ns complaint. 
the basis for deciding jurisdiction:
I must decide whether we have jurisdiction  to consider this complaint  on the basis  of our 
jurisdiction rules (referred to as the DISP rules), including the relevant law they are based  on 
or incorporate, based on the relevant facts of the complaint which  I must decide  on the 
balance of probability when in dispute.   
I cannot decide the issue on the basis of what I consider  to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.  That is the basis on which the merits of a complaint will be determined if we 
have jurisdiction to consider it.
the compulsory jurisdiction
The Financial Ombudsman  Service can consider  a complaint under its compulsory 
jurisdiction if that complaint relates  to an act or omission by a firm  in the carrying on of one 
or more  listed activities, including regulated activities (DISP2.3.1R).  Positive Solutions is a 
firm under  our rules, and it does not dispute that. 
As DISP 2.3.3G explains, 
complaints about acts or omissions  include  those in respect of activities for which the firm  
is responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the firm 
 has accepted responsibility).
Ref: DRN96981656So there are two questions to be determined before I can decide whether  this complaint can 
be considered  under  the compulsory jurisdiction  of this service:   
1.Were the acts about which Mr N complains done in the carrying on of a regulated  
activity?
2.Was the principal firm, Positive Solutions, responsible for those acts?  
the regulatory background
I have taken into account FSMA, Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (Regulated  
Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO), and the Conduct  of Business Sourcebook section of the 
FSA Handbook (COBS).
regulated activities
An activity  is a regulated activity if it is an activity  of a specified kind that is carried on by way 
of business and relates to an investment of a specified kind,  unless otherwise specified 
(section 22, FSMA).
Regulated activities are specified in Part II of the RAO and include advising on the merits of 
buying or selling a particular investment which is a security or a relevant  investment (article 
53 RAO), and making  arrangements for another person  to buy or sell or subscribe for a 
security or relevant investment (article  25 RAO).  
the general prohibition
Section 19 of FSMA says that a person may not carry on a regulated activity in the UK, or 
purport to do so, unless they are either  an authorised person or an exempt  person. This is 
known as the general prohibition.
At the time of the events complained about, Positive  Solutions was an authorised  person 
(also referred to as a firm  in the regulators rules). That means it could  carry out regulated 
activities without being in breach of the general  prohibition.
Mr C was neither an authorised person  nor exempt  from authorisation. That means that if 
Mr C had carried out a regulated activity on his own behalf by way of business, he would 
have been in breach of the general prohibition. 
the approved  persons regime
The approved persons  regime is set out in Part V of FSMA. Its aim is to protect  consumers 
by ensuring that only fit and proper individuals may lawfully carry out certain  functions 
within the financial services industry.
At the relevant time, section 59(1) of FSMA said:
(1) An authorised person (A) must take reasonable care to ensure that no person  performs 
a controlled function under  an arrangement entered into by A in relation to the carrying on by 
A of a regulated activity,  unless the Authority approves the performance by that person of the 
controlled function  to which the arrangement relates.
Ref: DRN96981657Positive Solutions was an authorised person. The act of advising on investments was a 
controlled function. 
Positive Solutions arranged for Mr C to be approved by the FSA to perform  the controlled  
functions CF 22 Investment Adviser (Trainee) (28 September 2004 to 7 March 2005),  CF 
21 Investment Adviser  (7 March 2005  to 31 October 2007) and CF30  Customer (from 1 
November 2007  to 23 May 2011)  in relation  to regulated activities carried  on by Positive  
Solutions. (CF30  is the function of advising on investments.)  
The approved persons  regime does  not depend on an individuals employment status. 
Employees can be approved persons, as can non-employees like Mr C.  
intermediate customers
It was the case that consumers who were classified as intermediate  customers could not 
complain to the Financial  Ombudsman Service.  Without going  into detail, intermediate 
customers were  customers  who were  considered  sufficiently expert  or knowledgeable  to 
have such a classification and who agreed  to be so classified  and were  given written 
warning (in a prescribed form) that they would lose the right to complain  to the Financial  
Ombudsman Service.  In  return  the investor could get access  to certain  specialist investment 
and perhaps lower charges.
Mr N signed a document agreeing to be classified as an intermediate customer  of Curzon 
Capital  not Positive Solutions  in relation  to the Poland fund.  This was not a general 
classification relating  to all firms  and all investments.
Agreeing to be classified  as a sophisticated  investor  and/or  a high net worth  investor is not 
the same  as being  an intermediate client or automatically qualify  the client as an 
intermediate customer
In 2007 the intermediate customer  concept  was replaced by a category called elective 
professional clients.   This was broadly  similar  but had a more prescribed criteria and 
assessment process.   These changes were  made  when the Conduct of Business (COB) 
section of the regulators handbook was replaced by the Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS).  And the rules  applying to the ombudsman  service were also changed.
Initially an elective professional client could not complain  to the ombudsman service as a 
result of DISP 2.7.9.
However in 2015  the rules were changed  again and since July 2015 DISP 2.7.9A says that 
DISP 2.7.9 does  not apply  to a complainant who is a consumer in relation to the activity  to 
which the complaint  relates.
And a consumer is defined as an individual acting for purposes which are wholly  or mainly 
outside that individuals trade, business,  craft or profession. 
In this case Mr N did work  in finance but the complaint relates  to advice on the investment in 
his own pension.  So he was an individual acting for purposes which are wholly  or mainly 
outside that individuals trade, business,  craft or profession.
And Mr N referred his complaint to the Ombudsman Service  after that rule change.
Ref: DRN96981658Accordingly even if Mr N was properly categorised as an intermediate  customer  or an 
elective professional client in 2007/2008 (and I have seen  no evidence that he was) he 
would not be prevented  from complaining  to the ombudsman service for this reason in any 
event.
breach of statutory  duty
At the relevant time, section 150(1) of FSMA said:
A contravention by an authorised person of a rule is actionable at the suit of a private person  
who suffers loss as a result  of the contravention, subject  to the defences and other incidents 
applying to actions for breach of statutory duty. 
Rights of action under section 150(1) of FSMA were only available in relation to 
contravention of specific rules made  by the FSA under FSMA. 
One such rule in place  at the time of the events Mr N complains about was COBS  9.2.1(1)R,  
which said:
A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation  is suitable  
for its client.
Mr N was a private person under section 150(1) of FSMA and private customers  under  COB 
5.3.5R. Broadly, those  terms  covered all natural persons  subject to some exceptions. I am 
satisfied that no exceptions applied to Mr N  he was not a firm, and he was not carrying out 
any regulated activities  by way of business. He was simply an ordinary consumer.
That means that if Mr N suffered a loss as a result of a rule breached  by Positive Solutions,  
he would  have a right of action  against  Positive Solutions for breach of statutory duty. He 
would have no such right against Mr C, because he was not a firm.
what is the complaint?
Mr N wrote to Positive Solution on 9 July 2014 and re-sent his letter  on 14 July 2014.   He 
made more  than one complaint in his letter.  In relation to this matter  he said:
I am writing to complain  about  the advice  given by [Mr C] and the above investments [which 
included the Romania Fund].   I was advised by [Mr C] to invest  my SIPP funds  into the 
above investments, which I have now been told are worth nothing  or I cannot  get the funds 
back or transferred because it is closed.
At no point during the conversations did [Mr C] state  that these funds  would reduce to nothing 
in value or that I wouldnt be able to access or get them back when required.   I requested  
many times the information  from [Mr C] and was told at the time that they were safe 
investments and have a number of emails from him stating this fact.  I have never  received 
any documentation since or letters detailing  either  the investment  made  and when, what  the 
facts of the investments were or are or what fees were earned  by the adviser.
At the time I stated to [Mr C] that these funds could not be risked as they form the bulk of my 
pension investments   I actually stated that my attitude to risk on these funds  was cautious, 
and not in any way high risk which is what I have been subsequently [told] they are.
Please let me know what you require to investigate my complaint and put me back  in a 
position I was prior to the advice given by [Mr C].
Ref: DRN96981659When he referred his complaint to the Financial  Ombudsman Service  Mr N said:
This fund was invested  in at a similar time to the data fund.  I had £26K left in my sip [sic] to 
invest, and was advised  to put £20k into the Romania fund.  One reason  being, to be quite  
frank, I would not want you to miss out on the opportunity (ie Poland buy to let fund up 40%).
I wasnt given any paperwork regarding the nature of the fund or risk involved, I purely acted 
on trust from advice from [Mr C].
Once again  this was a large proportion of my pension pot.  I was quite firm in my 
requirements, that this was my pension  and therefore couldnt afford  to have my money  risked 
as I required a low tolerance of risk.  Once again I feel I should have never  been placed in 
such fund
Mr N is therefore complaining about investment advice he says he was given by Mr C to 
invest in the Romania Fund within his SIPP.
were the acts Mr N complains about done in the carrying on of a regulated activity?
Initially at least Positive  Solutions  argued  in part that Mr C did not give advice.  This was 
based on Mr Cs testimony.  Positive Solutions position is that Mr C essentially said Mr N is a 
sophisticated investor, he (Mr C) gave information  to Mr N and Mr N made up his own mind 
about whether  or not to invest.   It says Mr C met with Curzon Capital  in relation to the 
potential Poland  investment  and subsequently developed his own relationship  with them.
Positive Solutions has made this same point  about Mr C making  his own investment 
decisions in relation to this complaint  and the complaint relating to Data  Centre Fund.   In that 
case it is clear  that Mr C adopted an informal approach to his dealing  with Mr N but in my 
view Mr C did advise  Mr N.   That was, in my view, confirmed in an email exchange which 
demonstrated that Mr Cs description of his dealings with Mr N was not reliable.
In this case there is no equivalent email exchange  to support Mr Ns point that he was 
advised by Mr C.  
There are however a number of points that support Mr N such as:
My finding that Mr C gave advice  in the Data Centre case when Mr C says he didnt 
and Mr N says he did.
Mr C was Mr Ns financial  adviser.   Mr Ns job in finance did not involve advising on 
pension investments  he consulted  Mr C on such matters.
Mr Cs email of 3 July 2008  clearly  promotes the Romania investment to Mr N.  
It is plausible that Mr C went further and recommended  the investment as he did in 
relation to the Data Centre Fund.
The lack of any documentation to record the advice does not prove advice was not 
given particularly given  Mr Cs informal approach to his dealings  with Mr N.
Mr C was involved in the application for the investment  a copy  of the dealing  
confirmation was sent to him at Positive Solutions and he seems to have been paid 
commission by Curzon  Capital.  It is not obvious  this would have happened if Mr N 
had a direct relationship with Curzon  Capital  as Positive Solutions says.
Mr N seems to have  treated the Romania investment in the same way as the Data  
Centre investment  in asking Mr C for updates on both.  It is not clear he would have 
done that if the two investments had come about  in different ways with Mr C less 
involved with one than the other.  Mr Cs response  similarly suggests  that Mr C 
Ref: DRN969816510treated the investments in the same way again indicating he did not regard one as 
something he was less involved in.
So on balance I consider that it is more  likely  than not that Mr C did advise Mr N to invest 
funds in his James Hay SIPP in the Curzon  Capital Romania fund. This is the regulated 
activity of advising on investments  both in relation to the pension  rights in the SIPP and the 
Romania Fund itself.  
was Positive  Solutions responsible for the acts Mr N complains about?
The finding  that Mr C gave the disputed  advice is not the end of the matter.  Positive 
Solutions position is that Mr C was its agent.   But that he was not authorised to advise on 
the investment  as it is not an approved product
Positive Solutions point  is that if Mr C did give advice he was not doing so in his capacity as 
a registered individual (or agent) of Positive Solutions.
what was the adviser authorised to do by Positive  Solutions?
Agency is a relationship between two parties  where  they agree that one will act on behalf  of 
the other so as to affect its relations  with third parties.  The  one on whose behalf acts are to 
be done is called the principal.  The one who is to act is called the agent.  In other words the 
principal authorises the agent to act on its behalf.   
The creation  of that authority can take a number of forms.   And  it is usual for the authority to 
be limited in nature.  The law recognises different  forms  of agency. 
In this case there is a written agency agreement which gives  express actual authority to 
Mr C.
It is the case that an agent  also has implied  authority to do what  is necessary for, or 
ordinarily incidental to, the effective execution of his express authority.
actual authority
Paragraph 2.1 of the agency  agreement between Positive Solutions and Mr C said:
The company hereby  appoints  the Registered Individual  as its Registered Individual  for the 
purpose only of introducing Applications  by Clients for the new Contracts, for submission to 
the Institutions specified by the Registered Individual and approved by the Company.
Contracts is defined as:
The Contracts  for the products entered into or to be entered into, by the client, with the 
Institutions.
And Institution is defined  as: 
Any insurance  or assurance company, life office, unit trust manager, fund manager, 
stockbroker, building  society, bank, finance house or other financial  institution.
Taken in isolation  paragraph 2.1 seems to say the agent is only appointed to introduce 
applications for new contracts for Positive Solutions  approved products.  I think it is arguable 
Ref: DRN969816511that the authority under the contract did go winder than just introducing new contracts and 
covers advising on a clients existing  investments  as part of that process.   
And as I understand it James Hay SIPP  was on Positive Solutions list of approved 
Institutions and advising on the investing  of the rights within that pension  may in principle 
have been authorised even if the investment bought within the pension  was not.
However I do not need to go into detail on that point because an agent is required to act in 
the interests of the principal.  And its difficult to see that giving advice to invest in a non-
approved investment (the Romanian Fund), where no commission or fee was passed  on to 
Positive Solutions, was acting in the interests of the principal, Positive Solutions.
It is therefore my view that the agent was not acting within  the actual authority in relation to 
the disputed advice. 
That is not however the end of the matter.   There is also apparent (or ostensible) authority 
to consider. 
apparent authority
In an agency relationship,  a principal may limit the actual  authority of his agent.  But if the 
agent acts outside that actual authority, a principal may still be liable  to third parties for the 
agents acts if those acts were within the agents  apparent authority.  This  is the case even if 
the agent was acting  fraudulently and in furtherance  of his own interest  provided the agent 
is acting within his apparent authority. 
For this type of authority there has to be a representation by the principal by words  or 
conduct that the agent has the relevant  authority being considered.   And the third party 
seeking to establish that apparent  or ostensible authority has to reasonably  relay  on that 
representation.
what kinds of representation are capable of giving rise to apparent authority?
In Martin v Britannia Life Ltd [1999]12 WLUK 726, Parker J quoted the relevant principle as 
stated in Article  74 in Bowstead and Reynolds on Agency  16th edition:
Where  a person,  by words  or conduct,  represents or permits it to be represented that another  
person has authority to act on his behalf  he is bound by the acts of that other person with 
respect to anyone  dealing with him as an agent on the faith of any such  representation, to the 
same extent as if such other person had the authority that he was represented to have,  even 
though he had no such actual authority. 
Ref: DRN969816512Because of what I say below about reliance  I will not deal with this point in detail.  In my view 
Positive Solutions held itself out as whole  of market investment adviser.  And  it held Mr C out 
as at adviser on its behalf.  He was registered as an approved person.  He was permitted  by 
Positive Solutions to hold himself out as an adviser acting on its behalf.
The act complained of is investment advice in 2008.   The advice was to invest  pension  funds  
held in a James Hay SIPP  in the Curzon  Capital Romania Geared  Growth  Fund.  This 
advice in relation  to rights in personal  pension which is usually within  the authority of a whole  
of market independent financial adviser. 
The fund itself was an open-ended investment  in a Guernsey protected cell company that 
intended to invest  in newly built residential  property  for the rental market in Romania.  It was 
a specialised  fund,  but it was an investment of a type usually within  the authority of a whole 
of market independent financial adviser notwithstanding the point that Positive Solutions only 
permitted its agents  to recommended investments it has an agency arrangement with.
In principle I consider  that Positive  Solutions did represent to Mr N that Mr C had authority to 
give advice of the type Mr C gave.  
must the third party rely on the representation?
The principals representation  that its agent  has its authority to act on its behalf  will only fix 
the principal with liability to the third party (here Mr N) if the third party  relied on that 
representation.
In the recent case of Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 Comm, in the High 
Court Jacobs J summarised the approach  to be taken as to whether or not there  is sufficient 
evidence of reliance  on the representation as follows:
a relevant  ingredient of a case based on apparent authority is reliance  on the faith of the 
representation alleged: see Bowstead  and Reynolds on Agency 21st edition, paragraph [8-
010] and [8-024]; Martin  paragraph 5.3.3. In Martin, Jonathan Parker J. held that the relevant  
representation in that case (namely that the adviser  was authorised to give financial advice 
concerning a remortgage of the property) was acted on by the plaintiffs in that each of them 
proceeded throughout on the footing that in giving  advice [the adviser]  was acting in every 
respect as the agent of [the alleged principal] with authority from [the alleged principal]  so to 
act.
On the particular facts  of that case, Jacobs J placed  weight on the fact the majority of the 
claimants had never heard of the defendant, Sense Network, and that those who had heard 
of it made  their decision to invest in the relevant scheme before they saw the stationery 
which they later said contained the representation on which they relied.
As the case law makes clear,  whether  or not a claimant has relied on a representation  is 
dependent on the circumstances  of that individual  case. 
In Mr Ns case we sent him a questionnaire  that included the following questions  and Mr Ns 
answers were as follows:
Q: How and when did you first become aware  of the PFB Data Centre and Romania  Geared 
property funds?
A: [Mr C] Advised me to invest in both
Ref: DRN969816513Data Fund: Dec 2007
Romania: Sep 2008
I was never told the mechanics or risk involved. I would not have invested if known.
Q: Did anyone advise  you to invest your pension  fund in the above investments?  If so, who 
was it and who did he/she say they were working for?
A: [Mr C].  Under his own company Regent Wealth Management Consultants
Q: When and how did you first become a client of Positive Solutions? Please provide as 
much detail as possible.  
A: Not known.  
I was a client  of [Mr C] since 1997 approx.   
I was unaware he was under  the banner of Positive Solutions.  
He never mentioned them.
did Mr N rely on Positive Solutions representation? 
Given the comments made by Mr N quoted above  I cannot say that Mr N was aware  of and 
relied on any representation of authority Positive Solutions may have made.  This seems  to 
be the case notwithstanding the fact that Mr N signed documents  and received emails  that 
referred to the relationship between Regent Wealth Management Consultants  and Positive  
Solutions.
It is not therefore possible to say that Positive Solutions is responsible for the advice by Mr C 
to Mr N to invest  in the Romania Fund on the basis of apparent  or ostensible  authority.
vicarious liability
I think it is also appropriate for me to consider whether Positive  Solutions  is vicariously  liable 
for the actions of Mr C  independently of whether  apparent authority operated such  as to fix 
Positive Solutions with liability for the actions  of its agents. 
what is vicarious liability?
Vicarious liability is a common  law principle of strict, no-fault liability  for wrongs committed by 
another person. 
Not all relationships  are capable of giving rise to vicarious liability.  The classic example of a 
relationship which can give rise to vicarious  liability is the employment relationship, but 
Mr C was not an employee of Positive  Solutions. However, the employment  relationship  is 
not the only relationship capable of giving rise to vicarious liability.
Broadly, there is a two-stage test to decide whether vicarious liability  can apply:
Stage  one is to ask whether there is a sufficient  relationship between  the wrongdoer  
and the principal.
Stage  two is to ask whether  the wrongdoing itself was sufficiently connected  to the 
wrongdoers duties  on behalf of the principal for it to be just for the principal to be 
held liable .
Ref: DRN969816514the stage one test
in Barclays Bank plc v Various Claimants  [2020] UKSC 13 Lady Hale said that, when faced 
with a case where vicariously  liability may be imposed:
The question therefore is, as it has always been, whether the tortfeasor is carrying on 
business on his own account  or whether he is in a relationship akin to employment with the 
defendant. In doubtful cases, the five incidents  identified by Lord Phillips [in Various  
Claimants and Catholic  Child Welfare  Society  and Others [2012] UKSC  56 (the Christian 
Brothers case)] may be helpful in identifying  a relationship which is sufficiently analogous to 
employment to make it fair, just and reasonable  to impose vicarious liability. Although they 
were enunciated in the context of non-commercial enterprises,  they may be relevant in 
deciding whether  workers who may be technically self-employed or agency workers are 
effectively part and parcel of the employers business. But the key, as it was in Christian 
Brothers, Cox and Armes, will usually lie in understanding the details of the relationship. 
Where it is clear that the tortfeasor is carrying  on his own independent business it is not 
necessary to consider  the five incidents.
was Mr C carrying on his own independent business?
As mentioned above Mr N had been dealing  with Mr C for a number of years.  Mr  N thought 
he was dealing with Mr C at his own firm and he says he did not know about  Positive  
Solutions.  Does that mean Mr C was carrying on his own independent business in relation 
to the events this complaint is about?
Mr C seems to have  had a company from 2006 onwards called Regent Wealth Limited.    It 
was directly regulated  by the FSA/FCA from 2010.  And it uses  a trading name Regent 
Wealth Management.  
This would seem to be Mr Cs independent  business.  However I have  seen no evidence this 
business was involved in any of the events this complaint is about.  
Mr C was not employed by Positive Solutions.  He was an independent  contractor.  So Mr N 
was carrying on his own business. But at the relevant time that business was the business of 
being a financial  adviser for Positive  Solutions  for whom he gave  advice as an approved 
person.  
For example I note the two emails I quoted above  dated 3 December 2007 are from an email 
address that ends  @regentwmc.com.   They include the words Web: RegentWMC.com and 
includes the words  Regent  Wealth Management  Consultants after Mr Cs name.  The footer  
of the email includes:
Regent Wealth Management Consultants  are a trading  style for Positive Solutions (Financial 
Services) Ltd.  Positive Solutions (Limited) is authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Services Authority.
Mr C was registered as CF21 investment adviser from 7 March 2005  to 31 October  2007,  
and a CF30  Customer approved person  from 1 November 2007 to 2011 on the FSAs 
register in relation to Positive Solutions.
Mr Cs business Regent Wealth  Limited  was not authorised to give regulated investment 
advice at the time.  Mr  C could only lawfully give investment  advice at the time of the events  
in this complaint  as an agent of Positive Solutions.  
Ref: DRN969816515Positive Solutions registered Mr Cs business name  as a trading style for Positive Solutions   
from 2004 to 2011.   
I note that according  the FCA register now, the registered trading style was Regent  Wealth  
Management rather than Regent Wealth Management Consultants.   But is seems Mr C used 
the names inter-changeably, with one as shorter version of the other  rather than as two 
separate businesses.   So for example on the James  Hay SIPP  application in November 
2007 the financial advisers details  are recorded  as Regent Wealth  Management  and the 
FSA authorisation number given is Positive  Solutions number. And on the application form 
for the Data Centre  Fund  investment the introducing adviser details are given as Regent  
Wealth Management Consultants with, again,  the Positive Solutions FSA number given. 
And both forms were sent to James Hay with a covering letter  of Regent  Wealth  
Management Consultants  notepaper.  
It is clear that Mr Cs relevant business for this complaint was his trade or professional 
practice as a financial adviser using the name Regent Wealth Management Consultants  
sometimes shortened to Regent  Wealth  Management.  It seems that it was the shortened 
version that was registered as a trading style with the regulator  by Positive Solutions while  
Mr C was using business stationery  including his email footer that said the longer name was 
a trading style of Positive Solutions.  Be that as it may in the period from 2005  to 2011 Mr C 
was giving financial advice as a financial adviser  with Positive Solutions registered as an 
approved person at the FSA in connection with Positive Solutions.   And  in relation to the 
disputed advice in this complaint Mr C was not carrying  on his own independent  business.  
part and parcel of Positive Solutions business? a relationship  akin to employment?
Positive Solutions business model was that it gave financial advice itself, through its 
Registered Individuals   people like Mr C.  
Positive Solutions status as an authorised firm meant  that it was not in breach of the general 
prohibition when it gave investment advice to members of the public. So, when  its 
Registered Individuals  gave investment advice on behalf of Positive  Solutions, carrying out 
Positive Solutions business activities, those Registered Individuals were  not in breach of the 
general prohibition  either.
Mr C was a Positive Solutions  Registered  Individuals. Positive Solutions had given him 
permission to carry out the controlled function Investment Adviser, then Customer on 
behalf of Positive  Solutions. Positive  Solutions  had therefore engaged Mr C to carry out 
activities that were an integral part of its business.
I note that the FCA has issued guidance  as to when it considers a person to be carrying on a 
business in their own right, set out in PERG 2.3.5 to 2.3.11. Although the guidance  was 
published some  time after the events Mr Ns complaint is about, the relevant parts of the 
legislation (in respect of permissions to give regulated financial advice) have not changed 
substantively. I therefore  consider it appropriate for me to take into account the guidance in 
PERG, which says:
In practice,  a person is only likely to fall outside the general prohibition on the grounds that 
he is not carrying on his own business if he is an employee or performing a role very similar to 
an employee.
Ref: DRN969816516For the avoidance of doubt I do not say I am obliged to follow  that guidance.  Or that I am 
obliged to consider that guidance  in the same way as I am obliged to consider guidance  from 
the regulator when determining what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a 
complaint that is within my jurisdiction.  And as I have already said that is not the basis  upon  
which I am determining  the issue of jurisdiction.  Rather I have noted the guidance is 
consistent with my own conclusions about  the nature  of Mr Cs relationship with Positive 
Solutions.
Positive Solutions clearly  intended Mr C to fall outside the general  prohibition  when acting on 
Positive Solutions behalf in giving investment advice. The only way in which Mr C could 
have fallen outside the general prohibition at the time was on the basis that he was carrying 
on Positive Solutions business  rather than his own. In my view,  the guidance therefore 
provides support for the contention that Mr Cs relationships with Positive Solutions were 
very similar to employment relationships. 
That guidance fits very well with how the Supreme Courts framed  the question, and in 
particular the distinction between whether the tortfeasor is carrying  on business on his own 
account or whether he is in a relationship akin to employment with the defendant.  In this 
present case I am satisfied the relationship between Mr C and Positive Solutions was that he 
was carrying on Positive Solutions  business,  as opposed to business on his own account, 
and I am also satisfied that in doing so their relationship was akin to employment.   
In my view Mr Cs activities were part and parcel of Positive Solutions business.  The 
controlled function of giving  regulated investment advice was an activity  assigned to Mr C by 
Positive Solutions as part of Positive Solutions own business and for Positive Solutions 
benefit
In these circumstances, I consider that a relationship existed between Mr C and Positive  
Solutions such that Positive Solutions  may be held vicariously liable for Mr Cs actions. But 
even if this was one of the doubtful cases that Lady Hale referred  to, I consider that the five 
incidents Lord Phillips identified would still point towards the relationship being one to which 
vicarious liability could  apply. I note:
Positive Solutions is considerably more likely to have the means to compensate 
Mr C.  Positive  Solutions can be expected to have insured against that liability, and may 
even have been required to hold professional indemnity insurance as a condition of its 
authorisation by the Financial Services Authority.
Positive Solutions had assigned  to Mr C the activity of giving investment advice. The 
act Mr N complains  of  the giving  of unsuitable  investment  advice  was therefore 
carried out as a result of activity  Mr C undertook  on Positive  Solutions  behalf. 
Mr Cs activity was very much part of Positive  Solutions business activities.  Positive  
Solutions whole purpose  was to give independent financial  advice.
In assigning to Mr C the activity of giving investment advice on its behalf, Positive 
Solutions created  the obvious  risk that he would do so negligently.
Mr C was to a very large  degree under the control of Positive  Solutions. The FSAs  
rules required  Positive  Solutions  to properly supervise all of its Approved  Persons,  
including Mr C. In addition, the Registered Individual Agreement between Mr C and 
Ref: DRN969816517Positive Solutions gave  Positive Solutions extensive rights to control  his conduct. The 
contract made clear  that any act or omission of the Registered Individual shall  be 
treated as an act or omission of [Positive  Solutions]  and explained that meant it is 
therefore imperative  that the Registered Individual adhere to the strict  rules  laid down 
by the FSA and the Companys Procedure manuals. 
However, the fact that the relationships in question  are capable of giving rise to vicarious 
liability does  not mean that Positive  Solutions  is automatically liable for everything Mr C did. 
To decide whether Positive Solutions  is liable in the circumstances of this complaint, I must 
also consider whether  the act complained of is sufficiently connected  to Mr Cs duties on 
behalf of Positive  Solutions  the stage two test. 
the stage two test
Here I must answer two questions:
What was the field of activities Positive  Solutions had assigned to Mr C?
Was the act complained of so closely connected  with the acts Mr C was authorised to 
do such that, for the purposes of Positive Solutions liability to Mr N, that act may 
fairly and properly be regarded as having  been done by Mr C while acting in the 
ordinary course of his duties for Positive Solutions?
the field of activities
In Group  Seven  Ltd v Notable Services [2019] EWCA Civ 614 the Court of Appeal 
considered the scope  of the field of activities assigned to the wrongdoer  in that case. It said:
we agree  that when deciding what a wrongdoer's field of activities is it is relevant, in 
general terms, to consider  that person's contract of employment and any directives about the 
way in which he should carry out his functions which form part of the terms and conditions.  
However, this is only the beginning of the enquiry and cannot be determinative  or prescriptive. 
If it were, the scope of vicarious liability  would  be narrow  indeed and the majority of the 
central cases in this area of the law would  have  been  decided  differently. The question must  
be addressed  broadly.  As Lord Nicholls explained in the Dubai Aluminium case  at [22] quoted 
by Lord Toulson in Mohamud  at [41], "agents may exceed the bounds  of their authority  or 
even defy express instructions" and as a result, "the law has given the concept of 'ordinary 
course of employment'  an extended scope.  
Secondly, we agree  that the usual  authority of someone in the role of the wrongdoer  is of 
some relevance  when  reaching  a conclusion about the nature of a job and the field of 
activities entrusted to him or her. However,  it is not the complete answer  any more than the 
precise terms of his contract of employment can be. Moreover, usual authority must not 
displace the approach described by Lord Toulson  in Mohamud. The question must  be 
addressed broadly in the light of all of the circumstances  of the case. It is important not to 
seek to import  a yardstick of authority into that broad enquiry. As Lord Nicholls  stated in the 
Dubai Aluminium case at para [23], albeit  in the context of actual authority, authority  is not 
the touchstone.
Thirdly, we also agree that the nature of the job and whether there is sufficient connection  
between it and the wrongdoing  must be considered  from an objective  standpoint, viewed in 
the light of all the circumstances. To put it another way, the question should be addressed  
from the perspective of the reasonable observer with knowledge of the relevant context.  It 
Ref: DRN969816518seems to us that that is inherent  in Lord Toulson's criticism and analysis of the Australian 
case of Deatons Pty Ltd v Flew (1949)  79 CLR 370 at [29] of his judgment in Mohamud.
The above  passage shows contractual terms can be relevant, at least as the beginning of an 
enquiry, as to the field of a wrongdoers  activities; and similarly  the usual authority of the 
wrongdoer; but that the nature of the agents job and of the connection  between  it and 
wrongdoing is a wider  enquiry, which depends on all the circumstances viewed objectively.  I 
note that Group Seven  was decided  before the recent Barclays  and Morrisons cases  in the 
Supreme Court, but I consider that I should  similarly approach the question of the scope of 
the field of activities  assigned to Mr C in a broad, non-technical  way.
Here, Mr C was contracted to give investment advice  on behalf of Positive  Solutions.  He 
appeared on the FSAs Register as an approved person able to give such advice on Positive 
Solutions behalf. For the purposes of the application of the stage two test to Mr Ns 
complaint I consider that the field of activities assigned to Mr C by Positive Solutions  should 
be described as the giving of investment advice.
In considering the close connection part of the test, bearing in mind the wide range of 
factors that have  been considered relevant in the decided  cases concerning liability  for 
misadvice/misstatements such as Group Seven  Ltd v Notable Services [2019] EWCA Civ 
614 and Kooragang v Richardson & Wrench  [1982] AC 462,  I consider that there  are factors 
in this case pointing  both toward  and against  holding Positive Solutions vicariously  liable for 
the actions of its agents. I note:
This complaint is about the investment advice  Mr C gave to Mr N. 
The advice given  was not authorised by Positive Solutions, but it was of a type that is 
part of the usual authority of an IFA. 
Mr C was purporting to act on behalf of Positive Solutions, using business  stationery 
and email and the business name  he was operating  under was a trading style of 
Positive Solutions  even if Mr N did not notice this was the case.
Mr N had a long and friendly relationship with Mr C which endured  as Mr N changed 
the firms he represented from time to time.   Although this was a personal relationship 
the fact remains Mr C did not at the time have  personal authority to give regulated  
investment advice.  He  could only do so on behalf  of Positive  Solutions  at the 
relevant time.
 
I see no way in which Mr N, or a reasonable consumer in his position, could have 
known that the investment advice they received from Positive Solutions investment 
advisers was not in fact authorised by Positive Solutions. Even  if he had consulted 
the Financial Services  Authoritys Register,  he would not have seen any limits on the 
scope of Mr Cs authority to give investment advice. Positive Solutions  treated the 
contracts between itself and its Registered  Individuals as confidential matters,  so 
Mr N would not have  been aware of the contents  of those agreements.
So far as I am aware, Mr C had one principal   Positive Solutions.  Positive  Solutions  
was the only principal a reasonable consumer in the position of Mr N would have 
seen if they had looked up Mr C on the FSAs  Register.  This is not a case like 
Kooragang, where the agent/employee had dual, conflicting, employments. Instead,  it 
Ref: DRN969816519is a case where the only way Mr C could have lawfully given advice at all was by 
acting on behalf  of Positive  Solutions. If he had given advice on his own behalf, or on 
behalf of another third party, he would have been  in breach of the general prohibition.
Positive Solutions says it did not receive  any commission  for the investment, and I 
accept its evidence  on that point. That means  Mr C benefitted  financially from the 
advice he gave  and Positive Solutions did not. If Positive Solutions had benefitted 
financially, that would have been a factor  pointing towards its being vicariously liable. 
But the absence  of a benefit  does not point  the other  way. In Kooragang , the Privy 
Council made clear that a principal may be vicariously liable even if an 
agent/employee committed a wrong solely for his own benefit.
The Supreme  Court considered the position  of a wrongdoers motive in Morrisons . It 
made clear that the wrongdoers motive is a relevant  consideration. There is nothing  
here to suggest  that Mr C had any intention to harm either Positive Solutions, or 
Mr N. It seems most  likely that Mr C thought the investment was suitable  for his long-
term client and he recommended it to him for their mutual  benefit  ie Mr N would  get a 
suitable and hopefully successful investment and Mr C would be remunerated for that 
investment advice and his happy  client would return for more investment advice in 
the future.
Any commission Mr C received  did not follow the route contractually agreed between  
Positive Solutions and its agents. Any commission should have been  paid to Positive 
Solutions direct, and then passed on (at least in part) to Mr C. Alternatively, if it had 
been paid to Mr C direct, he should  have declared  it to Positive Solutions.  This 
would not have been known to a reasonable consumer in Mr Ns position.  
I consider that the field of activities Positive  Solutions had assigned to Mr C was that he 
should give investment  advice  to Positive Solutions customers. Mr C gave investment 
advice to Mr N. I am satisfied that the investment advice complained of was indeed so 
closely connected with the acts Mr C was authorised to do such  that, for the purposes  of 
Positive Solutions liability to Mr N, that advice may fairly  and properly be regarded as having 
been done by Mr C while acting in the ordinary course of his duties for Positive Solutions.  
I am therefore satisfied  that Positive Solutions is vicariously liable for the investment advice  
Mr C gave to Mr N to invest  in the Romania Fund investment in his SIPP.
statutory responsibility under s150  (now s138D) of FSMA
I consider that the guidance  the FCA set out in PERG 2.3.5 to 2.3.11 (in respect  of when the 
FCA considers a person to be carrying on a business in their own right)  is also of note  on 
the same  basis as I discussed above   in relation  to the issue  of whether Positive Solutions 
had statutory responsibility under section 150 of FSMA for the actions of Mr C. Again, I 
appreciate the guidance  in PERG was published some years  after the advice complained  of 
here, but the relevant  parts of the legislation had not changed substantively.
In my view, the FCAs guidance suggests  that the question of a firms responsibility for 
agents who were not appointed representatives should be analysed according to whether 
the agent was carrying  on the firms  business. The guidance directly  concerns the question 
of whether the agent is in breach of the general prohibition for carrying  on its own business 
instead of the firms, but I think it is just as relevant to the question  of whether the agents 
Ref: DRN969816520acts and omissions count  as acts and omissions of the firm under section150 of FSMA. The 
general prohibition  applies to persons who carry on regulated activities by way of business 
and section 150 applies to persons who breach  regulatory rules whilst  carrying on those  
activities. In both cases, the question needs to be answered which partys business is 
carried on. If the agent was carrying on the firms business, then the agent wont be in 
breach of the general prohibition, but the firm will nevertheless be liable under section 150 
for its agents breaches of rules such as the COBS suitability rules.  
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I am satisfied that when Mr C gave the advice complained 
of, he was acting  in his capacity as Positive Solutions approved person for the purpose of 
carrying on Positive Solutions regulated business. He was not carrying  on an independent 
business of his own. So, if their advice was not suitable, then (subject  to the recognised 
defences) Positive Solutions is responsible in damages to Mr N under the statutory cause of 
action provided  by section 150 of FSMA. I therefore consider that section 150, now section 
138D, of FSMA provides  an alternative route  by which Positive  Solutions  is responsible  for 
the acts complained of.
summary of my findings  on jurisdiction
Having considered all of the circumstances  here,  as well as the legal authorities,  I am 
satisfied that: 
Positive Solutions represented  to Mr N that Mr C had Positive Solutions authority to 
advise on the investment  in the Romania  Geared Growth Fund within  the SIPP  but 
Mr N did not rely on that representation.   Apparent authority does not therefore 
operate and Positive  Solutions  is not responsible on this basis.
 
Positive Solutions is however vicariously liable for the acts Mr N complains  about.  
Positive Solutions also has statutory responsibility under section 150 of FSMA for the 
acts complained about.
I am therefore satisfied  that Positive Solutions is responsible for the acts Mr N complains 
about.
my findings on merits
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N says the advice  to invest in the Romania Fund was unsuitable   that it was too high 
risk as he wanted a lower  risk investment for his pension.
Positive Solutions position  in broad terms  is that Mr N is a sophisticated investor who 
understood what he was doing and would not have invested in the Romania Fund if it was 
too high risk for him just as he had chosen not to invest in the similar Poland Fund.
Mr N did sign a document dated  2 March 2006 from Curzon Capital headed Notice of 
Treatment as an Intermediate Customer relating  to a different fund.   This  suggests that he 
was willing  to be classified as an experienced and knowledgeable investor.  As did his 
signing of Regent  Wealth Management Consultants form headed statement of self-certified  
sophisticated investor.
Ref: DRN969816521However Mr N has said he put a great deal of trust in Mr C and signed whatever Mr C asked 
him to sign.   And this does seem to be confirmed by points such  as Mr N not noticing the 
relationship between Regent  Wealth Management  Consultants and Positive Solutions.   And 
by his asking questions about  the SIPP after he had taken it out.  
The evidence does  tend to show Mr N was nave rather than sophisticated in relation to his 
dealings with Mr C.
Mr N was no doubt successful at his own job in finance, but it had nothing to do with 
pensions or retail investment funds.  He consulted a financial adviser about those matters  
Mr C an adviser  with Positive Solutions at the time.   And that means the onus was on Mr C 
to act professionally and give suitable advice.
However, its clear to me that Mr C adopted  a very informal approach  in relation to Mr N.  
An investment should  meet the clients investment  objectives.  The client  should be in a 
financial position to bear the risks of the investment.  And the client should be able to 
understand the risks involved.  It is not however clear that Mr C gathered and recorded 
sufficient information  to have a reasonable basis for considering the investment was suitable  
bearing in mind all those points.
Nor did Mr C provide a suitability report setting out the reasons for his recommendation.
Positive Solutions has referred to a recommendation letter  written  in 2005 in relation to the 
Carbon Capital investments. It says it included: 
Having discussed  your attitude  to investment risk, I would describe  you as being
adventurous and speculative in that you are comfortable  investing  in volatile funds
and appreciate the risk versus reward  concept.
You understand that this investment in the Carbon Trading Partnerships is potentially
of a high risk nature.  We agreed  that this investment is one where:
"Investors are prepared to accept significant risk to their capital  in return for the
prospect of possible  high returns in the long term. Investors understand and accept
that in certain  circumstances the funds invested may lose their entire value and there
is a possibility (however small) of losing capital  in excess of that invested"".
Positive Solutions also says Mr Ns job and attitude to risk had not changed between then 
and the disputed advice in 2007.
However, I note that Mr N agreed to invest in the EEA Life Settlement fund in 2009.  Positive 
Solutions has said this was marketed as low risk and so presumably  Mr N was advised to 
invest in it on that basis.   This shows Mr Ns attitude to risk was not necessarily stuck  in one 
position for all investments for all time  and thats normal.  
At the time of the advice in this case Mr N was in his thirties and planned to retire  at 55.  He 
had a well-paid  job in finance  and had at least some understanding of investment risk.  This 
is shown by his comment in one of the emails of 3 December 2007  when he said, Its hard 
to grade the risk as its a new fund.
Ref: DRN969816522Mr C says he had two buy-to-let properties worth about  £40,000  both of which  were 
mortgaged.  He also had some  ISAs, premium bonds and money  on deposit.  He had bought 
some shares in the dot com boom  and he had also invested in £10,000 in friends start up 
business. I note that Mr N chose not to invest in the Poland Fund Mr C had promoted to him.
Mr C would therefore seem to have been  a person with some  understanding  of risk who was 
financially secure enough to take some risk and a willingness to do so when he thought  it 
right.  
Mr N has said his attitude to risk in relation to his pension was low.  There is no 
contemporary evidence  that confirms that point.  And he has said the same  about 
investment and savings  products and I am not sure his investment  track  record  and 
decisions from around that time is consistent  with that.  
Generally relatively  sophisticated investors  will invest  at different risk ratings for different 
things and generally investors  are likely to take less risk with investments earmarked for 
specific purposes.  So as I understand it, the EEA fund was taken out for school fees.  The  
Carbon Credit investments were not for such  a purpose so far as I am aware, so a higher 
risk rating is understandable.   And generally  (though not invariably) investors are more  likely 
to take less risk with their pension investments even if they are 20 years or more  from 
retirement.  
However the Romania  Fund was a new specialist  fund intending to buy property for the 
residential property  market in Romania.  The Fund was not, say, a large diversified property 
fund.  It was investing in one specific part of the property sector  in one overseas market.  
The highly specialised nature of the fund would mean it was likely to become  illiquid  if it 
encountered any problems.   The investment would generally be considered a higher risk 
investment.
It is not clear  that any of the risks were explained  to Mr N or that he was given the 
opportunity to make a properly informed decision.   In relation to the earlier Data  Centre Fund 
investment Mr C acted like a salesman rather than and adviser and put pressure on Mr N to 
invest in the fund  for example referring to limited availability and the 40% growth of the 
fund Mr N had chosen not to invest in and his not wanting Mr N to miss out on the 
opportunity.  Mr C also quickly  brushed  aside Mr Ns reasonable reservations about  being 
unable to assess the risks of the fund and the size of the investment as a proportion of his 
pension fund. It seems likely  that Mr C would have been similarly enthusiastic about  this 
investment  certainly there is no evidence that he gave and recorded suitable advice in a 
recommendation report.  
I think a reasonable  adviser acting reasonably would not have advised Mr N to invest  in the 
Romania Geared Growth Fund.  It was at too high a level of risk for most pension investors. I 
consider a reasonable independent adviser acting  reasonable would have advised  Mr N to 
invest in broadly medium risk investments for his pension fund and not take undue risk by 
investing a large  proportion  of his pension fund in a new specialist closed ended investment 
fund.  
It is also my view that Mr N would  have accepted such  advice.
It my view that Mr N was given unsuitable  advice.   It is also my view that it is fair and 
reasonable that Positive Solutions  should pay Mr N compensation for any loss that 
unsuitable advice  has caused Mr N.
Ref: DRN969816523It is also my view that Mr N will have suffered worry and upset as a result of his unsuitable 
investment in the Romania Fund.  And  that it is fair and reasonable that Positive Solutions 
should pay Mr N compensation for that worry and upset.
how to put things right
My aim is to return Mr N as close as possible to the position hed probably now be in if hed 
been given suitable advice by Mr C. With suitable  advice, I think his pension  funds would 
have remained in the James Hay SIPP.  Beyond  that, I dont think  its possible to say 
precisely what he would have done, but Im satisfied  that what  Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given his circumstances and objectives  when he invested.
what should  Positive  Solutions do?
To compensate Mr N fairly, Positive  Solutions  should compare the performance  of the 
portion of Mr N's James Hay SIPP that was invested in the Romania Fund with that of the 
benchmark shown.  If the fair value is greater than the actual value, theres a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no compensation 
is payable. Positive Solutions should  also add interest as set out below.
If theres a loss, Positive Solutions  should  pay into Mr N's pension  plan to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation  and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation  should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.
If Positive Solutions is unable to pay the compensation into Mr N's pension  plan, it should 
pay that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable  income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr N's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr N is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  
at the selected  retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mr N would have been  able to take a tax-free lump  sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Positive Solutions should also pay Mr N £250 for the worry and upset the unsuitable  
Romania Fund investment has caused  him.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Positive  Solutions  deducts income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr N how much has been taken off. Positive  Solutions should  
give Mr N a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
Romania 
Geared 
Growth  
FundFund  now 
closedFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
Ref: DRN969816524settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business  
being  notified 
of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the appropriate  proportion of the SIPP at the 
end date. 
fair value
This is what  the SIPP would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return using  
the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If theres  a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if NDL totals  all those payments and deducts  that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
In my view Mr N wanted capital growth within his SIPP  and was willing  to accept 
some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Although its called an income  index, the mix and diversification provided  within  the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr N's circumstances  and risk attitude.
my final decision
My final decision is that we can consider Mr Ns complaint against Quilter Financial Planning 
Solutions Limited (formerly known as Positive Solutions (Financial Planning) Ltd) and that I 
uphold the complaint.  Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited should pay Mr N fair 
compensation as set out above  within 28 days  of being notified of Mr Ns acceptance of this 
decision.  If it does  not pay within 28 days Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited must 
also pay 8% simple interest per year on the fair compensation  from the date of this decision 
to the date of payment.
Ref: DRN969816525Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2021.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9698165