K820x#14complaint
A, a limited  company, complains that Barclays Bank  UK PLC withheld funds in its account 
which the director needed for his personal  use.
background
A received a credit of £4,000 to its account  on 19 October 2018.  Barclays  would not release 
the funds. It gave A notice of the closure  of the account. And it said the money  was available  
for withdrawal on 10 December 2018. It paid A £50 as this matter took longer to resolve than 
it had indicated it would.
The investigator did not recommend it do anything further.
The director  of A said he did not agree. He had needed these funds for medical treatment for 
his daughter abroad. And she had passed away on 23 October 2018. He then wanted the 
funds so he could  attend her burial. He thinks things  would have been different if he could 
have had the money.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about  the tragic personal  circumstances  faced  by the director of A.
Here Im considering the actions Barclays took about As account. I understand that Barclays 
had written to A to say it wanted  evidence to support that this was a legitimate  credit.  It 
blocked the account while it carried out an internal review. And it paid A £50 when this 
review had taken longer  than it had targeted. It later decided to close the account and had 
given details to A again in its final response  about what  would be needed before the funds 
could be released.
I understand how desperately the director says he wanted this money from Barclays.  But I 
also understand why Barclays  took the actions it did. And I dont have a basis to say it 
shouldnt have done so. Im only able to consider a complaint here about A, a limited 
company, which  is a separate entity to the director  and cannot suffer  distress. Im afraid I 
think Barclays has offered a reasonable resolution in these  circumstances and I wont be 
asking it to do anything  further.
Ref: DRN92318502my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that Barclays  Bank UK PLC 
need take no further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9231850