K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the loan and overdraft borrowing  agreed  by Lloyds Bank PLC.  He 
feels they were unaffordable.
background
Mr K is represented in this complaint by his mother, Mrs K. She felt Lloyds acted 
irresponsibly when offering Mr K a personal  loan and overdraft facility. Mr K had suffered 
considerable health issues and financial hardship as a result.  And she would like all the 
detrimental data removing from his credit file.
Lloyds didnt think itd made a mistake  when it agreed the overdraft and loan borrowing. Mr K 
had applied  for his borrowing via internet banking. So he hadnt personally discussed  his 
finances with the bank.  At the time the loan was agreed he was receiving around  £762 in his 
account each  month  along with other occasional credits. And his outgoings were around  
£170. So Lloyds  was satisfied the loan was affordable. Mr K had provided similar figures 
when hed asked  for an increase in his overdraft facility.
Lloyds was sorry to hear of Mr Ks difficulties. To help Mr K get on top of his finances the 
bank agreed to clear  the overdrawn amount on his account. And the bank also paid £108.69  
to his loan account to remove the outstanding arrears.
Mrs K wasnt  satisfied  with Lloyds response. So she contacted our service and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. She looked  at the information provided by Mrs K and the 
bank. And she could see Mr Ks loan application suggested his income was far greater than 
his outgoings.  The loan appeared to be affordable. And there  was nothing on his credit file to 
suggest the loan shouldnt  have  been  approved. Some of Mr Ks stated income  was from 
short-term loans. But she wouldnt  expect  Lloyds to have been  aware  of that.
She could  see Mr K had applied for a number  of increases in his overdraft facility. And on 
each occasion  he had input figures to confirm his income outweighed his outgoings.  So the 
applications passed each credit check. Our adjudicator couldnt say the bank had mis-lent to 
Mr K. And she felt itd assisted him when  it became  aware of his financial difficulties.
Mrs K didnt agree. She wouldve expected Lloyds to be aware some of the income was from 
payday lenders.  So shes asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear of the difficulties Mr K has gone  through. Mrs K feels  that Lloyds lent 
irresponsibly to her son. So Ive looked  very carefully at the evidence Mrs K and Lloyds have 
provided to see if Lloyds has done anything  wrong.
Banks make commercial decisions on who they lend money to. And I would expect Lloyds to 
have its own set of criteria  and checks to make sure the lending  is appropriate and 
affordable. I can see Mr K applied for his loan online. And he was asked to provide his 
income and expenditure to enable the bank to assess affordability. Mr K said his wages were 
around £800. But that appears to have  been  a combination  of salary and short-term loans. 
Ref: DRN94918512Even so his outgoings seem relatively  minor.  So the balance still comfortably exceeded the 
£36.23 monthly  repayments on the £1000 loan he had applied for. 
If the income  and expenditure  had been  nearer in value  I wouldve expected  Lloyds to look 
more closely at the details Mr K had input. But I dont think theres enough to suggest  from 
the figures Mr K entered and stated as being accurate that he might  have difficulty  in making  
the loan repayment each  month. And I cant see anything  on Mr Ks credit file at the time that 
mightve caused Lloyds to consider  whether the loan was affordable. 
Ive also looked  very closely at the situation around  Mr Ks overdraft facility.  I can see he 
applied for a number  of small increases  from the original limit of £100. Over  a period of time 
the agreed limit reached £300.  Mr K applied online for the each increase. And again he was 
asked to provide  information and to confirm  its accuracy on each occasion.  Ive not seen 
anything in the figures Mr K provided  to Lloyds to show the bank acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in agreeing to the gradual  increases. Mr K appeared to have a regular income 
and relatively low fixed outgoings.
I realise this will be very disappointing to Mrs K. But I cant say Lloyds lent irresponsibly to 
Mr K. The figures suggested the loan and overdraft  were  affordable.  And Lloyds hadnt been 
made aware  he was suffering any hardship at the time.
When Lloyds did become aware  of Mr Ks financial difficulties I would expect the bank to 
respond positively  and sympathetically. Although  Lloyds felt itd lent responsibly it offered to 
help Mr K. The bank  cleared  the overdrawn balance and removed the facility so that Mr K 
couldnt get into any further difficulties  through its use. And I can see the bank also made  a 
payment of £108.69  towards his loan account  to clear the outstanding arrears. I think thats a 
fair and reasonable response.
I can see Mr K has taken  advice from a debt charity  and is trying to make  payments and get 
his borrowing under control. And that is to his credit. I hope he is able to move forwards and 
recover from his recent  difficulties. But I cant ask Lloyds to remove any adverse markers 
from Mr Ks credit  file. The bank has a responsibility to report  how the account has been 
managed.
Based on everything  Ive seen I cant really say Lloyds has done anything wrong or lent 
irresponsibly. It has responded positively to help Mr K recover  from his financial situation.  
And I wont be asking the bank to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9491851