K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Anglian  Windows Ltd (Anglian) mis-sold her a single premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  alongside her mortgage.  
background
In 1999, Miss D took out a mortgage  arranged through  Anglian  and with it a single premium  
PPI policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Ds complaint. Miss D didnt agree and so her complaint 
was passed to me to consider.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
There are several questions I must first consider. These are:
 am I allowed to consider this complaint against the seller of the policy?
 if I am, to what extent can I consider the complaint points made by Miss D?
 did a breach of the mortgage  code  happen?
Because of the date the policy  was sold, I need to decide what  parts of Miss Ds complaint 
Im allowed  to consider,  if any. To decide  this I will have  to refer to some technical and 
complex rules.
am I allowed to consider  this complaint against  Anglian?
The sale and marketing  of insurance,  (including  PPI) first became a Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) regulated  activity on 14 January  2005. That meant  the Financial 
Ombudsman Service could consider  complaints about the sale of insurance products, sold 
on their own, from that date.
Miss Ds PPI was sold 1999,  which was prior to that date. So, Anglian was not, and did not 
need to be authorised by the regulator to sell that insurance to Miss D.
This service can look at PPI sales before 14 January  2005  for brokers like Anglian. But only 
when, and to the extent,  they were covered by one of the schemes which  existed before 
then, known as former  schemes. Anglian  was a member of the Mortgage  Code Compliance 
Board (MCCB) from 18 February  1998 to 30 October 2004. This means complaints about it 
could be considered by the Mortgage  Code Arbitration  Scheme (MCAS), one of the former 
schemes. But I can only consider complaints about  events  that happened  during this time if 
Anglian then went  on to be covered by our scheme.  Our records  show  it did on 31 October 
2004.
Ref: DRN98453112That means that Im able to consider complaints about Anglian  for events that happened  
during the time they were members of that former scheme.
how much  of Miss Ds complaint can I consider?
As explained above, although this office was given permission to consider complaints where 
the business was a member of a former scheme,  we are limited  to only being able to 
consider the same issues that former scheme  could.
Complaints about  Anglian could have been  considered by MCAS.  This means  that when 
considering this complaint, I can only consider the points that MCAS could have  considered. 
Please see the extract  from the rules, below,
(5) Where the former scheme in question  is the MCAS Scheme [Mortgage Code Arbitration 
Scheme], a complainant  is not to be treated as eligible for the purposes of paragraph (2) (d) 
if  
(a) the complaint  does  not relate to a breach of the Mortgage Code;
(b) the complaint  concerns physical injury,  illness, nervous shock or their consequences;  or
(c) the complainant is claiming  a sum of money  that exceeds £100,000.
Miss Ds complaint isnt caught by (b) or (c) above. So I need to consider whether or not it 
relates to a breach of the Mortgage Code before I can proceed.
The Mortgage Code  was primarily concerned with mortgages and loans which are secured 
on a property. Miss Ds credit agreement was a secured credit agreement, because  it 
included a legal charge.  I am therefore satisfied that their loan was covered by the mortgage 
code. There was only a very small part of the code that related to insurance. This can be 
found in section 3.2 of the code  and it said:
When providing information to help you to choose a mortgage we will give you the 
following:
A description of any insurance service which we can arrange  (for example, buildings, 
contents, mortgage payment protection and life insurance);
Whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance be taken out and whose 
responsibility it is to ensure that it is taken out;
Whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance must be arranged by us;
A general description of any costs, fees or other charges in connection with the 
mortgage which may be payable by you (for example, mortgage valuation  fees,  
arrangement fees, early  repayment charges, legal fees and insurance premiums).
So I can consider  this complaint, but only in relation  to the four points above. This means 
that I can only consider  the elements of Miss Ds complaint about whether or not the policy  
was presented as optional  or they were given a general description of the costs. 
I do understand that Miss D has made a number of other complaints about the sale of the 
policy, (including that it was unsuitable  and that she had other  means to meet the mortgage 
repayments) but Im not allowed to consider anything that is not covered by the four points 
above. 
Ref: DRN98453113did Anglian breach  the mortgage code?
In her original complaint  Miss D said she was forced to take out the policy and that it was 
mandatory in order to obtain the credit.
Its agreed the sale took place during a face to face meeting.  I cant  know what  was said at 
that meeting.  Ive taken into account what Miss D remembers.  But this all happened a long 
time ago and I cant reasonably expect her to remember everything that was discussed  in 
detail. So to help me reach a decision Ive also looked at the paperwork from the time of the 
sale.
Anglian has sent a copy of the mortgage/financial  review dated 8 November 1999.  I can 
see within this document  there is a checklist that has been ticked to indicate that Miss D had 
no existing PPI cover. The form also stated that It is recommended that your mortgage  is 
protected. There is also a PPI application form also dated 8 November 1999.
 
Ive seen a letter addressed to Miss D and dated 18 November  1999 which  confirmed in 
writing what was discussed and agreed  at the meeting. In the letter  said We note that you 
have taken up our recommendation of Mortgage Repayment Protection .
And in the questionnaire that Miss D completed  for this service  she told us the sales person 
recommended the policy  to her and advised  her to take out the policy.
All of these things make  me think that Miss D was probably made aware that she didnt have 
to take PPI, but opted to do so. I think it is likely  the Anglian representative told her she 
should take out the policy, but that is different to saying she had to.  So, I cant  fairly uphold 
their complaint on this ground as Im not satisfied that there was a breach  of the Mortgage 
Code.
The premium for the PPI was set out in the PPI application form and in an illustration 
attached to the letter dated 18 November 1999. I think  Anglian did enough to meet  its 
obligation to give Miss D a general description  of the cost of the PPI. So, Im satisfied  that 
Anglian didnt  breach  the Mortgage Code in that respect either.
I therefore dont  uphold Miss Ds complaint that Anglian mis-sold  the PPI policy  because  Im 
satisfied that it didnt breach the Mortgage  Code. 
Ref: DRN98453114my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2019.  
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9845311