K820x#14complaint
Mrs W has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a First 
Additions packaged bank account in April 2005. She pays  a monthly  fee for the account 
which provides several benefits in return.
background
Mrs Ws account was opened  as a fee-free bank  account with Barclays  in October  1990  and 
from what I can see, she had an agreed overdraft from at least  1998. Her account was 
upgraded to a First Additions account in April 2005,  and it was migrated by Barclays to a 
Barclays Bank Account  with Tech Pack in 2015. The migration  wasnt  a separate sale, but 
a move to a similar account when Barclays discontinued the First Additions  account. I 
havent looked into the migration of the account as Mrs W hasnt complained  about that, and 
it was effectively a continuation  of her previous account.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Barclays mis-sold the First Additions account  to 
Mrs W and didnt recommend that Barclays should  pay her any compensation. Mrs W didnt 
agree so she asked  for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mrs Ws complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mrs Ws complaint a lot of thought,  I dont think the First Additions account  was 
mis-sold to her. Ill explain  why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mrs W was given  a fair choice when she upgraded her 
account.
Mrs Ws main complaint  points appear to be that she didnt know her account had been 
upgraded to the First Additions account. She says she didnt consent to this change,  and she 
thought the monthly account  fee was in fact the fee for her overdraft.
Im mindful that Mrs W held a fee-free  account with access to an overdraft for many years 
before she held her packaged account. So although she had access to an overdraft before 
upgrading her account, she wouldnt have been  charged a monthly account fee. She 
wouldve been charged interest for using her overdraft  when  using it with both her fee-free 
account and her packaged  account,  so I dont think  its likely shed have thought the 
additional monthly fee was for having an overdraft, having not paid to have one for many 
years.
Ref: DRN99826822I can see the monthly fee for the First Additions account was shown  as Account Fee on 
Mrs Ws bank  statements. So considering  shed previously had an overdraft  with a fee-free 
account, and the description of the fee didnt reference her overdraft, I think  its more likely 
than not that shed  have  known that the fee wasnt  to have an overdraft.
On balance, I think Mrs W most likely  had a choice about upgrading her account and she 
chose to do so  even if she cant now remember that.
Barclays says that although  it doesnt  have much information available from when  Mrs Ws 
account was upgraded,  it wouldve made  a recommendation to her. That means it had to 
recommend an appropriate  account,  based on what it knew about  Mrs Ws circumstances at 
the time.
The main  benefits  of the First Additions account  were mobile  phone  insurance, and a £100  
interest-free overdraft portion, with lower interest  rates on amounts above that.
I think Barclays likely recommended the account for both of these benefits. Mrs W says she 
had a mobile phone at the time, and she used her overdraft faily regularly,  so she couldve 
made use of the interest-free part and preferential  rates the account offered. I understand 
that Mrs W says she already had mobile  phone insurance, but I do think  Barclays wouldve  
told Mrs W about the policy that came with the account After all, shed have expected to get 
something in return for the monthly  fee. The account  had other benefits too, and from what  I 
know about Mrs Ws circumstances I cant see anything to make me think she couldnt  have  
used them if hed wanted or needed  to,
Barclays also had to give Mrs W enough clear  information about  the packaged account for 
her to decide if she wanted  it. For the same reasons as I think  Barclays made a fair 
recommendation, I also think it told Mrs W about the accounts main benefits  and she was  
interested in at least some of them. 
I can see form Mrs Ws account transactions that in the months  before  upgrading her 
account she started to use her overdraft more frequently than she had been previously. After 
the upgrade, she remained overdrawn every day of the following year,  for what looks like a 
generally higher  amount than she had been previously. So I think  the £100 interest-free 
portion of her overdraft,  and the preferential  interest  rates above that, couldve been 
something that appealed  to her and made  her decide to upgrade. 
I also note that Barclays  sent Mrs W a summary statement in October 2012, an Annual 
Eligibility Statement  in February 2014, and two letters relating to the migration of her 
account to the Tech  Pack in September and December 2015. All of these letters  include 
details on the packaged accounts benefits.  I think if Mrs W didnt know  she had a packaged 
account, or didnt want it, shed have responded to at least one of these letters  but 
Barclays says she still has the Tech Pack  on her account.
I accept that Mrs W may not have  used all the benefits of the First Additions  account. And 
its possible that Barclays didnt tell Mrs W everything it should have about it. But for the 
reasons Ive explained I havent seen anything to make me think  that Mrs W wouldnt still 
have taken the account even if Barclays had told her everything.  
Ref: DRN99826823I want to reassure Mrs W that Ive looked  at all the information I have about her complaint. 
And even  though I havent individually listed all of her points, Ive thought  about everything  
shes said. But having done so I dont think Barclays mis-sold  the First Additions account to 
her. So I dont think it owes her any money.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9982682