K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS)  refused to let her 
reject a car.
background
In May 2017  Mrs F bought a new car at a cost of £18,150 with hire purchase finance 
provided by VFS. In October 2018 she noticed smoke coming from the engine and took the 
car to the dealer.  It identified  an issue with the clutch and flywheel both of which needed to 
be replaced. It said the damage was due to the driving style and clutch slippage. The car 
had only done  10,424  miles  at this point.
Mrs F complained to VFS and it asked for an expert report. The inspector, who visited the 
car at the dealers,  agreed the clutch and flywheel were damaged and said: There  is know  
[stet] evidence to suggest  a mechanical failure  or material  failure and therefore in my opinion  
the clutch assembly is worn because  of driving style/slipping clutch.
Mrs Fs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who considered it should be 
upheld. She noted  her dealers view and the independent report. She also noted evidence  
from Mrs F as to the use to which the car had been  put. 
She said she wouldnt generally expect a new car to require a new clutch  after only 10,000  
miles. This would be only likely to happen  where  the clutch had been  under the heaviest use 
possible. She recognised that evidence  hadnt been  found  to suggest a mechanical  failure,  
but given Mrs Fs explanation of her driving  patterns it didnt appear reasonable to conclude  
the clutch had been damaged by her. She believed the clutch  should  have  been  of greater 
durability. 
VFS didnt  agree and said that it had been  confirmed that driving style was the cause of the 
damage. It then said that it wasnt suggesting Mrs F was a careless or reckless driver,  but 
that there  was no evidence to confirm there was an inherent fault
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
VFS is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
Ref: DRN93328422the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I think the default positon must be that the clutch in a new car should last for more than 
10,000 miles. I appreciate a clutch is subject  to wear and tear containing moving parts  which 
operate under some pressure.  However,  it is reasonable  to assume a clutch would last for 
more than 10,000 miles.  Indeed, I note that many  experts suggest  that 60,000 miles is a 
reasonable lifespan.
In this case something unexpected has occurred and the issue is what  was the cause. The 
dealer and the independent engineer have said it is down to Mrs Fs driving style. In turn she 
has explained that she uses the car mainly to get to and from work and most of her journey 
is on A roads with little need to change  gear.
VFS has said it has been confirmed that it was down to driving style. I am not so persuaded. 
It seems  that this has been put forward as a possible explanation, but without anyone 
checking on Mrs Fs driving style. So I dont  believe  this opinion  can be taken  as fact. It is 
simply an opinion as to what could be the possible cause. 
For Mrs F to have  done so much  damage in such a short mileage it would  require her to 
mistreat the clutch very badly. It would also suggest  she did a lot of gear changing. I gather 
there is no official acknowledgement from the manufacture of any issue  with the clutch on 
this particular model, but I am aware  that a number of owners have complained  about the 
clutch failing  after a relatively low mileage.
One of the requirements of a car is that it is sufficiently  durable. By that it means  that it 
should be able to accommodate reasonable use of the clutch, even if that use wasnt  perfect. 
I dont consider clutch failure after some 10,000 miles to satisfy the durability test and so I 
find myself in the positon of agreeing with the investigator.
Ref: DRN93328423my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to:
cover  the cost of repairs  Mrs F has paid for and apply 8% simple  interest  from the 
date of payment  until the date of settlement
refund  the cost of the DEKRA report and apply 8% simple  interest  from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement
refund  what Mrs F paid for the car from 10 October to 31 October 2018 to cover  her 
loss of use
pay compensation of £75 for the stress  and inconvenience of being  without the car
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9332842