K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  wont  refund transactions 
made from his current account he says he didnt make or authorise. 
background
In June 2018, Mr T booked, via an agency,  a person to attend his home to provide a service. 
This was on a Friday  evening. Mr T says the third party came to his home,  provided  the 
service paid for and left around 3am the following morning.  
On the Saturday,  Mr T says he invited the third party back again. But things were  arranged 
directly between them this time,  rather than via the agency. He says she arrived  about  3pm 
and that there was a lot of drinking  and smoking. During this second  visit, Mr T has told us 
he sent the third party out to get more alcohol,  cigarettes  and food. To do this, Mr T told us 
he gave the third party his card and PIN. 
The third party went out with Mr Ts card and PIN, later returning with the items Mr T had 
asked for, gave him some cash shed withdrawn  from his account and returned  the card to 
him. 
Mr T says she left his home  again at about  7pm on the Sunday  shed said be back  by 8pm.  
But she never returned so Mr T went to bed. The next morning Mr T noticed his card was 
missing and a number of transactions  had taken place which Mr T says he didnt make or 
authorise. Mr T thinks  the third party mustve stolen  his card from him when he was asleep 
because she already knew the PIN. 
NatWests response
NatWest looked  into the transactions and decided it thought Mr T had authorised  them 
because hed given  the third party his card and PIN. So it said it wasnt going to refund the 
transactions Mr T had asked to be returned to him. 
our investigators findings
Our investigator considered that by giving his card and PIN to the third party Mr T had 
breached the terms and conditions of his account,  and had acted in a way that she 
considered was grossly  negligent. She didnt  think NatWest  needed  to refund the 
transactions Mr T wanted.  
Mr T didnt  agree. He said,  in summary, that when he gave the third party  the card and PIN 
to get food and drink  the first time he didnt know she would later steal from him so it wasnt 
fair to hold him responsible for the later transactions. 
As Mr T didnt agree, the complaints been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  NatWest has 
treated Mr T unfairly by refusing to refund the transactions hes complained  about.  Ill explain 
why. 
Ref: DRN95426002The regulations relevant  to this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs 
2017). Generally, NatWest is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. 
But NatWest  doesnt have to refund any transactions, if the evidence  shows that Mr T failed 
to comply with his obligations  under  the PSRs 2017.  Among other  things, the PSRs say that 
account holders  must take all reasonable steps to keep their security information  like 
passwords or PINs - safe. 
the timings
Mr T says that the first visit from the third party was on Friday 8 June. She then returned 
about 3pm Saturday  afternoon and stayed  for the rest of the weekend,  until Sunday evening 
when she didnt return and Mr T went to bed. 
He says during  the Saturday visit  9 June - he agreed for the third party to go the shops for 
supplies with the card and PIN. But this cant be right, because according  to the banks 
records there are no transactions that take place on 9 June. The transactions that look like 
the ones that would be the trip to the shops  for food and alcohol didnt take place until just 
after 1:30pm  on the Sunday.  
I think theres a reasonable explanation for the transactions not matching up with Mr Ts 
account of what  happened.  He says himself  that hed had a lot to drink  so I accept that Mr T 
did agree  for the third party to go to the shops with his card and PIN, just that its most  likely 
that this took place  earlier in the day on the Sunday rather than the Saturday. 
But I dont think this makes a difference to Mr Ts liability  for the transactions hes disputing. 
Ill explain  why. 
were the disputed transactions authorised by Mr T?
Theres no dispute that the transactions  Mr T says he didnt  make  or authorise were made 
using his genuine card and the correct PIN was entered. But I dont think  I need  to consider 
this aspect much further or indeed make  a determination about  whether Mr T authorised the 
transactions. 
Of course,  if Mr T authorised the transactions by making them himself, I wouldnt be finding  
that the bank needed  to refund them to him. But both parties appear to accept Mr T didnt 
physically make the transactions himself. And, Ill therefore focus  on equally material 
considerations that I need to take into account, when deciding about the refund sought by 
Mr T. 
 
Mr Ts decision to give the third party his card and PIN
What is important here is the manner in which Mr Ts card and PIN came  to be in the 
possession of the third party and be able to be used by her on the Sunday  without Mr Ts 
knowledge or, on that day, permission. Ive already  referred to the obligations on Mr T as far 
as keeping his account related security information safe.   
Mr T has said that he was bullied, harassed  or threatened into handing over the card and 
PIN to the third party.  But this isnt what he told NatWest when he initially contacted them  
about the transactions. Ive listened to that call  in that conversation  he told NatWest  that he 
agreed to her going out to get more food and alcohol with his card and PIN because  he 
didnt have any at home,  and they both wanted more. He said he didnt have any money to 
Ref: DRN95426003give her to pay for these  things, so gave her his card and PIN instead. On balance, Im not 
persuaded that Mr T didnt willingly hand  over his card and PIN. But, regardless of that, Mr T 
doesnt deny that he gave  the card and PIN to the third party  on the Friday.  
The PSRs  say that if the account holder fails with gross negligence or with intent to keep 
their security  credentials safe;  the account  holder can be held liable for any unauthorised 
transactions. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ts account say:
5 Keeping your account safe and limiting the use of your account
5.1 What you need  to do to keep your account  safe
You must:
take all reasonable steps to keep your security details safe (including your debit card,  
PIN and any passwords  or log-in  details for telephone, mobile and online banking);
So I think by giving the card and PIN to the third party,  Mr T was in breach of the terms and 
conditions of his account. And also, in breach of his obligations under the PSRs  because by 
giving her the card and PIN, I think it can be said that he was, with intent, failing to keep  his 
security information safe. In simpler  terms, it seems  to me Mr T knew what he was doing 
when he took the actions  he did, knowingly failing to keep the card safe and, by doing the 
same with the PIN, allowing access to the funds  in his account. 
I also think the context  of the relationship  between Mr T and the third party is important. Mr T 
had hired this person via an agency  he didnt know her. She was, in my view,  a stranger to 
him. I understand what Mr T says about  not knowing that she was going to steal  from him. 
But I think it was an obvious risk for Mr T to trust a stranger with his PIN, knowing that she 
would have relatively easy access to his card  even after shed given it back  to him. Simply,  
it was Mr Ts first disclosure of the PIN that allowed the later unauthorised transactions to 
take place. 
During Mr Ts conversation with NatWest that Ive listened to, he says himself that he knows 
it was a mistake to have  given the third party his card and PIN. And goes on to say that he 
wouldnt have even  trusted his best friend  with this. So I think  he did appreciate the risk 
involved. 
So, all things considered,  I think by giving the third party his card and PIN Mr T was in 
breach of the terms and conditions of his account  and his obligations under the PSRs,  on the 
basis Ive set out. And because of this I dont  think NatWest  needs to refund the transactions  
that Mr T has disputed.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9542600