K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  has unfairly  declined  her claim for an 
operation on her eye.
background
Mrs H has private  medical insurance with AXA. In April 2018, she contacted the insurer  to 
advise that her consultant had recommended she had an operation on her eye. Mrs H said 
this was to correct a previously unsuccessful cataract procedure. AXA asked Mrs H to 
provide some more  information. But, after assessing  the information that shed sent, the 
insurer said it wouldnt be able to provide cover. 
AXA said that Mrs H would be having non-standard  lenses implanted and her consultant  had 
advised the procedure was being done  to correct poor eyesight. The insurer explained that 
Mrs Hs policy didnt provide cover for that, and referred her to a specific  part of the policy 
which said any treatment to correct  long sightedness, short  sightedness or astigmatism  
wasnt covered. 
Unhappy with the insurers decision,  Mrs H approached this service  and said that AXA had 
declined her claim unfairly. She said that her operation was needed  to correct a previous 
cataract procedure which  hadnt gone to plan and to restore  her sight.  One of our 
investigators looked at what  had happened  but said:
Mrs Hs consultant had said the surgery was needed to better correct  her vision  and 
hadnt made reference to needing  to correct a previous procedure
her policy  didnt  provide cover  for treatment  to better vision, and
even if the surgery  were needed  to correct a previous  procedure,  the previous 
procedure needed to have been  eligible  under the policy too, but it wasnt, so further 
treatment in relation  to it wasnt  covered  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld,  but Mrs H disagreed. She 
repeated her position  that the operation was needed to correct  a previous cataract 
procedure  and asked for the complaint to be decided by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I understand that Mrs H is very disappointed by the decision that AXA has made.  As an 
insurer, AXA has a duty to not unreasonably reject  a claim. So the issue  for me to decide  in 
this case is whether it acted reasonably in the decision  it made.
Mrs Hs policy doesnt provide cover for treatment designed to purely improve vision. The 
policy says:
4.19 Long sightedness, short sightedness and astigmatism
We do not cover any treatment to correct long sightedness, short sightedness  or 
astigmatism.
Ref: DRN97410932Our investigator explained that, unfortunately for Mrs H, the available  evidence in this case 
doesnt support  her position. In a letter of March 2018, her consultant  said:
(Mrs H) had right cataract surgery and multi focal lens implant  on 23 January 2018.
Since then,  the unaided near vision has improved very well [] (Mrs H) would prefer  better  
corrected distance  vision on the right side before having cataract surgery to the fellow eye.
I have discussed  the options with her for the right eye and I think  the safest  would be a 
secondary lens implant with the aim of correcting distance vision. It will give her more  
confidence, particularly  for tasks  such as driving.
Whilst I appreciate Mrs H has said her operation was to correct a previous procedure and to 
restore her sight, Im not persuaded that the available evidence reflects that. In my opinion, it 
implies that Mrs Hs planned operation was intended  to use non-standard lenses to further  
improve her long distance vision. Mrs Hs policy doesnt provide cover for that. So I dont, on 
balance, think it was unreasonable of AXA to decline her claim on that basis.
Our investigator also explained  that Mrs Hs policy says:
4.5 Consequences of previous treatment, medical or surgical intervention or body 
modification
If you had treatment, medical  or surgical  intervention or body modification previously that 
would not be covered  by your policy, we do not cover further treatment  or increased 
treatment costs that are:
A result of the treatment, medical or surgical intervention or body  modification  you 
had previously, or
Connected with the treatment, medical or surgical intervention or body modification 
you had previously.
Mrs Hs previous procedure wasnt eligible for cover, because  a non-standard lens was 
implanted. That means any further  treatment in relation to the previous procedure  would not 
be eligible for cover either.  I realise  that Mrs H will be further disappointed by this, but in all 
the circumstances Im not of the opinion  that AXA has acted unreasonably in deciding not to 
cover this claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9741093