K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains, on behalf of a property management company I will refer to as L, about  how 
National House-Building Council (NHBC) has handled its claim.
Mr B made the complaint  on behalf of L but has been represented throughout by a third 
party. For ease of reading, any references to actions of Mr B include those of the 
representative.
Background
L owns the freehold  for a block of flats.  In 2014  Mr B made a claim on behalf of L under its 
Buildmark policy with NHBC. This was following problems with the roof and cladding on the 
building. NHBC accepted the claim  under  section  three of the policy, as it said the builders  
hadnt met NHBC building  requirements.
An initial scope of works was put together in November 2015.  However  the claim took some 
time to progress and Mr B on behalf of L brought a complaint to this service.  This was 
addressed by one of our investigators in February 2017. Our investigator  recommended  a 
site meeting was arranged  this took place in March that year.
After this point NHBC arranged a further site visit in 2017. However by the start of 2018  little 
progress had been made. Mr B made  a complaint to NHBC.
NHBC responded to apologise that the claim hadnt progressed at the pace it should have. 
However it said as the commercial unit on the ground floor of the building wasnt  covered by 
the policy, it would need to cash settle the claim  for the cladding. It said it had enough 
information to offer a cash settlement for the roof repairs. However it hadnt been able to 
view all the areas of the building  that had been affected by water ingress due to the defective 
cladding. This meant it wouldnt  be able to account  for all necessary repairs to the cladding  
in order to ensure  it meets  NHBC building requirements. It said a meeting with one of its 
major claims quantity  surveyors and Mr Bs appointed surveyor  would be necessary. Further 
it offered to pay for Mr Bs surveyors time in attending this meeting.
Finally NHBC  said it would consider  any individual claims for compensation from residents 
but offered  L £250 as a gesture  of good will for the delays in the claim.
Mr B didnt agree that a further meeting was necessary. He said he thought  NHBC were only 
asking for this as it was trying to reduce its liability and cur down  the repair costs. He brought  
his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt  recommend the complaint was upheld.  
He said it was reasonable for NHBC to request an additional site visit in order  to ensure the 
scope of works covered all repairs required.  
Ref: DRN96681362Mr B didnt agree with this. He said a scope  of works had already been agreed  so he didnt  
think a further meeting  would be necessary. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our service  addressed a previous complaint in February 2017 about  this claim, I have 
only considered  progress of the claim from this point until NHBC issued its final response in 
May 2018.
Having looked  at the claim during  this time,  I would have expected  there to have been more  
progress. Since the site meeting in March 2017 there  has been one further site meeting. I 
can see that the claim for the roof was settled  in this time. However no progress at all seems 
to have been made on the claim for the cladding throughout that year. So I can understand 
Mr Bs concerns.
I have looked  at emails  provided by NHBC between it, its contractors and Mr B. I can see 
that there  were a number of times when emails went unanswered and NHBCs contractors 
didnt provide information promptly. So I agree that NHBC could have progressed the claim 
more quickly and has caused avoidable  delays.
NHBC has offered £250 as a good will gesture. Further it has said it will address individual 
compensation claims from residents on a case by case  basis. I think this is fair. As the claim, 
and therefore  the complaint, has been  made  by a limited  company  L  I am unable to 
award compensation to the company. However  should any individual residents feel they 
have been inconvenienced it will be for them to raise a complaint directly with NHBC.  
Should any resident  be unhappy with a subsequent offer, then they would be able to bring 
that complaint  to this service individually for assessment. So I think  NHBC has acted fairly by 
offering this approach.
At this stage I understand NHBC  and Mr B both want  the claim to progress to a resolution. I 
understand Mr B doesnt think it should be necessary  for NHBC to attend another  site visit. 
He has explained  that he thinks its trying to reduce its liability  by producing a reduced scope 
of works. Although  I appreciate Mr Bs concerns, Ive not seen any evidence  to persuade  me 
that this is what NHBC is trying to do.
NHBC has explained that as it is cash settling the claim, it will need  to produce a full scope 
of works that will bring the building in line with its building regulations.  Otherwise there could 
be a chance of further problems in the future.  I think this is reasonable. 
Mr B has said that a scope of works  has been previously agreed so there  shouldnt  be a 
need to attend again.  NHBC has explained  that the original scope will have changed due to 
the developing nature of water ingress. 
The scope of works that was originally put together was compiled  in 2015 and reviewed in 
2017. NHBC hasnt attended the property since then, as it hasnt been able to get agreement  
from Mr B for it to attend. It has now been nearly  three years  since the last visit, so I agree 
that in order for the claim to progress it is reasonable for NHBC to require a meeting with its 
Ref: DRN96681363contractor and Mr Bs appointed surveyor  in order to assess the current  situation.  I therefore 
think it is fair and reasonable for NHBC to require this before settling the claim.
I therefore think NHBC has acted fairly  and reasonably by requesting an additional site visit 
in order to ensure  an accurate scope of works.  I would recommend that Mr B, on behalf  of L, 
allows this to go ahead in order to resolve the claim. I therefore wont  ask NHBC to do 
anything differently or in addition.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I wont require National House-Building  Council to do anything  
differently or in addition.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B on behalf  of L 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9668136