K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 2008. The policy covered Mr F only. Mr and Mrs F say National Westminster  
Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, NatWest had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs F that they had a choice 
about the PPI. But Mr and Mrs F have  said they were unaware  that PPI had been  added to 
their mortgage.
NatWest has sent us a copy of Mr and Mrs Fs application form for the mortgage. This 
included a section  on protection which said they wanted to apply for PPI, gave the level of 
cover they had chosen and showed  Mr F only was to be covered. The agreement  page for 
the application also had a box to be crossed  if Mr and Mrs F wanted  the PPI, and there  is a 
cross in the box.
NatWest has also sent us a copy of the mortgage  offer letter, which  had a section on 
optional insurance which listed the PPI and showed how much it cost.  And NatWest  has 
sent us a copy of a direct debit mandate to pay for the PPI, signed by Mrs F.
Based on this, I think NatWest made it clear to Mr and Mrs F that they had a choice about 
the PPI. And that Mr and Mrs F chose to take it, knowing they didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that NatWest gave Mr and Mrs F any personalised advice 
about the PPI. So I dont  think  it recommend the PPI to them.  This means  it didnt have to 
check if it was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs F got the information  
they needed to decide if the PPI was right for them.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like Mr F was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And the 
policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than Mr and Mrs F have told us Mr F wouldve 
been entitled to sick pay. So it would have been useful for them if something went  wrong.  It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI would 
have put Mr and Mrs F off taking it out.
Ive also thought about whether NatWest  needs  to give Mr and Mrs F some  of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont 
apply to certain types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and 
Mrs Fs mortgage  was a regulated mortgage  they dont apply. So NatWest  doesnt need to 
refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs F paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
Ref: DRN97237112my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 July 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9723711