K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the compensation  Mr S has been offered by Nationwide  Building 
Society (Nationwide) for two payment protection insurance (PPI)  policies  one taken 
alongside a personal loan and the other with a credit  card account. 
background
Mr S took out a personal loan (account number  ending 8281) in 2002 and took PPI 
alongside. In 2005 he opened  a credit card (account  number ending 0786/3588), again  
taking PPI. 
Nationwide offered to pay Mr S compensation for the commission and profit share it received 
that was in excess of 50% of the premiums he paid for the policies - £1,518.61 for the 
personal loan account and £5,232.68 for the credit  card. 
Mr S wasnt  happy with the offers - he said they were too low. And he also said he had taken 
out another personal loan.  
One of our adjudicators looked  in the complaint and thought the offers  were  fair so didn't 
think it should be upheld  and Nationwide didn't need  to do anything  further.  There wasnt  any 
trace of another  loan.
Mr S didn't  agree. He said Nationwide hadnt  paid him any benefit when he claimed on his 
credit card policy and as a result  his account had gone into arrears.  He says he is owed 
interest because of this. He also thought  he might  be able to provide more information  about 
having more than one personal  loan. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Just to be clear, I am not considering whether the PPI policies were  mis-sold.  I am only 
looking at whether the offers Nationwide  has made  are fair. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share on the sale 
of a PPI policy   more  than 50% of the PPI premium   and didn't tell the consumer, then that 
was unfair.  And it created  an unfair relationship between the two parties. 
To put that right, the FCA has said businesses have to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
For the policy added to the personal loan, the business had to add 8% simple  interest  on the 
extra paid each  month. 
For the credit card, the business had to re-work the credit card account and pay back the 
difference the consumer paid because of the PPI costing over 50% of the premiums, and the 
Ref: DRN91446952credit card interest  associated  with that. And finally the business should also pay 8% simple 
interest if the credit card was paid off at some point. 
Ive looked at how Nationwide has calculated the compensation offers  it has made  to Mr S 
and am satisfied it has done  everything the FCA has asked. So I wont  be asking Nationwide  
to recalculate its offer.  
With reference to a further loan Mr S has said he had, Nationwide  has given us a screenshot 
showing all of the accounts he had. And I can confirm  it shows that he had only taken the 
one loan in 2002. 
Mr S says he should receive  8% interest  on the credit card compensation. But as Ive said 
above, and which is relevant in this case, Nationwide  would only have to pay 8% simple  
interest if the credit card was paid off at some point. Mr S says the arrears  were caused by 
Nationwide not paying the policy benefit when he made a claim.
But I understand another ombudsman has already decided on that point in a separate  
decision. I cant comment on that case.  I can only decide on this case, and I can see the 
credit card wasnt  paid off so, so Mr S isnt due any additional  8%.
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr S has told us. But the comments  he has made have not 
caused me to change  my mind. 
my final decision
Because of what Ive said above, Im satisfied  the offers  made to Mr S are fair. I wont be 
asking Nationwide  Building Society  to do anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9144695