K822xcomplaint
Mr W and Miss B complain because Aviva  Insurance Limited hasnt paid a claim for the cost 
of abandoning their holiday under their travel  insurance policy. 
All references to Aviva  include the agents it has appointed to handle  claims. 
background 
Mr W and Miss B were abroad  when, unfortunately, Miss B became ill and was admitted to 
hospital. After leaving  hospital, Miss B was still unwell and Mr W cared for her. 
But Mr W then himself collapsed and was visited by a doctor, who took blood tests.  
Mr W and Miss B decided not to travel further  north  of the island they were visiting for the 
final five nights of their holiday,  as they were  both feeling so sick and their next destination  
was hours  away from the nearest hospital.  So Mr W and Miss B contacted Aviva for advice 
but they didnt receive a call back.  They changed  their original return  flights and travelled 
back to the UK. 
Mr W and Miss B made a claim with Aviva, who paid for their medical expenses abroad.  But 
Aviva said it wouldnt pay for the cost of changing their flights  or for their unused  
accommodation costs  because it hadnt authorised their return  home. 
Unhappy, Mr W and Miss B complained to Aviva and then brought  their complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly by turning 
down Mr W and Miss Bs claim for abandoning their trip. But he did think  Aviva  couldve 
done more to assist and advise Mr W and Miss B while they were abroad, so he 
recommended that Aviva  pay them £100 compensation. 
Aviva accepted our investigators recommendations but Mr W and Miss B didnt, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W and Miss Bs policy covers costs associated with abandoning a holiday if the 
policyholder falls ill. The policy says all claims resulting  fromillnessmust be supported  
by medical reports.indicating the necessity to abandon your trip.
Im sorry  to hear Mr W and Miss Bs holiday ended the way it did. I can understand why 
Mr W and Miss B felt they had little option but to make the decision to return  home. I can 
also appreciate  that when  Mr W fell ill, neither of them  were  able to look after the other  and 
they had concerns about the availability  of medical help in their next destination. But this 
doesnt mean their claim is covered under their policy.  
This section  of the policy is designed  to cover  situations where its medically necessary for 
the policyholder  to return home, rather than be treated in the country theyre  visiting. I have 
Ref: DRN93939482no doubt that both Mr W and Miss B were feeling very unwell  and Miss B continued to 
suffer the effects of her illness  a number of weeks after her return to the UK. However, there  
isnt any evidence to support  that it was medically  necessary for Mr W and Miss B to cut 
short their trip. 
It isnt disputed that Aviva failed to call Mr W and Miss B back  with advice on what to do. I 
can see from Avivas  claims  notes  that Miss B was corresponding  by email with Aviva  on the 
20 August 2018   but I dont think it was fair for Aviva to think  it was therefore unnecessary  
to phone Mr W and Miss B.
If Aviva had contacted  Mr W and Miss B by phone, it couldve outlined the options available  
to them  under the terms of their insurance  cover. But the fact that Mr W and Miss B were 
both ill doesnt  mean  Aviva wouldve  authorised  the claim  without  further medical evidence 
saying it was necessary  for them to return home. I dont  think I can fairly say its likely any 
conversation with Aviva would have led to Mr W and Miss B actually obtaining evidence 
saying it was medically necessary for them  to cut short their trip. I also dont think  I can 
reasonably conclude any conversation with Aviva would have led to them  deciding to stay on 
in the country  they were visiting instead  of coming back to the UK early, when that was 
clearly what they thought  the best option was given  the situation they were in. 
This means  I dont  think Mr W and Miss Bs claim for abandoning  their trip is covered under 
the terms and conditions of their policy   and I dont think Aviva has been unfair or 
unreasonable by refusing to pay their claim.  
However, I do think Mr W and Miss B should be paid compensation for the inconvenience  
and upset they suffered as a result  of Avivas failure to phone  them  back. Mr W and Miss B 
were left in a position of having  to make a decision without any assistance from their insurer 
at what was already  a stressful  time. I also understand Mr W and Miss B were unhappy with 
how Aviva  communicated  with them during  the claims process. 
Its difficult to put a value  on the impact of Avivas  mistake on Mr W and Miss B. But, overall,  
I think £100 is fair and reasonable compensation for what  has happened.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr W and Miss Bs complaint in part. 
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay Mr W and Miss B £100 compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience they suffered. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2019. 
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9393948