K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Experian Limited  is contacting him with an excessive number of emails.  
He wants an explanation and compensation.
background
Mr L told us he was receiving too much  communication and correspondence from Experian.  
He pointed out various other aspects of its service with which  he was dissatisfied,  including  
the alleged increase in the number of emails and various issues  about the telephone and 
website service. He wants an explanation  of what becomes of his positive suggestions to 
make customer experience better.
Experian told us Mr L held two separate free accounts. Hed opted out of marketing  emails  
on one account  but not the other. Experian said it had unsubscribed him from the second 
account upon receiving his complaint. But it said he would still receive emails about  his 
membership - including  updates on his credit score. And if he didnt want  to receive emails  of 
this type he wouldnt  be able to use the service.
The investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think  thered 
been an increase  in emails. But as Experian had offered to cancel the two memberships 
(which would stop all the emails) he thought that was a fair resolution. In respect of being  
sent an unsolicited  text message - he said Experian had no record of this. And as Mr L had 
deleted the message he didnt think any more could be done.  He said other  aspects of Mr 
Ls complaint including where  information is displayed on its website and information 
provided at the start of telephone calls is a commercial decision for Experian. And whilst 
Experian wasnt able to explain why a phone call had been  terminated immediately, as it had 
apologised he felt that was sufficient.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators  view but didnt go into any detail. As its not been  
possible to resolve  the complaint an ombudsman has been  asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr L has experienced  a degree of upset and frustration about receiving unwanted 
communications. Its one of the drawbacks of modern life that electronic communication 
whilst useful in many circumstances  can also be irritating  if received to excess.
The evidence Ive seen  shows that Mr L had opened two accounts with Experian. These 
accounts started in 2017 and 2018  respectively.  Experian distinguishes between two types  
of email - marketing emails and product eligibility  emails. Its necessary for customers to opt 
in or out of these separately as they choose. And I can see Experian had applied the 
respective preferences which Mr L had chosen.
In addition Experian has explained  that whilst an account is open it will send emails about  
membership - including  updated credit  scores.  So if Mr L wanted  to stop all emails from 
Experian he would have to close his accounts.
Ref: DRN97129602As were not the industry regulator its not for this service  to decide what  content a business  
should include on its website or the manner in which it should  be displayed.  Nor can we 
instruct what  information a business provides during phone  calls - whether automated  or 
otherwise. How a business treats suggestions for improvements  to service made by its 
customers is purely a matter for each individual business to determine. Such matters are 
commercial decisions for a business to make. And if a customer  is dissatisfied its always 
open to them to withdraw their support for the business.
It was unfortunate  Mr L had a phone call abruptly terminated but that appears to be a one-off 
situation and Im not aware of the cause. I think the apology offered is sufficient to deal with 
this. And Ive seen  no record  or copy of any unsolicited text message.
In summary,  I think that Experian has dealt with the issues about the amount of 
communications it sends  to Mr L in a reasonable manner. Its unsubscribed him from those 
aspects of its service he doesnt  wish to receive.  Its also apologised for an isolated minor 
service failure. In the circumstances I dont think it would be fair and reasonable of me to ask 
it to do anything else.
So whilst I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr L Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9712960