K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that a used van he acquired  via a conditional sale agreement with Close  
Brothers Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. He would like Close Brothers Limited  to pay 
the costs of the consequent repairs.
background
In January 2018 Mr N acquired a used van via a three year conditional sale agreement  with 
Close Brothers. The van was six years old and had a mileage of 123,000.
In February 2018  the van went into limp mode  and the engine management light (EML)  
illuminated. Mr N took the van back to the dealership who undertook  a diagnostic test. This 
revealed a fault code  for an issue with the camshaft sensor. The dealership says Mr N asked 
that the van be repaired later as he needed  it for a busy period at work.
In April 2018 the dealership replaced  the sensor. It ran further tests and took the van for a 
test drive. No further faults could be found.
In August  2018  Mr N contacted the dealership  and said the van had again gone into limp 
mode and this time it had been  taken  to an approved garage. The garage had investigated 
the problem and found metal filings in the fuel tank and in the low pressure pump. The 
garage said the van required a complete fuel system replacement.  
Mr N complained to Close  Brothers about the condition of the van. Close Brothers  didnt 
uphold his complaint. It said that Mr Ns agreement was covered by the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015 and that in line with this Act if a fault appeared after six months of an agreement 
starting then the onus  to show that the fault had been present  at the point  of sale rested with 
the customer. And Close Brothers said this evidence  would usually be in the form of an 
independent inspection report.
Close Brothers also said that although the car had been the subject  of earlier  repairs there 
was no evidence that the current  fault was related to those previous repairs.  And that a used 
vehicle may require some form of repairs sooner  than a new one as components of a vehicle 
had their own lifespan.
Mr N obtained detailed  invoices from the garage  setting  out what  it had found and the repairs  
it had later undertaken. Mr N covered the costs of those repairs.
However, Mr N was unhappy at Close Brothers view and complained to this service.  Our 
adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ns complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
garage invoices,  although  detailed about  what had been found, didnt set out that the faults 
wouldve been present at the point of sale.  And that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
the burden lay with Mr N to prove  that the faults  were either present or developing when the 
financial agreement had started.
Our adjudicator said she didnt think the garages invoices had gone as far as an 
independent inspection wouldve done  and that Mr N could still have  the van independently  
inspected if he now wanted  to.
Mr N sent in a further email from the garage which said that the high pressure  pump would 
have been failing gradually  and the fact you had taken it to the garage  you bought it from on 
a few occasions we would  have  thought  that the symptoms you reported to them  would have 
Ref: DRN95647612been the pump failing  at an earlier stage.  And that the swarf in the tank confirmed the high 
pressure pump has been  collapsing internally  over time causing the swarf to contaminate  the 
fuel system.
Our adjudicator said that this addendum to the garages report didnt change  her view. She 
said the garage had provided detailed invoices that had set out the repairs that had been 
required and then undertaken but hadnt provided an opinion as to whether those faults  had 
been present  at the point  of sale. This meant what the garage  had provided  wasnt a true 
independent inspection report but essentially invoices.
Our adjudicator said the additional comments were  comments on the invoices with the 
benefit of hindsight. She said that comments that the pump had likely been failing over time 
wasnt the same as saying that the pump had been failing or developing a fault at the point 
of sale.
Mr N disagreed with the view of our adjudicator  and the complaint  has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  a vehicle must be of satisfactory  quality at the 
point of sale. And satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect taking 
into account all the relevant  circumstances such as age, condition  and mileage of the 
vehicle. Durability  is also part of satisfactory  quality  as although  no one would expect all 
the components  of the car to last forever they also wouldnt  reasonably expect issues to 
arise with the car for a period of time.  
Here the van was six years old and had a mileage of 123,000. So I think a reasonable 
person would expect  issues  of wear and tear to arise over time.
If a fault arises with a vehicle within the first six months of an agreement starting then the 
onus lies with the retailer to show that the problem was neither present nor developing at 
that point of sale. However, after six months  has passed then its for the consumer to 
show that the fault was present at the point  of sale. 
And if a vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale then the retailer  must  
have an opportunity to repair it. And where  a car was supplied  under a finance 
agreement then it was the finance  company, in this case Close Brothers,  who would 
be responsible  for dealing  with the fault.
Mr N says that the detailed invoices provided by the garage that repaired the van in 
October 2018 have  shown that the van wasnt of satisfactory quality when the agreement 
started. And therefore  Close Brothers should  cover  the cost of the repairs.
Ive seen that the garage that carried out the repairs provided two detailed invoices about 
the van in September and October  2018. The first invoice set out that the garage had 
investigated suspect fuel pressure issue when under  load and that it conducted  a road 
test and that the fault code indicated low fuel pressure. It said that the fuel tank should be 
lowered to look for swarf.  There was then a separate  heading  Labour  under which  it 
said that metal filings had been  found  and that it had advised Mr N that a complete new 
Ref: DRN95647613fuel system  would  be the only guaranteed  fix. This invoice does not provide any details 
as to how long the issues with the fuel system had been present nor does it suggest a 
cause.
The second  invoice prepared in October 2018  details the repairs that were  carried out 
but again doesnt set out when  the faults  would have arisen  or their potential cause.
Mr N has later provided a further email  from the garage that provides a view that the fault 
with the high pressure fuel pump wouldve been  failing gradually over time and that 
other symptoms raised by Mr N with the dealership wouldve been the pump failing.
But although  I accept  that the fuel pump  is unlikely to have failed spontaneously I 
dont think the evidence provided by Mr N is enough  to show that its more  likely than 
not that the fault was either present or developing  at the point of sale. The invoices 
although helpful in setting  out the repairs that were required dont go far enough in 
providing an opinion  as to the cause or how long these faults wouldve taken to 
develop.
From the evidence Ive seen the van went into limp mode in February  2018  but this 
was identified from the fault code  as being an issue with the camshaft sensor.  This 
was later replaced and no further fault codes  were found. Faults with camshaft sensor 
would cause issues with how the engine runs and from the evidence  I cant say that 
this repair  wasnt successful. Ive also seen that Mr N didnt contact the dealership 
again until August  20018 to report further issues with the van
So I dont  think I have  enough evidence to say the fault with fuel pump was present or 
developing at the point of sale. And taking into account the age and mileage of the 
van when Mr N acquired it I think  its likely that issues would arise over time through 
wear and tear that would require repairs. Im not upholding  Mr Ns complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9564761