K821x#15complaint
Mr M is complaining about  the customer service hes received  from Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  (Advantage) on his car insurance  policy.
background
Mr M had a car insurance policy with Advantage for a number  of years.  In April 2015 he was 
involved in a non-fault accident, where his car was written off. But he received payment for 
the damage to his car from both Advantage  as his insurer and the other  drivers insurer.  
Advantage said that hed have to repay the amount it paid him. Mr M couldnt  repay  the full 
amount paid, so he entered  into a repayment  plan to do so over a period of time.
Mr M complained to Advantage in March 2016  when the policy renewed about issues  in 
respect to his insurance premium and that the claim was recorded as a fault claim.  
Advantage responded to this complaint  and changed the premium  payable.
In February 2017,  Mr Ms car was hit by a metal hub cap while driving  on a motorway. Mr M 
reported this to the police,  but he didnt immediately  report the matter to Advantage as he 
was intending  to repair the damage himself. But in December 2017 he contacted Advantage 
to make a claim as the cost of repair was too much.
There was initially a delay  in collecting Mr Ms car. Advantage  accepted  this and offered 
Mr M £30 in compensation.  
Advantage later contacted Mr M to say that he owed  an additional premium because the 
incident occurred  before the policy renewed.  Mr M says that he spent many hours on the 
phone discussing this with Advantage and he says he was getting increasingly frustrated. He 
says he was also told that his claim had been  put on hold. He says Advantage told him hed 
been involved in an accident with a car with a registration plate starting PK58. He queried 
this with Advantage, but he says the call handlers  couldnt give him any further information. 
Advantage later said that it didnt have to review the claim any further and it offered him a 
further £30 in compensation.
In February 2018  Advantage  wrote  to him and said that if he didnt pay the additional 
premium it would cancel  the policy. Mr M continued  to discuss the matter  with Advantage. 
He says the call handlers  kept giving him mixed information. And he says he spent around 
three hours on the phone  discussing the matter.  But Advantage  subsequently cancelled the 
policy due to non-payment of the additional  premium. Mr M says that Advantage didnt tell 
him it had done  so and he only realised it had done  so a few days later when  he logged on 
to his online account and found the cancellation  letter. He says that this meant he was 
driving without insurance for a few days.
Mr M then contacted Advantage to take out a new insurance policy.  But it said that he would 
have to pay a £75 cancellation fee. Mr M was unhappy about this, so Advantage reviewed it 
and it reduced the fee to £31.70. Mr M says he reluctantly paid this to keep  the policy and he 
was passed to the sales team. But it then said that it couldnt  provide him with an insurance 
policy. So Mr M took out another policy with a different insurer. Advantage then refunded the 
£31.70 that he paid.  It also offered him a further  £20 in compensation.
Mr M then raised a formal  complaint with Advantage and he said he wanted it to do the 
following:
Ref: DRN904625021.Provide him with a letter stating the 2015  accident was a non-fault accident. 
2.Refund the premium  paid back  from the 28th February 2018 (when the policy  was 
cancelled) to the 10th March 2018 (when  the policy was due to end). 
3.Increase the amount of compensation offered  to take into account all the anguish, stress,  
sleepless nights and being depressed because of all the anxiety Advantage has caused 
and all the time hes spent  discussing this matter,
Advantage wrote to him to confirm the 2015  accident was recorded as a fault claim. But it 
thought it had already paid fair compensation.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. And I said the following:
Both parties have  raised a number of points they want me to take into consideration. Ive 
taken everything into account. Ive not commented on every point, but focussed on what  I 
think are the key points.  Where information  is incomplete  as it is here  Ive decided what I 
think was most likely to have happened.
For ease of reference, Ill deal with the various complaint points Mr M has raised separately.
should the April 2015 claim be a non-fault  claim?
The term non-fault  unhelpfully  isnt actually  linked to whether an individual was at fault for 
an incident or not, but whether an insurer recovers what  it paid out. An insurer will usually 
only record a claim as non-fault when  it fully recovers everything it pays  out on a claim  
usually from another  persons insurer. 
In this case, Advantage paid Mr M the market value for his car. But the other  drivers  insurer  
paid the money  to Mr M directly rather than to Advantage. So Advantage didnt recover  its 
outlay as Mr M didnt then pay Advantage what the other drivers insurer  paid him  as he 
should have done. Given this, Advantage was entitled to record the claim  as a fault claim. 
Although I acknowledge that it appears  Advantage has been misleading throughout this 
matter in what its told Mr M about  the way its treated this claim. Ill address this issue  later 
in the decision.
Mr M has also queried that the other  drivers insurer paid him less than what  Advantage paid 
him, so he disputes  how much he has to repay  Advantage. But Im satisfied  that Advantage 
is asking him to repay what  it paid out. And if he disputes the amount  the other partys 
insurer paid him (which I understand is linked to the outstanding annual premium)  hell need 
to raise this with the other insurer directly  as its not something I can consider in this 
decision.
was it fair for Advantage to charge an additional  premium of £43.43?
Under the terms of Mr Ms policy,  when  the policy renewed, Mr M was required to report  any 
accidents, whether  or not a claim was made, or any prosecutions or motoring convictions. 
The incident  occurred before renewal  so he should have told Advantage about the incident. 
Further to this, while he ultimately made the claim after renewal, Advantage was right to 
backdate the actual  claim date to the date of the incident as this is the actual date of loss. 
Given all this, Advantage was entitled  to assess what it would have charged had Mr M 
disclosed this incident when the policy renewed. Had it done so, it would have charged an 
additional premium.  So Im satisfied it acted fairly in this respect.
Ref: DRN90462503was it fair for Advantage to cancel the policy?
Advantage has accepted it shouldnt have cancelled the policy  for the non-payment of the 
additional payment,  as Mr M was still disputing the charge. And its refunded the £31.70 
Mr M paid.  However, Im conscious that Mr M lost out on around two weeks  of insurance  as 
he had to arrange a separate insurance policy. But Im also conscious  he should  have  paid 
the additional premium of £43.43. It seems  to me a fair remedy in this respect  is that 
Advantage waives this additional charge. Although  I think it should also provide Mr M with a 
letter confirming that he doesnt have to disclose this cancellation to future  insurers.
has Advantage paid fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused?
Mr M says that Advantage has caused  him a lot of distress and inconvenience in this matter. 
I think some  of whats happened is simply an unfortunate consequence  from having to make  
a claim  including having to wait for his car to be collected. But I think Advantage has 
unfairly caused Mr M distress  and inconvenience for the following reasons:
1.Advantage shouldnt have cancelled  the policy when it did. This resulted in Mr M driving 
without insurance  for a few days as he wasnt aware the policy had been cancelled.
2.Advantage has consistently  given Mr M mixed messages  throughout the process about 
whether the April 2015 was a fault claim or a non-fault  claim. Even though  it wasnt  
unreasonable to record  it as a fault claim, I think it should have explained clearly to 
Mr M why that was the case.
3.There was a delay  in collecting Mr Ms car. I dont dispute that some of this was 
unavoidable due to the salvage  agents workloads over the Christmas period. And Mr M 
has said he expected  that. But Im also persuaded by what Mr M has told us that the car 
was originally scheduled to be picked up on 5 January 2018.  But due to a number of 
administrative issues, it wasnt ultimately collected until 16 January 2018  a delay of 
11 days. This caused Mr M to be without a car for a further 11 days  as his car wasnt  
driveable and it delayed the ultimate settlement of the claim. I also understand that he 
nearly lost a deposit hed put down  on a car due to these  delays.
4.Im persuaded that Mr M had to spend  around  three hours on the telephone discussing  
the additional premium. And it seems that he was given  very misleading information 
throughout these  calls, with some call handlers  saying that he had to pay the charge and 
then other call handlers saying that he didn't have to.
5.Advantage told him that his claim  had been put on hold because of an alleged  accident 
involving a car with registration  number  PK58. This was an administrative error, but I 
think it would have  caused Mr M some distress  and inconvenience.
Given all this, I think Advantage should increase the amount its paid in compensation to 
£200. I understand that its already offered Mr M £80 in compensation. It can take this off the 
amount payable if its already paid this to Mr M.
Mr M didnt  accept my provisional  decision.  In brief, he said the £43.43 that he was required  
to pay was in respect to the April 2015, not the February 2017 incident.  He also said in 
respect to the April 2016 claim, as Advantage  was his insurance  company working on his 
behalf, I believe they shouldve helped him recover the difference  between the amounts 
when he contacted it regarding this matter  i.e. that the other drivers insurers  hadnt  paid him 
the correct amount. He said he still doesnt know who the other  drivers insurer was and he 
maintains that Advantage made no effort to help him.
Ref: DRN90462504He said that my provisional  decision has brought back all the stress and anxiety from before. 
He says he thinks Advantage  has deliberately  misled this service in respect to the 
information its given  us in regards to the April 2015  incident. 
Mr M asked  me to reconsider my decision  and award the amount of compensation 
recommended by the adjudicator.
Advantage didnt  respond to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Mr Ms comments into account. But Ive come to the same  conclusion as the one I 
set out in my provisional decision.
I note Mr M says that the £43.43 premium  was in relation to the April 2015. But I dont agree. 
Advantage wrote to Mr M in March 2018 and said the following:
I note we added a claim onto your policy on 6th February 2018; this would have affected 
your premium as it occurred before renewal. As a result the additional premium  would be 
chargeable as you did not notify us of the incident  until 20th December 2017.
So Im satisfied that Advantages written correspondence to Mr M sets out that the additional 
premium is down to the February 2017  incident  and it said it charged the premium because  
Mr M didnt  disclose the incident at the policys renewal.
Further to this, Advantages internal  records also clearly show that this additional premium 
was down to the incident  in February  2017. I recognise that it appears Advantage did 
rerecord the April 2015 claim as a fault claim in February 2018.  But Im still of the belief that 
Advantage was entitled to charge the additional  premium. As I set out in my provisional  
decision, I think Advantages  communication in respect to the April 2015  claim has been very 
inconsistent. And I can understand why Mr M is confused and frustrated about what  hes 
been told. But I still think the amount I said I intended to require Advantage to pay in 
compensation is fair. And Mr Ms comments havent changed my decision in this respect.
I note Mr M says that Advantage should  have assisted him further  in respect  to the 
difference with the payment it received from Advantage  and what  he received from the other 
drivers insurer.  But I understand that Advantage wrote to Mr M in respect to this at the 
beginning of January 2018.  I understand the difference is down to the fact that Advantage 
deducted the remaining annual premium due from the claim settlement, which it said it was 
entitled to do under the terms of the policy. And this isnt unreasonable. Ultimately  I havent 
seen anything to show that Advantage treated him unfairly in this respect.  So I dont 
Advantage needs to do anything further in this respect.
While I acknowledge that Mr M doesnt  agree with my provisional decision, neither party has 
provided me with anything  which has made  me conclude  that my original findings were  
unfair. So I uphold  this complaint for the same reasons.
Ref: DRN90462505my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that uphold this complaint.  And I 
require Advantage  Insurance  Company Limited to do the following to settle this complaint:
1.increase the amount its paid in compensation to £200; and
2.provide Mr M with a letter confirming  that he doesnt have to disclose this cancellation to 
future insurers.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9046250