K820x#14Complaint
Ms T complains that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
Blue Motor  Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory  quality. She wants  to be allowed to reject the 
car and have her repair costs and other  costs  refunded and be paid compensation.
Background
Ms T entered into a HPA with Blue Motor Finance in November 2018. She says in March 
2019, the diesel particulate filter (DPF) light came on and she had the car inspected  and was 
told the DPF needed to be replaced. Ms T contacted  the previous owner and says that they 
said previous regenerations had taken place while they had the car. Ms T says that because  
regenerations happened before she acquired  the car a regeneration wasnt possible when 
she experienced issues meaning  the DPF needed to be replaced. 
Ms T didnt accept that this issue was caused  by her driving style. She said that the issues  
with the DPF meant the car was faulty at the point of supply. Ms T also mentioned that she 
had needed to have brake pads and discs replaced after only 600 miles and that she had to 
fight to get the costs of this refunded.
Ms T had the DPF repairs carried out in June 2019  as the car was experiencing a loss of 
power. She also noted at this time that the underneath of the car was in a poor condition 
which would need  further repairs. She asked to reject the car and have her repair costs 
refunded. 
Blue Motor  Finance says that following  Ms Ts complaint it had an independent inspection  
carried out on the car. The inspection report confirmed the car was fit for purpose at the 
point of supply  and that the issue with the DPF had developed since  acquisition. It says that 
the DPF is s serviceable item which can be affected by driving style and type of fuel. It says 
that the car passed an MOT after acquisition showing it was fit for purpose at the point of 
supply. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that the evidence  said it was unlikely  
the issues with Ms Ts car were present at the point of supply. She noted the mileage that 
had been covered and when the fault was diagnosed and didnt think she could say the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  She discussed  Ms Ts comments  
regarding the times  a DPF can be regenerated  before a replacement  being needed and said 
there was not a set number of times a regeneration could happen before the DPF needs 
replacing and that the performance of a DPF related to a number of factors. 
Ms T didnt accept our adjudicators view.  She said that the mileage at acquisition was 
86,000 meaning  she had driven the car around 3,000 miles when the DPF light came  on. 
She said although the independent inspector said the car was safe to drive  the 
manufacturers advice  didnt support this and given  the lack of power  she was experiencing 
and the level of fuel consumption she could have caused further damage had the repairs not 
been undertaken. 
Following the view, Ms T said in October 2019  that since the repairs  in June 2019 she hadnt 
changed her driving style and that she hadnt  encountered any problems with the DPF which 
she said supported  her complaint. 
Ref: DRN96003112My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms T acquired  a used car through  a HPA with Blue Motor Finance. Under the regulations, 
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA 2015), Blue Motor  Finance can be held 
liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory  quality takes 
into account factors such ash the age and mileage  of the car and what a reasonable person 
would expect taking  into account all the circumstances. In this case the car was over eight 
years old at the point  of acquisition. The sales invoice  records a mileage of 83,000  but Ms T 
has disputed this saying  it was around 86,000 miles.
Ms Ts car experienced an issue with the DPF. A warning light came  on in March 2019 and I 
have looked at the diagnostics information Ms T received and this shows  the issue with the 
DPF. While  the DPF can be considered a serviceable item, given the issue  was raised four 
months after acquisition  I find it reasonable that Blue Motor Finance had an independent 
inspection carried out to check if the issue was due to an underlying fault.  
The inspection was carried out and a report provided, dated 16 April 2019. The recorded  
mileage at this time was over 88,000. The report said that the vehicle was road worthy and 
therefore fit for purpose.  It noted the DPF fault code which it said was consistent with a 
partial blockage.  It said that a blockage of the DPF filter occurs  naturally and would be 
classed as the result of routine in-service usage  and not the result of a manufacturing or 
material defect. The report noted  that the vehicle had passed an MOT  since acquisition (in 
March 2019) which supported its view that the vehicle was road worthy. The report 
recommended that the DPF be cleaned and regenerated regularly and noted how driver 
style can affect this.
Ms T said that the cars DPF had been regenerated on a number of occasions  while in the 
possession of the previous owner.  I have  looked  at the email Ms T provided  from the 
previous owner  which says that the yellow light for the DPF came on two or three  times after 
the car had been used for short trips but all that was required to address this was to take the 
car on the motorway as suggested by the cars  manual.  The previous owner said they hadnt 
taken the car to a garage for a regeneration.
Ms T says that because regenerations  had previously happened the DPF couldnt be 
regenerated and needed replacing. Our adjudicator  discussed this with an expert and was 
told there was nothing to say how many times  a DPF could regenerate and that this could be 
affected by a number of factors. Therefore I do not find I can say that because  the previous 
driver had needed to run the car on the motorway on two or three occasions to regenerate  
the DPF this meant that the DPF could no longer  regenerate  when  it was acquired by Ms T.
The independent inspection report didnt say the DPF needed replacing, however I note 
Ms Ts comment  about how the car was driving and her concerns about further damage 
being caused. I also note her comments  about other issues, such  as the air conditioning and 
the underneath of the car. However, for me to uphold this complaint I have to be satisfied 
that there  was a fault that was present at the point of supply. I take into consideration wear 
and tear that would  be associated with a car of the age and mileage Ms T acquired.
I note the comments about  the mileage at acquisition. The sales invoice records  this as 
83,000. Ms T says it was around 86,000  miles but I have nothing  further to support this. I 
Ref: DRN96003113note that Ms Ts car needed new brake  discs and pads  shortly after acquisition  and that the 
cost of this was refunded which I find reasonable.
In regard to the outstanding issue of the DPF, based  on the evidence I have seen, 
specifically the inspection report and noting  Ms Ts comment about her making short 
journeys, I do not find that I can say the DPF was faulty at acquisition or that this issue  
arising after four months meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
DPFs are serviceable items  and while Ms T may not have had the car for a long time, with 
used cars issues can arise shortly after acquisition  even  if there  wasnt a fault at the point of 
acquisition. The car passed an MOT in March 2019  which supports the car being fit for 
purpose at acquisition.
Ms T has said that since  replacing the DPF she hasnt experienced further issues and her 
driving style hasnt changed. The issue with DPFs is that the build up of soot over time and 
so, if this isnt clearing,  the DPF can become blocked and a regeneration is needed. I dont 
find that because  Ms T didnt experience  issues in the months following the replacement this 
means that the previous  DPF was faulty.  
My decision  relates to the issues Ms T has raised about the DPF and the car not being of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply because  of this. Overall, while I understand why 
Ms T is upset that repairs were required within the first few months  of her having the car, I 
dont find in this case that I have enough to say the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality at the 
point of supply  and therefore  I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020. 
Jane Archer 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9600311