K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to settle  a claim made  under 
his motor insurance policy as a fault claim.
background
Mr W was involved  in an incident with a car while he was driving his van. Mr W believes he 
wasnt at fault for the incident. But his insurer, Aviva decided to settle the claim as a fault 
claim against Mr W. 
Our investigator explained that we dont  decide  liability. But he thought Aviva had properly 
investigated the claim and reached  its decision reasonably. 
Mr W didnt agree. He believes the other driver caused the incident. So hed like an 
ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
Mr Ws policy has a term Ive seen in most  if not all motor insurance policies. So it isnt 
unusual. This term says that Aviva has full discretion in the proceedings or settlement of a 
claim. This means that Aviva can make a decision to settle  a claim which  Mr W doesnt 
agree with, but the policy allows Aviva to do this. We dont  object to this in principle provided  
Aviva can show  it applied  the term reasonably. So Ive looked at whether Aviva properly 
investigated the claim. 
The circumstances of the incident are that Mr W was travelling in the wrong lane 
approaching an island. He indicated to move into the lane he wanted to travel  in. The other  
driver was already established  in the lane Mr W intended to move into. 
Mr W says that the other driver sped up and it was her actions that caused the collision.  A 
witness provided a statement which Mr W says supports  his account. 
Ive read the witness statement.  The witness says that Mr W was in the wrong lane  but he 
thought the other driver should have let Mr W move into the lane as he was indicating. 
Aviva considered the information available to it. There was no CCTV evidence.  Aviva 
decided that because Mr W was carrying out the manoeuvre  to move lanes, liability rested  
with him. 
As the investigator  explained, we dont  decide  liability as this is the role of the courts. The 
witness gave their opinion  as to who they thought  was at fault.  But I cant  say that  because 
the witness statement  supported Mr Ws view  this means Avivas decision was 
unreasonable. In Avivas  opinion, the onus  was on Mr W to carry out his manoeuvre only 
when it was safe to do so. As the other  driver was already  established in the correct  lane, 
and a collision happened while Mr W was changing lanes, I think Aviva reached its decision 
to settle the claim  as a fault claim  in a fair and reasonable way. 
Ref: DRN99881262The other drivers insurer intended  to defend their claim. Aviva  can decide its better to settle 
a claim than risk the significant costs involved in settling the matter  in court  if it doesnt 
believe its chances of success are high. 
I understand Mr W will be disappointed with my decision. But I think  Aviva  acted reasonably  
 and in line with the policy. So I dont  think it needs to do any more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9988126