K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Domestic  & General Insurance Plc (D&G) didnt tell him about the 
warranty on his cooker.
background
Mr A bought a new cooker in 2018.  Some months later,  in August 2018, he called D&G to 
register the cooker. 
Mr A complains that D&G  told him he didnt  have a manufacturers warranty, and tried to talk 
him into buying a care plan. He says he had to live with a faulty cooker  for many months. 
And he only found out about the warranty in early 2019, when he was sent a letter telling him 
it was about to run out. Mr A spoke  to D&G  again  at that point to complain.
Our investigator upheld  Mr As complaint and thought D&G should  pay him £100  in 
compensation. She said D&Gs agent  had a number of opportunities to tell Mr A that the 
manufacturers warranty might be able to assist  him. If theyd told him there may be cover  
under the warranty,  its possible  he wouldnt have suffered for so long without a working  
oven.
Mr A accepts our investigators view. D&G  disagree and have asked for an ombudsman  to 
make a final decision. They say Mr A was aware  of the guarantee and its purpose at the 
beginning of the call.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to Mr As call with D&G in August 2018. Early  in the call, Mr A said he was 
already having  problems  with the cooker. When D&Gs agent asked why he was registering 
it, Mr A said it was so he could have the guarantee in case something went  wrong.  
Later in the call, the agent said hed explain to Mr A what was protected, and what  wasnt.  
He mentioned briefly  the 12 month  warranty for standard  breakdowns. He said it didnt cover 
accidental damage,  and thered be a call out charge for that. 
The agent  then explained what would happen  after the 12 month warranty  expired, and 
offered Mr A the chance to pay for an after care  plan.  
Mr A tried to interrupt at that point, but the agent continued speaking. When  the agent 
finished, Mr A said he wanted  the free one but the agent didnt answer immediately.  The 
agent then said thats all done for you.
The agent  ran through  all of this information  very quickly  and spoke over Mr A at one point.  
Having listened  to the call, I dont think Mr A understood what hed been told. And I dont 
think it was clear what the agent  was referring to when he said it was all done.
 
D&G have  said their agent didnt give Mr A wrong information. And theyre not the 
manufacturer so the 12 month  guarantee  isnt their responsibility.
Ref: DRN98017002Mr A referred to a guarantee early in the call. But by the end of the call, it seems he was 
under the impression that he didnt have any protection for his cooker. He says thats  why he 
complained when he received a letter some months later about  the expiry  of his 12 month 
warranty. 
I dont think D&Gs agent gave Mr A clear information about the cover that was available to 
him. Mr A had mentioned that he was already having problems with his cooker. So 
I think it would have  been reasonable for the agent  to refer him clearly to the 12 month  
guarantee. Thats what happened  when  he spoke to D&G in February  2019.  
If D&Gs agent had given  Mr A clear information,  then he might have been able to repair  his 
cooker much sooner. And so I think it would be fair and reasonable for D&G to compensate  
Mr A for the way in which they handled  the call.
Ive taken account of the fact that, later in the call, Mr A spoke in an unacceptable way to the 
call handler. Ive also taken into account that Mr A was most likely given information about  
the warranty when  he bought the cooker.  
But overall I agree with our investigator  that D&G should pay Mr A £100 to compensate him 
for what happened. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint against  
Domestic & General Insurance Plc.  
Domestic & General Insurance Plc should  pay Mr A £100 in compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused to him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9801700