K822xcomplaint
Mrs M complains about end of contract  charges when her agreement with Volkswagen  
Financial Services (UK) Limited ended. Shes  also unhappy about the service she received 
from the collection agent acting on behalf  of VWFS.
background 
In May 2014  Mrs M was supplied with a new car and entered  into a hire purchase agreement  
with VWFS.
At the end of the agreement Mrs M decided to hand back the car. An appointment was made 
for the car to be inspected.
Mrs M took the day off work but the inspector didnt attend. The inspection  was rearranged 
and the car was inspected approximately two weeks later.
At the inspection the inspector noted  chargeable damage. Miss M disputed  this.
VWFS reviewed  the inspection report and agreed  to waive  charges for a missing spare key 
and damage to the rear door.  It said all of the other damage was chargeable.
Mrs M was unhappy with VWFSs response so she complained  to this service.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He said the charges were fair but that Mrs M 
should be compensated for the missed inspection.
VWFS didnt  agree. It agreed that the inspection had been missed but said there  was no 
obligation on Mrs M to take time off work because the inspection could have been carried 
out anywhere. VWFS offered to pay £50 compensation  for the missed  inspection. It agreed 
to waive  the charges for the missing spare key and the dent to the rear right door.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the hire purchase  agreement say that Mrs M must  return  the car 
in good condition and that any damage  which exceeds fair wear  and tear is the customers  
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA.  These guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard  in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear  and 
tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the images. And Ive had regard to the 
guidelines in considering  whether the damage exceeds wear and tear. With the exception of 
the dent to the rear right door, Im satisfied that all of the damage is beyond what is 
acceptable wear  and tear under the guidelines. With regards to the rear right door I cant  say 
that the dent is clearly  visible  so I dont think its fair for VWFS to charge  for this.
Ref: DRN99576562I can see that VWFS has waived the charges  for the missing spare key as a gesture of 
goodwill. Looking at the guidelines Im satisfied that a missing  spare  key is chargeable 
damage. So I think VWFs acted reasonable in offering  to waive  the charge in an attempt to 
resolve the dispute. But I dont think simply waiving this charge is enough to resolve the 
entire complaint.
Mrs M has also complained about  the missed inspection. Shes explained  that she took the 
day off work  and that the further delay meant that the MOT expired and she was unable to 
arrange for any repairs to be carried out by a local garage (rather than paying  damage 
charges to VWFS).
VWFS has explained that the collection agent had issues with its system which  meant that 
Mrs Ms inspection  hadnt  been  booked.
I appreciate Mrs Ms frustration here. Shes  explained that she works  from home  as a fitness 
instructor and wasnt able to book clients in on the day of the inspection. So shes lost out on 
the income that she would  otherwise have earned. Ive noted  what Mrs M has said about 
losing the opportunity to arrange for the car to be repaired locally  but I havent seen any 
evidence of what local repairs  would have cost. And theres nothing to make me think  that 
VWFSs charges are unreasonable.  
On balance, and because VWFS is ultimately  responsible for the actions of its agent,  I think  
VWFS should compensate Mrs M for the inconvenience caused  to her by the missed  
inspection. I think the sum of £120  is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  the complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited must:
Remove the charges for the missing spare key and the dent to the rear right door
Pay compensation of £120 to Mrs M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9957656