K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that NRAM  Limited  (previously trading as Northern Rock) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  in 2003.
background
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed with these findings.  They have stated that they believe they 
probably did sign something that related  to taking out PPI in 2003, but that they werent fully 
aware of this at the time. Mr and Mrs L were concerned that it they didnt sign all the 
documents given  to them, they wouldnt have been granted  the mortgage.  They  have also 
highlighted their sick pay entitlement with regard to why they consider they did not need the 
policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Mr and Mrs L have explained that they were not aware that they had taken out PPI at the 
same time that their mortgage started. I have to decide what  I consider is most likely to have  
happened when  the policy was taken  out. I have carefully considered Mr and Mrs Ls 
comments about the sale. However,  I am mindful  that the meeting that occurred took place  a 
number of years ago, in my view making  it more difficult to recall in detail.
NRAM has provided a sample application  form for the PPI policy  that it says would  have 
been completed in 2003,  and formed part of the mortgage application. It has stated that it 
has not retained this original PPI application because this would have  been  sent to the 
insurer. It has however provided  the remainder of the original mortgage application, together 
with the mortgage offer.
The mortgage offer included  a section about  PPI, confirming  that Mr and Mrs L had chosen 
to take out this cover. The policy benefit was split between Mr and Mrs L. Overall, I consider 
it more likely than not that, for the policy to be effected, Mr and Mrs L did complete  the 
necessary section of the mortgage  application to request this. The mortgage  offer stated that 
Mr and Mrs L had chosen to take out PPI. Clearly  I cannot be certain about how exactly PPI 
was described to Mr and Mrs L when they met with the NRAM representative. However on 
balance, I consider that it is likely  Mr and Mrs L were  offered PPI as an option,  and that they 
chose to take it out.
Mr and Mrs L were  not advised by NRAM to take out PPI. However, NRAM still had to give 
them clear, fair and not misleading information about the PPI so that they could make  a 
properly informed choice  about it.
There might  have been areas in which NRAM didnt give Mr and Mrs L as much information  
as it should have done. But taking  into account their circumstances,  my view is that better 
information would not have put them off taking out PPI. I say this for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN93609542I have noted  Mr and Mrs Ls comments about  their sick pay entitlement  when sold PPI. 
However, the PPI policy  would have paid a benefit if Mr or Mrs L had been  unable to 
work due to disability  or unemployment,  and this would have been  in addition to any 
other payments  they were entitled to. Bearing  in mind the importance of meeting 
mortgage repayments, on balance my view is that PPI provided  a useful benefit to Mr 
and Mrs L.
Mr and Mrs L were  eligible for the cover, and wouldnt  have been affected  by any of the 
main things  not covered by the policy that might  make it unsuitable for them.
Ive not seen sufficient evidence to conclude that the PPI premium was unaffordable.
Although I appreciate that Mr and Mrs L are likely  to be disappointed with my findings,  my 
conclusion is that the policy was not mis-sold. This means NRAM doesnt have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But NRAM will pay back  some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L because : 
NRAM got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs L about that. Because NRAM didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, NRAM has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
NRAM has to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. NRAM  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs L any extra 
interest they paid because of that.
NRAM should pay back to Mr and Mrs L the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. NRAM should also 
pay Mr and Mrs L 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs L can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so NRAM Limited  does not have to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But NRAM Limited does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019.
Ref: DRN93609543John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9360954