K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card. Miss J says Lloyds  Bank  Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Due to the length of time thats passed,  neither party has any evidence from the point of sale 
to show when or how the PPI was sold. So Ive had to rely on what  both parties  have told me 
in order to come to a decision  on what I think is more likely to have happened.  
Miss J says she thinks the PPI was sold in 1996. Lloyds says it doesnt know  when the PPI 
was sold, but it assumed  the policy was taken  out in April 1996,  the date the credit card was 
taken out. Our adjudicator assessed  the case on the basis that the policy was sold at some 
point between April 1996 and January 2000 (the date of the first statement available  showing 
PPI on the account). Neither party disagreed with this approach so I see no reason to do 
anything different in my decision. 
Miss J maintains that she wasnt  told the policy was optional. But shes not told us anything 
else about what happened at the time and she hasnt been able to remember  how the policy 
was sold to her. So its difficult for me to rely on what Miss J says alone to conclude that 
Lloyds did anything wrong when selling her the PPI. 
Lloyds doesnt  know how the policy was sold either, but says it wouldve explained the 
optional nature to Miss J and it wouldve only added the policy to her account  with her 
explicit consent. And I think thats  probably correct. I say this because Ive considered  what 
weve seen of how Lloyds  was selling PPI in branch,  on the telephone, over the internet and 
via post from 1996  to 2000. And from what weve seen  in the past,  there is nothing  to 
suggest that the PPI wouldnt have been  presented as optional  or that it wouldve been 
added without the applicants consent.
So even though I havent seen any documents from when Miss J was sold PPI and I dont 
know how the policy was sold to her, Ive considered what  we already know  about how 
Lloyds conducted  its sales around  the time,  and in the absence  of any persuasive evidence 
to the contrary,  Im not persuaded that the policy wasnt presented  as optional. And I think 
its more likely than not that Lloyds made it clear that Miss J didnt have to take out the PPI 
and she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this.
Miss J cant  remember  if Lloyds recommended  the PPI to her. Lloyds doesnt  know if it 
recommended the policy  either-  but its willing to treat this as a recommended sale.  As things 
stand there  isnt enough information to determine  this point. But being  able to do so isnt 
crucial to the outcome because, had Lloyds recommended  the policy,  I think  it wouldve 
been a suitable recommendation to have made  for the reasons I set out below. As a result, 
Ive considered the complaint on the same basis as Lloyds.
Ref: DRN95701982As an advised sale Lloyds had to check that the PPI was right for Miss J  and based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances from around  1996, I think  that it was. So I dont think 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and she seems to 
have had a need for it. And even  though  in April 1996 Miss J says shed only been working 
for five months, she wouldnt have  been prevented from making  a claim on the policy, after 
the initial 30 day waiting  period. Following  the adjudicators initial  assessment Miss J hasnt 
responded to say that her circumstances  changed  significantly between  1996 and 2000  
such that the policy wouldve been unsuitable  for her anytime during this period. And Ive not 
seen anything else to suggest that the policy wasnt suitable for her at any point  between  
April 1996 and January 2000.  
Miss J says she wouldve  been entitled  to sick pay from her employer so she didnt need the 
PPI. But upon  a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid out 10% of her outstanding monthly  
balance for up to 12 months,  on top of her sick pay entitlement or any other means she may 
have had at the time. So she wouldve been  free to use these funds for other  expenses. And 
Ive not seen that Miss J had any means  to pay her credit card had she been made 
redundant. So I dont think her sick pay entitlement meant the policy  was unsuitable  for her.   
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss J. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss J because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss J about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Miss J, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss J.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Miss J any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Ref: DRN95701983Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss J to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9570198