K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr and Mrs O in 1995  alongside  a 
mortgage. The PPI protected  Mr and Mrs Os mortgage repayments in the event Mr O 
couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators  
view. Mr and Mrs O mainly complain  that they dont recollect any mention of payment 
protection at any time during the mortgage  application process. And they also say that given 
Mr Os significant employee benefits  they didnt need PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Os case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Usually Id look at the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened  at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been  presented. But Nationwide hasnt been able to provide 
anything signed  by Mr and Mrs O from when the PPI was taken  out. 
I dont think thats  surprising. This mortgage  account  closed almost 20 years  ago. I wouldnt 
expect Nationwide  to keep records about  a closed account for so long. And it wouldnt be 
reasonable to rely just on what Mr and Mrs O remember about the sale after all this time. So 
what they say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  their complaint. I have to 
look at all the available information and the wider circumstances  and decide  what I think  is 
most likely.  
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment. Their  home  couldve been  at risk if the 
mortgage monthly repayments werent made in full and on time. I think its likely  that 
protecting their mortgage repayments  in the event of unexpected accident, sickness  or 
unemployment wouldve  been an important consideration for Mr and Mrs O at the time. 
Having PPI gave  them peace of mind  that theyd be able to pay their mortgage even if Mr O 
wasnt working. 
On balance, I think its more likely  that they decided  they wanted  to have the benefits the 
policy offered them  and they chose  to buy the policy to cover Mr O. 
Nationwide didnt advise  Mr and Mrs O to take out the policy.  But it still had to tell them  
enough about the policy for them to decide  if they wanted to buy it. Overall, I think  
Nationwide probably  did give them  enough clear information - and where it mightnt have 
done, better information wouldnt  have  made  a difference.  
Ref: DRN92125002I say this because  it seems to me that Mr and Mrs O couldve benefitted from having this 
cover. Mr O was eligible for the policy. Ive taken into account what Mr O told us about his 
sick pay entitlement through work. The policy wouldve paid out on top of this and for 
significantly longer  than he couldve relied  on his employer to pay him sick pay - up to 
24 months for a successful accident or sickness claim. 
And the policy wouldve also paid out if Mr O became unexpectedly unemployed and was 
out of work. 
Mr and Mrs O havent  mentioned any significant other  means they could rely on if theyd 
needed to make a claim. The mortgage was taken out when Mr O was in full time work. So 
I think its likely they mightve soon faced some  money problems if Mr O couldnt  work  
especially after he stopped  receiving full sick pay from his employer.
Looking at what Mr and Mrs O have told us about  their circumstances when they took out 
their mortgage, I think the policy couldve  been useful to them. 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if Mr O wouldve been 
affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main benefits. So, I dont think having 
more information  about things the policy didnt cover wouldve put them off taking it out.
Its possible information Nationwide  gave Mr and Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But on balance, while I do understand their concerns,  I think Nationwide 
gave Mr and Mrs O enough information to be able to decide if they wanted the benefits the 
policy offered them.  Ive seen nothing to suggest  the monthly premiums they paid for the 
policy were unaffordable for Mr and Mrs O. The policy was cancelled quite soon after it was 
taken out. But this isnt a reason for me to uphold their mis-selling complaint. They were able 
to cancel the policy at any time without incurring any extra  cost  and I think  its more likely 
that Mr and Mrs O mightve just decided that PPI wasnt something they wanted to pay for 
after all.
Looked at overall, I cant see that Mr and Mrs O lost out as a result  of anything Nationwide 
did wrong. This means  that Nationwide isnt required to do anything to put things right.
In coming to my decision Ive thought  carefully about  everything that Mr and Mrs O have 
said, including the comments made  in response  to our adjudicators view. I understand that 
what Ive said will come as a disappointment.  In my decision Ive dealt with all the main  
points raised that have  an impact on the outcome of this complaint and I hope that setting 
out the reasons as Ive done will help explain  how Ive reached my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9212500