K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about his mortgage with NRAM Limited. Hes complained about the term of 
the mortgage, about solicitors he says NRAMs predecessor made him use, and about  the 
transfer of the mortgage to NRAM. He also complains about NRAMs request  for more 
information before it will agree  to his requests to extend and develop the property. And he 
doesnt believe the mortgage  is valid because his wife hasnt consented to any changes.
background
Mr F took his mortgage out with the former  Northern  Rock many years  ago. He 
re-mortgaged in 2005 and 2007. And just before Northern Rock  collapsed, he says he went 
into a branch to discuss a term extension,  which Northern Rock  agreed to. But before the 
change could be implemented, Northern Rock collapsed, the mortgage was taken over by 
NRAM, and the change never happened.
Mr F complains about the transfer to NRAM, which isnt a building  society of the sort he 
wanted to have a mortgage with. And he complains that the term extension was never 
implemented. He also complains about  solicitors he says he was required by Northern Rock 
to use when re-mortgaging in 2005. NRAM objected  to us looking at these complaints, as it 
said they were out of time. Our investigator  agreed,  but Mr F didnt.
Mr F also complains  about the implications  of how his property is owned for the mortgage. 
He says theres a deed of trust benefitting  his wife. Because shes  not party  to the mortgage  
and hasnt agreed to it, or any changes to it, he says the mortgage  isnt valid.  He also 
complains about  changes he wants to make  to the property. Hes had planning permission 
since 2002 and received  lender permission at the time, but is only now starting the 
development  he doesnt  think its fair that NRAM is requiring him to make a fresh  
application because  of the passage  of time.  Our investigator said these complaints were not 
out of time, but didnt uphold them  and again  Mr F didnt agree.
As a result, the case came to me for a decision to be made.  Ive already issued a jurisdiction 
decision in which I said that the only parts of the complaint we could  consider  were whether 
the mortgage is valid, and whether its fair for NRAM to require Mr F to make a fresh  
application for permission to develop his property. The rest of the complaint is, I said,  out of 
time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F replied to my previous jurisdiction decision with further medical  evidence  to explain why 
he considered  there were  exceptional circumstances that prevented  him complaining 
sooner. The evidence is a letter from his doctor, from 2007, setting out his heart condition 
and explaining that he wasnt fit to work.
Ive considered this letter.  But I havent  changed  my mind. I dont  doubt  Mr F has a heart 
condition and wasnt, and isnt, able to work. But thats not the test  the test is whether there 
are exceptional  circumstances which explain why the complaint couldnt have been made in 
time. Making  a complaint  is a straightforward process  a complainant just needs  to get in 
touch with us  and Ive not seen any evidence that Mr F wasnt able to do that. I dont think 
Ref: DRN98253172being unfit for work is the same as being unable to make a complaint  and I note that the 
medical evidence  dates from 2007,  before many  of the events Mr F has complained  about. 
So I think the matters  we can consider are only those set out in my jurisdiction decision.
Its not for me to decide whether or not, as a matter of contract or a matter  of law, a contract 
is or isnt legally valid. And its not for me to decide  whether a charge over land is legally 
enforceable either. Questions of law are for the court to decide. What I have to consider  is 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  Mr F is disputing  the enforceability  of his 
mortgage. But I dont  think its ever been suggested  that he didnt borrow the money. And I 
think its fair and reasonable for NRAM  to expect him to pay back  the money he borrowed.
I think NRAM hasnt acted  unfairly by asking Mr F to make a fresh  application for permission 
to develop the property. He says he applied, and was given consent, in 2002 when he was 
given planning  permission. That may be so, though  due to the passage of time I dont have 
evidence of it. But the planning permission has since lapsed, and Mr F didnt start works.  
Now that hes decided  to, hes had to re-apply for planning permission. And I think its 
reasonable for NRAM to expect him to make a fresh application too. Even  if the previous 
agreement still exists  and can be found, much may have changed in the meantime, and its 
not unreasonable for NRAM to want to take another look.
Mr F has, very recently, raised further  matters about financial difficulties hes begun to 
experience and the recent transfer  of his mortgage  from NRAM to another lender.  Our 
investigator has set up a new complaint to deal with those issues, so Ill say no more about  
them here. As far as the matters within the scope  of this case are concerned,  I dont uphold  
the complaint.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9825317