K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that Crowson Motors Limited mis-sold her a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2008 when  she applied  for a loan to buy a car.
background
Miss T complained to this Service. She told us Crowson Motors did not tell her about the 
cost of the PPI; she was only considering  buying it but she was still charged the PPI 
premium. She is unhappy that she paid for something she did not need.
Crowson Motors said it did not sell the PPI to Miss T and it produced a Demands and 
Needs statement  to show Miss T was only considering  buying  PPI. So Crowson  Motors  
concludes it did not add the PPI to Miss Ts loan account.
Our adjudicator said Crowson Motors probably  was responsible for the sale. Crowson 
Motors disagreed with our adjudicators  view and asked for the matter  to be looked  at again. 
I issued my provisional decision in December 2018  where I explained why I thought 
Crowson Motors wasnt responsible for selling the PPI, and also that I could  not uphold  the 
mis-sale complaint against it.
We sent a copy of my provisional decision to Miss T and Crowson Motors and asked for any 
further comments. I did not receive  any comments from either party. As I have not received  
any new evidence or comments, I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached  in my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ts case.  
The first thing I need to decide is whether Crowson Motors is responsible for the sale of the 
policy. If I decide it is, then I can decide  whether the sale happened as it should  have done. 
If I dont think  Crowson Motors sold the policy to Miss T, then Im clearly not able to consider 
a complaint about the PPI mis-sale against it. 
In this case, Im going to say Crowson Motors is not responsible for the sale of the PPI so I 
cannot uphold  a PPI mis-sale complaint against it.
Miss T has said she was only considering buying PPI and yet it was added to her loan 
account. She is concerned that she has been  paying for something she did not need. There 
is limited detailed information about  what happened in 2008  but I have seen some  
documents which were  produced at around  the time of the sale. 
Crowson Motors has produced a Demands and Needs statement which is signed and 
dated by Miss T on 2 August 2008.  It contains  a list of questions  for assessing her 
requirements for PPI. However, on page 2, the word  considering has been  entered  in the 
PPI box, which  also implies she had not yet made her decision on whether to buy PPI.
Ref: DRN96684462I have also seen a document sent (presumably  by the lender) to Crowson Motors about Miss 
T. The document  confirms  Miss T required a loan and it calculates her monthly  payment 
over a 48 month period. This document only refers to the loan.  It does not mention PPI. The 
document says:  You have told us that you have,  or will have, met with this customer in 
person to discuss this deal before  it is concluded There is a date on the document  - 31 
July 2008. It isnt clear  if this was the date the document was created; but I think its 
reasonable to assume Miss T had probably already met with Crowson Motors  around the 
end of July because the document writer already  knew her name, the loan details and had 
calculated the monthly  repayments. This document also appears to enclose the unsigned 
loan agreement.
I have seen a copy of Miss Ts signed loan agreement which she signed  and dated  on 2 
August. The loan agreement shows the amount of the loan and the PPI cost.  It also shows at 
the top of the loan agreement that it was sent to Crowson Motors fax number  on 1 August.
I think that as PPI was already on the faxed loan agreement on 1st August, it wouldnt be fair 
or reasonable to say PPI was sold by Crowson Motors  on the demands and needs 
statement which was dated a day later on 2nd August as this document  shows Miss T is 
considering PPI.
I have not seen any evidence to show me what happened or what  the discussions were 
between Miss T and Crowson  Motors before or around  the end of July 2008.
So I have  not seen any conclusive evidence to show Crowson Motors sold the PPI to Miss T. 
This means  that I also think it was not responsible  for carrying out the PPI sale properly. So 
Im intending  not to uphold this PPI mis-sale complaint against Crowson Motors Limited.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not think Crowson  Motors Limited is responsible  for this sale.
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9668446