K821x#15complaint
Mr C and Miss O have  complained that AXA Insurance  UK Plc refused to cover  their claim 
under their travel policy when Miss O had to return to the UK for a medical  procedure  in the 
middle of her yearlong trip.
background
Mr C and Miss O were  travelling for a year and were  insured by AXA under a specialist 
policy for this. Shortly before starting  their trip, Miss O had a routine medical test. She got 
the results when she was abroad.  It said she needed another  medical  test within  three 
months and that it couldnt wait until her trip ended.
She asked  AXA if it would cover it. It refused saying it wasnt a medical emergency. Miss O 
travelled back had the further test, and then waited in Europe  for the test results, as this 
policy didnt allow her to stay at home for more than 14 days during her yearlong trip. 
When Miss O then got her test results, she resumed her trip, obviously missing out some  of 
it.
Mr C and Miss O brought their complaint to us. The adjudicator didnt uphold it. Mr C and 
Miss O remained dissatisfied so their complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 July. I said the following:
Miss O, following  a routine smear  test before she left for her year-long  trip had 
abnormal cells on her cervix, which  was confirmed to be due to HPV.  Therefore, she 
needed colposcopy  as soon as possible but no later than within three months,  in 
order for her and her medical practitioners to adhere the relevant guidelines  
concerning this.
AXA said abnormal cells were a symptom but not a condition.  Its clear from the 
medical evidence,  which Miss O has presented, that this isnt the case. Miss O had 
cervical intraepithelial neoplasm  grade 1 cells following being infected  with HPV, with 
the recommendation of a further smear test and colposcopy to be done again  in six 
months time.
Given AXA had insured Miss O for travelling for a year and her medical advice was to 
have the colposcopy within three  months, I consider Miss O had a medical condition 
that needed further investigation before the end of her trip. So whilst it wasnt an 
immediate medical  emergency, it would become one throughout the time AXA had 
insured Miss O for her trip. 
Given AXA knew it was insuring Miss O for her year-long trip under this specialist 
policy, I consider it only fair and reasonable that it pays Mr C and Miss Os  claim, 
specifically the return trip home and other associated costs subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. Interest of 8% simple per year should be added  to 
these costs.
I also consider AXAs  intransigence and delay in dealing with this matter  caused 
Mr C and Miss O some  considerable  inconvenience, and trouble and upset. 
Therefore, I think AXA should  pay them a total of £250 compensation.
Ref: DRN98030552Mr C responded saying he agreed with my provisional decision and wanted to know  how to 
detail his expenses. He reiterated that as a result of AXAs refusal to deal with their claim, 
they missed a big section  of their USA trip and had to return to Canada  instead of the USA 
due to visa restrictions  occasioned by having  to leave the USA and return  home for these 
further tests.
AXA responded quoting another case, which it said was similar  and was upheld in AXAs 
favour. And therefore,  it thought  my provisional  decision  should  be overturned  in its favour.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at that case AXA quoted, it was an investigators opinion, which  resolved  that 
case, not an ombudsmans decision and therefore  it was resolved informally.  And further, the 
facts of that case are different to the facts here. In that case,  the consumer knew  before  
travelling further tests were required.  Here Miss O wasnt aware before she travelled what  
the results of her smear  test would be. She obviously didnt expect the results  she got, no 
one does on a routine  smear test. And crucially she only got those results, having already 
left for her yearlong trip, which AXA had insured.  Therefore,  the case AXA referred to is not 
in any way similar to this case.
So on this basis, I see no reason to depart from my reasoning in my provisional decision.
my final decision
Therefore, for these  reasons, its my final decision that I uphold  this complaint.
I now require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the following:
Pay Mr C and Miss Os claim for her return trip home along with the associated  costs 
and losses, subject  to the remaining terms of the policy.
Interest of 8% simple per year should be added to these costs from the date they 
were incurred  to the date of AXAs repayment.*
Pay Mr C and Miss O a total of £250  compensation.
*If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C and Miss O how much its taken off. It should  
also give them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Miss O 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9803055