K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  (Red Sands) 
unfairly declined  her pet insurance claim as it said her dogs medical  issues  were related to a 
pre-existing condition. It explained that had it known  about the dogs previous issues,  it wouldve 
applied an exclusion to the policy from the start, meaning the claim wouldnt have been  covered.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  March 2020. 
An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat that 
information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. 
Red Sands  agreed  with my provisional  decision  and didnt have any further comments  to 
add. Mrs H replied, unhappy  with my findings. Ive noted that shes  said:
-The insurance was taken out online,  rather than by phone;
-She never intended to avoid telling Red Sands anything;
-Over the years  she has made  several claims which have  been  paid out, and Red Sands 
is only now saying the policy  isnt right;
-Red Sands has seen Mrs Hs dogs medical  history several times before during the 
other claims;  if Red Sands had said something  at that point shed have apologised and 
explained that shed made a mistake.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by explaining  that I understand Mrs H didnt  intend  to avoid telling Red Sands 
any information. I fully understand that, and I have no reason to disbelieve  what  Mrs H says. 
But it doesnt change  my decision in this case,  for the following  reason, which  I explained in 
my provisional decision:
I should  explain  that misrepresentation isnt always intentional  or dishonest  
and in this case, I think thats the case. Mrs H made  a misrepresentation when 
she took out this policy,  albeit  as a result of carelessness, as opposed to 
deliberate dishonesty. But the fact remains that whether this was intentional or 
not, a qualifying misrepresentation was made. And depending on the 
circumstances of the misrepresentation, an insurer can retrospectively amend 
or cancel  a policy where this is the case.
I also understand that Mrs Hs dog has had other  operations  and procedures,  which  shes  
made successful claims under her policy for. I can understand why she says that Red Sands 
has seen the dogs medical history  before now, during those claims, so it shouldve  mentioned  
this issue sooner. But the fact that Red Sands hasnt noticed, or indeed  raised,  this issue 
sooner, doesnt  mean it wasnt entitled to raise it when Mrs H made this claim in July 2018. It 
may be that the previous  claims Mrs H made didnt give Red Sands  any reason to question 
any of her dogs other medical history  whereas  the claim she made  in July 2018 did.
Ref: DRN98806332Finally, Ive considered  the fact that Mrs H says she bought the policy online, rather than by 
phone, as I previously  said in my provisional decision.
Red Sands  has provided evidence  from its systems  to show  that the policy was taken out by 
phone. It has provided contact notes that suggest Mrs H took two policies at the same time  
this one and another one  and also shows reference to a discussion about the exclusion 
related to the dogs anal and perineal region, as Ive previously mentioned.  Red Sands also 
says that Mrs H has held a number of policies  with it, taken at different times,  and all but one 
of those policies  were taken out by phone. 
So having  considered this, Im satisfied that this policy was taken by phone.  So this point 
doesnt change  my decision.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I see no reason to depart  from the conclusions  I reached in 
my provisional decision. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs H but it follows that I dont uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  this complaint or 
make any award against Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN98806333EXTRACT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION DATED MARCH 2020
background
Mrs H has held a Superior  Plus  Lifetime pet insurance policy since 10 August 2015 which she 
purchased from Business  A  which is the administrator for Red Sands. Red Sands is the insurer, so 
its responsible  for the complaint. 
Mrs H collected her dog as a puppy from a breeder in March 2014.  On her way home  from the 
breeder she visited her vet for a health check, and to book the puppys vaccinations.
The clinical notes from the appointment show that the vet made  several observations about the 
puppy. The notes state that the puppys nostrils  were narrow,  and it had a very short  nose. The vet 
also noted concern re upper  airway  compromise  / soft palate or even laryngeal probs ? and advised 
Mrs H to go to an out-of-hours vet if the issue worsened.
The vaccinations were booked for around two weeks later and the notes and clinical history from this 
appointment suggest the vet administered  a Dextradreson injection  which my research  suggests is 
a steroid which is commonly used to treat acute inflammation.
Mrs H re-visited the vet two days  later for him to re-assess the puppys  health. The notes  from this 
appointment state sounds almost 100 % better / breathing much more  normally.
Having reviewed  the clinical  records  for the following years, I can see numerous  other visits for 
unrelated issues  but none  that appear connected to this one until 2018.
Around five years later,  in July 2018, Mrs H took her dog to the vet due to a problem  with its 
breathing. The vet referred the dog to a specialist  vet for an assessment and the dog was diagnosed 
with Brachycephalic Obstructive Airway Syndrome  (BOAS),  for which it needed surgery.
The vet submitted pre-authorisation  forms to Red Sands  for the cost of the diagnostics  and BOAS 
procedure. Red Sands declined  the claim, stating that BOAS was a pre-existing  issue which  first 
showed signs  at the appointment in March  2014, when the vet noted the narrowed  nostrils and 
shortened nose.
Red Sands  said that if it had known about these clinical signs at the time the policy  started, it would 
have placed an exclusion  on Mrs Hs policy. But as it didnt know about  them, Red Sands decided to 
retrospectively place the exclusion:
Excludes cover  on all claims  with respect to the Respiratory System with effect  from 10 August 2015 
Mrs H didnt agree with Red Sands that the BOAS was related to the issue the puppy had when it was 
seven weeks old, and consequently the declined  claim,  so she made  a complaint.  Red Sands didnt 
uphold Mrs Hs complaint  so she brought it to this service.
Our investigator considered everything and recommended that Red Sands should uphold the 
complaint. She didnt agree that the two conditions were linked, notably because of the amount of 
time that had passed between the two events.
Red Sands  didnt agree with the investigator. So as the complaint still hasnt been  resolved, its been 
passed to me to make  a decision.
Ref: DRN98806334my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I know thisll likely  come as a disappointment to Mrs H, but I currently dont intend to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
There are a number of issues here. But firstly Ive considered whether Red Sands acted fairly in 
applying the retrospective  exclusion to Mrs Ls policy.
When a consumer takes  out an insurance policy, theyre expected to give true information to allow the 
insurer to fairly  decide whether to offer cover, and if necessary,  whether to apply  any exclusions to the 
policy. An example of this could be an insurer  deciding  to offer insurance cover for an animal  with a pre-
existing health condition, which started before the insurance policy was taken out, but choosing  not to 
cover that condition.  In this instance, the insurer would need to have been about  told the pre-existing 
condition. And it can be a misrepresentation if an answer  given is inaccurate or misleadingly  incomplete. 
But the insurer will only be entitled to take action if its a qualifying misrepresentation  in accordance  
with the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure  and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Ive started by considering whether Red Sands was fair to decline the claim  based on its assertion  
that it wouldve applied an exclusion to Mrs Hs policy from the outset,  had it known about  the 
puppys breathing issues.
Red Sands  has provided an extract of the sales  script  that it says wouldve  been in use at the time Mrs H 
bought her insurance policy  over the phone.  I dont know how closely the script was followed,  and given the 
time that has passed  theres no recording  of the call available. But Im satisfied that the script Red Sands 
has provided  likely represents the questions Mrs H was asked. I note that one of the questions  was:
Does [Pets  Name] have any pre-existing or ongoing  illnesses or have they ever been involved  in an 
accident? Just so you know, at [Business  A] we class a pre-existing condition as any condition, 
symptom or sign of a condition occurring or existing in any form at any time prior to or within the first 
14 days of the policy start date.
Im satisfied that this is a clear question that wouldve  been understood by most people.  So I think  
Red Sands  made  it clear  that any conditions  needed  to be disclosed before the start of the policy.
I note that Mrs Hs policy had a specific exclusion added to it from inception, in relation  to her dogs 
anal and perineal region. This isnt a standard exclusion on the policy and so it was likely  added 
following a disclosure  about  the dogs medical  history during this call, before the policy  started. 
As Ive said,  I havent been able to listen to the sales call, but this exclusion  being  added does further 
persuade me that Business A asked Mrs H a question similar to the one above.  Whilst  I accept that 
the medical issue related to the anal and perineal  region  happened closer  to the start date of the 
policy, in February 2015, and was arguably  more memorable as the clinical notes suggest  that a 
procedure took place, it still satisfies me that the question was at least  asked. And because  Im 
satisfied it was asked, Ill shortly go on to consider how Mrs H answered it.
Red Sands  also sent Mrs H a schedule  of insurance  following this phone call. The schedule includes 
a declaration statement which  appears to reflect the questions Mrs H was asked during the initial  
phone call. This statement directs Mrs H to get in touch if shes unable  to agree with the statements 
included. I note that the first sentence in the declaration  statement reads:
A.Your pet has not suffered from any disease/illness/injury  or undergone veterinary 
treatment and is not currently  showing  signs  of any disease/illness/injury, other than 
any claims that [Business  A] are dealing  with or have dealt with or any 
Ref: DRN98806335disease/illness/injury you have notified [Business A] of and that they have confirmed 
back in writing to you.
The pet insurance policy document  included  with this schedule mentions the dogs anal and perineal  
region, as I mentioned  earlier, and its noted under the policys exclusions.  So this statement doesnt 
apply to that one as it had already been declared by Mrs H. 
The schedule  of insurance is an important document and I think its reasonable to say that Mrs H 
shouldve read this when she received it. Whilst I wouldnt necessarily say that on its own it would be 
enough to make it clear  to Mrs H that she needed to disclose all of her dogs medical history,  when 
considering everything  overall I think that Red Sands made it clear  that Mrs H had a duty to provide 
accurate information. 
As well as the insurer asking clear questions, CIDRA  also states that it is the duty of the consumer not 
to make a misrepresentation  to the insurer. Thats to say, the consumer needs to take enough care to 
ensure that they dont  give the insurer  inaccurate or incomplete information.
Ive thought carefully about  everything Mrs H has said, and I understand she doesnt consider that the 
short issue with the puppys breathing was a problem.  But just because  of this I cant  ignore the fact 
that puppy  had indeed shown symptoms of breathing difficulties. The clinical notes  show that the vet 
had some concern  about the puppys  breathing and narrow nostrils, and administered the steroid 
injection to ease the symptoms. He also asked Mrs H to book a follow  up appointment.
Whilst I fully accept that the puppys symptoms had almost completely disappeared  by the time Mrs H 
attended the follow up appointment, I dont think that this means the condition the vet noted at the 
outset should be discounted. And I think that its reasonable to say that Mrs H should reasonably have  
known about  and disclosed this  when  she took out the policy.
So for this reason, I think that the non-disclosure  of this information equates to a qualifying 
misrepresentation, and Red Sands is therefore able to treat it as such.
I should  explain that misrepresentation isnt always intentional or dishonest  and in this case, I think  
thats the case. Mrs H made a misrepresentation when she took out this policy, albeit as a result of 
carelessness, as opposed to deliberate dishonesty. But the fact remains that whether  this was 
intentional or not, a qualifying misrepresentation  was made.  And depending on the circumstances of 
the misrepresentation, an insurer can retrospectively amend or cancel a policy where this is the case.
Red Sands  says that if Mrs H had given information about her puppys breathing issues in 2014,  it wouldve  
placed an exclusion on the policy from the start date.  This in itself isnt uncommon, nor unfair. After all, its 
up to each business to choose which  risks it insures. But Ive considered whether  it was fair for Red Sands 
to apply  the exclusion retrospectively  thats to say after the time the policy was sold  in Mrs Hs case.
Where a careless misrepresentation has been made, CIDRA states:
If the insurer would have entered into the consumer  insurance contract, but on 
different terms (excluding  terms relating  to the premium),  the contract is to be treated 
as if it had been entered into on those different  terms if the insurer so requires.
Red Sands  has provided a copy of its underwriting  guide. This is what it uses  to decide whether to, 
and which exclusions to place on a policy based on what it knows  about an animal.
Under the pre-existing condition of Breathing Problems  it states  that the exclusion  Excludes cover 
on all claims  with respect to The Respiratory  System with effect from [date] should  be placed  on the 
policy. Im mindful  that Mrs Hs dog wasnt diagnosed with a specific breathing condition in 2014. But 
the clinical  history does  suggest that it had some sort of breathing problems  even if Mrs H doesnt 
agree that it did. So I think Red Sands is fair to say that it wouldve applied  this exclusion if it had 
known about it. 
Ref: DRN98806336As this information didnt  come to light until several  years after the policy started, when Mrs H made  a 
claim, I also think its fair for Red Sands  to have applied the exclusion retrospectively, when it became 
aware of the problem.
Having considered  the question Mrs H was most likely asked  during the phone  call, as well at the 
insurance schedule she was sent, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for Red Sands to say that 
wouldve done  something differently if it had known about Mrs Hs dogs previous breathing problems. 
And I accept that it wouldve applied the exclusion that it says it would, which  excludes all issues 
related to the respiratory system.
I know itll come as a disappointment to Mrs H but based on everything Ive seen and been told, I 
dont currently intend to uphold  this complaint. So Im not planning to tell Red Sands to pay the claim.
Ref: DRN9880633