K800x#10complaint
Ms B complains  that British Gas Insurance Limited  (BGI) failed to find a leak,  which  caused  
water damage to a neighbouring property.
background
Ms B said that shed  asked BGI three  times to visit her flat to find a leak that was coming 
from the kitchen area and was causing damage to the flat below.  The first plumber who 
came in May 2017 couldnt find any leak in her property  at all. The second one who came in 
October 2017 found a leak but apparently didnt fix it as it continued  to cause damage. The 
man who lives in the flat below called a private  plumber and took a video showing the leak. 
BGIs third plumber finally found the leak, and fixed it.
Ms B couldnt understand why neither the first nor the second  plumber  had been  able to find 
the leak. She said her neighbour was asking her to pay for the property damage it caused.
BGI said it had now fixed the leak, but it didnt think it was responsible for the damage.  It 
said that it didnt  pay for consequential damage. 
BGI told us that the leak was caused  by an open ended waste  pipe that only leaked when 
there was a build-up of water in the shared stack. The plumber couldnt  find a visible  leak in 
May 2017, and he told Ms B to keep an eye on the problem. BGI said that the next active  
leak was 5 months later in October  2017.  The plumber who went  out then did fix a leak, but 
apparently not the one causing the damage to the flat below. 
BGI said that when  the leak happened again in April 2018 its plumber investigated further.  
BGI said this time the plumber was helped by being  allowed  entry into the flat below.  He 
found an open ended waste pipe, which was causing an intermittent  problem when water  
backed up in the shared soil stack. 
BGI said it had told Ms B that it wasnt liable  for the damage as it was pre-existing to its 
original visit, so she should contact her home  insurance company about the leak and the 
property damage.   
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She appreciated that BGI hadnt  
caused the leak. But its first and second plumbers had both failed to find it. She said that 
under Ms Bs policy, it was the plumbers job to find the source  of the problem  and make  a 
repair. So she thought  that if the first plumber had found the leak,  then it wouldve been 
repaired, and that wouldve stopped the risk of damage to the neighbours property. For that 
reason she thought that the business should take responsibility for the fault. 
Our investigator said that BGI should pay the cost of damages to the neighbours property 
due to the leak, once it received evidence of the cost of repairs. 
Ms B sent us details of what her neighbour had paid for repairs.  That invoice was for £500, 
and it says that it is collecting the excess for works to the bathroom and hallway. The 
neighbour below claimed  on his insurance  for the repairs, and he was only asking Ms B to 
pay this excess. Ms B said that she would like BGI to pay that, and she would  also like 
compensation for the stress that all this had caused  her.
Ref: DRN98129252BGI replied to say that it didnt agree with our investigator.  It said that the leak was caused  
by poor workmanship  or poor design,  which is excluded under the terms of the policy.  And it 
said that the plumber who attended the second time wasnt called again for six months, so it 
didnt know that the leak it had fixed wasnt the one causing the damage downstairs. 
BGI also said that it wouldve been nearly impossible for its second plumber to find the leak 
without access to the flat below.  He wasnt given that access, and the third plumber was. 
Even if the second  plumber had turned on every tap in the property, the leak still wouldnt 
have been visible.  It only took place in a very specific situation,  that didnt happen regularly, 
because there was only a leak when the water built up in a shared soil stack, and backed up 
to the open ended pipe.  
Our investigator didnt  change her mind. She said even if BGI had decided that it didnt have  
to do the repairs  once it identified what was causing  the leak,  she still thought the policy  
required BGI to find the leak.  She didnt think that BGIs plumbers had done enough to do 
that, so she thought that had made the problem  worse.  
BGI still thought it wasnt responsible, so the case was passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-Ms B had a home emergency policy  with BGI that covered her for repairs to plumbing  
and drains in her home. BGI said, after our investigator issued her view on this case, it 
didnt think that repairs to the leak at Ms Bs home  were  covered, because the problem 
happened as a result  of poor workmanship. It didnt  seem  to have said this previously, 
and it did do the required repairs.  
-Our investigator said, even if this leak wasnt something that BGI was obliged to repair 
under the policy,  it was obliged  as a result  of the policy to find the source of the leak. I 
thought that was the practical impact of the policy cover that BGI provided  to Ms B. I 
didnt think it was any answer to the question of whether BGI caused delays in finding 
the leak, to say that when it did identify the problem, it wasnt  liable for the repairs. 
-So I needed to think about whether BGI did cause a delay in finding this leak,  and if so, 
what it should do to make up for that. 
-BGI said the first plumber who visited couldnt  find any leak.  He asked Ms B to monitor  
the problem. I thought  this was a reasonable response at this stage. 
-The problem was intermittent. And it would take some time for the damp caused by a 
repaired leak to dry out. So I thought it was reasonable  to say it wouldnt have been 
immediately obvious, after the first or second  visit, that the problem was ongoing. 
-I also thought,  given the nature of this leak, which would only occur when water  in a 
shared waste stack had backed up to the level of Ms Bs flat, this was unlikely to be a 
leak which occurred frequently. 
-Ms B called a plumber  again  some five months later.  BGI said this plumber fixed  a leak. 
He thought hed solved the problem. We now knew that he hadnt.
Ref: DRN98129253-Ms B called a plumber  for a third time, six months later.  This plumber was able to find the 
problem. BGI said that was because he was allowed access to the downstairs flat, and it 
said that if the second plumber had also been allowed into the downstairs flat, then he 
wouldve found the leak then.
-But Ms B said her neighbour waited in, at the time of the second visit, ready to show  the 
plumber the problem. Ms B also said she told the plumber this, and that he could double-
check it was all fixed by going into the flat below,  but he said he didnt need to do that. 
-I thought this was a mistake by that plumber, which meant  that the actual leak causing 
the damage wasnt found on this second visit. I thought  if he had entered  the flat below, 
then, as BGI suggested, hed have found the leak that was causing damage to that flat, 
at that time. Whether BGI fixed it then or not, the leak wouldnt have continued  past then.
-I did think the leak shouldve been fixed before it was. So I had to think about what, if 
anything, BGI needed to do about  that.
-I knew the leak caused considerable damage to the flat below Ms Bs. It must have 
spread to two rooms,  as the invoice  I saw mentioned work to the kitchen and bathroom. 
But I was also aware that the leak had happened  a number of times before. So I thought  
some of this damage had probably  been  done before BGI was even  aware of the leak.  
-I didnt think it would  be fair to ask BGI to pay for all the repairs  done  to the flat below Ms 
Bs. Fortunately, in this case, Ms Bs neighbour hadnt had to pay for all of the damage  
himself. He claimed on his insurance.  He asked Ms B to pay the excess, of £500.
-But I thought  that there was a problem  with asking  BGI to pay this money to Ms B. This 
was Ms Bs policy, and her complaint. When I looked at what  BGI had done, I needed to 
consider the impact  this has had on her. 
-Ms B hadnt paid her neighbour this money.  So she hadnt actually lost this £500.  And 
she may not have  to make that payment.  
-Ms B told us her neighbour expects her to pay him this money. But we didnt know if her 
neighbour was planning to take legal  action against Ms B to recover  this money,  or if any 
such action might be successful. So I didnt think,  on the evidence Id seen then, that I 
could ask BGI to pay this money  to Ms B, so she could  repay her neighbour.  
-If Ms Bs neighbour did take further action to recover  this money, then the position  might 
be different, and our service could then consider a fresh complaint from Ms B about that, 
on the basis of different  facts.
-Ms B also said she wanted BGI to pay some  compensation for what  went  wrong. She 
said she had sleepless nights, believing that the leak into her neighbours property had 
come from her flat, and she would have  to pay for this. I thought  that this issue  was likely 
to have significantly damaged the relations between the neighbours. 
-Ms B also told us that her neighbour expects her to pay him £500. And she said she 
couldnt afford that without a payment from BGI, which Id said that it didnt currently  
have to make. So this situation was unlikely to improve for Ms B in the short term. 
Ref: DRN98129254-Because I thought BGI shouldve found this leak quite a while before it did, I also thought  
it was reasonable  to ask BGI to pay Ms B £300  in compensation,  to make up for the 
stress that she was caused after this leak ought to have been fixed.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted. Both sides  responded.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Ms B said that she accepted my provisional  decision, but was concerned  that she might now 
face court action.  Unfortunately, our service cant help her with that. If she does face such  
action, and has to pay her neighbour, Ive said she can ask us to consider  a new complaint.  
BGI said it was disappointed with the outcome, as there had been  such a long time between 
visits. It had repaired a leak on the second  visit, and it had then carried out repairs on its 
third visit that shouldnt have been  covered under  the policy. I took these points into account 
in reaching my provisional decision. Ive reconsidered, but I still think  the same, for the 
reasons set out in that provisional decision. 
BGI also said it doesnt think its responsible for the excess paid by Ms Bs neighbour. It said 
that damage was consequential, not caused  by its engineer, and the leak wouldve caused 
damage before its first visit to the property. That isnt part of this complaint, so I wont 
comment on that here. 
BGI has agreed to pay £300 to bring this complaint to a close, and Ms B has accepted that 
amount for this complaint,  so Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
my final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Ms B £300 in compensation 
for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9812925