K821x#15complaint
Mr W says Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading as Sunny (Sunny),  irresponsibly 
lent to him. Mr W says Sunny  should have known he couldnt  afford  to repay  the loans. He 
had to borrow further to make the repayments which led him into a cycle  of debt causing him 
financial hardship. 
background
This complaint is about six short-term loans Sunny provided to Mr W between June and 
December 2018.  Mr Ws borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount
1 24/06/2018 17/11/2018 Instalment £300.00
2 13/07/2018 19/11/2018 Instalment £200.00
3 24/07/2018 22/11/2018 Instalment £300.00
4 15/09/2018 06/02/2019 Instalment £200.00
5 19/11/2018 16/01/2019 Instalment £550.00
6 16/12/2018 06/02/2019 Instalment £150.00
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ws complaint  and thought the loans  from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. 
Sunny disagreed. 
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr W could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN93570142the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr W could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr W didnt comment  on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to three shouldnt be 
upheld. Because  of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision  about this lending.  But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr W had with Sunny. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Like the adjudicator,  I dont think Sunny  should  have given Mr W any further borrowing when 
he applied  for his fourth loan.
I say this because  there  were signs that Mr W wasnt managing his finances. When  he 
applied for his fourth loan, loans one to three  were  still outstanding. Sunny has told us that 
its product allows  for such flexibility and gives the consumer the opportunity  to take more  
than one loan at a time in order to manage their money.
But Mr Ws borrowing  behaviour could have  been  an indication that he was struggling with 
his finances, which I think turned  out to be the case. He had taken one loan in June 2018 for 
£300 and then returned for more borrowing less than a month  later. And in that following 
month  July  Mr W borrowed a further £200  which he topped  up with an additional  £300  
just over a week later.  So, Mr W borrowed a total of £500 in that month within a short space 
of time of and his monthly repayments had also increased accordingly, from £96.50 at loan 
one to £290.95 at loan three. It could have  been the case that Mr W was borrowing further  to 
repay existing borrowing,  which  is one of his complaint points. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr W, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Ref: DRN93570143Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ws case,  I think  that this point was reached by 
loan six. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr W was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr W had taken out six loans within six months. So Sunny ought to have  
realised it was more likely  than not Mr W was having  to borrow  further to cover  the 
hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ws 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr W was repaying his borrowing  early  which while I appreciate  saved him interest 
charges, it could equally be an indication that his borrowing  was unsustainable. I note 
that when he applied for loan five, which was nearly double  that of his previous  
largest loans, it was the same  day that loan two was repaid and two days  after loan 
one was repaid.  Such an uptake in re-borrowing  after an earlier loan is repaid would 
suggest Mr W was borrowing to repay current debt.
Mr W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan six was 
taken out six months after Mr Ws first. Mr W had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to Sunny  over an extended  period.
I think that Mr W lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number  of loans which Mr W borrowed was likely to have  had negative  
implications on Mr Ws ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans four to six and Sunny 
should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans four to six;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans four and five from Mr Ws credit file;
the number  of loans taken at loan six means  any information  recorded about it is 
adverse. So, all entries about  loan six should be removed from Mr Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Ref: DRN93570144For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ws complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020..
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9357014