K821x#15complaint
Mr S disputes a settlement made by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK Limited  
(MBFS) when  they agreed to allow him to reject a car that was of unsatisfactory  quality.
background
Mr S took receipt of a used car in September 2018. He financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with MBFS. But the car proved to be of unsatisfactory quality and 
MBFS agreed to allow Mr S to reject  it. They said theyd  refund 20% of the payments hed 
made towards the car in recognition of the lack of use hed had from it and they offered to 
pay him £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  caused. They  also said 
theyd return Mr Ss deposit. They noted  this was listed  as £1,671.56 on the finance  
agreement.
Mr S disputed this figure. He explained  that the dealership had allowed him to part exchange  
a previous car theyd provided. He said theyd offered to refund the full sales  price for this 
vehicle and to demonstrate this was the case he provided a user vehicle release note. This 
showed a net part exchange  figure  of £3,320.56 which  when added  to the settlement figure 
of £15,668.44 added  up to the original sales price  of his previous vehicle. He therefore 
suggested the original deposit  hed paid on the car was the figure that should  have been on 
the new hire purchase  agreement he formed  with MBFS in September  2018.
MBFS disagreed. They  said they werent involved in the part exchange negotiations and the 
deposit on Mr Ss original deal was irrelevant. They could only,  reasonably,  be expected  to 
return the deposit that was stated on the agreement.
So Mr S referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  considered it. She tried to 
contact the dealership for an explanation of how the deposit figure of £1,671.56 had been 
generated. But she explained the dealership hadnt  returned her messages. So she 
considered the evidence  that she had. 
She noted that the user vehicle release note , when added  to the settlement figure,  added  
up to the original sales price of the first car. So she thought it was most  likely that an 
agreement had been reached with Mr S to refund the original sales  price of the car in his first 
agreement. She thought this first agreement therefore had a bearing on the second as it 
seemed the deposit that would be carried  over was the original deposit Mr S paid of 
£2,607.14. 
She explained that the dealership were acting as MBFSs agents when negotiating the new 
hire purchase agreement and she didnt think theyd  provided sufficient information to 
explain the reduced deposit  theyd  put on the agreement. She thought the agreement had 
been misrepresented  to Mr S and she thought it was likely  that, if an adequate explanation 
had been provided to him, he would have  been  unlikely to proceed with the agreement.
So she thought MBFS should refund a deposit  of £2,607.14 and that they should add 
interest to this payment up until the date of settlement. 
She went on to consider  the compensation MBFS had offered to pay Mr S. She didnt think  it 
was sufficient in the circumstances.  She understood that the car had broken  down  whilst  
Mr Ss grandchildren were in it and she thought, in the circumstances,  MBFS should  
increase the compensation to £250.
Ref: DRN92188252Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators view of his complaint. He wanted  a replacement  car 
without the need to go into a dealership  and chose a car or to sign up for another finance 
agreement. MBFS also disagreed.  They  could  not understand why the previous part 
exchange was being considered and they both therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view;  so please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
When something goes  wrong  with a car and its agreed it wasnt  of satisfactory quality when 
supplied, we would often ask the business to allow a consumer to reject  the car and 
terminate their finance agreement.
Im not considering  whether  MBFS should  have allowed  Mr S to reject the car because I can 
see theyve agreed  to do so.
I understand Mr S would like the business to replace  the car but thats not something  wed 
usually ask. Thats because it can be difficult  to find a like for like replacement  on a used car 
and MBFS arent specialist in car sales, their expertise is in financing  the agreements  that 
fund these deals.  So I wont  be asking MBFS to find a new car for Mr S but I will consider the 
redress provided by the business to see if its fair.
When a rejection is authorised wed expect the business to terminate the agreement; 
consider refunding payments for any lack of use; refund the deposit and pay the consumer 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience theyve experienced.
I can see that the business have agreed to terminate the finance agreement  so Ill consider 
whether the refund of the deposit  and the compensation payment is sufficient.
Weve been unable to gather any information  from the dealership to confirm why a deposit of 
£1,671.56 was written  on the agreement. So Ive considered the evidence provided  by Mr S 
and Ive been persuaded, for the same  reasons  the adjudicator was, that it was likely the 
dealership did agree to reimburse  the full sales price of Mr Ss original vehicle. 
Mr S would therefore rightly be expecting  to carry over the same deposit of £2,607.14. 
Ref: DRN92188253I dont think hed have  been likely to continue with the finance  agreement if hed known the 
deposit was understated and I dont think it would be fair to expect him to understand the 
implications of the wrong deposit being listed on the agreement.
The relevant  legislation  explains that the broker of the agreement  is acting  as an agent  of the 
finance company  in antecedent negotiations. I think,  on balance,  its likely they 
misrepresented the deal to Mr S as Ive not seen that they provided an adequate explanation 
of the deposit.  In those circumstances I think the fairest resolution  would  be for MBFS to 
refund the original  deposit of £2,607.14. They should add 8% interest to this payment as 
Mr S has been deprived of that cash whilst funding a car that was of unsatisfactory quality.
They should  also add 8% interest  to the refund of finance instalments for the same reason. 
But I dont see cause  to change the 20% refund MBFS have already suggested. It seems 
reasonable to me in the circumstances  and given the use Mr S has had from the car.
I can understand Mr Ss frustration with the issues hes experienced. Its the second car hes 
had problems with but this decision only considers the most recent finance agreement.  It 
must have  been  distressing to have  broken  down at speed, and on a couple of occasions, 
especially with the grandchildren in the car. Mr S has also had to take the car back to the 
dealership on several  occasions so I dont think MBFSs original offer of compensation is 
sufficient. Id agree with the adjudicator that, in the circumstances, £250 is more reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited,  if they havent  already  done  so, to:
cancel the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr S;
refund  the deposit of £2,607.14 and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement;
refund  20% of Mr Ss monthly  instalments and add 8% simple interest per annum 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr S £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused;
remove any adverse reports that may have been  made  to Mr Ss credit file in relation 
to these issues.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9218825