K822xcomplaint
Mrs R says TSB Bank  plcs IT problems  had an impact on her. Mrs Rs husband, Mr B, has 
been representing Mrs R in this complaint. Ive referred only to Mrs R within this decision, 
regardless of who made different  complaint  points.  
background 
At the end of April 2018, TSB experienced IT problems. Mrs R says this meant  it took         
11 weeks for a fraud block to be lifted from her TSB cash account. She also had problems  
making a complaint and changing her telephone  number online.  This is because an error in 
TSBs system meant it couldnt  recognise  a non-UK postcode  and phone  number. This was 
an issue as Mrs R lives abroad.   
TSB wrote a final response  letter for the complaint in November  2018.  In this, it explained 
the fraud block was placed correctly and it wasnt an error. It also said Mrs R hadnt updated 
her phone number  which was part of the problem in her receiving a onetime passcode  to 
unblock the account. But TSB admitted it made errors in its handling of lifting the block and 
offered to pay Mrs R £250 for the distress and inconvenience shed been caused,  plus £50 
for any financial losses shed incurred. 
Mrs R continued to have  problems updating  her telephone number as it wouldnt recognise a 
non-UK number. She felt the compensation TSB had offered wasnt  a fair amount in the 
circumstances. TSB wrote  to us and provided some information about the complaint; it also 
updated Mrs Rs telephone number. And it admitted there were some  inaccuracies in its final 
response letter, but didnt alter the offer previously made. 
Our adjudicator agreed TSB had made  some  errors  but felt the £300 it had offered was fair 
in the circumstances. As Mrs R didnt  agree  with this, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the offer TSB previously made of a total of £300. Ill explain 
why. 
The crux of this complaint is that the fraud block TSB applied  to Mrs Rs account on    
31 August 2018  wasnt fully removed until 17 November  2018. During that time, Mrs R 
wasnt able to receive one time passcodes over the phone because  she couldnt  update  her 
telephone number online. This was a known  issue to TSB that they were actively  trying to fix. 
TSB has pointed out that this wasnt Mrs Rs main account, so she wasnt financially 
disadvantaged as a result of not having access for a period of time. While this may not have 
been Mrs Rs main  account, not being  able to access her funds  or easily  communicate with 
TSB has clearly been a distressing experience  for her. And there  was a relatively significant 
sum in the account which she started  to move around as soon  as she regained access. Ive 
thought about this carefully when considering what level of compensation I feel is 
appropriate in the circumstances.  
Ref: DRN91615522Mrs R has mentioned some other  issues shes had alongside the fraud block remaining  on 
her account.  She wanted TSB to communicate  with her husband, Mr B, via e-mail. But TSB 
wasnt willing to do this as it felt e-mail wasnt a secure enough method of communication for 
sensitive information.  And it explained  Mr B wasnt a party to the account, so it wasnt  able to 
communicate directly with him about  the account  anyway. I agree TSB shouldnt use e-mail  
if it doesnt feel its a secure method of communication. So I dont think  its made  an error in 
choosing not to correspond via e-mail. 
Having carefully considered all of the aspects of Mrs Rs complaint, including  the time taken 
for the issues to be resolved, I agree that the £300 previously awarded is fair in the 
circumstances. 
While the complaint was being investigated,  TSB mentioned that because Mrs R was a   
non-UK resident at the time,  she would  only be eligible for the cash account if she didnt 
have another  UK bank account.  As she had a separate UK bank account at the time,  TSB 
pointed out that she wasnt eligible for the cash account at the time it was opened. Mrs R 
disputed this and after further consideration, TSB now agree that Mrs R was eligible for the 
cash account when  she opened it. I can see the initial comment was an error on TSBs  part, 
but I dont think  it needs  to do anything further  to put this right.   
what the business needs  to do
Pay Mrs R £300 for the distress and inconvenience shes been  caused, if it hasnt been paid 
already. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  TSB Bank plc should  pay Mrs R £300  if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9161552