K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that he will not be eligible for compensation from The Equitable  Life 
Assurance Society under its proposed scheme  to return capital to current policyholders. 
background
Mr P had previously held two with-profits policies with Equitable  Life. In 2007  these  had been  
transferred to another provider with the agreement of the court after a vote of members. 
In early July 2018  Mr P wrote to Equitable Life saying he wanted  to receive a share of the 
funds he understood  were  now available for distribution to with-profits  policyholders.
In mid July Equitable Life responded. It clarified  that its proposals  that had received press  
coverage werent compensation and were  unrelated to government  compensation  schemes 
for past policyholders. It confirmed its proposals  had no effect on previous policyholders 
such as Mr P. It told Mr P he could refer a complaint to our service. 
Between mid July and early  August  Mr P and Equitable Life exchanged further emails in 
which Mr P sought information about his policies with Equitable  Life, including the 
circumstances of their transfer  to another provider. 
In September  2018 Mr P complained to our service. Our investigator didnt think Equitable 
Life needed to do anything further  in relation  to his complaint. It had made a decision it was 
entitled to make in relation to the proposed capital distribution scheme. 
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators  view. He referred back  to events at the time of the 
transfer of his policies in 2007 and to the government compensation scheme.
The complaint then came to me for a decision from an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see that Mr P feels very strongly 
that he should be entitled to a share of any capital distribution that Equitable Life undertakes.  
But Im afraid Im going  to have to disappoint  him, as Im not going to ask Equitable  Life to do 
anything. Ill explain  why.
It might be helpful if I set out my understanding of the recent  events that have prompted Mr 
Ps complaint. In June 2018 Equitable Life announced that it would be asking its members  to 
vote on a proposal  that, among other  things,  would distribute capital to its current  with-profits 
policyholders. This proposal received widespread publicity,  and appears to have prompted 
Mr Ps early July 2018 letter to Equitable  Life. In essence, he wanted to make a claim for a 
share of the capital.  
I appreciate Mr Ps strength of feeling. But he isnt a policyholder with Equitable  Life, so 
wouldnt be eligible  to receive  a capital distribution from the proposed scheme  if it is 
approved. Equitable Lifes proposals are a matter for it to decide, as our investigator  
explained. The proposals arent  compensation of any kind, as Equitable Life indicated  to Mr 
P.
Ref: DRN91943792In his response to our investigators view on his complaint, Mr P queried the circumstances 
leading to the transfer of his Equitable Life policies to another  provider. But as our 
investigator said, the transfer was approved by majority vote and sanctioned by the Court. 
Because of this lawful transfer, Mr P isnt a policyholder with Equitable Life, so wouldnt be 
entitled to any distribution of capital being made to policyholders. 
In response to the investigators assessment, Mr P raised  some  questions about the reasons 
for, and adequacy of, the government compensation scheme for certain Equitable Life 
policyholders. Im afraid I dont think that is relevant  to whether or not Mr P is eligible  under 
Equitable Lifes  current  proposals  the reasons for the compensation scheme is a matter for 
the government. 
So for these reasons I wont be asking Equitable Life to do anything in response  to the 
complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr P. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9194379