K822xcomplaint
Mr D is complaining that Gefion Insurance A/S cancelled his van insurance policy.
background 
In March 2018 Mr D took out a van insurance policy with Gefion and he took the policy  out 
through a broker.  On 13 March 2018 Gefion  asked the broker to require Mr D to provide 
copies of his proof  of No Claims Discount (NCD) and his driving licence.  It also asked the 
broker to advise Mr D that the policy would be cancelled in seven days if he didnt  provide  
this information.  The broker  then emailed Mr D asking him to provide this information and 
gave him the cancellation notice. 
On 19 March 2018 Mr D uploaded a copy of his NCD, but he didnt provide a copy of his 
driving licence. Mr Ds broker then emailed Mr D on 26 March  2018 to say that it had 
cancelled the policy.
In April 2018 Mr D was stopped by the police for driving without insurance. He says he 
looked to log on to his online insurance  portal  at which point he says he discovered that the 
policy had been  cancelled. He then contacted Gefion to complain that it hadnt sent the 
cancellation notice  by post. He was subsequently  convicted for driving without insurance and 
he says he incurred an IN10  conviction,  received eight  points  on licence, a £250 fine and 
had to pay £300 to a solicitor.
The broker  responded to Mr Ds complaint and said that it was an online application, so all 
correspondence was sent by email.  It said that Mr D had responded to its previous email,  so 
it thought it was likely he did receive the cancellation  email.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said that Mr D should have been told he hadnt  
provided everything hed been asked for before  the policy was cancelled.  He also said that 
the terms of the policy required  Gefion to send cancellation notices by recorded delivery. 
So the investigator recommended that Gefion  refund  the fine and solicitor costs  Mr D 
incurred following the conviction. He also thought that it should cover  50% of the additional  
cost of the resulting premiums Mr D will have  to pay for the next four years. Finally he 
recommended that it remove all record of the policys cancellation and pay Mr D £500 in 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  he has experienced
Gefion didnt accept  the investigators  opinion. It said it always ensures it communicates 
clearly with consumers and it queried  what action the broker  took was unclear.  It thought  the 
email the broker sent Mr D clearly said he had to provide the proof of NCD and the licence 
summary. It disagreed that the timeframe for cancelling the policy  was unreasonable.  It also 
thought it had advised him of the policys cancellation in a fair and reasonable way.
As Gefion  didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN92784332Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
There are two issues for me to decide  here:
1.Was it fair for Gefion  to instruct that the policy be cancelled; and
2.Was Mr D informed of the cancellation  of the policy in a reasonable manner?
Gefion instructed the broker to ask Mr D to provide copies of his NCD and his driving licence 
within seven days or it would cancel the policy. Firstly, given Gefion asked  the broker  to 
request this information, I think the broker was acting on Gefions behalf as its agent. So I 
think Gefion is liable  for the actions of its agent.  
Its important to note that the policy had only been live for around five days  by this time. I 
dont think its fair to only give a policyholder one opportunity  to provide important information 
before cancelling the policy. 
Gefion was entitled to ask Mr D to provide  this information. I think  its usual and good  
practice to ask for the information at the start and give a timeframe to provide it. But if the 
consumer doesnt  provide  it within  this time frame,  its then fair for the insurer to notify  the 
policyholder that it will cancel the policy if they dont provide the information within a specific 
timescale. But I dont  think its fair to immediately issue a cancellation notice five days after 
the policy started before it had asked the policyholder to provide the requested information.
I also think steps should have been taken to notify Mr D that he hadnt provided  all the 
information he needed to provide before the policy was cancelled. And, had it done so, I 
think its most likely  Mr D would have provided  the information.  It follows  that Gefion wouldnt 
have then cancelled  the policy. So I think Gefion has treated Mr D unfairly  in this instance 
and Mr D has lost out as a result  of this.
But even if this wasnt the case, I think Gefions  broker has not followed the correct process 
in cancelling the policy. I note that the terms of the insurance policy  set out:
We [Gefion]  may cancel  this policy by giving seven days  notice by recorded delivery to your 
last known address.
So the policy  required Gefion  to notify Mr D that it would cancel his policy by recorded  
delivery. But it sent the notification by email. I think its reasonable to say that, if the letter 
had been sent by recorded delivery, Mr D would have received notification that the policy  
had been cancelled. I think he then would have taken steps to insure his van. And it follows 
that he wouldnt have  been prosecuted for driving without insurance.
I note Gefions comment that the broker  emailed Mr D to inform him the policy was 
cancelled. But its clear  that Mr D didnt receive  that email. And I think the ultimate reason 
Mr D was prosecuted for driving without insurance  is because Gefion unfairly cancelled the 
policy and didnt take sufficient steps  to notify Mr D it had done  so. So I think  Gefion should 
compensate Mr D for the losses  hes suffered. And I think  it should  do the following:
1.Refund the court fine of £235  and the solicitor  fees of £300. It should pay 8% simple 
interest per year on this from when he paid it until he gets it back. If it thinks that its 
required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it should  
Ref: DRN92784333tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should  also give him a tax deduction certificate if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
2.Remove all record  of the policys cancellation.
3.Mr D will have to disclose this IN10 for five years, which  is likely to have  a significant 
impact on his premium. And I think  it should estimate how much  his premium increased  
as a result of having to disclose the IN10.  It should  then multiply this increase in 
premiums by five  as the conviction will have an impact for five years.  But it should then 
divide the total sum by two. Thats because many  other issues  can affect premium prices  
 and the impact  of the conviction  will lessen each year.
4.Pay Mr D £300 for the distress  and inconvenience this matter  has caused him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require Gefion Insurance A/S to compensate Mr D in line with my instructions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9278433