K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Barclays Bank  UK plc is holding her liable for three transactions which 
she says she neither made nor authorised, after her handbag was stolen  from her car. 
background
Miss S says that her car was broken into in the early hours of 16 September 2017. Among 
the items  stolen was a mobile  phone  which had apps from fashion stores installed on it. Over  
the following  week or so those  apps were used to make  three  purchases to a value of over 
£4,500. The phone used was not Miss Ss primary phone and was not, Miss S says, 
protected by a password  or other security. Her bank card details were linked to the apps. 
About a week later, on 29 September, Miss S says she noticed pending transactions that 
she didnt recognise  on her account.  She contacted Barclays  and stopped the card.  
Subsequent attempts to make purchases using the apps were declined. 
Barclays would not however refund  the disputed payments. Its reasons were, in summary:
It would have  expected the card to be cancelled much sooner  after the theft. 
It would have  expected Miss S to have better security on her phone.
Miss Ss mobile banking had been  accessed on several occasions between  the theft 
and the cancellation  of the card.
Miss S had transferred money into her account after the first disputed  payment, but 
hadnt reported it.
It was unlikely  that a thief would have used  the card details in the way they were  used 
here.
When Miss S referred her complaint to this service,  one of our investigators looked  into it. 
He concluded  however  that it was more  likely  than not that Miss S had in fact authorised  the 
transactions and that Barclays did not therefore need to refund them.  Miss S didnt accept 
his view, however,  and asked that an ombudsman review the case.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Im broadly in 
agreement with the investigator.
The three disputed  payments  were made  to two online retailers.  I think it likely that the same  
person was responsible for all the payments. 
The first retailer said that items were  delivered to an address that does  not match Miss Ss. 
Card details can be saved  to an account,  but an email address and password are generally 
needed to log in. There were no additional checks needed for the disputed  purchase,  as 
Miss S had used the app for purchases previously  and had passed  security checks. 
The second  retailer  (to which two payments were made) told our investigator that the 
deliveries were made to Miss Ss address. Miss S says that this retailer also had her details, 
but Barclays has been unable to trace any payments to it from Miss Ss account   until those 
that are the subject  of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN94715942I cant entirely rule out the possibility that someone who had Miss Ss phone  could have  
used the apps to make  purchases without her knowledge or consent. Whether that was 
possible would depend on the security settings  on the phone  and the apps. But its unlikely 
that someone who had stolen  a phone from a car would have had items delivered  to 
Miss Ss address. There would be no benefit in doing so. And even if they had, I would have 
expected Miss S to query things with the retailer and return  the items  she hadnt ordered.  
Its unlikely too that such  a person  would  have been  able to guess Miss Ss email address 
and password.
Barclays thought  it suspicious that Miss S didnt report her card stolen immediately. She told 
us however that she hadnt lost her card when her car was broken into. Thats  consistent 
with the disputed payments being made through apps  because  the stored card details 
were used, but not the physical card. I can understand why someone whos  had their phone 
stolen might not remember that card details might be linked to it (through apps, for example) 
or think to have their card blocked. But when Miss S reported  the disputed  payments to 
Barclays, she said that shed reported  the card stolen immediately. It seems  that her 
recollection has altered  over time.  In any event, the banks records indicate  she didnt report 
anything to Barclays until 29 September, nearly  two weeks after the theft.  On balance, I dont 
believe she did contact the bank at any point before that.   
Our investigator also questioned Miss S about  the stolen phone. It was not Miss Ss only 
phone and not the one she used for mobile banking. She told our investigator however that 
shed bought it herself (and provided a receipt), but on another occasion that it had been a 
gift. Theres no obvious explanation for Miss Ss inconsistency  on this point. 
I note too that Miss Ss account was accessed using mobile banking during the period of the 
disputed transactions.  In addition, she transferred £1,300 from her savings account three 
days after the first disputed payment. The first payment  would have been  apparent  on her 
account at that time. Miss S logged on after the second and third payments too, but didnt 
report them  or the first payment to Barclays  even though by this point her account balance 
would have been around £4,500 less than she would  have  been  expecting.  Whether or not 
Miss S thought shed lost her card at that time,  I might have expected her to notice three 
large payments of this type. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigator  that its more likely  than not that Miss S 
either made or allowed  someone else to make  the disputed transactions here.  It wouldnt 
therefore be fair to require  Barclays to refund them. 
my final decision
My final decision is that dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to do anything more to resolve  
Miss Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to 
ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 13 September  2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9471594