K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Intrum UK Limited  (Intrum)  sent a letter saying he was deceased.
background 
In January 2019 Intrum wrote to Mr Bs address and said theyd received information hed 
passed away and they therefore  needed  to see a copy of his death certificate. But Mr B was 
very much alive and he said Intrums letter distressed him and caused his blood pressure to 
rise. So he complained  to them.
They apologised for their mistake and explained that theyd received the inaccurate  
information from a credit reference agency.  They understood that it would have distressed 
Mr B so they sent him a cheque for £25 to compensate him for that. But Mr B wasnt 
satisfied with their response. He thought the compensation should be significantly higher and 
he referred his complaint  to this service.
Our investigator provided his opinion in early  July. He noted that Intrum had sent evidence 
theyd been presented with inaccurate  information  from a credit reference  agency they used.  
He thought that they should  have conducted  more checks  before sending  the letter  they did 
and whilst he understood that receiving the letter would have been distressing  for Mr B, he 
didnt think he had enough information to fairly  suggest it was the only reason his blood 
pressure had increased and his medication  had needed adjusting.  Overall, he thought the 
compensation Intrum  had provided hadnt  been sufficient for the degree of distress  and 
inconvenience that had been experienced by Mr B and he suggested they increase it to 
£100.
But Mr B was still dissatisfied and so he asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Whilst I understand the distress that would have been caused by receiving a letter  
suggesting hed passed away I dont think it would be reasonable to decide I have enough 
information this was the reason Mr Bs blood pressure medication needed to be increased 
and that the impact on him had been  more severe.  The date of his consultation with the 
doctor was more than a month after the letter was sent to him and I think  its fair to suggest 
the initial shock of receiving the letter,  and the impact on his blood pressure,  would have 
diminished in that period. 
Ref: DRN99982582Intrum have been quick to apologise for the mistake and to accept that they should have 
done more to check the information they had been  provided with. But I dont  think  £25 was 
sufficient compensation  for the distress  that was caused and I agree, in the circumstances,  
with the investigator  that £100  is more  realistic. Im not however, persuaded that Intrum  need 
to increase that compensation any further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Intrum  UK Limited to pay 
Mr B £100  to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience their actions have caused 
him. They may deduct anything thats  already been  paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9998258