K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his credit card account without telling him it 
was going to do so.
 
background
Mr G was in financial difficulties and contacted  Barclays  in July 2018 to agree a temporary 
hold on his credit card account.  He continued to keep in touch with the bank and it agreed to 
extend the hold on his account. But it then closed the account in September 2018 without 
telling him.
Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong.  It said it closed Mr Gs account in line with its 
terms and conditions. And its statements warned him that failure to keep up payments could  
result in account closure. 
The adjudicator didnt think Barclays had been fair to Mr G. He noted that Mr G had spoken  
to Barclays on three  occasions  to explain  about his financial  difficulties. And each time 
Barclays had agreed to put his account  on hold. But he couldnt see Barclays had explained 
to Mr G that it would  consider closing his account although he accepted  Barclays  was 
entitled to do that in line with its terms and conditions. Barclays wasnt  able to give us any of 
those phone recordings. And there wasnt any note made to say itd advised Mr G of the 
potential consequences  of the temporary  freezes on his account. So he thought Barclays  
should pay Mr G £150 compensation.  And he asked  Barclays  to consider reopening his 
account.
Mr G was content with his findings.  But Barclays said it hadnt done anything  wrong  because  
itd followed its terms and conditions. It said itd traced two phone calls where it told Mr G the 
account could  be closed if payments were not received. It sent them to us but the adjudicator 
pointed out that in the first call Mr G spoke briefly to a call handler and was then left on hold 
for the remainder of the call. The second phone call took place after Barclays  had closed the 
account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Barclays was entitled to close Mr Gs credit  card account in line with its terms and 
conditions I agree with the adjudicator that it couldve given him more information  when it 
was in conversation  with him during his financial difficulties. When Mr G phoned the bank for 
the third time he told it he was hoping to make a payment in September  2018. But I cant see 
it explained to him it was intending to close his account that month.  And Barclays  hasnt 
been able to provide the phone  recordings or any contact notes which would indicate that 
the call handler  gave him that information. 
In its terms and conditions  and on its statements, Barclays warns its customers  that missing  
payments could result in it closing an account.  But Mr G had kept it informed about his 
financial difficulties and the bank had agreed  a temporary hold on his account.  So I think he 
was entitled to expect that Barclays wouldve explained to him during those phone calls that 
in spite of its temporary agreement he was still at risk of having his account  closed.  
Ref: DRN97218072It seems  to me Mr G believed that if he made  the payment in September  2018  he could 
continue to use his card account. But when  he tried to do so and it didnt work he had to 
contact Barclays to find out what as happening.
In those circumstances I think its fair and reasonable for Barclays  to pay Mr G £150 
compensation for the inconvenience its caused  him for not telling  him it was closing his 
account.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. To put matters right Barclays  Bank  UK PLC must 
pay Mr G £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9721807