K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  (BGI):
1.over a number of years when  it was servicing  his central  heating  boiler  under  his 
home emergency insurance policy failed to warn him that it was suffering from a 
corrosion issue that could result in it having to be replaced at any time; and
2.pressured him into buying  a replacement boiler from an associate  company at an 
inflated price.
background
Mr B has had a home emergency insurance policy with BGI covering his central heating 
boiler for a number  of years. In March 2019 he noticed there was a slight  leak coming from 
his boiler and called on BGI under his policy. BGIs engineer found  that corrosion had 
caused a hole in the boiler casing making it unsafe. He therefore closed down the boiler and 
capped it off. A second BGI engineer confirmed this diagnosis.
Because of the age of the boiler, a replacement casing wasnt available.  So BGI said a new 
boiler would  have to be fitted. BGI arranged  a quote  from an associated company. Mr B 
accepted this and the new boiler was fitted.
Mr B complained to BGI. He said its engineer told him the corrosion had been building  up 
over a long period of time. Mr B thought if this was so, BGIs engineers should have noticed 
this at the time of each annual service.  They should  have done  something to stop it and/or 
warned Mr B about it.
If this had been done, the problem would have  been  sorted and his boiler would still have 
been working. Alternatively, he would  then have been in a position  to consider replacing the 
casing earlier when  this was possible,  instead  of suddenly having  to replace the whole 
boiler.
BGI said its records  showed Mr B had been  told about the corrosion as long ago as 2013,  
and on each annual  service since then, although it acknowledged  this wasnt  mentioned on 
the job sheets  signed and left with Mr B. Mr B said he was only told in general  terms that 
certain parts for the boiler were  no longer  available and so he should consider replacing  it.
Mr B also complained that BGI had pressured him into accepting a quote  from its associated 
company which  he felt was overpriced. BGI denied  this and said he had been free to get 
alternative quotes elsewhere.
Our adjudicator said the sale and installation of new boilers  wasnt an activity which  was 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority  and so wasnt within the jurisdiction of this 
service. So he wouldnt consider further  Mr Bs complaint about the sale to him of the 
replacement boiler.
However, he recommended that the other part of Mr Bs complaint should be upheld in part. 
He said BGIs notes mentioned the presence  of rust following some repair work in January 
2013, and these notes indicated that the boiler  was classified as At Risk. However, he 
couldnt see that rust or corrosion  had been noted again until the service visit in March  2019.
Ref: DRN97997442While he could see that a new boiler  had been  recommended on several  previous occasions  
there were no notes as to why the recommendation was made.  Given that the annual  
service documents  left with Mr B in 2013 (which was only two months  after corrosion was 
noted) made no mention of such corrosion, and as BGIs notes  made no further  mention of 
it, he couldnt reasonably conclude that Mr B had been made aware of the ongoing issue 
with the corrosion, or of the consequences  of this.
However, he couldnt say this would have made any difference to the situation as if
BGI had been making him aware they wouldnt have been obligated under the policy to 
replace the casing until it became an issue with the safety of the boiler.
Given that the reason Mr B contacted BGI in March 2019 was for a leak, and the last 
attendance before that was in April 2018 it was also possible that this leak was the cause of 
the boiler failure, rather than something that had been progressing since  2013. 
In view of this, the adjudicator didnt recommend that BGI contribute towards the cost of the 
replacement boiler.  He did recommend that BGI should pay Mr B compensation of £200 for 
failing to make Mr B clearly  aware  of the corrosion issue.
BGI didnt  agree  any compensation  was merited. It responded  to say, in summary, that:
it was unclear how long this leak had been ongoing;
BGI didnt cause the leak, and it wasnt present on the last occasion  BGIs engineer  
visited the property  in April 2018; and
for six years before March 2019 BGI had recommended that Mr B replace his boiler, 
but he had chosen  to ignore this advice.
The adjudicator said that from what BGI was now saying, there seemed to be two 
possibilities in this complaint:
1.that the corrosion had been an ongoing matter  since 2013, and the latest  leak was 
the final point  of failure, but BGI hadnt  made Mr B aware of this as it had claimed;  or
2.that there was no issue of corrosion until March 2019 when it was caused by a leak 
that had begun in the 11 months  since the last visit. However, this meant that BGI 
had been giving incorrect information to Mr B when making the diagnosis  and 
investigating the matter by telling  him that the corrosion had been ongoing and that 
he had been regularly told about  it.
Given that corrosion  was recorded by the engineer in 2013, he considered  the first possibility 
to be the most likely. However,  in either scenario  he felt BGI had caused Mr B distress as he 
hadnt been given correct  information. So he continued to recommend that BGI pay Mr B 
£200.00 compens ation.
As BGI didnt accept the adjudicators recommendation, this complaint has been  passed to 
me to issue  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN97997443As the adjudicator said, issues arising  from the sale and installation  of new boilers  arent 
within our jurisdiction. So I wont say anything more about that part of the complaint in this 
decision.
I think Mr B raised very fair questions with BGI about why he wasnt  warned about the 
corrosion, which had apparently been building up over a long period, before BGIs engineer 
suddenly condemned his boiler. BGIs answers  didnt satisfy  Mr B, and I still dont think its 
clear exactly  what happened.
I think the adjudicator  neatly summarised  the two possibilities of what had happened.  If the 
second possibility  is correct, I think BGI has been guilty of misleading Mr B, which  has 
caused him distress  and lengthened the period  of his complaint.
Like the adjudicator,  I think  on balance the first possibility is the more  likely. In this case,  I 
think BGI should have  done more to bring  the corrosion, and its likely consequences,  to     
Mr Bs attention so that he could better consider his options in a timely manner. 
Whichever possibility  is correct, I dont think BGI has treated Mr B fairly. It has caused him 
distress and inconvenience for which its right that it compensates him. I agree that the 
appropriate figure for this compensation is £200.
However, like the adjudicator, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to require BGI to 
contribute towards the cost of the replacement boiler.  It was always  going  to need replacing 
at some stage, and allowing it to continue until it finally  failed, rather  than incurring costs at 
an earlier stage, might well have been  the most economic solution. So I make  no order in 
this respect.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order British Gas Insurance  Limited to 
pay Mr B compensation of £200 for the distress  and inconvenience it has caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9799744