K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, shouldnt  have  given him a credit card 
when it did as he couldnt afford  it. Mr P also complained that Aqua refused to provide proof 
it had carried out a credit check  and said one of its staff had been  rude to him. 
background
Mr P applied for and was granted an Aqua credit card in December 2016. The opening credit  
limit was £450 and Mr P reached that limit within the first couple of months  of having the 
card. Mr P complained to Aqua when he found himself in financial difficulties. He said Aqua 
shouldnt have accepted his application due to his poor credit  history and this was now 
having a negative impact on him. He also wanted proof that Aqua had carried  out a credit  
check before  approving  his application.  Aqua said it had considered  the information Mr P 
had provided as well as the credit  report it had obtained and Mr P had successfully met its 
criteria for a credit card account. 
In January 2019 Mr P brought a complaint to this service saying that Aqua had been 
irresponsible in lending  to him. He also complained  that Aqua had been unhelpful and rude 
in the service it had provided and had refused to provide proof it carried out a credit  check  
before lending. 
Our investigator partly upheld the complaint. He was satisfied that Aqua had carried out a 
credit check  and he explained how that process worked. He said hed only been able to 
listen to one call between  Aqua and Mr P but didnt  think Aqua had been rude or 
unprofessional. However, he thought the information on the credit  report  should have 
prompted Aqua to ask more questions about his financial situation. Had it done  so, he 
believed Aqua would have seen  that Mr P couldnt afford the credit  card and wouldnt have 
lent to him. He therefore asked Aqua to take specific  action to put things right.
Mr P accepted the investigators findings  but Aqua didnt agree. It said it had considered  the 
information Mr P had provided as well as the information in his credit report and it remained 
satisfied it had lent responsibly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Mr P has accepted the investigators 
findings about the service provided by Aqua  and providing proof that it had got a credit 
report, I see no need to look at those issues again. So I will focus my decision on Mr Ps 
complaint that Aqua  shouldnt have  given him a credit card.
Before lending money, Aqua has to undertake reasonable  affordability checks.  These are to 
ensure a customer can repay the prospective borrowing in a sustainable way without it 
adversely impacting their financial situation. Aqua need to get sufficient information from 
these checks to make an informed decision about whether to lend to the customer.
Exactly what  each lender should  consider is up to them to decide  theres no specific list of 
checks a lender must carry out before deciding to provide credit.  But the guidance  and rules  
for lenders list things  they may wish to consider. A key point is that the checks must be 
proportionate, and must take into account  a number of different things  such  as how much 
Ref: DRN92333752is being lent and when it is due to be repaid. So Ive looked at what  has happened in the 
circumstances of Mr Ps complaint, in light of what is expected of Aqua as outlined  above.
Aqua have pointed out that its card is aimed at customers who have a poor credit  history or 
who are new to credit - and the product is designed  to help them  to improve  their credit  
rating. It says its not unusual, therefore,  to see customers with poor or absent credit  history 
apply for its credit card and Ive taken that context into account in my consideration of this 
complaint. 
Aqua said that, when  considering Mr Ps application  for a credit card, it took account of the 
information he provided as well as information held by the credit  reference agencies and 
their own internal risk strategies. It says when Mr P applied for a credit card he stated he 
was employed, living  at home, with an annual income of £20,000  and unsecured debts of 
£2,900, and said his financial situation  was going  to improve. Aqua said it was aware he had 
other borrowing, including some payday loans.  But there was no history of Mr P ever being 
in arrears or defaulting  on a pay day loan and his other accounts  were all being managed 
within the terms and conditions of those accounts. It explained how it had calculated  Mr Ps 
disposable income and said that while it hadnt  verified Mr Ps income, it thought  the credit 
limit of £450  was proportionate to his circumstances.   
Our investigator thought the information Aqua obtained should have prompted it to ask more 
questions. And Im inclined  to agree. On the face of it, Mr P would seem to have a large 
disposable income. However, his credit file shows that he was overdrawn on two current  
accounts, just over the credit limit of £2,019  on one and just under  the credit  limit of £500 on 
the other.  And he was just over the £800  credit limit on another credit card. He also had two 
payday loans  totalling around  £1,150,  and his credit file showed  that he had a history of 
taking out payday loans.  In fact he took out nine in the 12 months before he applied  for the 
Aqua card and some were taken out in the same month. I appreciate  all of those payday 
loans were repaid  on time. But I dont think Mr Ps overall borrowing  history at the time of his 
application supports Aquas suggestion  that he had sufficient disposable income  to be able 
to maintain the repayment on the new credit card. 
I recognise that Aqua says its credit  card was designed to help its customers improve their 
credit rating and that it might not be unusual therefore for Aqua to lend to customers with 
poor credit histories. But, its still required to lend responsibly and I dont think  it did so in this 
case taking into account the information Ive highlighted above  about Mr Ps financial 
situation.
 
The end result for Mr P has been  increased debt,  additional charges  and negative  entries on 
his credit file. And I think that could have been avoided had Aqua made further checks  at the 
time of his application.  Had it done  so, I think its more likely than not it would have declined  
Mr Ps application for a credit card. I say that because  the information  Ive seen indicates 
that Mr P had very little, if any, disposable  income at the time he applied for the Aqua credit  
card. He had no regular  income and a lot of the money going  into his account was from 
payday lenders  or were grants and bursaries. This money would then be used  for day to day 
living or to pay off other lenders.  Our investigator gave a good  example of this when he said 
that a £1,000 bursary put into Mr Ps current account in November 2016  was used over the 
next few days to pay off two payday  loans, of £372.40  and £373.04 respectively. 
So, in summary,  I think the information  Aqua obtained during  the application process should 
have prompted  it to make further enquiries. Had it done that, I dont think  Aqua would have 
given Mr P a credit  card. As Mr P has had the benefit of the spending, I dont think its 
Ref: DRN92333753unreasonable to expect  him to repay the principle debt. But he shouldnt have to pay interest  
on it. So Aqua  should  reconstruct the account  from the start to make it interest free, apply 
the repayments Mr P has made over the years and, if that means he would have paid off the 
debt at some  point, it should  refund  any repayments  made  after that date,  plus 8% interest. 
As I dont think Aqua  should have given  Mr P a credit card, it should also close the account 
and remove the card from Mr Ps credit  file.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, its my final decision that the complaint is upheld and I require 
NewDay Ltd, trading  as Aqua, to:
 
reconstruct Mr Ps account to remove all the interest and charges; 
apply Mr Ps repayments  to the account;
if this means the debt would have been  paid off at some  point and/or the consumer 
has ended up making repayments he wouldnt otherwise have made, then Aqua 
should refund those  payments with interest  at 8% simple from the date he would  
have paid off the debt until he gets the refund*;  
close the card and remove it entirely  from Mr Ps credit  history.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.  
Richard Walker
ombudsman
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Aqua  to take off tax from this interest. Aqua  must  give Mr P a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN9233375