K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs M says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 1997. The card and 
PPI were taken out in store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   based on whats available. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional  and get her consent  before adding 
PPI. I dont know what was said at the time the policy was sold. Ive seen the store  card 
application that Mrs M signed to take out PPI. Theres a tick in the box selecting PPI. The 
paperwork makes it clear  that PPI is optional.  So, I think it likely that PPI was discussed and 
Mrs M opted  to take out the insurance.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs M got clear information so she could make and informed choice 
and decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. Mrs M has told us she wouldve got sick pay through work;  three  months worth at full 
pay and three months at half pay. She said her husband was working too. The PPI wouldve  
paid on top of Mrs Ms sick pay, and possibly for longer than her work related benefits. The 
PPI wouldve  also paid out if she voluntarily lost her job. It wouldve allowed them to use her 
husbands income to meet their other  household expenditure  if Mrs M wasnt working.  So, I 
cant see that her other means clearly made the policy inappropriate for her. Overall,  I still 
think PPI could have  provided her with a valuable benefit.
 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. As she couldve  benefitted  
from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information about these things 
wouldve affected her decision take out PPI. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable and she 
Ref: DRN94927162couldve cancelled it at any time. I cant see that Mrs M has lost out because  of anything that 
FICL did wrong, so I dont  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9492716