K820x#14complaint
Miss L is unhappy that issues with TSB Bank Plcs IT system  meant  she had limited access  
to her bank  accounts.
background 
In late April 2018, TSB experienced issues with its IT system. As a result Miss L was unable 
to access or view her accounts online, or withdraw funds when she wanted  to. Miss L says 
this went on for several months. 
Miss L has said that she was planning  to buy a car at the time. And as she was unable  to 
withdraw the money in her current and savings  accounts to pay for the car, she had to 
borrow money from someone she knew. That person has charged Miss L interest on the 
money she borrowed, and Miss L thinks TSB should  compensate  her for the interest she has 
had to pay. Miss Ls also said that she spent many  hours trying  to resolve the issues with 
TSB, and that she was extremely concerned  about what  had happened  to her money when 
she couldnt see her account balances. So shed  also like to be compensated for the distress 
this all caused her. 
When Miss L contacted  TSB with her concerns,  it offered  to pay her £75 for any distress 
caused, and £11 to cover the cost of her travel to branch. Miss L didnt feel this was enough,  
so referred her complaint to us.
Our original adjudicator  felt that what  TSB had already  offered was fair. Miss L disagreed 
with this so her complaint was reviewed by a second adjudicator.  The second adjudicator 
noted that TSB had actually accidentally paid Miss L £225  in compensation, and £22 for any 
financial loss incurred  in travelling to branch. TSB confirmed they were happy for Miss L to 
keep the amounts they had accidentally paid to her. And the adjudicator felt that, overall,  
what TSB had paid was appropriate compensation for what had gone wrong here. In 
particular, he noted that Miss L had not provided  anything to prove what  interest she had 
been charged on the loan she says she took out.
Miss L remained  unsatisfied. She maintains that TSB should compensate  her for the interest  
she has had to pay on the money  she borrowed,  and has provided some details of the 
interest shes incurred. She also feels that £500 would be more  appropriate  to recognise the 
distress this incident has caused to her. So this case was passed  to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 28 June 2019.  TSB didnt make any further 
comments in response  to that provisional  decision,  but Miss L got in touch to set out why she 
didnt agree with what Id said.
my findings
Ive once gain considered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In my provisional decision I explained the 
following:
I can certainly appreciate  that not having  online access to her accounts was worrying and 
frustrating to Miss L. She had a fair amount of savings in these accounts, and I can 
understand that shed be concerned about what had happened  to her money. It also 
appears that Miss L took steps to try and sort things  out with TSB by visiting two different 
TSB branches and calling TSB but that TSB wasnt able to put her mind at rest about what 
Ref: DRN96306602was going on with her accounts. So I do agree that TSB has made  an error here, and I think 
Miss L should be compensated for the impact  that had on her. 
But I also note that, from looking  at Miss Ls account  statements,  none of the accounts she 
had with TSB seem to have been  used  for day to day spending. So the impact of not being 
able to access those  accounts appears to be limited to Miss L not being able to use her 
savings to buy a car, and the worry that was caused  to her when she couldnt  see what was 
going on with her money. Having looked  at everything that has happened here, I appreciate 
that TSBs  IT problems did cause frustration and worry to Miss L, but I think  that the £225 
that TSB has already paid to her is appropriate to compensate her for this. 
And I dont  think its fair to ask TSB to cover the interest Miss L has said she will have to pay 
on the money she borrowed when she couldnt access her savings. I say this for a number of 
reasons: 
-Miss L borrowed  £10,000, but at the time she says she was trying to pay for the car 
she only had around £6,000 in savings. So it appears that either  Miss L borrowed 
several thousand pounds more than she needed, or that the car she was buying cost 
more than her savings would cover, so she would always have had to borrow some 
money.
-Miss L chose to borrow from someone who appears to be charging her around  33% 
interest. This is a very high interest rate, much higher than we would usually see. I 
note Miss L has said she had to use this particular  lender  as she had no time to 
arrange a loan from a bank, for example. But many banks offer almost  instant 
decisions when applying for loans online,  and its not clear  to me whether Miss L tried 
to get lending from another lender at a cheaper interest rate.
-Miss L may have  very much wanted the particular vehicle that she was trying  to buy, 
but she could  also have waited until she knew she had access to her savings before  
looking for another vehicle to purchase, and this would  have  again  meant  she didnt 
need to pay such  a high interest  rate by borrowing  money  from this particular person.
-We asked Miss L for proof of the loan she had taken and the interest she was being  
charged. Miss L has sent us a copy of what appears to be an email stating that this 
person has leant her £10,000 and that she will have to pay an additional £3,000  on 
top of that when  she repays the loan. This is not a formal loan agreement  and does 
not contain any detail of who this lender  is other  than their name.  Im not satisfied 
that I can accept this as proof that a loan has been  given or that Miss L is obliged  to 
pay £3,000 interest to this individual.
So, overall, I dont  think I can fairly  say that TSB is responsible for the interest Miss L has 
said she is paying on the money  she has borrowed.  And taking everything Miss L and TSB 
have said into account, I think  that the £225  compensation  and £22 costs  that TSB has 
already paid to Miss L is a fair and reasonable way to resolve  this complaint.
Miss L has said that she doesnt  feel my provisional  decision  takes account of all that she 
went through here. Shes  said that not knowing what had happened to her money  was very 
stressful, and she doesnt feel that what TSB has done so far recognises  the impact  on her. 
She also says that she received very poor customer service from TSB when she raised her 
concerns.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I dont doubt that not knowing exactly what was 
going on with her money was worrying for Miss L, or that it was inconvenient that she 
Ref: DRN96306603couldnt access her savings when she needed to. I also acknowledged in my provisional 
decision that the service  Miss L received from TSB could have been better. 
But TSB has already  paid Miss L £225  compensation  and £22 costs.  I understand that some  
of this money was paid to Miss L by TSB in error,  but that doesnt change the fact that 
Miss L has received  this money. And nothing Miss L has said has changed  my decision that 
this amount is fair compensation for what has happened here. I also havent  seen  anything  
to make me think that TSB should  cover the interest  Miss L has said she is paying on the 
loan she took out.
So, while I know this will be very disappointing for Miss L, I remain satisfied that TSB has 
taken appropriate  steps to resolve  this complaint, and I dont think it needs to do anything  
more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. I think what  TSB has already 
done is enough to resolve Miss Ls concerns.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9630660