K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Miss M says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think BoS made it clear  that Miss M didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this. I say this because  Ive 
been given a copy of the credit card application  form completed by Miss M at the time and 
this includes a section  about PPI. In this section there is a box to tick if the PPI is required 
and the form says Simply  tick the yes box below  if you want this cover. Miss M has signed 
in this section  to confirm her selection. If Miss M didnt want  to take out the PPI she could 
have not ticked  the box or signed in this section. Miss M has also signed the overall 
application form which suggests it reflected what she wanted.
BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss M got the information she needed to decide  for herself if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Miss M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But BoS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Miss M about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Miss M, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Miss M has said - including  what she has said about  not 
needing the policy as she would be entitled  to good employee benefits,  such as sick pay and 
redundancy payments. But this policy would have provided a monthly benefit of 10% of the 
outstanding balance on the card for up to 12 months  which would be in addition to, and 
Ref: DRN96598822potentially for longer  than, she would receive  full sick pay. And if she was to lose her job, this 
policy would enable her to use her redundancy pay to cover  other  essential  living  expenses. 
Ive noted that Miss M has told us that her parents would have helped  her to make  the 
repayments if she was unable to do so. While I appreciate her parents would have wanted to 
help her, support from others cant be guaranteed as their circumstances can also change, 
meaning they are unable  to provide such financial assistance. So these  points dont change  
my decision.
what the business needs  to do
BoS has to pay back  to Miss M any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. BoS should  also pay back to Miss M any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
BoS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Miss M the difference between 
what Miss M owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. BoS should also pay Miss M 8%* simple 
interest if she paid off her credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss M can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Miss M any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9659882