K821x#15Complaint
Ms L is unhappy with the service shes received from Barclays Bank  UK PLC in relation to
her buy-to-let mortgage (the mortgage).
Background
Ms L fixed the interest rate on the mortgage for two years, from 3 February  2016  until
2 April 2018. Her monthly payments were £282.21. At the end of the fixed rate period, the
mortgage was set to go onto a standard variable rate. Barclays says it wrote to Ms L on
16 March 2016  to confirm these details,  but Ms L says she didnt receive its letter.
Ms L has said that in 2017, she let Barclays know that her residential address had changed.
But Barclays  says it has no record of this  it got some returned mail from the last residential
address it held for Ms L in 2016, so it has been writing to her at the address of her buy-to-let
property.
On 4 April 2018,  Barclays says it wrote to Ms L at the buy-to-let property to remind her that
the fixed interest rate on the mortgage was coming to an end, and let her know  how much
the new, higher  monthly mortgage  payments would be if she didnt switch  to a new fixed
interest rate. Ms L says she didnt  receive Barclays letter, and she didnt realise the fixed
interest rate on the mortgage was coming to an end  she thought the interest rate had been
fixed for three years. So she didnt apply to switch to a new fixed  interest rate, and she
continued to pay £282.21 per month towards the mortgage; rather  than the new,  higher
payment of £643.03  that was required.  As she paid by standing order, not direct  debit,
Barclays couldnt adjust  the amount it collected; she would have to change  the standing
order herself. This caused arrears to build up.
Barclays says it wrote to Ms L at the buy-to-let  property  about the arrears in July and
August 2018,  but Ms L says she didnt get those letters. Barclays spoke to Ms L about the
arrears on the telephone  in mid-August 2018,  and she made payments to clear the arrears in
September 2018.
I understand that Ms L has now switched to a new fixed interest  rate.
Ms L has said she wouldve switched  to a new fixed rate sooner if shed known her old rate
ended in 2018  the fixed interest rates available to her at the time were  lower than the
standard variable  rate the mortgage went on to. Shes said that she accepts it was her
responsibility to know  when her fixed interest  rate ended, but shes  unhappy that Barclays
didnt try harder to contact  her when she didnt increase her monthly mortgage payments to
£643.03, and arrears started  to build up.
Ms L believes that Barclays has recorded  a default against the mortgage on her credit
reference file, and she doesnt  think this is fair because she says she never missed a
payment. Barclays says it hasnt recorded a default.  But it has recorded the arrears.
Ms L has also complained  about the customer service shes received from Barclays.  She
says she had trouble  switching  to a new fixed interest rate and setting up a direct  debit to
repay the mortgage, and she hasnt received any letters from Barclays  about her complaint.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and didnt think  that Barclays had done  anything
wrong, but Ms L disagreed. So the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
Kyley Hanson issued a provisional decision on 29 March  2019 where she said:
Ref: DRN97681692Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L has said she thought the fixed interest  rate that started  in 2016 ran for three years.
Shes suggested that she wouldve switched  to a new fixed  interest rate sooner had she
known it only lasted  for two years; because the fixed rates available  to her were better than
the standard variable rate the mortgage  went on to. But presumably Ms L knew what  she
was applying for when she took the fixed rate out in 2016. She set up a standing  order to
make the correct monthly payment  at the right time,  so she must have had the details of the
fixed rate. And Ive seen a copy of a letter that Barclays  sent to Ms Ls correct residential
address on 16 March 2016,  confirming the details of the fixed rate  including the end date.
Ms L says she didnt receive  the letter but on balance,  I think its most likely that she did. Id
expect to see that Barclays gave Ms L all the details of her fixed  rate deal and, overall, Im
satisfied that it did. I dont think it would be fair to hold Barclays  responsible  for Ms L
misplacing or forgetting those details.
Ms L has said she changed her residential address with Barclays  in 2017,  but she hasnt
provided any evidence  of this. Ive looked  through Barclays contact records  and I cant  see
any notification of a change of residential  address in 2017. I cant say for certain whats
happened here, but from what Ive seen, I think its most likely that Barclays  didnt  receive
any change of address  notification  Ms L may have sent. So I dont think  it was unreasonable
for Barclays to start writing to Ms L at the buy-to-let property address when it realised she
had moved  which it did when post to her previous address  was returned undelivered.
Ive seen a copy  of the letter Barclays sent to the buy-to-let property on 4 April 2018,
reminding Ms L that her fixed rate on the mortgage was coming to an end. Ms L has said
she didnt receive  this letter, so I can only assume that it didnt arrive at the buy-to-let
property, or it wasnt forwarded on to her from there. But either way, I dont think  it would be
fair to hold Barclays responsible  it sent out a correctly addressed letter  and I think that was
all it was required to do.
Looking at everything, I dont think Barclays can reasonably be expected  to have done any
more to make Ms L aware of the end date of the fixed rate on the mortgage. It is for Ms L to
manage her accounts, and I think she should reasonably have  been  aware  of the end date.
But Barclays  couldve done  more to contact Ms L when arrears began  to build up on the
mortgage in May 2018. I can see that it wrote  to her in July and August  2018, but it didnt
attempt to call her until mid-August 2018   after several months of insufficient  mortgage
repayments. Barclays has agreed  that it shouldve tried to call Ms L before then. If it had, she
may have  repaid the arrears  sooner  than she did.
Ref: DRN97681693I think Barclays should pay Ms L £100 for this, and all the other  customer  service issues  she
has experienced. Im satisfied that this is a fair amount of compensation for her trouble and
upset.
If Ms L has incurred any telephone call costs in dealing  with this matter,  and she can provide
evidence of those  in replying to my provisional  decision, I will ask Barclays to reimburse  her.
Ive asked Ms L for a copy of her credit reference file, but she hasnt been  able to supply
one. So I cant see what information Barclays  has recorded against the mortgage. But its
told me its reported that the mortgage  was in arrears. This is true and accurate information
about the mortgage, which Barclays is required to report. Ms L may have repaid the arrears
sooner if Barclays had called her before  August 2018. But as Ms L didnt change  her
monthly payment  to the £643.03 required after clearing the arrears, the arrears position  on
the mortgage continued. So I wont be asking  Barclays  to change  what has been reported on
Ms Ls credit file.
I understand that Ms L believes Barclays has recorded a default against the mortgage, but
I havent seen  any evidence of this.
Reponses to first provisional decision 
Barclays accepted  the provisional decision.
Ms L didnt  accept the provisional decision. She said 
She sent a copy of her credit report previously  showing the impact  the arrears had on
her rating;
The ombudsman believes Barclays wrote to her but doesnt  believe that she
contacted Barclays;
She couldnt pay arrears if she wasnt aware  of them;  and
Barclays took too long to contact her by telephone.
Ms L also wanted our service to explain why Barclays were allowed to increase her rate by
the amount they did.
My first provisional findings
The previous  ombudsman made  a finding  on the letters sent to Ms L by Barclays and that
there was no evidence that showed Ms L changed her address with Barclays.  Having
reviewed this complaint  I agree with her findings.  So I wont cover  these points again.
The ombudsman did find that Barclays  should  have contacted Ms L sooner to make her
aware of the arrears  on the account  and I agree with this point  but I dont find that all the
arrears were  recorded unfairly.  Ms L has sent us a copy  of her credit file and I can see that
May shows as paid, this is because  Barclays  report one month  behind  the payment. Junes
payment shows as missed so I would expect Barclays to have called Ms L by July. They did
call by mid-August so Im satisfied the fair thing to do here is to correct  Ms Ls credit file for
the months of June,  July and August. Barclays have confirmed that Ms L didnt make full
payments after this date.  As she was aware  of the higher payment by mid-August, Im
satisfied that the reporting  on arrears payments from September  onwards is correct.
Ref: DRN97681694Ms L has asked for an explanation regarding the size of the rate increase when her fixed
term ended. The businesss SVR rate is the standard rate offered by Barclays.  The fixed  rate
Ms L received was a discounted rate against  this. The SVR is set by the lender and although
it often takes into account  the Bank  of England  rate it is not a fixed  percentage above this.
All banks  operate their mortgages in this way and Barclays SVR is not out of line with the
SVRs of other lenders. I can see from the original paperwork that it was communicated to
Ms L that her mortgage would revert to this rate after the fixed  period ended. On this basis
Im satisfied Barclays hasnt done  anything wrong  when they have increased her rate by this
amount.
Reponses to second provisional  findings
Ms L didnt  agree with my second provisional decision. She said
She made every attempt to sort the matter out and was told by the advisor in 
collections after she made  the arrears payment to continue with the existing standing 
order. 
She made an application  for a rate change  in September and assumed it had gone 
through.
She made every attempt to contact Barclays to discuss the rate switch.
She had been  trying  to set up a direct  debit for her new rate for nine months,  but this 
was not done. 
Barclays have since sent a letter stating that she owes  £6443.03 and to her old 
address
The provisional decision states  that Barclays should have called her earlier and her 
credit file should be corrected   she also says she shouldnt have to pay the higher 
payment for these  months. 
Barclays responded to my second provisional decision. It said
It was happy to correct the credit file for June, July and August. 
It made Ms L aware that she would  need to make a manual payment for Septembers 
mortgage payment   at the higher amount. But she didnt call back  to makes this. 
This has meant a new arrears figure  of £489.57.  It has agreed that if this is paid, it 
will cleanse her credit file back to September.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Including the further points made  by 
Ms L and Barclays.
Having listened  to the conversation Ms L had with the advisor in collections, I cant  agree 
she was told to keep  her standing order at the lower amount.  The collections advisor told her 
that she would need to make a manual payment in October  to cover  Septembers  payment. 
This was due to the standing order being at the lower amount and the short  timeframe  
before the next payment was due. Having seen  the payments  that Ms L has made to her 
account, I can see that the higher  amount wasnt made. 
Ref: DRN97681695Ive not been provided with any information from Ms L or the business that evidenced that 
the rate switch  had gone through  in time to cover Septembers payment. All the information 
Ive been provided  shows  the switch taking effect from 01 October. 
Its clear Ms L didnt make the full payment for September and Im satisfied this was due. As 
Ms L paid the lower  amount  of £282.21  instead  of the revised  amount  of £675.24, there  
remains an outstanding  amount of £393.03.  This also includes interest and fees of £25.88.  
There is also a shortfall  across the payments made  since  of £70.66.  Barclays  have agreed 
that if Ms L makes the outstanding amount, they will cleanse her credit  file back  to 
September 2018. I find this fair and reasonable in the circumstances
Having considered the timeframe between making  Ms L aware of the rate change  and her 
calling in to pay the debt,  I found it was fair to also cleanse her credit file for the month  of 
August. This is because  I can see Ms L was in constant dialogue with Barclays and it took a 
number of calls to establish why there was an outstanding amount owed. Although Im 
satisfied what Barclays have recorded as being  owed  should be paid, I dont find it fair that 
this was recorded with the credit reference  agencies - after some  discussion, Barclays have 
also agreed to this point.  
Barclays also sent us a number of calls following my last provisional decision and it 
highlighted the difficulty Ms L had when  trying to speak to an advisor  to discuss  the arrears. 
It was clearly a distressing time for Ms L having just found out she owed a significant amount 
of money, and although a number was left for her to call back  and speak to an advisor, it 
took several calls to get to the right place. In light of this, Barclays  have agreed to increase 
the compensation amount  from £100 to £300.  I find this fair in the circumstances. 
Since the last provisional decision Ms L has highlighted that she received a letter in August 
2018 advising her that her current monthly instalment is £6443.03. Barclays have explained  
this was an administration error  when the letter was produced and it has apologised for the 
error. I can see Ms L has not been paying this amount, but I can understand the confusion it 
may have  caused.  As Barclays have apologised, I dont find it needs  to do any more here. 
Ms L has said that it took nine months  for Barclays to set up the direct debit for her new 
mortgage payments.  This didnt form part of Ms Ls original complaint , but has been 
highlighted since. In January 2019 Ms L told our investigator that she had tried to set up a 
direct debit for her new mortgage payments but had been unsuccessful. Our investigator  
contacted Barclays  who explained they hadnt  received the necessary forms, but would get 
these out to Ms L. In March 2019 Ms L told our investigator the form had been returned  to 
Barclays. Our investigator contacted Barclays, but they hadnt received the form, so another 
was sent. On 15 April our investigator  contacted  Barclays and it was confirmed the direct 
debit was in place and had been  since March 2019.  This was in turn communicated  to Ms L. 
Although Ms L has complained that it took some  time to set the direct  debit up, a direct debit 
mandate was needed to enable this  and I cant see that Barclays received one of these  
before March. I appreciate how frustrating it must have been  for Ms L to not know  the direct  
debit had been set up, but Barclays have explained that no confirmation  would be sent in 
these circumstances.  So although Ms L feels Barclays have made an error  here,  Ive found 
no evidence of this. 
Ms L said that as my provisional decision found that Barclays  should  have attempted to call 
her sooner,  that she also shouldnt have to pay the higher mortgage payments  for the period  
she was on the SVR. I want to assure Ms L that Ive thought about this point  carefully. I 
found that Barclays should have  contacted  her earlier as this would have given her the 
Ref: DRN97681696opportunity to pay the arrears sooner. There is nothing  to guarantee that she would have 
been able to obtain a lower rate at this point  or that it would  have been  in place any earlier 
than it was. For this reason, I still find it fair that Ms Ls credit  file is cleansed but I wont be 
asking Barclays to refund her the mortgage payments made. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I instruct Barclays Bank  UK PLC to 
Correct Ms Ls credit  file for June, July and August 
On receipt of the £489.57, correct Ms L credit file back to September*
Pay Ms L £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
*Ms L will need to pay the £489.57 within 28 days of this decision to benefit  from the credit  
file correction.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Tom Wagstaff
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9768169