K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold Mr and Mrs H payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1994.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  In reviewing  this complaint, Ive checked  
the possible ways  in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of 
the comments made in support of the complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about  25 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available  only basic records exist of dates. Also I wouldnt expect 
someone to recall in detail  everything  that happened  so long ago, so it can be difficult to 
know how much  weight  to put on what they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
Ive taken all this into account. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs H have said they didnt  take PPI on other  loans and they didnt realise PPI had 
been added  to this mortgage  account. They say it must have been added  without  proper 
explanation. 
However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence. Where someone  has said another person or organisation has done 
something wrong, fairness  requires that the person making the allegation  should  present 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove  they 
didnt do something,  especially when it was such a long time ago. It would be more  usual for 
the PPI to have  been mentioned in the documents at the time, and I think  its more  likely this 
is what happened, and that the PPI was offered as a choice, even if Mr and Mrs H dont now 
remember it. Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without 
Mr and Mrs Hs knowledge or consent.   
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply:
Ref: DRN98628642Nationwide probably didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs H as being particularly 
suited to their individual needs.  This means it didnt have to check  if the PPI fitted 
their circumstances. It would have been  for Mr and Mrs H to decide whether it was 
suitable.  
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained  the costs  and benefits  of the policy.  
But I dont have  enough information  to say that better detail  would have changed 
whether Mr and Mrs H took PPI.
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. 
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have been  affected by any of these. And theyd 
be paying for it monthly, so they could  cancel it at any time without  further cost if their 
situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  31 January 2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9862864