K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a mortgage payment  protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy. 
background
MPPI was added to Miss Fs mortgage account  in 2002 when she took out some further 
borrowing. The policy  protected  her against accident, sickness  or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Fs complaint.  As Miss F doesnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, her complaint has been passed to me to decide.  Miss F said MPPI 
was added without  her knowledge or say so. She said if shed known she had PPI, she 
wouldve claimed on it because shed had periods of unemployment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen Miss Fs paperwork from the time she took out the further  borrowing and MPPI. 
Shes ticked the further borrowing form to say she wants MPPI  and signed the form. She 
was sent a welcome pack setting out the terms and conditions of the policy. I think she 
wouldve known she didnt  need  to take MPPI  to get the credit,  as the MPPI  was added after 
she took out her original  mortgage. Shortly after taking out the MPPI she contacted  
Santander to change her direct debit. I think if the MPPI  had been  added without her 
knowing, she wouldve  likely said something about this at that time.
I think it more  likely that Miss F was persuaded that MPPI may be of use to her, in her 
circumstances, and that she opted  to take it knowing that she didnt have  to have it.
Santander said it recommended the PPI to Miss F. Ive proceeded on that basis.  That means  
Santander had the additional responsibility  of making sure the policy  was suitable  for her 
needs. It also had to give her enough  information in a clear, fair and not misleading way so 
that she could  make an informed choice about whether to buy it.
I cant see that the policy looked  unsuitable for Miss F. I say this because:
oMiss F was eligible to take out the policy;
othe policy wouldve  paid out on top of Miss Fs work benefits,  and possibly  for 
longer, for up to 12 months per successful claim.  Miss F said she didnt have any 
savings, so I think it wouldve important  to her to make sure that her mortgage  
repayments were met, and her home protected if she wasnt working. MPPI 
wouldve allowed her to use her work  benefits to meet her other household 
expenses. She wouldve been  covered for redundancy too, which  mightve been 
important if shed  had periods of unemployment;
Ref: DRN91813052oMiss F said she couldve  relied  on her family for support. I accept that her family 
may have wanted to help, but I havent  placed much reliance on this. Thats  
because help of this kind cant always be guaranteed when the time comes; and
oI cant see that Miss F was affected by any of the main things the policy  didnt 
cover. So, I dont think having better information  about these things wouldve 
changed her decision  to buy MPPI as she couldve benefitted from everything the 
policy offered.
I think Miss F wouldve  understood from the paperwork she was given at the time that she 
had to pay something for MPPI. I cant see that she wouldve done anything different and 
decided against  having the policy because the policy seemed suitable, competitively priced 
and affordable. She couldve cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially.
I have taken into account everything that Miss F has said,  including that shed had periods of 
unemployment and didnt claim on the policy. However, this doesnt  change my view, I think  
when she took out the policy she said she wanted the cover.  I dont know  if she wouldve 
been eligible to receive benefit  for these  periods  of unemployment. This is something she 
could raise with Santander.
Even taking  into account any problems with the sale, I think  it unlikely Miss F wouldve made 
a different decision and not bought the policy. So, it follows that I dont think she has lost out 
because of anything  Santander did wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss F to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 May 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9181305