K820x#14complaint
Mr R and Miss R have  complained about charges Be Wiser Insurance  Services  Ltd applied  
when they cancelled their motor insurance policy.
Mr R was a named driver  on Miss Rs policy. But as Mr R has taken  the lead in bringing  this 
complaint his comments and actions should be read as being in respect of both himself  and 
Miss R.
background
Be Wiser sold Miss R and Mr R a policy. Around  four months later,  after Miss R passed her 
driving test, Mr R told Be Wiser he wanted  to cancel the policy.  Be Wiser did so but told Mr R 
there was an outstanding  balance owing of around  £160. Mr R complained.  Be Wiser didn't  
think it had done  anything wrong but, as a gesture  of goodwill, reduced the balance 
outstanding to £124. 
Mr R didn't think that went far enough  and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint. He thought Be Wiser had dealt with Mr R fairly. 
Mr R didn't agree so the complaint's been  passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Rs made  a number  of points. But in this decision I will focus on 
what I see as being the key points  following our investigator's assessment.
It might help if I explain that Be Wiser is a broker, that means it sells policies and may help 
with their administration but it doesn't underwrite the insurance cover  itself, which is provided 
by a different  business, the insurer. And when Mr R cancelled the policy  the insurer charged  
Mr R a fee for the time the policy was in place.  And as the insurer is a separate  business the 
charge for time on cover isnt something Be Wiser has control  over. So Ive only looked  at 
whether or not the charges that Be Wiser applied for its own service were  fair.
Mr R said that that he took out the policy on the basis  that it could be cancelled at any time 
subject to charge  of £25. But I think hes mistaken. Be Wiser can't locate a copy of the actual 
call recording  in which it discussed  the sale of the policy but its provided us with a copy of 
the script  its staff follow when selling policies. That script says that if Mr R cancelled the 
policy after 14 days a £100  cancellation  charge would  apply.  So I think  its likely  that 
Be Wiser would have  followed this script  when  selling  the policy and would have told Mr R 
about the cancellation charge then.
But even if that didn't  happen I've seen that Be Wiser sent Mr R an email  confirming its 
quote before  he took out the policy on 15 January 2019. Mr R forwarded that email to us. 
When he did so he said:
I have also attached  the original email from Be Wiser which clearly shows  that no 
attachments were attached.
Ref: DRN97908762But the email  hes forwarded to us does have an attachment, which  is a quotation letter.  And 
that letter includes Be Wisers  terms and conditions which show  the charges it applies on 
policy cancellation. Its possible  that Mr R wasn't  able to open the attachment. But thats  not 
the same  as Be Wiser not attaching it. And if Mr R couldn't open it then he could  have 
contacted Be Wiser and asked it to send the attachment again. But he didn't  do so and 
instead went ahead and bought the policy. After hed done so Be Wiser sent Mr R another  
email later that day. That email also had an attachment which included Be Wisers terms of 
business again setting out the fees payable on cancellation. Mr Rs again said that the email  
he received didn't have an attachment. But Be Wisers system  shows  that it was attached. 
And in any event Be Wiser wrote  to Mr R two days later to confirm that hed received the 
relevant policy  documents. And if he still hadn't  received them  then this would have  been  
another opportunity for him to contact  it and make sure he had received them.  But he didn't 
do so. And if hed read Be Wisers terms of business and wasn't happy with those he could 
have cancelled the policy within its fourteen day cooling off period.  But he didn't do so.
Having considered all the available evidence Im satisfied that Be Wiser did enough  to bring  
its charges to Mr Rs attention before  he bought the policy, even if he didn't actually read 
those. So I think it was fair that it applied those when he cancelled the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 August  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9790876