K822xcomplaint
Mr and Ms J complain  about St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc. (SJP)
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this case as follows  
Mr and Ms J were  sold whole life policies by SJP. They originally complained  that the
commission on these policies was hidden and unfair, and their reviewable  nature made  them
unsuitable. SJP offered  to refund the premiums  on the policies plus interest. Ms J accepted
this offer,  so I wont be looking  any further  into her complaint. But Mr J had health issues  and
required ongoing cover  and complained to us.
One of our adjudicators investigated the matter. They  thought that the policy  in question  had
been misrepresented  and obtained agreement from SJP to pay compensation of £150,000
plus interest, which is the maximum award we can make in a case like this. Mr J wants an
ombudsmans decision on this.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding  this complaint, but as stated there is a limit to my award.
It seems  clear  to all sides now that Mr Js policy was misrepresented as non-reviewable, and
had he been given better information he could have chosen other more expensive  but 
nonreviewable cover. That chance  has been  denied  him and due to his worsening  health, he
cannot find cover now at a similar  (higher) premium,  so he has clearly lost out.
The usual redress for such  an issue would be for SJP to make a payment based on the extra
premiums Mr J would  now have to pay based  on what  non-reviewable cover  he could have
got at the time of the misrepresentation. However due to the very large sum assured we are
dealing with, and the corresponding high premiums  this takes compensation far over my 
legal limit. 
In some cases I can recommend that a business makes the payment above  my limit and ask
them to consider doing so. But here SJP have already made it clear they dont wish to
consider that, and will only pay up to our limit, so there is no point in me making  any further
calculation on what I might recommend.
I invite both sides to comment further,  particularly SJP if they wish to reconsider their 
stance on paying  above the award  limit. But assuming they do not wish to pay more I intend 
to award Mr J £150,000  plus interest at 8% simple. Interest should be added from the date 
the complaint  was first capable of settlement, which I consider to be 25 June 2018, when 
SJP made  the first offer to settle. Interest is payable to date of settlement.
Since my provisional decision SJP have responded and confirmed they are prepared to pay 
the award, but arent prepared to pay more than our limit. 
Mr J has responded and proposed that his real loss is somewhere between  £261,000 and 
£370,000. He has also raised  the issue of whether term assurance could have been used 
here, and flagged my use of the term more expensive cover. 
Ref: DRN99792892my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note SJPs agreement,  but adherence to our award limit. 
Concerning Mr J I dont have any reason to doubt the figures he has put forward, but as 
before there is little point in me trying to calculate  a precise figure,  in view of SJPs  stance  
here. 
I also note his comments on term assurance,  but there I would have  to say what term this 
would have been taken out under,  and that would have run the risk of either Mr J being left 
without cover when a term policy expired, or assuming  a policy  of such length that the price 
difference with a whole  of life policy might  be negligible. I dont consider such  speculation 
would be helpful,  nor could I reach a conclusion on which  I could reliably base an award. 
My decision  remains as set out in my provisional  decision, for the reasons  given.  
my final decision
St Jamess Place Wealth Management should pay Mr J £150,000 plus interest  at a rate of 
8% per annum from 25 June 2018  to date of payment, less any amounts already paid. Tax 
may be payable on the interest, but if so SJP should provide a certificate of tax deduction.  
Mr J should be aware  that if he accepts  this decision he may not be able to sue in the courts 
for any difference between my award and his perceived loss. He may wish to take legal 
advice on that. If he rejects this decision his legal rights are unaffected by that. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Ms J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 April 2020.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9979289