K820x#14Complaint
Ms T complains that a fixed sum loan agreement taken through Carnegie Consumer Finance 
Limited was misrepresented.  
Ms T is being represented by a third party.
Background
In February 2018  Ms T took out a fixed sum loan of £7095.00 with Carnegie  to fund a third 
party training  course  for her son. Ms T says the course was misrepresented  and she also 
didnt agree to take the loan agreement in her name. She says she thought she was just 
providing a credit check on the property.  She  also went on to say that the course was 
unsuitable for her son. 
Ms T logged a section  75 misrepresentation claim with Carnegie, but it wasnt  upheld. It said 
Ms T signed a credit agreement in her name,  so she was aware  that the debt was hers. It 
went on to say that the misrepresentation of the course cant be investigated by our service, 
as the agreement is in her name  but the course was in her sons. This broke the Debtor-
Creditor-Supplier (DCS) link. 
As Ms T remined  unhappy, she brought a complaint to our service. Our investigator looked  
into the complaint  and firstly didnt think the agreement  had been  mis sold.  He found  there  
was enough evidence to suggest Ms T knew she was taking the agreement in her name. He 
went on to explain that he agreed with the business  when it said the misrepresentation 
wasnt something our service could look into. He agreed that the DCS link had been broken 
when the agreement was put into Ms Ts name. 
As Ms T and her representative didnt  agree  with the investigators view, the complaints been  
passed to me to issue a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two elements  in this complaint. So I will deal with them  in turn.
Mis-sale of agreement 
Its important to note that our service can look at things that the credit  broker  did or 
said/general mis-brokering  during  the pre-agreement negotiations under  S56 Consumer 
Credit Act (CCA).
In this complaint  Ms Ts representative suggests  Ms T was asked to sign a blank  form and 
then the information was populated by the sales representative. But I dont find I can put 
much weight on this  Ill explain why.
An income and expenditure form was filled in detail for Ms T. This is information  only Ms T 
would have access to and Ms T hasnt presented an argument to say this information was 
not correct. This is also not information that would be needed when running a credit  check 
on a property, as it would have no bearing  on past debt or adverse data held against that 
Ref: DRN97683412address. This persuades  me that Ms T was asked  for this information to assist a credit check 
being run on herself and to show her ability to repay the loan. 
Ms Ts details were  also provided to take a deposit  for the loan. Her involvement  at this point 
become more than just providing details to run a credit check on her property   as she said 
she believes  she was doing.  This further  convinces me she was aware of her involvement  in 
the loan. 
I dont doubt that there may have been some  sort of agreement made between Ms T and her 
son for him to pay the monthly payments  for the loan  but thats not whats in question here. 
The fact her son had a poor credit history further supports the need for the agreement to be 
set up in this way. 
Its quite possible that the suggestion to set the agreement up in this way came from the 
sales person  but even if this were to be the case,  this doesnt satisfy  me that Ms T didnt 
know what she was entering in to. 
Ms T says her son called to cancel the course  within the cooling off period  but Carnegie  
have no record of these  calls. It is quite possible the call was made  to the supplier  rather  
than Carnegie, if this were  the case and Carnegie failed to cancel the course, this would 
result in a breach of contract and is unfortunately not something our service  can look in to, 
and Ill explain why below.  
In June 2018, Ms T called to notify Carnegie  that her son could no longer fund the course 
and wanted to cancel it. However this was outside of the cooling off period, so I can 
understand why it wasnt cancelled.
In summary,  Im satisfied  Ms T knew she was entering  a credit agreement. 
Misrepresentation-Section 75 claim 
Ms T has complained about the course  and its suitability for her son. As a service we would 
look at complaints of this type under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This is 
because Ms T took out a fixed  sum loan agreement which  is regulated by the Act.
I must decide here what, if anything, Carnegie  should do to resolve Ms Ts complaint. To do 
this, I have to decide what  I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to (amongst other 
things) any relevant  law. In this case, relevant law includes  section 75 of the CCA. 
Section 75 of the CCA provides that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit 
agreement has an equal right to claim against  the credit provider if there  is a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
But there are certain criteria that also need to be satisfied, which  includes establishing a 
direct relationship between the debtor, the creditor and the supplier.
A debtor is the person buying  the goods  or services, a creditor is the credit  provider who 
pays the supplier on behalf of the debtor. A supplier is the party  that actually provides the 
goods or services  to the debtor.
In this case, this means that there should an unbroken link between  Ms T (debtor),  Carnegie 
Consumer Finance (creditor) and the training course  provider  (supplier).
Ref: DRN97683413I think its clear  that her son was the contracting party with the course  provider, and none of 
the parties involved here have denied this  and we have a registration form to evidence  it. 
However, because  Ms Ts son didnt take out the agreement with Carnegie, there is no DCS 
link here for our service  to consider. As I do not think there is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship in these circumstances, I do not think Carnegie has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining Ms Ts section 75 claim. 
Its worth  noting that any breach of contract by Carnegie would  also be bound  by the same 
terms, without a DCS link its not something  our service can look in to further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2020.
Tom Wagstaff
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9768341