K820x#14complaint
Mrs A has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a fee-paying  Advance 
account (previously  called  a Plus account), which was sold to her on 1 June 2007.
Mrs A says that the Advance account  was presented as being the only option available to 
her. She says she didnt understand what she was agreeing to and that she wasnt made 
aware of the features of the account and didnt need  them. She says she just wanted a 
simple account and not the account that was sold to her.
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and they didnt think the Advance  account  
had been mis-sold.
Mrs A disagreed and asked for her complaint  to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website and Ive used that to help me 
decide this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the packaged  bank account was mis-sold to Mrs A. I know this 
will come as a disappointment to Mrs A, but Id like to assure  her that I have considered 
everything she has provided and said.
I think it would be helpful to explain, that where  matters  are either unclear or in dispute,  as 
they are here, I need to decide what I think is most  likely to have happened,  based on the 
evidence that is available. This includes the evidence that both parties  have provided, and 
not just Mrs As recollections of the events on their own.
Ive started by considering whether or not Mrs A was given a fair choice in opening her 
account. 
Mrs A says that when  she opened her account,  HSBC made her think  that she couldnt have 
any other type of account, including free accounts. However, HSBC  has said that its 
account opening process for new customers to the bank involved a discussion around  the 
range of accounts it offered, and only once the customer  indicates  theyd  be interested in the 
Advance account would  it then go through the key features and exclusions  that apply to the 
account with the customer. 
In this case I can see that Mrs A already held a fee-free account with another bank prior to 
opening the Advance account  so I think she was aware that fee-free accounts existed in 
the UK. Mrs A also says she did not understand what she was agreeing  to. But if she didnt 
understand what was being said to her, I think Mrs A was aware she didnt have to agree to 
the account there and then and instead  couldve take the account information  away  with her 
to decide at a later date which account  to open.  
Furthermore, in 2014 HSBC wrote to Mrs A about  changes that were being made to her 
account. Mrs A was given  the option  to not accept the changes and to remove  the fee-
Ref: DRN91141782paying package  from her account   but she didnt remove  the fee-paying package from her 
account. So when  taking everything that I have seen on this case into account, I think its 
more likely that Mrs A agreed  to the Advance account because  she was attracted (at least  
initially) to the features it offered, rather than because she felt she had no choice.
HSBC says it didnt  give Mrs A advice on the suitability of the account when it was sold to 
her. Mrs A has said in our questionnaire that HSBC did advise her to upgrade her account.  
But based  on what Mrs A has said, it doesnt sound as though  HSBC  gave  her a personal 
recommendation, or assessed her insurance needs, during the sale. So I think its likely that 
the account was sold to Mrs A on a non-advised basis.
This means  HSBC didnt  have to check if the account was right for Mrs A. But it was still 
required to give her important information  about  the account, so that she could decide for 
herself whether  to open an Advance account.
Its not clear what exactly was discussed  with Mrs A during the sale.  But I think its likely that 
HSBC, in trying to make the packaged  account  seem attractive to Mrs A, wouldve at least  
explained what the main benefits  of the account were. And Mrs As recollections suggest 
that she was aware the accounts  incurred  a regular fee as well. So, I think  HSBC gave Mrs 
A some information about the Advance  account  when it was sold to her.
Mrs A says that she didnt  need  the benefits.  However, one of the benefits  the account  
provided was fee-free cash withdrawals abroad and travel insurance.  And there is evidence 
Mrs A paid for a trip shortly after she opened  her account. Mrs A says this trip was not for 
her, but for her mum. Mrs A says that she did travel to her home  country occasionally but 
didnt need travel insurance  for those trips. However, HSBC has provided extracts from Mrs 
As bank  statements that show  she occasionally travelled  to various  countries  within  Europe 
over the years she held the account. So I think its possible that Mrs A might  have agreed to 
the account for the travel benefits it provided.
I cant be sure if HSBC  gave Mrs A all of the important  information about the account during 
the sales process. But equally, Ive not seen anything about her circumstances at the time of 
the sale that makes  me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had she been  
given better  information.  
I appreciate that, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, Mrs A may now feel that the account 
has been poor value for money  and regrets opening  a fee-paying  account.  But overall Ive 
not seen enough for me to say that she was mis-sold the Advance account.  I therefore think 
it would  be inappropriate  to require HSBC to refund the fees Mrs A has paid for the account. 
Finally, Mrs A says that she stopped  using her account and feels  that HSBC shouldve  
contacted her to close her account.  However, HSBC has provided evidence  to show  that it 
sent out regular mailings  to all Advance account  holders  to remind them of the benefits and 
features of the account, as well as to inform them of any changes  being made to the 
account. So I think HSBC  took reasonable steps to remind Mrs A about her account  and the 
benefits it came with. Therefore, if Mrs A felt the account was no longer needed or relevant 
to her circumstances,  it was up to her to contact HSBC to close  it. 
Ref: DRN91141783my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9114178