K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains Equifax  Limited has linked incorrect information to his credit  file. He says its
an ongoing issue which has affected him getting  a mortgage.
background
In 2018, Mr S got a credit checking report after he said hed failed a credit  check  when
making a mortgage  application. The credit checking  report had data supplied by four credit
reference agencies  including Equifax. The data supplied by Equifax differed  from the other
agencies as it showed a third address  with adverse  information. Equifax, at first, told him the
adverse information  and address werent on his credit file. But on further  investigation
Equifax contacted the lender, who had created the link, and told Mr S when the link was
removed.
Mr S wasnt  happy with this response  as he said the other  credit  agencies were able to
prevent him being connected  to the address. But Equifax had again added  the address to 
his credit file despite Mr S raising this issue  with them on a number  of occasions. He referred 
his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Equifax should  put a note on Mr S credit file to show that he isnt linked
to the disputed address. She also noted that Mr S felt hed been prevented from getting a
mortgage because  of the adverse information on his credit file. She said that for the trouble
and upset caused to Mr S, he should be compensated  £300.
Mr S disagreed with our investigator; he said he should be awarded more  than £300
compensation because of the errors made by Equifax.  Equifax  also disagreed with the
investigator as it said the information was collated from a credit checking  report,  so Mr S
complaint should  be made against that business. Equifax added that a lender  doesn't  have
to record a link with all credit reference  agencies, so the information held by other  credit
reference agencies  can differ.
Both parties  asked for the complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2019 which said:
Equifax has said its record no longer shows the link to Mr S, and its for him to complain to
the business where he got his credit  checking report. But the business that supplied Mr S
credit checking report relies on the data provided by the credit reference  agencies  and isnt
responsible for that information. So when  looking  at Mr S complaint  I have  considered
whether it is Equifax or the lender(s), not the credit checking business, who is responsible  for
what has happened.
While Equifax store the information, its lenders who tell Equifax what to record. Equifax
doesnt own the information held on Mr Ss credit file  each piece of information  is owned
by the lender which placed it on his file.
Under section 159 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974,  the credit reference  agency (CRA) has
28 days to deal with an objection about an inaccurate entry  on a persons credit file. It may
deal with the objection either by deleting or amending the entry (for example, by adding  a
notice of correction), or by refusing the objection.  If the CRA  refuses  to post the notice it
must tell the consumer  why.
Ref: DRN98386882Mr S brought this complaint because a third address he doesnt  have any connection to was
showing on his credit checking report,  in 2018. But I can see Mr S history  of complaints to
Equifax began sometime before this. So, I can understand his frustration in having to keep
getting the same association removed. I have outlined the history below:
2015  a lender linked Mr S to an address  for another  Mr S with the same  first name,
surname and date of birth. Mr S on becoming aware of this contacted  Equifax to
object to the information being on his file. Equifax took steps  to get the connection
removed.
2016 - Equifax removed the above connection after getting  authorisation from the
lender. But on checking his credit  report Mr S saw the same linked address was still
present. Equifax identified there  had been  a duplicate link made by the same lender,
and saw to remove  this as well.
2017 - the same  address  link was created  by another  lender. Mr S contacted  Equifax,
and after the lender  confirmed it had been  a mistrace,  Equifax removed the link. But
almost immediately afterwards the link was created again, this time because  of
monthly tape updates  sent by lenders. On seeing  this, Equifax removed the
duplicate link.
2018 - Mr S contacted Equifax to dispute the same connection again. Equifax
contacted all of the lenders, and the link was again  removed.
2018 - Mr S, on checking  his credit checking  report, saw that the data provided by
Equifax showed  an additional address and adverse information to the other credit
reference agencies.
When Mr S asked  Equifax  about  the information  it had supplied  to the credit checking  report
he was told that the data wasnt  showing on his credit  file. But on further investigation,  as I
can see from the call logs given to us by Equifax, the same  address link had been created
by another lender. As before, Equifax took the necessary steps to contact the lender  to get
the link removed.
I dont think Equifax had made an error in adding  the information given to it by a lender(s),
for the reasons outlined above.  And I can see that when it gets an objection,  it does take the
steps to get the link removed. But, what I think is critical here, is its the same address each
time that Mr S is being connected to.
Equifax has got, in responses from lenders to its request  to remove the data, information
showing the other Mr S has a different middle initial. And the number of authorisations given
to Equifax by various lenders to remove this connection from Mr S file should in itself show
Mr S doesnt  have any connection  to the linked address.
So, I dont think its unreasonable for Mr S to have  expected Equifax to have made  it clear  on
his credit file that he isnt connected to the address. Especially, given the number of times,
over a number of years it has been shown he isnt linked nor has any connection to the
address.
I have spoken  to Equifax, and although not often used, it has said its possible to add an
alert to Mr S account. The alert wouldnt be visible to Mr S but it would be visible to any
Ref: DRN98386883lender. This alert would let a lender  know that the link to the address has been made before
and Mr S isnt connected to it. And Mr S, provided there isnt a negative  impact on his credit
file, has also agreed to the alert being  added  to his credit file.
I can see Mr S is frustrated by the same  adverse information showing  on his report. And he
said this has caused him to be denied a mortgage and credit card application. But while  that
is possible I cant know what weight would be attached by a lender to any adverse
information as this is dependent on each lenders criterion.
So, I dont think there is enough  evidence to show this has caused Mr S actual financial loss,
but there does seem  to have been a loss of opportunity. I also dont doubt  Mr S has
experienced trouble and upset because  of the information being added to his credit file. But 
its not our role to punish a business  so I think the £300 (as recommended by our 
investigator) is appropriate in this instance.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr S didnt think the provisional decision had taken into account:
the £14.99 a month he was paying  to check his credit file;  
his Equifax credit report  which he said held conflicting information; and 
his mortgage  application has now been  accepted -  which was evidence it was the 
mistrace that was the only reason  hed been rejected.
Mr S was also concerned  that the provisional decision implied that the wrong information 
being linked  to him wasnt an error. And any future  lenders wouldnt consider the note.
Equifax accepted the provisional  decision and made  no further comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But I havent  been persuaded to change  
my decision  - for the reasons given below.
I understand the frustration Mr S feels when he has no connection with the information being  
generated and linked to him. But, as I outlined in my provisional decision, Equifax doesnt  
own the information, its report notes what financial institutions tells it to. In Mr S case,  the 
information linking him to the other Mr S has been generated  by a variety  of lenders. 
And when  Mr S made  Equifax aware that the information shouldnt be linked  to him, it 
followed the process as outlined  in section 159 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974, and looked 
to get the information removed from his credit  file. 
So, the generation of the information wasnt Equifax error but was the result  of reporting 
from lenders. And the impact on Mr S credit rating is as a result of these  records which 
arent of Equifaxs making. 
But Equifax  were slow in looking to add a note to his file to alert future lenders, when  it 
should have been clear, that this link had been made several times to Mr S. And that he 
wasnt associated to it. The trouble and upset  this caused has been reflected in my decision.
Ref: DRN98386884I know Mr S isnt confident that the alert will be seen by future  lenders he applies to, but it 
would be for him to make them aware  if it isnt considered.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint and I require Equifax Limited  
to:
add an alert, visible to all lenders, to Mr S credit file to show that he doesnt have any
connection or association with the other Mr S or the linked address; and
to pay Mr S compensation  for trouble and upset  of £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9838688