K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains that Southern Rock  Insurance Company wrongly  cancelled  her motor  
insurance policy and that she has unfairly incurred personal costs  as a result.
background
Miss T had a motor  insurance policy with Southern Rock under which she made  a claim after 
an accident. Southern Rock realised  that Miss T had previous claims against her insurance
which she hadn't told it about  when  applying for her policy.  It calculated that, as a result  of 
the non-disclosure of the accidents, she had paid around £445  less for her policy  than she 
should have. Southern  Rock demanded that she now pay the extra amount. Miss T wasn't 
happy with that outcome and when  she didn't  pay the amount required her policy  was 
cancelled. As a result she became liable for the costs associated with the claim that she had 
made for the latest incident and this cost her several  hundred pounds in the form of repairs,  
car hire and for damage to her vehicle, which she claimed had occurred whilst with Southern 
Rock's repair  contractor.
Miss T argued  that she hadn't been aware  of the previous claims so shouldn't be held 
responsible for not telling Southern Rock about  them. She felt that the demand for extra 
premiums was unfair, that the resulting cancellation was also unfair,  and that she would now 
incur extra costs to insure cars in future due to the negative impact of having insurance 
cancelled and the need to disclose that to new insurers.
Southern Rock maintained that it had been  right to demand the extra premium and then 
cancel the policy when it wasn't paid.  It said it wasn't responsible  for the costs  that Miss T 
had incurred as a result.
Our adjudicator felt that Southern Rock had acted  unfairly, particularly that it had exceeded 
its powers in demanding the extra premium.  He issued a view telling Southern Rock to 
change its records to remove the cancellation,  to refund any wrongly demanded extra 
premium and to pay the costs of car hire and repairs.
Southern Rock disagreed with that view and asked  that an ombudsman make  a decision on 
this dispute.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I intended  to uphold the complaint. 
My conclusion was that I was satisfied that Miss T had failed to disclose previous claims but 
that Southern  Rock  was wrong to demand  the additional payments. I felt that Southern Rock 
had made  mistakes in its calculations based on incorrect evidence and that it should 
overturn the cancellation of the policy. That would mean that Miss Ts record  would no 
longer show her as having had insurance  cancelled. However, I took the view that even if 
Southern Rock had made  the correct  calculations it was likely  that Miss T would have still 
declined to pay the extra premium. On that basis she should have been allowed  to cancel 
the policy herself. 
I also raised the issue of other aspects of Miss Ts complaint  that hadnt been  fully 
considered. These were  the costs  shed incurred for the hire of a replacement vehicle and 
also for damage that she alleged had occurred to her car while with the repair  garage. There 
was insufficient  information to make  an award at that time. I explained that if I was satisfied 
by further evidence that Miss T had incurred  costs due to the actions of consultants 
Ref: DRN90431162instructed as part of the insurance  claim, and while she was insured prior to cancellation, 
then Southern Rock would need to reimburse those costs.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Southern Rock responded to the provisional  decision with information about the refund of 
unused premiums which I had asked for. Im satisfied that it has properly refunded the 
premiums which were  due after the cancellation of the policy.  Southern  Rock  made no other 
comments about the provisional decision, as they had in fact already conceded prior to the 
decision that they had made an error  and would take the action I recommended  to change 
their records.
Miss T has provided  some information about her costs in response  to the provisional 
decision. Im persuaded by what shes told me that she was required to take a courtesy car 
by the insurers  repair agent even though her car had only suffered light damage. Its 
apparent that after cancellation of the policy she was left to pay the costs  of the hire of the 
car. 
Im satisfied that Southern Rock should  be liable for any car hire costs  for the period from 
when her own car was first taken for repairs until the point that the policy was cancelled.  
While Southern Rock  previously argued  that it hadnt had any part in the decisions around  
the provision of a courtesy car Im satisfied that the agent was acting on its behalf  when 
handling the repairs as part of her insurance policy cover. Southern Rock isnt liable for any 
car hire costs after the cancellation of the policy.
In relation to allegations of damage to her car I havent seen enough evidence to persuade  
me that an award  against Southern Rock is appropriate. Miss T argues that when the car 
was later returned it was damaged and in worse condition than when it went for the initial 
repair. The evidence isnt sufficient  for me to substantiate that claim or tell who was 
responsible for any damage or when it was incurred. I understand that the vehicle was held 
for a time after the policy was cancelled and I havent seen enough evidence  to satisfy me of 
the level of damage  and who was responsible, and whether as a result Southern Rock 
should be accountable. I also understand that at least some work  was ultimately covered by 
the at fault third party following from the original accident. This complaint is against Southern 
Rock. Miss T may choose to pursue her losses with the garage directly. 
my final decision
I uphold this decision in part.
I require Southern Rock Insurance Company to waive  the extra premiums it sought and 
record the policy as having been  cancelled by Miss T.
Southern Rock should reimburse Miss T for any costs she incurred for car hire for the period 
of her insurance cover. This should be paid within 48 days  of submission by Miss T of proof 
of expenditure.  Southern Rock should  also pay interest on these sums at the rate of 8% 
simple form the dates of payment by Miss T to the date of reimbursement.
 
Ref: DRN90431163Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
John Withington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9043116