K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Toyota  Financial Services (UK) Plc misrepresented a finance 
agreement on which he was named as the applicant and not the guarantor. Hed like details 
of the agreement removed from his credit  file and compensation.
background
Mr M is represented  in this complaint by a family member who Ill refer to as N.
On behalf of Mr M, N tells us that Mr M agreed  to act as guarantor for his (Ns)  daughter, 
who Ill refer to as E, in the purchase of a vehicle for her to learn to drive.  He says the 
vehicle was acquired from a dealer Ill refer to as S. And that the vehicle was to be 
registered in the name  of Ns wife, as E couldnt  - at the time - drive for insurance purposes.  
N says it was later discovered  that the agreement  had been drawn up to show Mr M as the 
applicant for the finance and not the guarantor. N says the payments were being made by E 
from her own bank  account. And that the discrepancy was discovered only when E went  to 
change the vehicle and found she wasnt named  on the agreement.  N says hes concerned 
that Mr Ms signature on the agreement was forged - as Mr M never visited Ss premises - 
and feels that the agreement  was fronted.
Toyota said itd acted in good faith and set up the finance agreement on the basis  of the 
documentation with which it had been  provided.  It said the signature of Mr M matched its 
records and there was no proposal of any guarantor for the agreement. Toyota explains that 
its not sent any negative report to the credit reference agencies relating to Mr M. More 
recently Toyota tells us the vehicle has been  collected and the agreement  ended.  And that 
whilst the vehicle had suffered damage which would usually have resulted in a charge of 
£1267.75, it had waived this in view of Mr Ms ill health.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said she hadnt seen 
any information which would show that Mr M was only acting as guarantor. She also found 
that Toyota  had sent out a welcome pack as well as annual statements of the account to 
Mr M. And she felt it wasnt unusual - within  families  - for the finance  to be in a different 
name to that of the registered keeper. She thought Toyota had handled the complaint fairly 
and she wouldnt be asking it to do any more.
On behalf of Mr M, N said he didnt agree with this outcome. He said he thought  the finance 
agreement had been forged. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr M has had to deal with the circumstances  of this complaint at a time when I 
understand hes also suffered from health  problems.
Ref: DRN96742632Given some  of the factors raised in this complaint I think  I ought to explain the limitations of 
my role. The complaint  is brought against  Toyota. And therefore Im only looking at the 
actions of Toyota or the actions  of third parties for which Toyota is liable.  Its not my 
responsibility to directly investigate if theres been  criminal  conduct.  So issues such as 
whether documents have been  forged;  if unauthorised withdrawals were made from Es bank 
account or if theres  been breach of data protection legislation  are not for me to decide.  
Mr Ms hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. And whilst I dont apply  the law - directly  - I do 
take it into account. Relevant law here includes the Consumer Credit  Act of 1974 (CCA). Of 
particular relevance  to the circumstances of this complaint is section 56 CCA.  Summarised,  
this makes the provider  of finance equally liable for any misrepresentation made  by the 
credit broker  in relation  to this agreement. A credit  broker  being the party  which introduces 
the consumer  to the supplier of finance. Here S is both the dealer and the credit broker.
The basis  of Mr Ms complaint is an alleged misrepresentation of the finance agreement  by 
S. A misrepresentation  is a false statement  of fact which induces a consumer to enter an 
agreement and suffer a loss as the result of that misrepresentation. And the alleged 
misrepresentation in this case is that Mr M says he was induced into becoming the applicant 
for finance as opposed to being a guarantor.
Where evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory  - as some of it is here - Im required 
to make my decision on the balance  of probabilities. That is I have to decide the most likely 
explanation to account for whats happened. Ive been provided with a substantial amount of 
information and Ive read through  everything. But if I dont  comment  on something 
specifically, its not because I havent  taken  it on board, its because I dont need to mention 
it separately in order to give reasons for my decision.
Ive seen a detailed chronology of events supplied by N which  outlines his account of the 
circumstances surrounding  the way in which the agreement came about. I think its fair to 
characterise this document as suggesting that S brought about the agreement in Mr Ms 
name by dishonest means and was a party to the agreement being fronted. 
Ive also seen various documents including a copy  of the agreement  allegedly signed by 
Mr M. And Ive seen a copy  of the photo  card of his driving licence bearing  what I take to be 
his authentic signature. Im not a handwriting expert but there are clear  similarities between 
the two images.
Let me say at the outset  that I think its probable that the way in which this agreement  came 
to be finalised was far from ideal. Frankly,  it appears to have been slapdash  and with very 
little attention paid to detail. As examples, it seems  the bank account  details for the monthly 
direct debit payments  were in fact those  of E. But the agreement shows  the bank account 
was purported to be in Mr Ms name. And I can see that a customer  declaration form 
appears to bear the signature  of E and not Mr M. 
I think its also likely that there was some confusion. N has told us that before Mr M agreed 
to act as guarantor thered already been two applications, by E and by her mother  ( to be 
guarantor), which had been declined. Whilst some of these aspects are unsatisfactory, I 
dont think they indicate there was any malign  intent. And I think  its more likely than not that 
there was no misrepresentation - as opposed  to a misunderstanding. 
Ref: DRN96742633Its been explained by N that the intention was to acquire a vehicle for his daughter. It seems  
it was always intended that E would be responsible for the vehicle  and the monthly 
payments. But it seems E was unable, possibly through  age or lack of credit history, to 
obtain finance without some additional  means  of securing payments. Its how those 
payments were to be secured that seems to be the root cause  of this complaint.
Ive seen no information which shows Mr M was proposed as a guarantor  - even if that was 
the original intention. What I have seen is a copy of a finance agreement  which  bears a 
signature which Ive already said I think shows  close  similarities to that depicted on Mr Ms 
photo card driving  licence.  
N has also said that he thinks  its illegal for a finance agreement to be in a different name to 
that of the registered keeper and that it amounts to fronting. Ive assumed on this basis  hes 
asking me to find that the agreement shouldnt  be considered  as valid. Apart from there 
being no information to support his assertion I also dont think its a correct  statement of law.
The name of a registered keeper doesnt  necessarily reflect ownership of the vehicle or who 
is responsible for the finance. In this case,  as finance is being provided through a hire 
purchase agreement,  the ownership remained with Toyota. But the vehicle should  be 
registered as being kept by the person who is the principal user or at whose address the 
vehicle is usually kept. And fronting  would  only occur if the agreement was being taken out 
with a view to disguise who was going  to be the main user. Thats not the case  here as its 
clear that all the parties involved  knew the intention was for E to be the main user.
I suspect whats probably  happened is that a combination of circumstances led to all parties 
who were involved with the transaction - and no doubt being keen to conclude  it - being less 
careful about detail  than shouldve been  the case. Ive no doubt that E was keen to acquire 
the vehicle, Mr M was happy  to assist and S was wishing to conclude  a sale. 
N has informed me that Mr M is adamant  he didnt sign any finance documents  relating to 
this vehicle but that he did sign a guarantor form. However, Ive not seen anything to show a 
guarantor form was signed and theres  no record of any such proposal on Toyotas systems.  
And whilst N thinks the signatures  on the finance agreement were  lifted, Ive not seen 
plausible information  to support this.
I accept that Mr M believes he only signed  a form to be guarantor.  But signing a guarantor  
form doesnt mean he didnt also sign the finance  agreement. And its relevant to note that 
the parties in this case are being  asked  to recollect  what happened more than two years 
previously. I doubt  if many  of us would be able to accurately recall precise details after such 
a period - especially  as the signing of forms would  probably take only a few seconds. On a 
balance of probabilities I think its more likely than not that Mr M did sign the agreement 
form. That he no longer  recalls doing  so does not alter my opinion.
And whilst it wouldnt change what happened earlier, its worth noting that Toyota sent out a 
welcome pack and annual statements to Mr M. These items of correspondence also dont 
seem to have resulted  in any concerns being raised.
Despite all the uncertainties,  I think the key to this complaint is to look at what actually  
happened and compare it with what the parties  intended. 
Ref: DRN96742634E wished  to acquire a vehicle for her own use so that she could learn to drive. She expected 
to pay for the vehicle  through direct debits taken  from her own account. And thats whats  
happened. It seems  the only material detail that was different to what  E and Mr M intended 
was that the agreement ended up in his sole name rather than with E being the borrower 
and him simply being a guarantor.
In practical terms this didnt increase the risk which Mr M was taking. A guarantor  would 
potentially be liable  for any shortfall in payments in the same way as the borrower.  And 
whilst the agreement has appeared on Mr Ms credit file it isnt the subject  of any adverse 
reports. And as its now been terminated his credit file will presumably show  a fully settled 
agreement. So Mr M hasnt suffered any financial loss for which  it would be fair and 
reasonable to expect  Toyota to compensate.
N has also mentioned  the effects on E. But E is not the complainant so I cant  look further at 
this. But out of courtesy - and without making any formal findings - I acknowledge the 
concerns expressed. But apart  from the agreement not appearing on her credit  file Ive seen  
nothing to suggest shes suffered any loss or detriment.
In summary,  I think Toyota  has acted fairly  in dealing with this complaint. It was entitled  to 
act upon the documents  it received. And it provided finance on this basis. Ive seen no 
information which leads  me to think  there was a misrepresentation (as opposed to a 
misunderstanding). Nor is there plausible evidence of fronting. Its hard to see what benefit  
wouldve accrued  from such  conduct. It seems  likely  the sale of the vehicle wouldve 
proceeded even  if Mr M had been  the guarantor.
Whilst I know it will come as a disappointment  to Mr M, Ive reached the same conclusion as 
our adjudicator and for similar reasons. Im not therefore, upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9674263