K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave  them an incorrect  IBAN for 
their current  account when attempting to obtain compensation from their airline. 
background
Last year, Mr and Mrs M were offered €500 in compensation by their airline for being put on 
standby in an international airport for several  hours. In order  to credit  the compensation, the 
airline asked Mr and Mrs M for the International Bank Account Number  (IBAN) for their UK 
bank account.
In October  2018, Mr M phoned Barclays to ask for their IBAN  which  they then gave to the 
airline. Mr and Mrs M say the advisor  gave them an incorrect IBAN. As a result of this, Mr 
and Mrs M didnt receive their €500 compensation and they believe it was credited to an 
unknown account.  So Mr and Mrs M have asked for Barclays  to pay the €500 compensation  
instead.
Barclays say that the advisor didnt give Mr and Mrs M an IBAN during the call but instead 
directed Mr M to his account statement for this information. Barclays  say they dont feel 
theyre responsible  for the lost €500. Barclays acknowledge  that the advisor could have 
been more helpful during a previous call to Mr M so Barclays  have paid £25 compensation in 
recognition of this which Mr and Mrs M didnt  accept at first.
Mr and Mrs M were  unhappy with Barclays response,  so they referred  the complaint to 
our service.  Our adjudicator didnt think Barclays had given Mr and Mrs M incorrect  
information but was satisfied the £25 offer of compensation was fair. Mr and Mrs M 
disagreed. They remained of the opinion  that theyd been given incorrect  information and 
asked our service to identify the account the compensation  has gone to. The complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M say they didnt know what an IBAN was and they werent told by Barclays that 
this information  was on their bank account statement. They say Barclays gave them an IBAN  
relating to a different bank  - one which they dont hold an account with. 
Barclays have sent me a recording of the call between their advisor  and Mr M. In this call, 
the advisor asks Mr M what reference numbers the airline asked him to obtain. After 
confirming it was a BIC and an IBAN, the advisor asked Mr M to refer to the top right of his 
bank statement for this information. Mr M confirmed that he could see the information  the 
advisor referred to. I didnt  hear the advisor give Mr M any details of the account  directly in 
this conversation - he only told Mr M where  to find the information on his account statement.
Barclays have also sent me a copy of some of Mr and Mrs Ms account statements from the 
time. I can see the IBAN  and BIC are listed in the top right hand  corner of the statement, just 
as the advisor  told Mr M it would  be during  the call. So I dont think  Barclays  gave Mr and 
Mrs M incorrect information during  the call.
Ref: DRN95104232Ive got a copy of an email  Mr and Mrs M sent to the airline, querying the missing payment, 
which shows the IBAN  they say they were given  by Barclays.  And I can see the IBAN on the 
account statement  isnt the same. As Ive already explained, the IBAN  wasnt  provided by 
Barclays during the call Ive listened to. So its not clear to me where  Mr and Mrs M got the 
IBAN they gave to the airline. 
Mr and Mrs M say there was another call they had with Barclays  where  they were given the 
incorrect IBAN. According  to Barclays records, there was only one other call around that 
time and this took place after the compensation payment  had already been  made  by the 
airline. I cant see any evidence to suggest  another  call took place and I have some  difficulty 
understanding why theyd  have called back after the first call  the banks advisor was clear  
and Mr M says he could see the IBAN  on his account statement. On balance,  I think  there 
was only one call and thats the one that Ive listened to.
I note Mr and Mrs Ms comment  that they want our service to identify the account of the 
recipient bank of the compensation. But its not our services role to identify where  the 
compensation may have gone  to. However,  as Mr and Mrs M are aware of who the recipient 
bank are, they can contact them about  the compensation should they wish to. In this case, 
Ive looked at if Barclays have done  anything wrong. I appreciate  this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs M but based  on everything Ive seen;  I dont think  Barclays did 
anything wrong.
As Mr and Mrs M accepted  the £25 compensation from Barclays for the service they 
received on a previous call with a Barclays advisor, I havent reviewed this part of their 
complaint in my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9510423