K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains about the service shes received from Computershare Investor Services Plc 
in relation to her employee share scheme. 
background
Mrs P was employed by a company L and was a member of their employee share scheme 
which is administered by Computershare. In February 2018 she received a letter which  
notified her that another company G may be acquiring L and explained her options in 
relation to her share scheme. 
There were various options she could  choose  and she was required to give her instructions 
by 21 March 2018. Mrs P contacted Computershare numerous times for assistance in giving 
her instructions. 
She says she was told in a phone call that shed done all she needed to. She later learned  
that her instructions  hadnt been  received  or acted upon and complained. She would like 
Computershare to put her in the position  she would have been in, had her instructions been 
received and followed. 
Computershare responded to the complaint  and explained that Mrs P hadnt given her 
instructions online as shed thought. Mrs P provided evidence of an email  acknowledgment 
shed received. But Computershare pointed out this related to voting on the corporate action 
and not providing  instructions in relation to the scheme. They say that as they never 
received the instructions, they hadnt done anything wrong. And they denied having informed 
Mrs P that everything was in place. 
Being unhappy with this response, Mrs P referred  her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators didnt  think  it should be upheld. She concluded that Computershare werent  at 
fault. As she still disagrees,  Mrs P has asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considerable  sympathy for Mrs P, and I have no doubt that she wanted  to exercise 
her options  within the share scheme.  But I can only consider the actions of Computershare 
and to what extent,  if at all, they are responsible for Mrs P not exercising her options. Based 
on all Ive seen, Im not persuaded that they are  so Im not upholding  this complaint. Let 
me explain why.
The form Mrs P received in February  2018 set out her options. In summary it allowed her to 
exercise her options within the share  scheme plan early, ahead  of the takeover. It said If 
you do wish to exercise your Option(s) you will need  to log on to the online Computershare 
portal and submit an online instruction It went on to say that You may also fill in the Mix 
and Match Election  form on the employee online account if you wish to vary the form of 
consideration you may receive for your [L] shares.
I dont think these instructions are misleading. Mrs P says she wanted to acquire all the 
shares she could. So she needed to provide an online instruction via the Computershare  
Ref: DRN99623922portal to exercise  her options  to buy shares within the share scheme. And submit  a Mix and 
Match form as she wanted her full consideration to be in shares, rather than shares and 
cash in relation to the takeover. 
I accept Mrs P wanted guidance  to make sure shed done all she needed  to, and this is 
supported by the number of calls she made  to Computershare. On 22 February 2018 Mrs P 
called Computershare and was helped  to find the Mix and Match  form online. 
On 2 March 2018 Mrs P received a reminder  of her options. This included  the web address 
to exercise her options in relation to the share  scheme and also a separate  web address to 
access the Mix and Match form. This prompted Mrs P to call Computershare  again on 
5 March 2018. She questioned having received the reminder and asked  Computershare to 
check that shed  done everything  correctly. She said shed sent the form in the previous 
week and had been online. It was discussed  that it was likely, due to bad weather the UK 
was experiencing at the time, that they were yet to receive the form. It was arranged that the 
plan manager  would  call her back to confirm receipt  of the form. 
Ive listened to that call and have  thought  carefully about this point. Mrs P does mention that 
she wants to check things  have  been done correctly. But the focus of the conversation  is 
very much about whether  or not Computershare had received the Mix and Match  form. So I 
dont think Computershare handled this call poorly or were  unreasonable in not checking 
further that Mrs P had given her instructions online.  The enquiry was mainly about the 
receipt of the Mix and Match form and a call back was arranged  in this regard.
Mrs P was called back by the plan manager on 9 March 2018. Unfortunately  Computershare 
havent been able to provide a recording  of this call. Mrs P says she was reassured  on the 
phone that all her instructions had been received and all she needed to do was wait for the 
shares to appear  in her account. 
Computershare asked the plan manager  about  her recollections of the call. She said that 
Mrs P told her shed submitted her online election.  She explained that her system didnt 
allow her to see whether  or not that was the case,  but she had no reason to question  what  
Mrs P said.  She also says she confirmed to Mrs P that her Mix and Match form had been 
safely received. 
Where there are conflicting accounts, I have to make a judgement  as to what I think is most 
likely to have happened. Essentially Computershare say Mrs P failed to give her instructions 
as she had voted  on the corporate action online,  received  confirmation  of this and mistakenly 
thought that she had given her instructions in relation to the share  scheme. 
There is evidence to support that this is what happened. When Mrs P approached our 
service she presented the email confirmation that her vote had been  received as proof that 
she had provided  instructions.  Based  on this I think its most likely that the focus of Mrs Ps 
enquiry was on the safe receipt of her Mix and Match form as she was clearly  under the 
impression she had already provided  her instructions online. 
Im not persuaded that Computershare have done anything wrong by only providing 
confirmation of receipt  of the Mix and Match form and accepting what they say Mrs P said in 
relation to having already  provided instructions online. 
The plan manager also confirmed that she wouldnt have been  able to access the system to 
see if the online instruction had been  provided. So I think it would be unlikely that she would 
Ref: DRN99623923have confirmed this without checking   which would have required her to make enquires 
elsewhere within Computershare.  So I conclude its more likely than not that Mrs P wasnt  
told in that phone call that her online  instruction had been  received. 
I accept that Mrs P has provided certain information about what she was expecting to 
receive in terms of the numbers of shares etc. I agree its likely there  was some discussion 
as to what she might expect following the corporate action. But Im not persuaded this 
means she was categorically told that everything  had been correctly  completed.  And in order 
for Computershare to have acted on Mrs Ps instructions, they would have needed to have 
received them.
I have considerable  sympathy for the position Mrs P finds herself in. But for me to be able to 
direct Computershare  to reimburse her the cost of the lost opportunity from not exercising 
her share scheme options, Id need  to be persuaded Computershare  made an error which 
caused this. And whilst I understand this will be disappointing for Mrs P, on the available  
evidence, I dont think I can fairly come to that conclusion. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9962392