K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that a bicycle he purchased using credit from V12 Retail  Finance  Limited  
(V12) was not of satisfactory quality and that they were wrong to reject a claim he made to 
them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section  75).
background 
Mr M bought  a new bike from a company Ill call T in April 2017. He financed the deal 
through a fixed  sum loan with V12.
Mr M says hes had problems with the bike. When  he received the bike he says the front 
water bottle skewer wasnt fitted and shortly afterwards a bike shop noted that the front 
brake was missing a spring tension screw.
In September  the front water bottle fell off and the frame got dented  during a race.
Mr M tried to resolve the issue with T but they frequently failed to respond.  So he contacted  
V12. He said that section  75 allowed  him to make  a like claim to them as the provider of 
credit.
V12 said there were  no complaints made within 30 days and Mr M had not demonstrated the 
faults were there from the beginning. They noted  that hed provided a report  from a bike 
shop in June 2018 which suggested  the aerobar  wasnt fitted correctly but they didnt think 
hed demonstrated  that was the case at the beginning so they couldnt say thered been a 
breach of contract.  They  did offer to refund the repair costs Mr M had incurred.
Mr M didnt  agree. He referred his complaint to this service but our adjudicator thought  V12 
had been reasonable  when offering a refund of the repair costs  and he didnt think  they 
needed to do any more. He said T were  entitled  to repair  the fault as it was reported 
outside of the thirty day period under which  legislation would allow Mr M to return  the bike. 
He thought the subsequent problem, in September when  the water  bottle  fell off, was more 
likely to be the result of human error and, as it happened after five months, he thought there 
wasnt evidence it was there from the beginning.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with the adjudicators response. He said V12 hadnt done enough and 
he was disappointed that the bike had taken two years to set up correctly. He therefore 
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr M so please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN96029582board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr M made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed  sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money  paid through  a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Im persuaded that the bikes brakes  were not set up correctly  at the beginning. But I think 
its reasonable to suggest Mr M accepted a repair to the brakes  and it appears this repair  
was successful. 
The front water bottle  fell off five months later and I dont think  it would be fair to suggest that 
was due to a problem that was present when the bike was delivered. I say that because:
Mr M has explained the front water  bottle skewer wasnt fitted  when the bike was 
delivered. So I think if there was a problem with fitting it would be unreasonable to 
hold T responsible. It seems  likely  the water bottle was fitted  by Mr M;
and even if Im wrong about that I think its more  likely the water bottle would have 
fallen off through wear and tear than through a fault at the point of supply.
Ive read the report Mr M provided from June 2018. It suggests there are problems with the 
tri stick fitting. But this report is provided over a year after purchase and I therefore dont 
think it would  be fair to suggest  the faults highlighted were there from inception.  The repairer 
doesnt suggest so in his report either.
V12 have  offered to refund the repair costs  Mr M incurred if he provides receipts  and I think 
thats a fair resolution in the circumstances. But Im not asking V12 to take any additional 
action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell V12 Retail Finance 
Limited to refund the repair costs Mr M incurred. Mr M will need  to provide receipts.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN96029583
Ref: DRN9602958