K821x#15Complaint
Mr R says Gain Credit  LLC (trading as Drafty) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
Mr R approached Drafty for a running  credit facility in April 2017. This was a running credit  
account where a consumer could either  request funds up to their agreed credit  limit in one 
go or take multiple  drawdowns up to their limit  but the minimum drawdown was £50. 
It seems  Mr R had some  problems repaying  his facility  and it would appear that the current  
outstanding balance on this facility is part of an IVA. 
In our adjudicators latest findings  he didnt  think Drafty shouldve  allowed Mr R to continue 
to use the facility after December 2017.  He thought that by December 2017 Mr R had been  
using the facility for around eight months and hadnt made any headway  into reducing  what  
he owed Drafty. The adjudicator  thought  that Drafty  ought to have carried out further checks, 
by December 2017. But in this case  he thought  the pattern of lending was enough to 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr R appears  to have agreed  with the adjudicators recommendation.
Drafty didnt  agree with the adjudicators view. It made a number of points,  including;  
throughout the course of Mr R having  the facility contacted  him to see whether  his 
situation had changed and in October 2017 he told Drafty that his income had 
increased to £1,900
Mr Rs use of the facility was in line with what Drafty was expecting  
Mr R was not given  a payday  loan and each drawdown wasnt  required to be repaid 
in 12 months. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has now been passed  to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
When the facility  was approved, Drafty  needed  to take proportionate steps to ensure a 
consumer would be able to repay  what they were borrowing in a sustainable  manner without 
it adversely impacting on their financial situation.  Put simply, Drafty had to gather  enough  
information so that it could  make  an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance  didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.  And any checks  had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, and when that was due to be repaid.
Ref: DRN90349522But to be clear, Mr R wasnt given a payday  loan where he had to repay  all of what he 
borrowed plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility where there  
was an expectation  that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within  a 
reasonable period of time.  However,  the credit agreement provided to this service, does 
show an assumption about how much Mr R will need to repay  if what is borrowed is repaid 
within 12 months. 
Mr R could repay what he borrowed  more  quickly, if he wished. So overall, I think  that this 
means the checks Drafty carried  out had to provide enough  information for it to be able to 
understand whether Mr R would likely be able to service and then repay  this facility within a 
reasonable period of time.
As Ive said,  Mr R was granted a running credit facility with a £1,020  limit. According to the 
credit agreement, had he drawn down the full amount on the first day of having the facility, 
and run the facility  for 12 months,  he wouldve  paid a total of £1,368.30, meaning the 
monthly repayment Mr R would be expected to make would be around £114. So, I think this 
is the monthly amount that Drafty  needed to check could be repaid.  
 
Before granting the facility  Drafty  asked Mr R about his monthly  income, which  he confirmed 
was £1,700 per month and he also declared expenditure of £1,000  per month. On top of this, 
Drafty has also told us that it completed a credit  check. Ive seen the results  of this check 
and there  isnt anything in the results which wouldve  given Drafty cause for concern.  Based 
on the information that Drafty gathered it seemed that Mr R would be able to afford the 
repayments he was committed  to making.  
Normally, at the start of the lending relationship, it would reasonable for Drafty to have relied 
on the information it was provided. So, generally, we may have felt that Drafty  didnt need  to 
do any more before providing  this facility. However, taking into account the individual 
circumstances of this case  I dont think Drafty needed to do more before this facility was 
granted. 
However, that isnt the end of the matter. At the time that Mr R had his facility, Drafty was 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA).  The FCA guidance is set out in the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Section 6.7.2R  of CONC says:
A firm must monitor a customers  repayment  record and take appropriate action  
where there  are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
So it wasnt  enough  for Drafty to just rely on what Mr R told it when he was initially  approved  
the facility in order to demonstrate that Mr R wasnt having financial difficulties. Drafty 
needed to actively  monitor how Mr R used  the facility because  it needed to be sure that Mr R 
was or was likely having  financial  difficulties. 
As Ive explained above Drafty  needed  to carry out reasonable  checks  before the facility was 
approved, and then monitor how Mr Rs use of the facility through  his repayment record to 
look for signs of financial  difficulties.
In this case, the adjudicator believed  that by December 2017   so around eight months after 
the facility was approved Mr R was showing signs of financial difficulty based on his 
repayment history. 
Ref: DRN90349523This was based on a pattern whereby, almost  every month, repaid he the minimum payment 
and then immediately,  returned for further credit   and he took the maximum amount he 
could. So the adjudicator  wasnt  satisfied  that Mr R was making headway into what he owed  
Drafty.
In order to see whether  I think  it was right to have allowed  Mr R to continue  to draw down 
from December 2017, Ive considered the relationship  between  when repayments were 
made to Drafty, the value  of those payments, and then when Mr R returned  for further 
borrowing. After all, if Mr R was making  significant repayments to Drafty,  and then quickly  
drawing down a similar sum again,  this might have indicated that he wasnt  using the facility 
as it was designed to be used, and he therefore may not have been able to afford the 
repayments.
I agree  with the adjudicator that what Drafty was expecting to see wasnt happening  by now.  
Under the credit agreement, Mr R to repay what he borrowed within a reasonable period of 
time  but this clearly wasnt happening. Indeed, by December 2017 Mr R had been  using 
the facility for eight  months and had made  no headway into repaying what  he had borrowed. 
Instead, Mr R was effectively merely  servicing the debt,  not reducing  it. 
Mr R appears  to have drawn down  on the facility eight times between  April and November 
2017. During this period a payment was taken each month for what  appears  to be the 
minimum repayment, with each repayment being made on or close  to the last working day of 
each month.
However, frequently, such as in July, September,  October and November after the 
repayment was made  Mr R returned with a short space of time (sometimes the following 
day) in order to drawdown the maximum he could under the facility  in most cases this was 
only around £20. To me this suggests  that Mr R was more  likely than not having  to come 
back to re-borrow to cover the hole left in his finances as a result of him having recently 
made a payment. It was therefore no longer sustainable for Drafty to keep lending to Mr R  
and it shouldve known  this based on his repayment pattern. 
I appreciate Drafty says that in October 2017 it asked Mr R for some information about  his 
situation  and Drafty says that he actually  reported  an increase in his monthly income  to 
£1,900. But this reported increase in income is inconsistent with what  was happening with 
the way Mr R was using the facility as described  above. So I dont  think Drafty met its 
obligations under  the regulations by jus accepting the information in face of the clear 
evidence it had. 
So Im partly upholding Mr Rs complaint and Drafty  shouldnt have allowed him to take any 
new funds from 1 December 2017.
putting things right  what I think  Drafty needs  to do
If the debt has been  sold to a third party, Drafty should, if it wishes,  buy the debt back and 
then carry out the redress  below. If it isnt able to, or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it 
needs to work with the third party to achieve  the same  results.
Remove all unpaid  interest, fees and charges that were  added as a result of 
drawdowns from 1 December 2017,
Ref: DRN90349524Drafty  should rework the account  balance from 1 December 2017  so that any 
repayment made to Drafty or the third party went towards the outstanding balance  
due. 
If and when Mr R had repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment  
should be refunded to Mr R. To this overpayment  8% simple a year interest  should  
be added  from the date of the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*;
However, if after doing the above,  an outstanding principal balance remains,  Drafty 
should make an arrangement with Mr P to repay  the balance  in line with the terms 
of the IVA. But Id remind the lender of its obligation to treat Mr P fairly an.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ps credit file as a result  of not
stopping the facility from 1 December 2017.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
It is my understanding that Mr R entered an IVA in November 2018  and his practitioner has 
told this service that they have an interest in any refund. So its up to Mr R to make sure that 
he fulfils his obligations under the terms of the IVA.  
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Mr Rs complaint.  
Gain Credit LLC should  put things right for Mr R as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9034952