K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Aviva  Insurance Limited  declined  Mrs As private  health  
insurance claim.
background
Mr and Mrs A took out private health insurance with Aviva starting  on 1 May 2016  
underwritten on a moratorium basis.
In January 2018 Mr A called to make  a claim for Mrs A. He told Aviva  Mrs A had seen a 
specialist about  sciatica and was having a MRI scan the next day. He said Mrs A had been 
suffering with sciatica down her left side since 1 January 2018. He also said she had sciatica  
at the end of 2011.
In the call Aviva told Mr A there was no cover for the treatment as the condition was pre-
existing before the policy started. Mr A disputed the problem was the same and Aviva  told 
him to send  a claim so it could look at the issue in detail.
Mrs A submitted a claim form for treatment of sciatica to the left side.  Aviva declined  the 
claim. It said the medical evidence from Mrs As GP and her specialist physician in 
musculoskeletal (MSK)  and sports medicine  (who Ill refer to as Dr M) showed Mrs A had 
treatment for the same condition in 2014. As Mrs A had treatment for the condition in the five 
years before the start of the policy there was no cover under the policy  terms.
Mr and Mrs A complained to us, represented  by a solicitor.  They  said Aviva hadnt taken into 
account the evidence they provided  from Mrs As consultant in anaesthesia and pain 
medicine (who Ill refer to as Dr S). Dr S opinion was that Mrs A's 2014 sciatica  was caused 
by a problem with her L5/S1 disc whereas the 2018 sciatica was caused by her L4/5 disc. 
She thought  the two episodes were  separate. Mr and Mrs A said Dr S evidence  showed 
Mrs As 2018 condition was different to her 2014 condition.
Our investigator thought that Dr S opinion  meant  Aviva couldnt fairly  decline the claim on 
the basis it was a pre-existing condition. Our investigator recommended Aviva  pay the claim 
in line with the remaining policy terms and pay £150  compensation for Mrs As distress  and 
inconvenience.
Aviva disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. It provided detailed  medical evidence 
from its chief medical officer (CMO).  Ive asked our investigator to send the new evidence to 
Mr and Mrs As representative so they can see the detail. In summary Aviva  said:
Sciatica is when the sciatic nerve,  which runs from hips to feet, is irritated.  Its caused  
by compression or irritation to a nerve root. The nerve root is the segment of the 
nerve as it comes off the central spine cord. The sciatic  nerve  is derived from roots 
L3/4 to S3 so problems between any of these  levels can give sciatica.
Its impossible  for Dr S to say the 2018 problem  is at a different disc level from 2014  
as there  is no MRI scan from 2014 to compare to the 2018 scan.
The medical records say Mrs A had caudal epidurals in the past, not low caudal as 
Dr S suggests. The injection is into the caudal  epidural space  which contains the 
nerve roots from where the spinal cord ends (usually  L1 or 2) to Sacral level 2. So 
problems with any of the nerve roots between these  levels could have benefitted 
from the previous  injections.
Ref: DRN97174772Dr S opinion shouldnt override Dr Ms opinion, as Mr and Mrs A suggest.  A 
specialist physician in MSK and sports medicine will usually spend much more time 
assessing MRI scans than an anaesthetist will. Dr S doesnt declare specialist 
qualifications as an MSK radiologist on her note paper.
The above means Dr S couldnt say Dr M previously treated Mrs A for an L5/S1 
problem or the 2014 problem had to have been  on the L5/S1 disc level.  So Dr S 
couldnt say the 2018 problem is entirely  separate from the 2014  problem.
Dr M is the only treating doctor to see Mrs A in 2014 and 2018 and his opinion,  that 
Mrs As 2018 problem is a recurrence/relapse of her previous one, should be the 
preferred opinion.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  that I was intending to not uphold  the complaint.  I said:
The relevant  rules  and industry guidelines  say that Aviva  has a responsibility  to handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I think it is reasonable for 
Aviva to reject Mrs As claim.
The policy doesnt  cover  treatment of:
any pre-existing condition, or any related  condition,  if you had:
 symptoms of
 medication for
 diagnostic  tests for
 treatment for, or
 advice about
that condition  in the five years before you joined the policy.
The policy will cover  a pre-existing condition if:
you do not have:
 medication for
 diagnostic  tests for
 treatment for, or
 advice about
that condition  during  a continuous  two year period after you join the policy.
The start date of the policy  is 1 May 2016. So if Aviva fairly said the 2014  and 2018 sciatica  
was the same condition  it is a pre-existing  condition  as it occurred in the five years  before 
the start of the policy. Mrs As claimed for sciatica  started in late 2017/early 2018, so within  
two years after she started the policy.
There are differing medical  opinions in this case.  I wont repeat all the details. Briefly, Dr Ms 
evidence from 2018 is that hed known  Mrs A for three years with exercise  induced  sciatica.  
His reference to Mrs As 2018  sciatica as a relapse suggests a connection  with previous 
episodes. Mrs As GP says on the claim form that the 2018  condition is exacerbation of 
exercise induced  sciatica.
Dr S doesnt dispute that Mrs A has a history of sciatica on the left side.  Her view is that a 
different disc caused the problem each  time.
Ref: DRN97174773Dr S says as a low level caudal injection helped Mrs A in 2014 that suggests the problem 
was at the L5/S1disc. The 2018  MRI scan shows the disc bulge was at L4/5, which  she 
treated. Dr S opinion is:
the condition in November 2014  was a distinctly different problem from that with 
which (Mrs A) presented to me in January 2018. It was highly likely at a different 
vertebral level.
Mr and Mrs As point  is that as the disc causing  the sciatica in 2018  was probably different to 
the disc causing the sciatica in 2014  there is no pre-existing  condition and the exclusion 
doesnt apply.
Avivas CMOs evidence does give doubt to Dr S opinion that the 2014  problem was due to 
the L5/S1 disc. Dr Ms evidence in 2014 says there  was stiffness from L4 to S1 in Mrs As 
spine. I understand  that range includes the L4/5 disc which  caused the 2018 problem and 
that L5/S1 is the next disc down to L4/L5. Dr Ms evidence is that he gave Mrs A caudal 
epidurals in the past, not low caudal, and Aviva's medical evidence is that such  injections 
can give relief at a wider range than just L5/S1.
But even if I was persuaded that Mrs As 2018  sciatica was caused  by a different  disc I have 
to decide if Aviva fairly said the condition was still the same,  and I think  it did.
Mrs As claimed for treatment of sciatica on her left side. The medical  condition  is sciatica 
and there's no dispute that Mrs S had sciatica in 2014. This isnt a case  where  one of the 
episodes of sciatica was brought on by something fundamentally different, for example  a 
serious trauma. The medical  evidence is that in 2014  and 2018  the sciatica was on her left 
side and exercise  induced.
Also, the medical evidence is that sciatica can happen through  problems with the sciatic  
nerve from roots L3/4 to S3. So I think its reasonable for Aviva  to conclude the sciatica  
wasnt a different medical condition just because the problem was with a different disc in 
Mrs As spine,  particularly when the discs are next to each other.
Overall, I think Aviva  reasonably said Mrs As left side sciatica is a pre-existing condition that 
she had in the five years before the policy started. It fairly declined the claim.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs A didnt  agree. They asked  to submit evidence from Mrs As honorary consultant 
neurosurgeon and spinal  surgeon  (who  Ill refer to as Mr T). Hed looked at Mrs As 2018 
MRI scans, recommended what treatment Mrs A needed in 2018  and did the surgery in 
2018. They  wanted to get his opinion on whether Mrs A had a pre-existing condition. They 
also said Aviva  should  have contacted Mr T for his opinion  in 2018.
I agreed to Mr and Mrs A submitting new evidence. They  sent a letter  from Mr T dated 
September 2018, shortly before Mrs A had surgery. They also sent a new letter from Dr S 
and her profile. 
Mr and Mrs As solicitor  made several points on their behalf, which Ill summarise below. 
Their letter  sometimes refers to Dr M in error  rather than Dr S. For example, the letter  reads 
It cannot be correct  that Aviva discounted Dr Ms evidence. Given  Avivas evidence, Mr and 
Mrs A must mean the letter to read It cannot  be correct that Aviva discounted Dr S 
Ref: DRN97174774evidence. Ive changed Mr and Mrs As references to the correct  doctor  in my summary  
below.
In summary  Mr and Mrs A said:
Aviva's CMO isnt medically  qualified and hasnt given a medical opinion, just an 
assumption.
They didnt accept  Avivas point that Dr S couldnt accurately say Mrs A 2018 
problem is for a different disc than in 2014  as there  was no MRI scan  from 2014 to 
compare to the 2018 scan. Dr S treats patients with chronic spine pain on a daily 
basis. It was Dr M who hadnt  reviewed  Mrs A in 2018 so he had no knowledge of the 
symptoms at that time.
Dr S doesnt dispute that Mrs A has a history of sciatica but she thinks Mrs As 
problems in 2014 and 2018  were with different discs so not the same medical 
condition. They didnt  accept Aviva could fairly say the medical condition was the 
same even  if they were  different  discs  as Dr S said they were  unconnected events.
Mr Ts letter supported Dr S opinion that in 2018  Mrs A had a problem at the L4/L5  
disc. His letter also confirmed she had a problem with her L5/S1 disc. Mr and Mrs A 
said she had her laminectomy on both, which were  separate conditions.
Mr and Mrs A accepted she had a pre-existing  condition at her L5/S1 disc. But they 
said the problem  at her L4/5 disc wasnt pre-existing. They  are only claiming 
treatment for the L4/5 disc.
Their solicitor, who deals with spinal injury personal injury and clinical  negligence 
claims, disputes Avivas CMOs  point that an injection to the L5/S1 disc can give 
wider relief than just the L5/S1  disc.
Aviva  shouldnt ignore  the expert  medical evidence of Dr S and Mr T who had spent 
considerable time with and/or operated on Mrs A. Aviva couldnt rely on a quick  
examination by Dr M, who is less qualified. Aviva  was unreasonable  to completely  
decline the claim.
We sent Mr and Mrs As new evidence to Aviva  and asked for its comments.  Aviva  provided 
details of its CMO medical qualifications  and referred to evidence previously provided. In 
summary its new points are:
Aviva  had assessed all the medical evidence Mr and Mrs A provided.
There are several inaccuracies in Mr and Mrs As solicitors  September  2019  letter.  
For example, Dr M did review Mrs As case in 2018  as his January 2018  letter  refers  
to the MRI scan performed that month.
From  2014 to 2018 Dr M described  Mrs A as having the same symptoms, with no 
significant change  and makes the same diagnosis. Aviva agreed with Dr Ms opinion 
that long standing canal stenosis has caused  Mrs As sciatica.
Mr Ts letter confirmed Mrs As long established  diagnosis of canal stenosis. Aviva 
agrees that problems  at more than one disc level can cause Mrs As spinal stenosis. 
Mr Ts letter isnt compatible with Dr S opinion that in 2018  Mrs A had no problem at, 
or symptoms from, her L5/S1 disc. Mr Ts letter  doesnt say her L4/5 disc problem 
wasnt a result of a pre-existing condition. He said her symptoms correlate with her 
long standing L5/S1  disc problem.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN97174775Ive taken into account all Mr and Mrs A have said although Ive summarised their main 
points. Their evidence  hasnt changed  my mind and I dont uphold  the complaint. Ill explain  
why.
The expert evidence  Ive taken into account  is from Mrs As GP, Dr M, Dr S, Mr T and 
Avivas CMO. Im satisfied  that all are suitably qualified to give expert medical advice in the 
case. I havent taken  into account  Mr and Mrs As solicitors evidence  about the effect  of the 
injection on a disc as to my knowledge  she isnt a qualified medical expert. 
Mrs As policy doesnt cover her for treatment of any pre-existing condition,  or any related 
condition as Ive described above.  The issue is whether Aviva can fairly say that Mrs As 
2018 sciatica was a pre-existing condition or a related medical  condition  to her 2014  sciatica.
Theres no dispute that Mrs A had a history of sciatica. Mr and Mrs As point  is that if she 
had a problem  with different discs in 2014  and 2018 then she had a different medical 
condition. They say that her L5/S1 disc is a pre-existing condition.  They  have now clarified  
that they only ask Aviva  to cover treatment  for Mrs As L4/5 disc. However I understand from 
Mr Ts letter that there was only one laminectomy to deal with the problems with both discs.
Mr Ts September 2018 letter  says Mrs A has severe left side sciatica  and the January 2018 
MRI scan  shows:
lumbar canal stenosis  at the L4/5 with a left disc fragment also at this level. She also 
has foraminal stenosis  at the L5/S1 level again  on the left which  correlates with her 
symptoms, I have  advised a left sided L4/5 and L5/S1 laminectomy
Theres no evidence from Mr T that Mrs As L4/5 stenosis is a separate  medical condition 
from, or not related to, her stenosis at the L5/S1. 
Dr S September 2019 opinion is that Mrs As January 2018 problem: 
was the L4/5 disc that I treated with an epidural. The previous 2014 problem was at 
a lower, L5/S1, level and this had fully resolved by the time I saw Mrs A in January 
2018. The two conditions both represent  spinal degeneration but they were distinct 
and unconnected events  in my opinion.
Dr S hasnt said that Mrs A had a new medical  condition but she thinks  the 2014  and 2018  
problems were with different discs and unconnected. 
However I don't think Mr Ts letter  does  support Dr S opinion,  as Mr and Mrs A suggest.  
Mr Ts letter is clear  that the problem  with Mrs As L5/S1 disc was still present in 
January 2018  and the issues with that disc correlated with her 2018 symptoms. Mr T did 
surgery to Mrs As L5/S1 and L4/5 discs at the same time to relieve her sciatica.
I dont think Aviva acted unreasonably  in not contacting  Mr T in 2018  about whether he 
thought Mrs A had a pre-existing  condition, as Mr and Mrs A suggest. Its for Mr and Mrs A 
to submit evidence that supports their position.  I understand  their solicitor sent Aviva Mr Ts 
September 2018 letter at the time. I think Aviva could reasonably consider that letter  to 
support its belief that Mrs A had a pre-existing  condition.
Ref: DRN97174776The overall medical evidence is that Mrs A had the same symptoms from 2014  onwards, 
with increasing severity.  Dr Ms 2014 letter says Mrs A has canal stenosis in 2014  and 
Mr Ts 2018  letter says the same. Looking at the overall medical evidence, for the reasons 
Ive given in my provisional  findings and these  findings I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Aviva to conclude that there was a relationship between Mrs As symptoms in 2014 and 
2018.
And, as Ive explained  in my provisional  decision, even if I did think  Mrs As 2014 and 2018 
sciatica was caused  by different discs Aviva could  still fairly say the condition  was the same 
or at least  related.  Mrs A claimed  for treatment  of sciatica on her left side.  The medical 
condition is left sided  sciatica and there's no dispute that Mrs A had that medical condition in 
2014 and 2018. 
Aviva reasonably said Mrs As left side sciatica is a pre-existing condition  that she had in the 
five years before the policy started. It fairly declined the claim. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 December 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9717477