K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about a missing credit  card payment he sent via Faster Payment to 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC. Mr F complains that Tesco didnt do enough to help him trace  
the missing payment. Mr F also complains that the issue led to additional interest  and 
charges and has affected his credit file. 
 
background
On 8 July 2018 Mr F made a Faster  Payment of £753.38 to Tesco  from his bank.  But there 
was a problem  with the Faster Payment system and Tesco didnt receive  the payment. 
Mr F contacted Tesco and asked it to try and trace the missing payment. But Tesco  wasnt  
able to find the missed  payment and referred  Mr F to his bank. Mr Fs bank later refunded 
the payment to him and he then sent the funds back to Tesco.
Mr F asked  this service to look at his complaint and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator spoke with Tesco and asked it to refund any additional interest  and fees Mr F 
incurred as a result of the late payment. They also asked  Tesco  to amend Mr Fs credit file, 
removing the missed payment it recorded.  Tesco agreed to refund  the additional costs Mr F 
incurred but said it wouldnt remove the missed payment information. 
On 20 December 2018 the investigator upheld Mr Fs complaint and recommended  Tesco 
refund the additional costs and remove the late payment information it reported to the credit  
reference agencies.  Mr F wasnt happy with the investigators findings  as he feels  some 
compensation should be paid for the inconvenience hes been  through.  Tesco didnt respond 
so the investigator  referred the complaint for a final decision. 
Tesco contacted  the investigator on 26 February 2019 and asked for clarification of the 
investigators findings but didnt confirm whether it accepted their recommendation. As 
Tesco hasnt  responded to confirm  whether it accepts the investigators findings and Mr F 
remains unhappy, the case has been  passed  to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr F is in no way responsible for his payment not reaching  Tesco  in July 2018. 
The Faster  Payment website confirms the system suffered a technical  fault on 8 July 2018 
and Im satisfied thats why the payment wasnt made. 
Like the investigator, I think its important that Mr F doesnt  suffer  as a result of a technical 
fault he had no control  over. Im pleased Tesco agreed to refund the additional interest and 
charges Mr F incurred as a result of the late payment but I dont think  that goes far enough. 
Im satisfied Mr F made his payment  on 8 July 2018 and that it wouldve gone  through if 
there hadnt been a technical fault.  So Im going to tell Tesco to remove any adverse 
information its reported to the credit reference agencies  as a result  of not receiving the 
payment on time. 
Ref: DRN98497862Mr F complains that Tesco didnt do enough to help him find the missing  payment. But 
because of the Faster  Payment  problem Tesco didnt receive the payment so had no way of 
tracing it. Im satisfied Tesco fairly referred Mr F back to his bank  to trace  the funds. 
Ive thought about whether Tesco should pay Mr F for the service he received and 
inconvenience of his payment not being made  as expected. But Tesco wasnt  responsible for 
the payment problems.  As Ive said above, Tesco couldnt trace  a payment it didnt receive.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr F but I havent  found  grounds to tell Tesco  to pay compensation 
for the impact of the payment errors. 
Its important that Mr F is put back into the position he wouldve been  in had his payment 
been received  on time. As a result, Im upholding his complaint and direct  Tesco  to do the 
following: 
-Refund any additional interest  and charges incurred by Mr F as a result of the late 
payment. 
-Remove any adverse  information Tescos reported to the credit  reference agencies 
as a result of not receiving Mr Fs July 2018 payment on time.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Tesco  Personal Finance  PLC to settle 
in line with the above guidance. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9849786