K821x#15complaint
Mrs Gs complaint is about the handling  of a claim under a central  heating  and home
emergency insurance policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.  Mrs G is represented by her
husband Mr G, in this complaint.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in July 2020, part of which  is copied  below:
On 8 January 2019,  Mrs G made a claim under the policy, as there was a leak from the
bathroom and water coming through the ceiling below.
British Gas sent a contractor out who initially said the leak was from damaged  silicone
around the shower. However, the leak continued.  The contractors made a hole in the ceiling
to access pipework and a box around  the toilet was also removed, as the leak was finally
found to be coming  from a lead pipe behind the toilet. The contractors notes record that the
leak was finally fixed on 21 January 2019.
On 24 January 2019, British Gas went back out to make good  the access  hole in the ceiling
but decided that the ceiling was too badly damaged to repair the access  hole. It said the
ceiling needed  to be replaced anyway  due to the water damage (which  it is not responsible
for) and so it cannot make good the hole it made.  The boxing around the toilet was replaced.
Mrs G is very unhappy about this. I understand the ceiling has since  fallen down and Mrs G
says this is as a result of the delays by British Gas in repairing the leak. Mrs G also says,
she was unable to make a claim under her home  insurance policy  for the ceiling damage
due to the time taken by British Gas.  Mrs G wants the ceiling replaced, the bathroom
repainted and other damage downstairs repaired. She has made a number of submissions in
support of her complaint,  which Ive summarised  below:
 The pipe was leaking from 8 to 24 January 2019 until British  Gas found the leak in
the bathroom. If the leak had been  found  sooner, there would not have been so much
damage to the house.
 Most of the contractors that attended weren't plumbers and she doesn't feel that 
they were properly qualified.
 She has paid a lot of money  for the policy  and not received  the service  paid for.
 She offered to put in a dehumidifier and for the contractors to come  back  to
repair ceiling but this didn't happen.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She initially  did not recommend that the
complaint be upheld but subsequently decided that it should be upheld. The investigator
recommended that British  Gas pay for the repairs to the ceiling and pay £250  compensation
for the trouble caused to Mrs G.
British Gas doesnt accept the investigators second assessment, so the matter  has been
passed to me. British  Gas maintains its position that the leak was uncontrollable when it was
reported to it and so the damage would  have already been severe when it first attended. It
says it didn't cause  the water leak, and any resultant water  damage would be classed as
consequential and not covered. British Gas also says that it carried out a temporary repair
on 10 January 2019  and so doesnt agree that the leak was continuing until 24 January
2019.
Ref: DRN92663902my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Gs policy covers the emergency work required to stop a leak such as the one
experienced, to prevent any further  damage to the property. The leak was reported  as being
uncontrollable and it would therefore seem reasonable to expect such  a leak to be found and
repaired as quickly as possible... British Gas says it acted  reasonably  in dealing with the leak 
but there is a dispute about  when  it was stopped and the work that was done.
The contractors notes  say that on 8 January 2019  the leak was reported  as being an
uncontrollable leak from freshwater pipe coming down celling". The notes say it made
access and traced the leak to damaged  silicone  around the shower and the contractor
tightened the shower waste  pipe. The leak wasnt however stopped.
There are two job sheets dated 9 January  2019.  The first says cut out section of lead pipe
and re run" (which Mrs G says was not signed by her) and the second  says repaired the
lead pipe".
I note that these job sheets do not accord with British  Gass records, which say that on 9
January 2019  its contractors went out again,  as Mrs G had asked  for a second opinion  and
tightened CH/[cold water]  pipes under the toilet box.
No explanation has been given as to why there is a discrepancy. And it seems  to me that
there was no repair done  on 9 January 2019,  as British Gas confirms it went out again  on 10
January 2019  and the notes from that date say a temporary repair  was carried  out then. So I
am of the opinion  that the leak was probably  ongoing on 10 January 2019, when British
Gass contractors went out for the third (possibly  fourth) time.
British Gass records say that a temporary  repair was done  on 10 January 2019 but it would
need to go back  and make access through the ceiling to do a permanent repair.
The job sheet dated 10 January 2019 says lead pipe behind toilet  leaking... access required
in ceiling to find lead pipe".
British Gas apparently  asked Mrs G to sign a disclaimer to allow it to remove the toilet and
boxing behind  it to access the leaking pipe.  She was apparently concerned this would mean
they would  not replace the toilet and wasnt happy  to sign this until she received assurances
the toilet would be replaced. It is not clear when the access hole was cut into the ceiling but
from the information available to me, it appears that the final permanent  repair  was carried
out on 21 January  2019.
Mrs G says the leak continued until the final attendance on 24 January 2019 but I am
satisfied from what Ive seen that the leak was permanently repaired on 21 January  2019
and the attendance on 24 January 2019 was to replace the boxing behind the toilet.
British Gas also says the leak was stopped, albeit by way of a temporary repair, on 10
January 2019.  The job sheet from that date [cited  above] doesnt say that a temporary  repair 
was done. Having finally located  the leak on that date, the contractors apparently said it was 
a two-man job and theyd  have to come back and make access. Theres  no information,  as 
Ref: DRN92663903far as Im aware of what the temporary  repair might  have involved and Mrs G says the leak 
was still ongoing.  Given the lack of documentary evidence about what  was done on that day, 
I consider it possible the leak was still ongoing  beyond 10 January  2019.
What is clear however,  is that the uncontrollable  leak was ongoing for two days between  8
and 10 January 2019 and there has been no proper explanation or justification for why it was
not found and isolated before  this. The contractors initially said it was from a shower tray but
given the report  was of an uncontrollable leak, this would have seemed an unlikely
explanation. British Gas has not provided  any evidence that it was reasonable to take three
(possibly four) visits to locate a leak from a bathroom pipe and to isolate that leak.  I do not
therefore consider  that British Gas dealt  with the claim as well or as quickly  as it should have
done. It seems to me that British Gas should have  been able to locate and isolate the leak
on the first visit.
Of course some water damage would have been  caused by the initial leak and British Gas is
not responsible  for this. However,  given the delay in finding the leak and repairing it, it
seems to me inevitable  that the damage to the ceiling was worse  that it would otherwise
would have been. It is impossible for me to establish exactly  what proportion of the ceiling
damage was due to the initial leak and what proportion was due to the delays by British Gas.
There is nothing available  to me to say how long the leak had been going  for before Mrs G
reported it to British Gas.  It would  seem reasonable to assume it was reported relatively
soon after it started, given  the way it was described. The leak was then allowed to continue
for between  two and 13 days longer than should have been the case. In my opinion, given
this, it seems reasonable to conclude that a significant amount of the damage was probably
done in this period.
Mrs G has provided  a quote for this in the sum of £1,750 but this includes repapering the
room and painting  the woodwork, as well as re-plastering the ceiling. There  is evidence of
water damage to some of the wall area below the affected area of ceiling but I am not
satisfied that British Gas is responsible for redecorating the entire  room  including the
woodwork and skirtings. As mentioned, some  damage would have been done  by the initial
leak and there is no evidence that the affected  area cant be repapered. In my opinion
therefore it is reasonable for British Gas to pay the cost of repairing  the ceiling only, or
arrange for the repair to be done itself.
Given the difficulties  with the claim, it will be up to Mrs G to decide if she wants  her own
contractor do the work,  or for British Gas to do it. If she wants her own contractor to do the
work, she will need to provide evidence of the cost of the ceiling repairs only and this will
need to be agreed  with British Gas. If Mrs G has already had the work done  then shell  need
to provide evidence  of the cost of the ceiling work and proof of payment  and British  Gas will
need to reimburse  that cost. I would ask Mrs G to confirm the position in response  to this
provisional decision.
As mentioned it took several visits (at least six) to repair what appears to be a relatively
simple leak and the delay in carrying out a proper repair resulted in considerable damage to
Mrs Gs home. In addition therefore,  I consider that British  Gas should pay the sum of £250
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by its handling of the claim.
Ref: DRN92663904my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require British  Gas Insurance Limited to:
 pay the cost of the repair of the ceiling  (such cost to be agreed between  the parties
on production of suitable estimates); or
 arrange  for the repairs  to be carried out itself;  or
 reimburse the cost of the repairs if already carried out on production  of suitable
evidence of the cost;  and
 pay Mrs G £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by its
handling of this matter.
responses to my provisional  decision  
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
British Gas does  not accept my provisional  decision and confirmed it has no new 
information. British  Gas reiterated  that it has provided information already about all the 
contractors visits to the property, including that its contractor traced the leak on 8 January 
2019 and it would  have  been made safe  and the temporary repair  was completed on 10 
January 2019.  British  Gas says the delays between then and completing the permanent  
repair were due to Mrs G requesting a specific engineer to attend and delaying  signing the 
Authority to Proceed form. The damage  to the ceiling was already there  following  the report 
of the water  leak, therefore, the damage caused  is consequential, damage can't be caused  
twice. 
Mrs G has also responded.  She has provided an invoice for the redecoration work dated  21 
July 2020 in the sum of £1,560.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new evidence, I see no reason to change  my provisional 
findings. 
I therefore remain of the opinion  that there was an unreasonable and avoidable delay in 
dealing with the leak. British Gas says it was left safe on 8 January 2019. I am not clear  
what it means by this. The contractor that attended that day said the leak was from damaged 
silicon around the shower, which was incorrect. This doesnt seem to have been a 
reasonable diagnosis either, given the nature  of the leak as reported to British  Gas. I am 
satisfied that it is likely considerably more damage was caused  by this misdiagnosis,  as the 
leak, described as uncontrollable, was left for two days until the contractors came  back out 
on 10 January 2019. There is also insufficient  evidence that a temporary repair  was carried  
out on 10 January  2019, so the leak may have continued until 21 January 2019. So while 
there would have been some water damage  already, the delay by British Gas to properly 
diagnose it would inevitably  have resulted in further damage. 
Ref: DRN92663905 
I therefore remain of the opinion  that British Gas should pay the costs  of the repairs  required.  
Mrs G previously provided a quote  for £1,750 for this work. She has now provided an invoice 
dated July 2020 for £1,560 from a different contractor. This invoice confirmed the damaged  
ceiling was removed  and re-plastered.  It also says the walls and skirtings were  repainted.  I 
set out in my provisional decision that British  Gas should be responsible  for the repairs (and 
redecoration) to the ceiling only, to reflect that some  water damage  would have  happened  
anyway. So, if Mrs Gs contractor can provide confirmation of that part of the cost, British 
Gas should reimburse  that to her. 
I also remain of the opinion that some  additional  compensation  of £250 is warranted. British  
Gas seeks to blame Mrs G for the delay in completing the permanent repair but has not 
addressed why it took at least six attendances to resolve what  was apparently  a relatively  
straightforward leak on a bathroom pipe.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
 reimburse the cost of the repairs to the ceiling, on production of suitable  evidence of     
the cost; and
 pay Mrs G £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by its 
handling of this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or
reject my decision  before 4 October  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9266390