K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her several packaged 
bank accounts  between 2004 and 2015.
Mrs S paid monthly fees for each  of these accounts  and received several  potential  benefits 
in return. 
Barclays has accepted  that it mis-sold one of the accounts and has offered to pay Mrs S 
compensation for this. But Mrs S thinks that Barclays  should refund her all the fees she paid 
for each  account,  plus interest. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs Ss complaint and thought that Barclays  
offer was fair. Mrs S didnt  agree with adjudicators  findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review her case. So it has come to me to make a final decision. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do in this case. Ive looked  into 
everything that Mrs S and Barclays have told us or sent us about the complaint and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mrs S has been a customer of Barclays for quite a long time. She has told us that she first 
opened a current  account with Barclays when  she was a student. I understand that this 
account was fee-free. Barclays has sent us information from its records  which shows  that 
since then:
 
In September  2004, it sold her a packaged bank account called a Graduate Additions 
account, for which it charged her a monthly  fee.
In October 2006, it sold her a different packaged  bank account  called  a First 
Additions account, for which  it charged  the same fee as for the Graduate Additions 
account.
In October 2008, it sold her another packaged  bank account  called  an Additions 
Active account, for which it charged  a higher fee than for the First Additions  account.
In February 2009, Mrs S went back to the First Additions account for which  Barclays 
charged her a lower  fee than it had for the Additions Active  account.  
In December 2015, Barclays switched Mrs S to a fee-free current  account but 
alongside the account it sold her a Tech Pack  of potential  benefits for which  it 
charged her a higher fee than for the First Additions account.
I think that Barclays records  about  this are probably  accurate  and I have taken this account 
history to be correct. I understand that in 2018 Mrs S cancelled the Tech  Pack, but kept the 
fee-free account.  
Ref: DRN99392092Mrs S believes that Barclays mis-sold  her each fee-paying account for similar  reasons. In 
outline she told us that on each occasion Barclays:
didnt tell her about the potential benefits  the accounts offered 
misled her into thinking that she couldnt have an overdraft with a fee-free account
didnt tell her it was changing her account
didnt tell her she could have a fee-free  alternative 
forced her to keep  the packaged accounts when she tried to cancel them 
However, she has also made two more  precise  points about  specific  accounts. Firstly, she 
has told us that at one stage  Barclays  told her that the account on offer was the best one 
for a student (or recently ex student), which I assume refers  specifically  to the Graduate  
Additions account. And in recent correspondence  she also told us that when (she) 
downgraded to the First Additions account.  she asked for a fee-free account with an 
overdraft .and it was then that (Barclays told her) this was not possible.
Barclays has accepted  that it mis-sold the Additions  Active account to Mrs S, but thinks  it 
treated her fairly on all other occasions.
Barclays and Mrs S have also disagreed about  how it sold the various accounts. On our 
questionnaire, Mrs S said that Barclays recommended each change, whereas Barclays has 
said it sold some of the accounts  on a non-advised or information only basis.  
There are no detailed  records  from the time of each sale to show me exactly what 
happened. But from what Mrs S has told us, Im satisfied that at each  stage (except the Tech  
Pack which was a different situation as I will explain later) she felt that Barclays  was 
recommending that she should change accounts. So I have considered her case as a series  
of advised sales. This means  that as well as telling  Mrs S about each accounts costs  and 
benefits, Barclays had to check that it was a reasonable choice for her. So Ive looked into 
the potential benefits of each account and Mrs Ss circumstance to see if it was reasonable 
for Barclays to recommend that account to her. Ive also checked to see if it was likely  that 
Barclays failed in any of the other ways which Mrs S has described.
Although some of the arguments  overlap for each change, to make  sure I cover everything,  I 
have taken each  stage in turn. 
The Graduate Additions account (September  2004)
As the name  implies, Barclays wanted to sell this account to customers who had recently 
graduated. Hence  I accept that it may well have  described this account  as the best (*) for 
students. While this is a purely subjective statement, I dont think that this remark alone 
amounted to mis-selling. 
In 2004, the potential benefits of this account included mobile phone  insurance, car 
breakdown cover and potentially cheaper  overdrafts than Barclays  gave to customers  with 
fee-free accounts.  The potential savings on an overdraft would decline year-by-year as the 
time since a customers graduation increased. 
I understand that at that time Mrs S drove a car and used a mobile phone and had also 
overdrawn her account previously.  So I think it was reasonable for Barclays to recommend 
the account to her. It seems  to me that the potential benefits met some of her needs.
Ref: DRN99392093I also think its highly likely that Barclays told Mrs S about these benefits. After all, it was 
trying to sell the account to Mrs S and it would have  been in its own interests to tell her what 
she could gain by buying it. Indeed, Barclays records  show that Mrs S used the car 
breakdown service during this period, so it must have told her about this benefit.  
I accept that Mrs S may not have  needed all the potential benefits  that came  with the 
account, but at that time packaged accounts  werent usually tailored for precise individual 
needs, and this doesnt mean that Barclays mis-sold  the account to Mrs S. 
Similarly, I think Barclays probably told Mrs S how much the account would cost,  as I dont 
think it could credibly have presented the benefits  as being free, and as the fees would  
appear on Mrs Ss bank statements, I dont think it tried to hide them from her.
 
From our correspondence with Mrs S, and from information that Barclays  has sent us about 
the way she used her account, it seems to me that being able to use an overdraft was quite 
important to her at this stage, as well as with the First Additions account. 
Barclays has told us that having  a packaged account is not a condition  of obtaining or 
maintaining an overdraft,  and I believe this to be correct. So it seems unlikely to me that 
Barclays would have  misled Mrs S into thinking that she couldnt  have had an overdraft with 
a fee-free account. Barclays may well have told Mrs S that she could have a cheaper 
overdraft with the Graduate Additions  account than with a fee-free  account,  but as this was 
true, I dont consider it to have  been misleading.  
And finally for this account, I havent  seen  anything to make me think that Barclays  
prevented Mrs S from taking a fee-free account instead. Such accounts were widely 
available at the time, both from Barclays and from its competitors, and I dont think that 
Barclays misled  Mrs S about this. Similarly, I think  its highly unlikely that Barclays changed 
the account without Mrs Ss agreement and nor have I seen anything to make me think it 
forced her to keep  it.
I dont think that Barclays  mis-sold the Graduate Additions account to Mrs S.
(*) Its quite possible the Mrs Ss comments about Barclays  telling  her that the account  was 
the best for students may have referred  to the account she held before  this one, when she 
was still a student. However,  as that account was fee-free, I think its extremely  unlikely that 
such comments would have amounted to mis-selling if made on that occasion.
The First Additions account  (October  2006)
In 2006, this account provided similar benefits  to the Graduate Additions account  and 
Barclays charged Mrs S the same  fee. Barclays has told us that its records show that it sold 
this account to Mrs S during a discussion  at one of its branches and I have no reason to 
dispute this.
I do not have many  details of the discussion,  but Mrs S continued to receive mobile phone 
insurance and a potentially cheaper overdraft than Barclays offered to customers with fee-
free accounts. Barclays records also show that Mrs S went on to register  a mobile  phone  for 
the insurance cover, and to make  a claim; and continued to overdraw her account. So it 
seems to me that she still had a potential need for these benefits, that Barclays  told her 
about them  and that it was reasonable for Barclays to recommend this account  to Mrs S. 
Ref: DRN99392094For the same reason  as with the Graduate Additions  account,  I dont  think that Barclays  
prevented Mrs S from taking a fee-free account instead, changed the account without her 
agreement or forced her to keep it.
I dont think that Barclays  mis-sold the First Additions account  to Mrs S.
The Additions Active account (October  2008)
As Barclays has accepted  that it mis-sold this account to Mrs S, I havent  looked at the way it 
made the sale. I have  accepted Barclays and Mrs Ss agreed view that Barclays mis-sold 
this account to her.
I have however, looked at the offer Barclays has made to Mrs S to see if its reasonable.
If we had upheld  this part of Mrs Ss complaint  we would have told Barclays  to put things 
right for her by: 
refunding her the difference in monthly fees she paid for the Additions Active account 
compared to what she would  have paid each  month for the First Additions  account 
adding interest to each of these refunds at the rate of 8% a year (simple) from the 
time Mrs S paid the fee until the time Barclays made the refund.
We would  also have  advised Mrs S that Barclays would  have  to take off tax from the interest. 
We may also have added an additional  amount for any distress and inconvenience  that 
Barclays caused to Mrs S.
Barclays offer seems to be in line with our approach and Im satisfied that its fair. I 
understand that it is still available to Mrs S, but I cant advise  her on whether she should 
accept it. Id suggest that she contacts Barclays direct if she requires any further information.
The First Additions account  (February 2009)
When Barclays switched Mrs S back to the First Additions account, only a relatively short 
period of time had elapsed since she previously held this type of account. Barclays had 
increased the price, but had also added gadget insurance to the potential benefits. So it 
seems to me that this was still a reasonable choice of account for Barclays to recommend. 
And I dont  think that any of the other factors had changed significantly.  I understand that 
Mrs S again  registered  a mobile phone for insurance  cover  and went on to make a claim.
As mentioned above, Mrs S has highlighted this stage  in particular as a time when Barclays 
told her she couldnt  have an overdraft with a fee-free  account. 
Both Mrs S and Barclays have told us that Barclays sold this account over the phone  and as 
before I fully accept that Barclays may have told Mrs S that an overdraft would be more  
expensive with a fee-free account  than with the First Additions account, but again I dont 
think this was mis-leading  or untrue.
I dont think that Barclays  mis-sold the First Additions account  to Mrs S. 
Ref: DRN99392095The Tech Pack (December 2015)
This change  was different to the others  in that it came about  because of large scale  changes 
Barclays was making  to its range of bank accounts,  rather than being related to Mrs S 
individually. 
From time-to-time banks change the conditions they apply to the accounts  they offer to their 
customers. They also withdraw some types  of account and introduce new ones. They  are 
allowed to do this, but when they do so they are obliged to give their customers  notice, tell 
them what  is happening and explain what choices  customers may have.
In 2015, Barclays  decided to withdraw  the First Additions account from its customers. It has 
sent us copies of two letters letter it wrote  to Mrs S at the time.  
The first letter told Mrs S that Barclays intended  to switch her to a Barclays Bank Account 
with Tech  Pack. It told her how much the Tech Pack would cost and what features  it would  
provide. It also told her that she could opt out of the Tech Pack  and that if she did so her 
account would become  A Barclays  Bank Account.with no monthly fee....It described the 
implications for any overdraft and told Mrs S that she could opt out either by visiting one of 
Barclays branches or by calling a particular phone number. 
Barclays sent the second letter to Mrs S around six weeks  after it sent the first. This letter  
told Mrs S that Barclays had changed her account and that it would start to charge her for 
the Tech Pack. It also told her that she could remove the Tech  Pack at any time. 
It seems  to me that Barclays met its obligations to Mrs S with these  two letters. The letters 
gave her a choice, explained  the benefits  (or features) of the Tech Pack  and told her how 
much she would have  to pay.
I dont think Barclays treated Mrs S unfairly  when it switched her from the First Additions 
account to the Tech  Pack. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Ss complaint about Barclays  
Bank UK PLC. I am not going to tell it to increase  the offer it has already made.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020  
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9939209