K821x#15complaint
Company G, represented by Mr A, complained about Ageas Insurance  Limiteds handling of 
a claim on their car insurance policy following the total loss of their car.
background
In March 2018, Gs car was involved in an accident and was declared a total loss. Ageas 
said the pre-accident  market value of the car was £30,203. G wanted  to keep the salvage of 
the car. Ageas said G would have to pay £12,685 to buy back the salvage. That represents 
42% of the market  value settlement of the car. 
G felt the buy back value was too high and wanted to negotiate,  but Ageas refused. G 
complained, but Ageas  rejected their complaint.
G brought their complaint  to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and felt it should be upheld. She said that 42% of the settlement figure was very high and 
asked Ageas to provide evidence showing that Ageas would have  got that percentage when 
disposing the salvage. Ageas said that for prestige vehicle[s] valued over £10,000, the 
salvage value  they charged policyholders was 42%.  Our investigator felt that a charge of 
20% of the market  value of the car was reasonable.
As Ageas didnt  agree with the investigator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 20 December 2018.   I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain my reasons.
I have to be satisfied  that Ageas have dealt  with the claim  in a fair and reasonable 
way.
Ageas policy  terms dont say what percentage of the cars  market value will be 
charged where a policyholder wants to keep  the salvage of their car. Where we feel 
that the percentage charged  appears to be exceptionally high,  as in this case,  we do 
ask businesses to provide  evidence of their salvage  rates to ensure policyholders  are 
being treated  fairly.
Ageas told our investigator that they had a contract  with their salvage  agents 
whereby they had agreed rates for disposing written off cars. Ageas said they could 
not disclose their contract as it was commercially sensitive. But our investigator said 
that as G had complained about this specific issue, it was important for us to see the 
evidence Ageas relied on. She also gave Ageas assurances that we would handle  
any sensitive information with care and in confidence, and that we wouldnt disclose it 
to any third party, including G. She also said that we could make a decision on the 
basis of the evidence supplied and take into account the fact that a party failed  to 
provide information  requested.
I agree  with our investigator that in this case it is important for Ageas to evidence  
their claim that they would have received 42% of the market  value of Gs car had 
they sold the salvage. And our investigator  was correct in saying we would treat any 
Ref: DRN95109932sensitive information,  such  as Ageas contract with their salvage agents, in 
confidence. Our service  routinely receives sensitive information from businesses  that 
we use in reaching decisions without disclosing such information to other  parties. I 
feel that Ageas have  been given ample opportunity to provide the evidence needed, 
but they havent. Ageas did provide an email which simply stated Retention 
Deductions  Prestige vehicle  £10001+  42%. But that information wasnt  
sufficient and I would have expected to see their contract with the salvage agent,  or 
other documentary evidence confirming that a salvage agent was willing to pay 
Ageas 42% of the market  value of Gs car. 
The total loss report valued the cars  salvage  as £7,915. Thats  around 26% of the 
cars pre-accident market value. This valuation is given by the engineer who 
assessed the car. So, in the absence  of any contrary evidence, I feel it is a 
reasonable valuation to apply to the salvage. Im therefore intending to uphold  this 
complaint and require Ageas to release the salvage  of the car to G in exchange for 
£7,915.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. G accepted my provisional  decision, 
but Ageas  didnt.  Ageas said that Gs car recently suffered a new accident which resulted in 
the car becoming  a total loss. Gs claim was settled after the cars pre-accident  valued was 
set at almost  £23,000. G bought back the salvage of the car following that claim being 
settled and accepted Ageas retention of 42% of the cars value as the salvage  cost. Ageas 
said this demonstrates the car retained  a high value following the March 2018 accident.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same.
Despite my request,  Ageas didnt  provide  the evidence requested to show  that the cars 
salvage would have been sold on for 42% of its pre-accident market value. In fact, the pre-
accident market  value of the car following the recent  accident,  which  was almost  £23,000, 
lends support to the calculation in my provisional decision. My provisional decision was that 
£7,915 should be deducted for the salvage  value, which meant  just over £22,000 would be 
paid to G. That figure is closely aligned to the pre-accident market value given to the car 
following the recent accident. Finally, the fact that G accepted a 42% retention  figure for the 
salvage of the car following the recent accident  isnt relevant to this complaint,  as that was a 
separate claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  and require Ageas Insurance  Limited  
to:
Pay G the balance  of the market  value settlement of the car less £7,915  if G confirms  
they want to retain the salvage.
£30,203 (market value  of car)  £7,915 (salvage  value)  £750  (policy excess)  
£16,768 (already  paid by Ageas to G) = £4,770 (balance)
Ref: DRN95109933Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A on behalf  of 
G to accept or reject my decision before 9 February  2019.
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
  
Ref: DRN9510993