K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that a car that was supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement  with 
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers  Motor Finance, wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Miss S under a conditional sale agreement  with Close  Brothers 
that she signed in August 2018. The car was more  than eight  years  old and had been driven 
for 112,000 miles. The engine management warning light came  on when she was driving the 
car home from the dealer  so she returned the car to it for repairs  and she then complained to 
Close Brothers in September 2018,  just over a month after the car had been  supplied to her. 
The car was inspected by a third party and a fault with the exhaust  gas recirculation valve  
and cooling  system was identified and then repaired by the dealer. 
Miss S collected the car in November 2018  but it broke down three days later and was 
recovered by a breakdown service. It said that there  were issues with the coolant circulation 
pump. She complained to Close Brothers  and said that she wanted  to reject the car but it 
said that it would arrange for it to be repaired.  She wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service. She took the car to a manufacturers dealer in January  2019 and 
it said that the exhaust gas recirculation  had been tampered with and recommended in July 
2019 that she shouldnt drive the car.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that the reports  
from the manufacturers dealer confirmed that the car had been  tampered with and wasnt 
safe to drive - so he concluded that it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to 
Miss S. He recommended that Close Brothers should allow her to reject  the car so it should 
end the finance agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected.  And he said that it should 
refund Miss Ss payments  from January 2019,  her deposit (with interest) and her recovery  
costs of £90 and pay her compensation  of £150 for the upset and inconvenience that shed 
been caused.
Miss S has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  She disagrees  that 
she should only receive a refund of her payments from January 2019  and she says that she 
was told by Close Brothers not to drive the car in September 2019. Close  Brothers has said 
that the dealer doesnt accept the investigators  recommendations.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Close Brothers, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality. Whether  or not it was will depend on a number of factors,  including  the 
age and mileage  of the car, and the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to 
Miss S was more than eight years old, had been  driven for 112,000 miles and had a price  of 
£4,750. Satisfactory quality also covers  durability which means  that the components  within 
the car must  be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that 
time is will depend on a number of factors. 
Ref: DRN99376592Miss S had issues with the car which started when she was driving  home from the dealer. 
The dealer  repaired  the car but the issues continued  so she complained to Close Brothers.  
The car was inspected by a third party and a fault with the exhaust  gas recirculation valve  
and cooling  system was identified. Although she didnt want the dealer to do any further  work  
on the car she then agreed to return it to the dealer for the required repairs.
Miss S collected the car from the dealer in November 2018  but it broke down three days  
later and was recovered by a breakdown service. It recorded the cars mileage as being 
115,087 miles and said that there were issues with the coolant circulation pump.  She 
complained to Close Brothers and said that she wanted to reject  the car but it said that it 
would arrange  for it to be repaired. That wasnt acceptable to Miss S so she complained  to 
this service.
She then took the car to a manufacturers dealer  in January 2019 when its mileage was 
recorded as 115,522 miles. It said that the exhaust gas recirculation had been  tampered with 
and recommended in July 2019  that she shouldnt  drive  the car. She paid a recovery service 
£90 in January  2019 to transport the car from the manufacturers dealer to her address  and 
she says that she hasnt used the car since then.
Miss S says that Close Brothers  told her not to drive the car in September 2019.  But the 
cars mileage shows that she was continuing to drive it and theres  no record in Close  
Brothers account notes  to show that Miss S was advised not to drive  the car at that time. 
I consider it to be unlikely  in these circumstances that it wouldve told her in September 2019  
that she shouldnt  drive the car. 
The November 2018 breakdown report shows that the car had been driven for more than 
3,000 miles since August  2018 and the mileage recorded by the manufacturers dealer 
shows that the car was driven  for about  500 miles more in the 48 days after the breakdown 
report. 
On the basis of the faults identified by the third party in October 2018, the breakdown 
recovery report and the evidence from the manufacturers dealer, Im satisfied that there  are 
faults with the car and that it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to Miss S. 
Repairs have been  made but the faults continue  and the manufacturers dealer has advised 
Miss S not to drive the car. 
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these  circumstances  for Close  Brothers to 
allow Miss S to reject the car. And I find that it should end the conditional sale agreement  
and arrange for the car to be collected  from Miss S. The agreement shows  that Miss S made  
a cash advance payment  of £200 for the car and shes provided  a copy  of an invoice from a 
recovery service  for £90. I find that Close Brothers  should refund those payments to her 
(with interest). Miss S drove the car for about 3,500 between  August 2018 and January 
2019. She says that she hasnt used the car since then but I understand that shes continued  
to make the monthly  payments  for it. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Close 
Brothers to refund  to her the monthly  payments that shes made  for the car since the 
beginning of January 2019  (with  interest) but that it can keep the payments that she made 
before then as payment for the use that shes had from the car. 
These events will have  caused distress and inconvenience to Miss S. And I find that it would 
be fair and reasonable for Close  Brothers to also pay her £150 to compensate her for that 
distress and inconvenience. But Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me 
Ref: DRN99376593to require it to pay her a higher amount of compensation  than that or to do any more  than 
Ive specified above in response to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Miss Ss complaint. And I order  Close 
Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance, to:
1.End the conditional  sale agreement  and arrange  for the car to be collected  from 
Miss S  both at no cost to her.
2.Refund to Miss S the deposit that she paid for the car.
3.Refund to Miss S the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement since  
the beginning of January 2019.
4.Pay £90 to Miss S to reimburse her for the cost of the recovery service.
5.Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
6.Pay £150 to Miss S to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes  
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Close Brothers to deduct tax from the interest  payment 
referred to at 5 above. Close Brothers  must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax 
its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9937659