K820x#14Complaint
Miss L is complaining about Everyday Lending Limited pursuing  her as guarantor  for 
repayment of a loan after the borrower died.
Background
Miss L was the guarantor  for a loan taken out by Mr M. Sadly,  Mr M died in an accident  and 
Everyday Lending  pursued Miss L for the outstanding balance  of the loan.
Miss L (represented by her father) says she doesnt  think she should  be responsible for the 
debt and the agreement should have ended when Mr M died. She says Everyday Lending  
gave her the terms and conditions  for the borrower rather than the guarantor which didnt 
mention shed be responsible for repaying  the loan in the event of the borrowers death. She 
said if shed known shed  be responsible  for the debt if Mr M died she wouldnt have agreed 
to be a guarantor. 
Miss Ls father has now repaid the loan to Everyday Lending so its no longer pursuing 
Miss L for repayment.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Miss Ls complaint. Miss L didnt agree so the complaints 
been passed to me for review and a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going  to uphold Miss Ls complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the guarantor terms and conditions and I can see that section 4.5 sets out that 
the Guarantee and Indemnity will not be affected  by  the Borrower dying, becoming 
bankrupt or insolvent
And I can see on the agreement Miss L signed it does say that shes received, read and 
considered the Terms  and Conditions of this guarantee and indemnity.
It goes on to explain that This guarantee and indemnity consists  of the terms, statement of 
rights and information above and the Terms  & Conditions and the document  Privacy Notice 
and How we intend  to use your information. So I think its clear  that the terms and conditions 
are available separately to the page  of the agreement shes  signed,  and should be read 
before signing  the agreement.
Miss L says she didnt see the guarantor terms and conditions before she accepted the 
agreement  only the terms and conditions relating to Mr M as the borrower. But Everyday  
Lending says the guarantor terms and conditions were available  on the online application  
portal before Miss L signed the agreement. Its sent a template copy  of the email  to access  
this, which  includes a separate link for the guarantor  to log in to the online portal  and sign 
their own agreement. 
Everyday Lending  hasnt been able to give us a copy of the exact screens  Miss L would  
have seen when  she signed into the online  portal. But on the balance  of probabilities I think 
its likely  that the correct guarantor terms and conditions would have  been  available to Miss 
Ref: DRN92442672L through the online portal she logged  into to accept the agreement.  It seems  unlikely that 
the borrowers terms and conditions  would  be showing under a separate link set up 
specifically for the guarantor to sign the agreement. I understand that Miss L may not have 
read and understood the guarantor terms and conditions fully before she signed the 
agreement. But I dont think this means  that they shouldnt  apply.
Miss L says if shed known she would have  had to repay Mr Ms loan in the event of his 
death she wouldnt have  agreed to be a guarantor.  But Mr Ms death was unexpected.  Even  
if I thought Miss L didnt  have access to the guarantor  terms and conditions  before signing 
the agreement, I dont  think this particular term would have led her to reconsider being a 
guarantor. I think  if shed considered this term she would have thought the chance of Mr M 
passing away before he repaid the loan was very slim. So, I dont think  shed have acted any 
differently.
Miss L has also asked me to ask Everyday Lending  why theres a clause in the borrowers 
terms and conditions that says the agreement may be ended  in the event of the borrowers  
death and how many loans Everyday Lending  has written off under this clause. Im not going 
to ask it for this information as I dont think it would  affect my decision  because  in this case  
there was a guarantor  and so Everyday Lending had the option  to pursue the guarantor 
rather than take the option to write off the loan.  
I do understand that the circumstances here are very difficult  for Miss L. But Everyday 
Lending chose  to pursue  Miss L for repayment of the loan and I dont think I can fairly say it 
couldnt do so, under the terms and conditions of the guarantor  agreement she signed.
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss L, but Im not going to ask Everyday  Lending to do anything  
else here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ls complaint, for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2020.
Helen Sutcliffe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9244267