K821x#15complaint
Mr B says CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid,  (QQ), irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 12 payday  loans  and three  top up loans QQ provided to Mr B 
between September  2015  and August 2018.  All the loans except Loans 4, 6 and 7 were  
repayable by three monthly instalments. Loan  4 was repayable by one payment and 
Loans 6 and 7 were  repayable by two monthly  instalments.  All of the loans have  been  
repaid. A summary of Mr Bs lending history is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
Highest monthly 
instalment amount 
1. 4/9/15 20/10/15 £250 £306
2. 7/2/16 6/3/16 £300 £367.20
     3. 6/5/16 14/5/16 £250 £306
     4. 19/5/16 20/5/16 £100 £126.40
     5. 11/6/16 14/6/16 £300 £384
     6. 31/7/16 2/8/16 £100 £128
     7. 3/9/16 4/9/16 £100 £122.40
     8. 15/9/16 17/9/16 £200 £256
     9 18/5/17 15/8/17 £300 £367.20
    10. 4/2/18 10/4/18 £150 £183.60
    11. 17/4/18 17/7/18 £150 £183.60
    11a.  
(Top up)23/4/18 17/7/18 £50 £244.80 (with Loan 11)
    11b
(Top up).2/5/18 17/7/18 £50 £165.08 (with Loans 11 
and 11a)
     11c 
(Top up)5/5/18 17/7/18 £100 £287.48 (with 
Loans 11 to 11b)
     12. 10/8/18 14/8/18 £100 £122.40
QQ said that it had conducted adequate and proportionate affordability assessments. It said 
that Mr Bs history  with QQ doesnt  reflect dependency or unaffordability.  QQ also provided 
this service with a document which is titled CEU Lending Criteria and Proportionate Checks 
to show its entire lending process.  QQ had also said that starting from 1 March  2015, it had 
implemented an affordability assessment that was consistent with the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA)  Handbook.
Mr Bs complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She didnt think  QQ had 
been wrong to give Loans  1 and 2 to Mr B. But she recommended that Mr Bs complaint 
about Loans 3 onwards should  be upheld.  
QQ disagreed and responded to say, in summary,  that the mere  number  of loans was 
insufficient to conclude that the loans were  unsustainable. It said that Mr B had repaid 
several loans early and so paid a reduced  amount  of interest which  shows sound repayment. 
QQ also said there was a gap of eight months  between Loans 8 and 9. 
Ref: DRN97335352my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
When QQ lent to Mr B the regulator was the FCA and relevant regulations and guidance 
included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC). The CONC contained  guidance for 
lenders about  responsible lending. 
With regard to QQs assessments  after 1 March 2015, this service  has addressed this 
specific point by QQ in previous  decisions.  I would remind QQ at this point of the FCA 
guidance on how complaints are to be dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by 
businesses. In particular  DISP 1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for 
complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA, other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
So my decision will focus on the specifics of Mr Bs complaint and what both parties have 
said about this.
QQ needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QQ should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN97335353refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QQ was required to establish whether 
Mr B could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
QQ did a number of checks before it lent to Mr B. It asked him for details  of his income and 
expenditure. Mr Bs initial declared income  was £999 until Loan  9 when it increased to 
£1,416. Mr B declared his expenditure as £335  until Loan 5 when it increased to £800.  QQ 
checked Mr Bs employment  and housing status.  From the information QQ gathered, Mr B 
was employed and paid rent. 
QQ also checked Mr Bs credit file before agreeing to the loans. It has only provided us with 
a summary of the results of its last credit check before Loan 12. QQ said that it also 
validated Mr Bs other credit commitments.  Mr B has provided his credit report to us. I can 
see that Mr Bs credit  report showed he had taken out other short  term loans. There were 
also defaulted accounts in June and July 2017.  
I can also see that Mr Bs credit report showed he had taken  out three other short  term loans 
in the two days before Loan  1. But Im also aware  that when a lender carries  out a credit 
check, the information it sees  doesnt  usually provide the same  level of detail that a 
consumers credit report will and it isnt necessarily  up to date.  A lender might only see a 
small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some  data might be missing  or anonymised. Im 
also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report  to the same  credit reference 
agencies. So, this may explain any differences between the information provided by QQs 
credit check  which it said showed validated credit commitments of £114 and Mr Bs actual  
situation before Loan 1.
I think that the checks QQ carried out before  agreeing  Loans  1 and 2 were  proportionate. 
The repayments that Mr B needed to make on Loans 1 and 2 were  relatively  modest 
compared to the income that he declared  to QQ. I dont think the repayments were  so large 
that its obvious they wouldve caused Mr B financial difficulty.
Ref: DRN97335354So given Mr Bs repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, and his history  with the lender, I dont think it wouldve  been  proportionate for QQ to 
ask him for the amount of information that would be needed to show  the lending was 
unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr B provided or the information QQ shouldve 
been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what  he was 
saying.  So I dont think QQ was wrong to give Loans 1 and 2 to Mr B.
But I can see that Mr B was late in paying  his first instalment of Loan  2 and he then told QQ 
in early March 2016 that he had entered into a debt management plan and the loan would 
be paid as part of this plan. Nevertheless, I can see that Mr B then repaid Loan 2 early  on 
6 March 2016.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of QQs lending history with Mr B, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point  at which the lender should  reasonably have seen that further lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so QQ should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
Loan 3. I say this because:
Mr B appeared to have repayment  issues during Loan 2 and told QQ that he had 
entered into a debt management plan at that time. 
Mr B had taken out a loan of £250 the previous September  and he was again  asking  
for a loan of £250. He hadnt  made  any inroads into his debt over this time and paid 
large amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to QQ over an extended period. 
There were  some  small gaps between loans being repaid and a new loan being  
granted including one of around  three and a half months before Loan 2 and one of 
two months before  Loan 3. But, I dont  think it would  have been  reasonable for QQ to 
conclude these  gaps  were any indication that Mr Bs finances had moved on from 
whatever situation had required  his previous  loans.
I can see that as QQ didnt stop lending at this point, Mr B went on to take out high cost 
loans for a further 27 months. Although there was a gap of around eight months  between  
Loans 8 and 9, there  had been  an established pattern of borrowing  from Loan 1 until 
Loan 8. I think  QQ ought to have been concerned about this irrespective of this length of 
pause in Mr Bs applications. So Im treating Loans 9 onwards as part of the same  chain of 
lending as Loans 1 to 8.
I think that Mr B lost out because QQ continued  to provide borrowing from Loan 3 onwards  
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the length of time that Mr B had been taking out short  term loans was likely to have 
had negative implications on Mr Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept 
him in the market  for these high-cost  loans.
Ref: DRN97335355The fact that the loans  were  repaid does not mean that they were  repaid sustainably, 
or without causing Mr B undue difficulty.  I note that Mr B defaulted  on two other loans 
in mid-2017 which I think shows he was having problems managing his money.
I should add Ive considered the points QQ made  in response to the adjudicators view. 
QQ provided this service with a document which is titled CEU Lending Criteria and 
Proportionate Checks, which isnt case-specific. This service has responded to QQs 
submission of this document on many previous occasions and so Ill say no more  about it 
here except  as stated  below. But I have taken its contents into account, including  QQs 
argument about consumers being  able to save to repay the final balloon repayment.
I note that Loans  1 to 3, and 5 onwards  were  due to be repaid over two or three monthly 
repayments. QQ says that Mr B would have read and checked a box to advise him that he 
may need to save income from the previous month (or months) in order  to have sufficient 
money to pay the final repayment. I dont think this removes QQs responsibility  to check  that 
Mr B could meet his repayments in a sustainable  way, although it might be the case early on 
in the lending relationship  that it might  be reasonable  for the lender to think  that Mr B could 
be in a position to meet his loan repayments when they fell due. But from Loan  3, most of 
Mr Bs loans  were taken out within weeks of repaying a previous one. So I dont think  it was 
reasonable for QQ to lend to Mr B on the basis that he was in a position to potentially  save  
money over the loan term.
I note that QQ referred to a gap between Loans  8 and 9. I have referred to this above.
QQ also said that Mr Bs history doesnt reflect unaffordability.  Ive referred above to 
Mr B telling QQ that he had entered into a debt management plan around Loan 2. I also note 
Mr B told QQ that he couldnt afford two of the repayments on Loan 3. I can also see on 
Mr Bs credit  report that he had two defaulted accounts whilst he was repaying Loan  9 which 
might have been included within QQs credit check  before  Loan  10. So I think QQ should  
have been aware  of at least some of Mr Bs financial difficulties. 
QQ said that Mr B paid several  of the loans early. It appears that he repaid ten of the loans 
early. I think  that when a consumer continuously  repays loans early, this should raise 
concerns with his lender that the consumer might  not be managing  repayments  sustainably 
and that he may be dependent  on short term lending to meet an ongoing need.
QQ also said that the mere number of loans is an insufficient basis  to conclude that the 
loans were unsustainable. But, QQ will know from previous  decisions (as well as whats set 
out on our website)  that there are cases where  this service considers the overall lending 
pattern and not just the affordability of each loan.  When  a consumer borrows numerous  
loans over a long period of time, its most  likely that the loans arent being used for their 
intended purpose of temporary cash flow problems. As QQ will know, the FCA made it clear 
in a recent letter to CEOs of high cost lending firms that a high volume of relending..may 
be symptomatic of unsustainable  lending patterns. And I think that is the case  here.
So Im intending  to uphold this complaint in part and QQ should put things right as follows.
putting things right  what QQ needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on Loans 3 onwards;
Ref: DRN97335356pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from Loan 3 onwards means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  Loan 3 onwards should  be removed from 
Mr Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give Mr B 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading  as QuickQuid, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr B paid on Loans 3 onwards;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;  and
3.The number of loans  taken from Loan 3 onwards  means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  Loan 3 onwards should  be removed from 
Mr Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give Mr B 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9733535