K820x#14complaint 
Mr and Mrs B say they were mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  insurance
(MPPI) policy. They  also say they werent sold life insurance and critical illness cover when
they needed it.
The MPPI was sold directly to Mr and Mrs B by St Andrews Insurance Plc  which has 
accepted responsibility for policies originally sold by Halifax Insurance  Ireland Limited. St 
Andrews Insurance  says the MPPI wasnt mis-sold  to them.
To make things simpler, I will refer to the business as St Andrews in my decision.
background 
In February 2004  Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Halifax. This seems to have  been
arranged during a meeting with a Halifax advisor. MPPI or any other  insurance  doesnt
appear to have been taken out at this time.
I sent Mr and Mrs B and St Andrews a provisional  decision to explain why I didnt think I 
should uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. And I said Id consider anything else they wanted  
to give me  so long as I received it by 25 November 2019. St Andrews had nothing  to add. 
Mr B replied  with further points which Ive addressed below
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B feel strongly about  their complaint and this decision will come as a 
disappointment. Mr B has provided us with very detailed submissions, and I have considered 
them carefully. But taking  into account  all the available evidence, I dont think  St Andrews 
Insurance mis-sold Mr and Mrs B their MPPI  policy. I attached my provisional  decision 
below, and hope that along with my final decision addresses their concerns.
In response to my provisional decision Mr B has explained that Halifax  sold them  the MPPI 
and they had no dealings with St Andrews Insurance.  Mr B says they were  sold the MPPI in 
branch at the same time as taking out their mortgage. However, I still think  the MPPI was 
sold by St Andrews Insurance, after the mortgage had been set up. Ive no reason to think 
he didnt talk about MPPI with Halifax in branch. I think it would be a normal  part of the 
mortgage sales process to discuss various types of insurance. But - based on what I know of 
the sales process at the time - MPPI policies like Mr and Mrs Bs, were bought after a 
mortgage started and were sold by St Andrews.
So, based  on everything St Andrews and Mr and Mrs B have said and given us, I think the 
policy was bought from St Andrews.
Mr B has also referred to the gesture of goodwill offer made  by Halifax. I dont think  this offer 
means that it sold the MPPI to Mr and Mrs B. Halifax has made  this offer in line with its 
approach to commission and profit share issues. It doesnt change  how the policy was sold 
and that it appears  to have been  sold directly  via postal application.
Ref: DRN92658062I can also see Mr B has queried how St Andrews  obtained their details. As set out above the 
insurance was originally sold by Halifax Insurance Ireland  Limited, and St Andrews has 
accepted responsibility for these sales. So its likely Halifax  passed on Mr and Mrs Bs details 
to the insurance  arm of its business and it contacted Mr and Mrs B separately based on the 
details taken by Halifax for their mortgage  application. 
I appreciate there is limited paperwork from the time of sale and Mr B has reiterated his 
concerns about  this. But Ive seen the Mortgage  Repayments Cover Acceptance Form  and 
this includes the key details and would  essentially  have been treated as an application form. 
Based on the details  given to Halifax when the mortgage was arranged  the form has 
prepopulated information such  as the benefit  amount required and the premium.  Mr and Mr  
B wouldve selected the benefit split, which was 100% cover for Mr B. So, I think  this is 
enough to show  Mr and Mrs B were sent the form and returned it with the relevant details, 
giving St Andrews permission to set up the cover. 
I know Mr and Mrs B firmly believe that they thought they had life cover and critical illness  
cover. But I havent  seen  anything to indicate  this was set up and the schedule, as well as 
annual letters sent to Mr and Mrs B about  the cover  have  no mention of this. Mr B says there 
has been a mistake or negligence  on the part of Halifax. But I havent seen any evidence  to 
support this. And as I mentioned in my provisional  decision, if Mr and Mrs B had any 
concerns about  the type of cover they had, including whether or not they wanted  the MPPI I 
think these would have  been raised sooner. 
So in summary I dont think the MPPI  was sold in branch by Halifax and I cant see anything 
to show critical  illness  and life cover was sold. 
Mr B has referred to the suitability of the MPPI  for them given their circumstances at the 
time. But as I think this was a non-advised sale St Andrews did not have  to assess  whether 
the MPPI  was suitable for Mr and Mrs B. As explained in my provisional decision,  St 
Andrews had to instead provide clear information about the policy so that they could make  a 
proper choice about whether to take it out. Mr Bs further  comments  about their 
circumstances dont  change my view that the MPPI  wouldve provided useful cover for Mr 
and Mrs B. So I dont think better  information  about the MPPI wouldve changed their 
decision to purchase  it. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So St Andrews doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr and Mrs B paid for it. But I can see St Andrews has already offered to give Mr 
and Mrs B back some of the cost of the PPI as a gesture of goodwill. I dont think it needs to 
do anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Under  the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my 
decision before  10 February 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN92658063Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs B say they were mis-sold  them  a mortgage  payment protection insurance
(MPPI) policy.  They  also say they werent sold life insurance and critical illness cover when
they needed it.
The MPPI was sold directly  to Mr and Mrs B by Halifax Insurance Ireland Limited.
St Andrews  Insurance  Plc  which has accepted  responsibility  for policies originally sold by
Halifax Insurance Ireland Limited, says the MPPI wasnt mis-sold to them.
Ref: DRN92658064To make things simpler, I will refer to the business as St Andrews in my decision.
background
In February 2004 Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Halifax. This seems to have been
arranged during  a meeting  with a Halifax  advisor. MPPI or any other insurance doesnt
appear to have been  taken out at this time.
A few months later,  in April 2004 Mr and Mrs B were sent a postal application  directly from
St Andrews.  This was an application for Mortgage Repayments Cover and it was
completed so that for a monthly premium their mortgage repayments would  be protected if
Mrs B was unable to work because of disability  or unemployment. The Mortgage
Repayments Cover policy is a standalone MPPI policy and not the Total Mortgage
Protection Plan  referred to in the paperwork  from when  Mr and Mrs B arranged their
mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed, so the
complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mr and Mrs B case.
Having done so, Ive decided  the MPPI  wasnt mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
When selling the MPPI to Mr and Mrs B, St Andrews  shouldve got their agreement  to take it
out and made  it clear it was optional.  Mr and Mrs B say it wasnt made  clear  to them they
were just being sold MPPI and things werent  explained to them properly.  They say they
thought they had life cover  and critical illness  cover and they didnt want  or need the MPPI.
Mr and Mrs B say they took out the MPPI in a meeting with Halifax. But as Ive set out it
seems they were actually contacted directly by St Andrews with a postal application to take
out MPPI. St Andrews  has provided a copy of the acceptance form, which wouldve been
sent to Mr and Mrs B to complete. I can see on this form that the cost of the MPPI is detailed
and Mr and Mrs B have completed it to split the cover 100% for Mrs B. The bottom  of the
form has their direct debit details, which would have been returned to St Andrews to confirm
they wanted the MPPI.
St Andrews  has also provided a copy of the policy  schedule and this details the cost and
benefit amount of the MPPI. I cant  see there is any reference  to life cover  or critical illness
cover. If Mr and Mrs B had any concerns about the type of cover  they had, including whether
or not they wanted the MPPI I think these would have been raised sooner with St Andrews.
So although Mr and Mrs B say they didnt  want the MPPI they applied  for this cover, rather
than life and critical illness cover. I appreciate  they have  some paperwork from the time that
refers to TMPP and this can include life and critical illness cover. And I accept there might
have been some discussion about this when they met with Halifax to arrange their mortgage.
But, for some reason, it doesnt look like they went  ahead  with the application for this cover
at that time.
Mr and Mrs B say they were advised to take out the MPPI. As outlined,  I think St Andrews
sent Mr and Mrs B a postal application and they werent provided with any advice  about the
MPPI  as none of its representatives wouldve spoken to them. This means  St Andrews
shouldve given them clear information about the policy  so that they could make  a proper
choice about whether or not to take it out.
Ref: DRN92658065I dont know what steps St Andrews  took to do this and its possible some things werent
explained as clearly  as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer information wouldve
changed Mr and Mrs Bs decision. I think theyd  still have bought it and Ill explain why.
The MPPI provided cover for Mrs B only. Mr and Mrs B completed the acceptance form and
decided themselves  that Mrs B would  receive 100% of the benefit. And from what I can see
it seem Mrs B was eligible  for the MPPI as she met the basic  requirements of the policy.
Looking at Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of sale she wouldnt have been affected by any
of the things  the policy  didnt  cover  like known health issues or unusual  employment
arrangements. So there was nothing to stop her claiming  the full benefit of the policy  if shed
needed to. Mr and Mrs B say that they didnt  know they had this cover so did not claim when
Mrs B had an injury  in 2014. Mr and Mrs B can contact St Andrews directly if they wish to
make a back dated claim for this.
Mr and Mrs B say Mrs B wouldve received sick pay and redundancy pay from her employer.
I dont doubt this, but I still think  the MPPI wouldve been of use. I say this because it
wouldve paid out for up to 24 months if Mrs B was off work due to accident  or sickness. And
it would have  provided cover if she was made redundant. This cover wouldve  allowed Mr
and Mrs B to use any employee  benefits  to cover other living  expenses.
Mr and Mrs B have provided us with significant details regarding their savings and I know
they feel very strongly that they werent  taken into account when the MPPI was sold to them.
But as Ive explained, St Andrews  didnt advise them  to take the MPPI,  so it was for them to
consider whether or not they needed the cover. And given Mrs B was the sole earner at the
time there  seemed to be genuine need to protect their payments. So whilst Mr and Mrs B did
have a substantial amount in savings this isnt enough  to make me think the MPPI wouldnt
have provided useful  cover.  The MPPI  wouldve allowed them to keep those savings intact
and they couldve  of relied on them to help cover any other financial commitments or keep
them for the future.
The cost of the policy  was shown. So I think Mr and Mrs B would have understood how
much they would need  to pay for it each month. And Ive seen nothing  to suggest it was
unaffordable. Mr and Mrs B also couldve cancelled the MPPI at any point.
I know my provisional decision  this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs B as they feel very
strongly about their complaint. But I hope Ive clearly set out why I dont think  St Andrews
did anything wrong.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I currently dont plan to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Ill look at any further information or points  St Andrews Insurance Plc or Mr and Mrs B would
like to me to consider  as long as I get it by 25 November 2019,  after which I will issue my final 
decision.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9265806