K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that an authorised representative of Positive Solutions (Financial 
Services Limited) (Positive Solutions) mis-sold them a regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 17 January 2019, a copy  extract of which is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was proposing to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision. 
Both Positive Solutions  and Mr and Mrs B have  confirmed  they have each received my 
decision and neither party have added anything further.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Positive Solutions 
(Financial Services) Limited and I direct  them to pay the fair compensation  as outlined in my 
provisional decision attached.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
copy extract of provisional decision
background
In 2008 Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage at the same time Positive Solutions sold them a PPI policy 
to cover their mortgage  payments in the event Mr B was unable to work due to disability. 
In 2009 Mr and Mrs B contacted Positive Solutions and asked to add Mrs B to the policy. As this 
wasnt possible a new policy was taken  out to provide cover for Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage payments if 
either of them couldnt work due to accident and sickness or unemployment. This policy was 
cancelled around 2013 when Mr and Mrs B were sold a further policy by a different business.
Ref: DRN97433302In 2017 Mr B tried to claim on the 2013  policy  for accident and sickness.  His claim was rejected 
because Mr B was unable to work due to a pre-existing medical condition  (PEMC) and claims for 
PEMCs are excluded under  the policy.
Our adjudicator thought Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  should be upheld because Mr B suffered  from a 
PEMC and because  of this she didnt  think the policy  wouldve  meet Mr and Mrs Bs needs and 
shouldnt have been recommended. She also awarded £100 compensation  for the distress and 
inconvenience for not being  able to claim on the policy.
Positive Solutions disagree that the 2009 policy was mis-sold and Mr and Mrs B dont think the award  
of £100 for distress and inconvenience is enough. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs B case. 
Firstly, I need  to make  it clear  that as Mr and Mrs B do not wish to complain  about  the 2008 policy and 
the 2013  policy was sold by a different  business,  in this decision I am only looking  at the mis-sale 
complaint for the 2009  policy.  
Im currently  considering upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in regards  to the mis-sale but disagree 
with our adjudicators award of compensation of £100. The distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs B 
say they suffered was as a result of their claim being denied on a different policy sold by another 
business and as such  I dont  think the distress and inconvenience suffered can be attributed to the 
2009 policy. 
Positive Solutions say the 2008 policy was sold on an advised basis. What this means  is that Positive 
Solutions not only had to provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that 
Mr and Mrs B could make  an informed choice  about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it 
were to recommend PPI that the policy  was suitable  to their needs and circumstances.
I dont think the policy was a suitable recommendation  for their needs and circumstances. I say this 
because the policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover but didnt cover PEMCs.
In 2008 Mr B was diagnosed with a medical  condition. I can see on the 2008 PPI application  form 
yes was selected to the question about whether  Mr B had consulted a doctor in the previous 12 
months and the insurers have also confirmed  notice of a PEMC was disclosed in 2009.  So I think  
Positive Solutions authorised representative  was aware Mr B had a PEMC.  
I think  being  covered for accident  and sickness was important to Mr and Mrs B because I see that 
initially with the 2008 policy  Mr B had chosen to be covered  for disability only.  And it is recorded  in the 
2009 financial  planning  review recommendations that Mr and Mrs Bs preference  was for a plan which  
would pay a regular income during any periods  of sickness or incapacity.
So I think the PEMC exclusion wouldve mattered  to Mr and Mrs B because Mr B wouldnt  have been 
able to make  a successful claim  for time off work related  to his condition and I dont think  theyd have 
taken the policy if theyd understood this and the policy hadnt  been recommended to them.
So Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint because I dont think the policy was a suitable  
recommendation and I dont think  Mr and Mrs B wouldve  taken the policy if Positive  Solutions hadnt 
recommended it to them. This means they have  lost out as a result of something Positive  Solutions 
did wrong, so it needs to put things  right.
Ref: DRN97433303what Positive Solutions  needs to do to put things right
Positive Solutions should put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would be in now if they hadnt taken  
out PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt already been and Positive Solutions should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, Positive Solutions can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Positive Solutions to take off tax from this interest. Positive  
Solutions must give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Positive Solutions (Financial  
Services) Limited. If my decision becomes  final I direct it pay the fair compensation  outlined above.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9743330