K822xcomplaint 
Mr F has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly  increased  
the cost of his pet insurance policy each  year.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr F took out, will continue  to cover any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. 
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mr F. It has accepted  
the information it gave Mr F about  the policy wasnt as clear as it should  have been. And 
RSA has offered to pay him £1,750 compensation for the trouble and upset hes been 
caused as a result of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation  in the 
circumstances of Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F has told us hes not happy  with the offer RSA has made because no other insurer will 
cover his pets pre-existing  conditions  now, so he has no choice but to keep paying the 
increasing premiums if he wants his pet to be covered. If he had been given more  
information before he took the policy, he may have chosen a different provider.
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what its insurance should cost.  I would be, in 
effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. So I 
cant say the cost of Mr Fs policy is too high, he should have been charged less for the 
policy, or that he should be charged less in the future.
While Mr Fs premium has seen significant  increases, I havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest RSA has treated  him differently to how it would have treated any other  policyholder 
in the same position. So I cant tell RSA to charge him a lower  premium going forwards.
I understand this situation has caused  Mr F a significant amount  of distress as, due to the 
medical conditions  his pet now has, he cant find equivalent cover elsewhere. And I 
recognise the likely continuing increases in the premium in future years mean the policy may 
become unaffordable.
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Mr F the information he needed to understand he 
could end up in the position  he now finds himself in. Where I find something has gone  
wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
Ref: DRN90753732If Mr F hadnt  taken a lifetime policy,  he wouldve either had no cover  at all, and would have 
had to pay for all his pets treatment himself,  or a reduced level of cover,  where he would still 
have found himself in a situation where his pets conditions  were no longer covered.
While Mr F may have  decided to take insurance  with another provider had he been given 
more information,  the majority of lifetime  policies work in the same  way. So its quite possible 
hed have ended up in a similar, or an even worse position if hed taken  out a policy  with a 
different insurer. I accept its possible his premium  might  now be lower, but theres  no way of 
knowing this. 
I think its unlikely better  information  about  the possible future costs of the policy  would have 
resulted in Mr F having cover for ongoing  conditions at a fixed or capped  premium  this type 
of policy  typically doesnt exist. So it wouldnt be fair for me to put him in this position. 
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Mr F has experienced. 
And the difficult decision he now must make about whether to carry on with the policy.  It is a 
significant award and I think  it fairly compensates Mr F for the trouble  and upset hes been 
caused.
my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mr F £1,750 compensation is fair 
and reasonable.  I dont  require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9075373