K821x#15complaint
Mr L and Mrs L1 complain that they were  given incorrect information by Santander UK Plc 
about porting  their mortgage. They ask that the early  repayment charge (ERC) is refunded.   
background
Mr L and Mrs L1 had a repayment mortgage with Santander for about £210,000.  They  had a 
fixed rate product which ended in October 2019.  An ERC was payable if the mortgage was 
repaid before the product ended. The product was portable. 
Mr L and Mrs L1 wanted to move so that Mrs Ls mother (who Ill refer to as Mrs L2) could 
live with them. They  wanted to buy a property for about £800,000.  Mrs L2 was contributing 
£400,000 to the purchase from the proceeds  of the sale of her own property. Mr L and Mrs 
L1 were contributing £200,000 from their own funds and they needed a mortgage for about 
£200,000. 
In April 2018 Mr L asked  Santander about  porting  their mortgage and says he was told this 
would be possible.  But when they found a property and applied  to port the mortgage,  their 
request was declined.  
Because Mrs L2 was contributing to the purchase and living  at the property, Santanders 
policy required that she was added to the mortgage. But Santander said it wasnt  able to do 
this because she was outside its maximum age limit. 
As a result, Mr and Mrs L1 took out a mortgage with another provider and repaid  their 
mortgage with Santander. They paid the ERC.  
Our investigator said it was unfair for Santander to decline  to port the mortgage solely due to 
its age criteria, given  Mr L would continue to make  payments. The investigator said 
Santander should refund  the ERC and costs (such  as brokers fees)  related to changing  
lenders and pay £250 compensation  for the upset this had caused to Mr and Mrs L1. 
Santander didnt  agree. It said adding Mrs L2 to the mortgage was a material change. 
Santander said there are potential tax implications with the gift of the deposit from Mrs L2. It 
said if Mrs L2 needed care the customers might be pursued for the costs and the gift of the 
deposit could  be seen as Mrs L2 having  intentionally disposed  of an asset. If this happened, 
Mr L and Mrs L1s financial position  would be worse.  And there  could be allegations of 
undue influence in persuading Mrs L2 to make the gift. Santander said it told Mr L in April 
2018 that it wouldnt port the mortgage  in these circumstances. It said hed chosen to go 
ahead with the property purchase  despite this. 
I didnt agree with all of the investigators recommendations. So I sent a provisional  decision 
to the parties  to explain what  I thought  about  the complaint.  In summary, I said it wasnt fair 
for Santander to say it wouldnt  port Mr L and Mrs L1s mortgage  without  asking for more 
information, but I couldnt reasonably find that the mortgage would have been ported if 
Santander had asked for more information.  So I didnt find it fair and reasonable to require 
Santander to refund the ERC or pay compensation to Mr L and Mrs L1 for costs  related to 
changing lender. 
Ref: DRN94431572I didnt think Santander  misled Mr L about whether it would port the mortgage. I thought 
£100 paid by Santander for any inconvenience  caused by it giving Mr and Mrs L1 incorrect 
information was fair and reasonable.
Mr L provided detailed  comments in response to my provisional decision, which Ive taken 
into account before making my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
why did Santander  decline  the porting application   and was this fair?
Where a person  contributes to the purchase  of a property and is one of the occupiers, 
Santanders policy is that they must be on the property  title and the mortgage account. I 
understand the reasons  for this and I think its reasonable. 
Theres no suggestion Mr L, Mrs L1 or Mrs L2 had any objection to Mrs L2 being on the 
mortgage account. However, Santander said it couldnt add Mrs L2 to the mortgage account 
because she was over the maximum age in its lending criteria. 
Lenders can use age as part of their risk assessment. An older borrower might be at risk of 
being unable  to maintain  payments  due to reduced  income, health  issues and increased 
expenses related to care costs. Here though, the borrowers werent relying  on Mrs L2s 
income. The mortgage would be paid from Mr Ls income, in the same way as the mortgage  
they wanted to port. So I dont think these  risks were relevant.
Santander must take its customers best interests  into account. I understand that the 
combination of the gifted deposit and Mrs L2s age raised  issues. Mr L says Mrs L2 didnt 
have any unpaid care costs, and she had sufficient  savings  if care was required.  I havent 
seen anything to suggest this isnt right  although I appreciate Santander might  have 
needed evidence  of this. While I understand Santanders concern that Mrs L2 might have 
made the gifted  deposit because of undue influence,  it could have considered ways to 
address this, such as ensuring she had independent  legal advice.  
I dont think Santander  could have assessed these risks  and what was in Mr L and Mrs 
L1s best interests  without more information. I dont think Santander acted fairly, when it 
relied on the maximum age limit in its lending policy to decline to port Mr L and Mrs L1s 
mortgage without  asking more questions about their actual situation.
what would  have happened if Santander  had considered the porting application?
Rules of mortgage  regulation are set out in the Mortgages and Home  Finance: Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook   usually known as MCOB  which  is issued by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules significantly changed in April 2014 following the completion of the 
FCAs mortgage market  review, or MMR.
Ref: DRN94431573One of the outcomes of MMR was a much stricter assessment of affordability  for all lending. 
This isnt just for new borrowing, it applies when theres a change to a mortgage contract  
such as porting to a new property. But the FCA recognised that this might cause difficulties 
for existing  borrowers.  So it introduced flexibility to allow  for exceptions to be made. 
The requirement to carry out an affordability  assessment is contained  in rule 11.6.2. But 
thats qualified  by rule 11.6.3, which says that the requirement doesnt apply if:
the application doesnt involve  further  borrowing (except to add fees to the loan); and
theres no other change to the terms of the mortgage likely to be material to affordability.
Generally, a change  in borrowers on a mortgage account is likely  to be material to 
affordability. And Mr L told Santander  in June  2018 he wanted  further  borrowing.  I think in 
these circumstances  Mr L and Mrs L1s request to port the mortgage didnt fall within rule 
11.6.3  and so Santander would have had to carry out an affordability assessment.
Mr L says rule 11.6.3 should have been  applied. He says no change to the mortgage was 
needed if Mrs L2 wasnt added as a borrower  and they didnt borrow more.  But Santanders 
policy is that if a person  provides funds  for a property purchase and lives in the property, 
they must  be on the mortgage account. I dont think I can fairly say that Santander should 
have waived this, so that rule 11.6.3 would  apply.
It seems  there would have been difficulties with an affordability assessment. Santander said 
it needed Mr L to provide  two years accounts, which Mr L didnt have  at that time. 
Mr L says they repaid  their Santander  mortgage  in August 2018 and bought their new 
property in December  2018. They had to sell Mrs L2s property  before they could proceed 
with the purchase. So the purchase would have been outside the three-months porting 
window Santanders website says it offers. Mr L now says they could have delayed the sale 
of their property, so that the purchase  was within the porting window. If I were  to change my 
findings here, Id need evidence this was the case. For instance, evidence  that Mr L and 
Mrs L1s purchasers would have  been  willing to wait until Mr L and Mrs L1 were  confident  
they could complete the sale of Mrs L2s property and their purchase within  the following 
three months. I havent  asked for this evidence, as other potential problems remain.  
There were a number of potential problems here  the outcome of the affordability 
assessment, whether  the mortgage would have ported within the three-months window, and 
the outcome of an assessment of the risk of adding Mrs L2 to the mortgage. In the 
circumstances, I dont  think  I can reasonably find that Santander  would have ported the 
mortgage. 
what was Mr L told when  he contacted Santander?
Ive listened to the calls between Mr L and Santander in April and June 2018.  I dont think he 
was misled by Santander. Mr L says there  is another,  earlier call and Santander hasnt 
provided the recording for this. He says he was misled  on that call. 
Santander told Mr L in April it couldnt port the mortgage unless Mrs L2 was on the mortgage  
account which, because  of her age, wasnt possible.  Mr L raised  a complaint about this in 
early April 2018. While its unfortunate that Santander cant provide a recording of an earlier 
call, I dont think this changes the outcome. Santander must have made Mr L aware in April 
2018 that it wouldnt port the mortgage  because he made a complaint about it.     
Ref: DRN94431574Santander called Mr L back a few days after he complained. The three  options  Santander  
could offer to port the mortgage  didnt suit Mr L, Mrs L1 and Mrs L2s circumstances. Mr L 
suggested they could proceed  on the basis Mrs L2 made him a gift of the money and said 
she didnt have an interest in the property. Santander said he should  speak  to a mortgage 
broker about structuring  the purchase, as this wasnt its area of expertise. It said if it did port 
the mortgage it would do an affordability assessment. It said an ERC would be payable if he 
went to another  lender.
When Mr L called again in June he wanted  to borrow more. At this point  there was a 
discussion about what evidence Santander would need to support Mr Ls income.  Mr L 
referred to the earlier calls and said how unhappy he was that hed been told he couldnt port 
the mortgage if Mrs L2 had an interest in the property. So hed decided to buy the property 
outright. 
The call handler called  him back after looking into this and said Santander couldnt port the 
mortgage if Mrs L2 contributed to the purchase  and lived in the property. She said the 
proposal that Mrs L2 gifted the money  to Mr L and waived  her interest in the property wasnt 
acceptable either.
I dont think Santander  misled Mr L. It told Mr L in April that it wasnt possible to port the 
mortgage in these particular circumstances, and suggested he sought  advice. As Santander 
had said it wouldnt port the mortgage, there was no reason for it to set out in the April calls 
what evidence of income it would need to assess an application.  
Mr L says call recordings have been  edited and hes suspicious about  why there isnt a 
recording of the call in early April 2018.  But even if he was given incorrect  advice on that 
call, he was told a few days later that Santander wouldnt port the mortgage on the basis  he 
proposed. 
what should happen now?
I dont think it was fair for Santander to say it wouldnt port Mr L and Mrs L1s mortgage  
without asking for more  information to understand their circumstances and what was in their 
best interests, and to properly assess any risks related to Mrs L2 being on the mortgage 
account. 
However, I dont think I can reasonably find that the mortgage would have been  ported  if 
Santander had asked for more information.  So I dont think  its fair and reasonable to require 
Santander to refund the ERC or pay compensation to Mr L and Mrs L1 for costs  related to 
changing lender. 
Santander told Mr L in April 2018 that it wouldnt port the mortgage. Mr L and Mrs L1 sold 
their property in August  2018 and bought a new property in December 2018.  I appreciate  
Mr L was looking for ways to structure the purchase in the hope Santander would agree to 
port. But I dont think Santander  misled him about this. I think it made Mr L and Mrs L1 
aware that it wouldnt port the mortgage and they decided to continue  with their sale and 
purchase on this basis.
Mr L says theyve secured  a mortgage with another lender, which  didnt have a problem  with 
Mrs L2 gifting the deposit or with him having less than two years accounts. Each lender has 
Ref: DRN94431575its own lending criteria and policies. I cant reasonably say that Santander acted unfairly  just 
because its policies are different  from Mr Ls current lender. 
Santander paid £100 to Mr L and Mrs L1, for any inconvenience  caused by it giving them 
incorrect information. I think, in the circumstances, this is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L2 to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 September 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9443157