K822xcomplaint
Mr S is unhappy about the way in which Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) handled a 
claim made on his travel  insurance policy  including  delays repatriating  him home. 
Mr S is being represented by his son but Ive referred to Mr S throughout. 
background 
Mr S had the benefit of a single trip travel insurance policy which  covered his trip abroad in 
February 2019.
Whilst away, Mr S was involved  in a car crash and was taken to hospital.  URV were notified  
on 25 February 2019 and it arranged for Mr S to be repatriated  back to the UK around  three  
weeks later.
Mr S is unhappy about the way in which URV handled his claim. He says URV 
unreasonably:
requested copies of his medical records before confirming whether  cover was in 
place;
took the initial decision that he wasnt fit to fly;
advised that he needed  to mobilise  before he could be repatriated  back to the UK;
delayed his repatriation back to the UK;
failed to notify the UK hospital that Mr S would be taken there by ambulance once he 
landed back in the UK and that there wasnt an adequate handover.
Mr S also says URV used  his family  members  as intermediaries, failed to update  them - and 
him - about what it was doing to assist  him and didnt upload  documents it had been sent in 
a timely  manner.
URV accepts that it couldve communicated with Mr S in a more  timely manner and that it 
couldve acknowledged  correspondence it had been sent and provided  call backs more  
promptly than it did. It also accepts it couldve been  clearer and more precise when providing 
Mr S with information. It apologised and offered  £400 in compensation. 
Unhappy, Mr S complained to us. Our investigator partially upheld Mr Ss complaint. He  
recommended URV to pay £700 to Mr S in compensation  as he was satisfied URV 
unnecessarily delayed Mr Ss repatriation back to the UK and failed to give the hospital  
where Mr S was due to be admitted in the UK enough notice and information to prepare staff 
for his arrival.  
URV agreed  with that recommendation but Mr S didnt; he didnt think it fairly compensated 
him and his family for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it had caused him. So his 
complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I partially uphold it and 
direct URV to pay Mr S £700 to reflect the trouble and upset it had caused him  which  I 
think was substantial in this particular case.  I know this is a lot less than Mr S is asking for 
Ref: DRN90073272and I can see that he went  through a very difficult time in February  and March  2019 in 
particular, which mustve  been very worrying for him. But for the reasons Ive set out below, 
Im satisfied that this is fair and reasonable.
Mr S has raised a number  of points which Ive considered in full. Ive limited  my decision to 
what I consider to be most relevant issues in this complaint and by doing  so I mean no 
disrespect to Mr S by not commenting on each point raised.
URV has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly and it mustnt  unreasonably 
decline a claim.
requesting Mr Ss GP records
I appreciate Mr S feels it was unnecessary to ask for his medical history given that his 
injuries had been caused by a car crash, thereby causing unnecessary delays.  However, its 
standard industry practice  for insurers to ask for the medical history at the outset of a claim 
like this, in order to verify cover. Thats to ensure that a policyholder  has accurately declared 
their medical history when  taking  out the policy. And as Mr Ss medical history was quite 
extensive, I can see why URV felt it important to get a clear picture of his current  and past 
medical issues. So, I dont  think it was unreasonable for URV to request this.
Its unfortunate that the GP had problems receiving  communications  by fax and didnt have 
an email address, and it was left to Mr Ss daughter  to have to chase for this information  in 
person. But I dont think I can reasonably hold URV responsible for that, particularly as it 
promptly chased the GP for the information initially.
initially declaring that Mr S wasnt fit to fly and advising that he needed to mobilise before he 
could be repatriated back to the UK
Im satisfied that URV  didnt arbitrarily decide that Mr S wasnt fit to fly. From  its system 
notes it looks like it received the medical report from the treating hospital  abroad on 
or around  28 February 2019 reflecting that Mr S had suffered a number of serious injuries. 
And based on this information it took the position that Mr S wasnt fit to fly. 
Mr S says URV shouldve  contacted the hospital  before  making that decision but I dont think  
it was unreasonable for URV to rely on the contents  of the report, without first speaking 
directly to Mr Ss medical team.
Besides, once a further medical report was received  the following  day, on 1 March  2019, 
URV promptly accepted  that Mr S was fit to fly. So, I dont think  its initial  decision resulted in 
an unreasonable delay.
Once URV  accepted Mr S was fit to fly, URV  wanted  him to be able to mobilise for ten 
metres before being repatriated. Mr S says this was unnecessary as he wouldve been able 
to use a wheelchair. 
Our investigator asked  URVs  medical team to provide an explanation  for this advice. It says 
as Mr S wasnt  in too much pain, it wouldve been  beneficial for him to be able to mobilise to 
stop him from deconditioning.  It was also of the opinion that it would reduce the risk of 
pneumonia and deep  vein thrombosis, and that mobilisation would help Mr S travel around  
the plane, to get to his seat or go to the toilet.
Ref: DRN90073273Im not a medical  expert  but URVs explanation  supported by a medical processional  - 
doesnt seem unreasonable, given the information it had available  at the time.
I also note that events superseded this and once URV received a further medical report  on 
5 March 2019, identifying that Mr Ss injuries  were worse than first appeared - and he was 
unlikely to be able to mobilise before returning to the UK to be operated on - it promptly 
agreed to repatriate  him by way of a stretcher  flight  subject to the policy  being  validated.
Mr S says that the delay in logging calls and uploading certain documents  onto their systems 
caused material delays  to Mr Ss repatriation but Im satisfied, that up to 7 March 2019, 
these things didnt  result in a delay in repatriation, as URV was waiting (I think  reasonably) to 
validate cover once it had received and considered Mr Ss medical  records. And even if 
theyd uploaded other information it had received - and updated  Mr Ss family - when it 
shouldve, Im persuaded steps wouldnt have been taken to repatriate  Mr S before  7 March 
2019 in any event.
delay in repatriating  Mr S back to the UK after 7 March  2019
Im satisfied URV unreasonably delayed arranging a flight home  for Mr S.
Although it sought  to book a return flight with a particular airline, and repatriation was initially 
planned for 13 March  2019, URV  says the airline delayed  providing medical clearance, 
meaning that Mr S wasnt flown home until 19 March 2019  thats  almost  two weeks after 
Mr S had been deemed fit to fly and it had agreed  to repatriate him by stretcher  flight.
URV has said that this particular airline has a minimum turnaround of 72 hours to provide 
medical clearance and that stretcher  flights arent easily available. But Ive seen no evidence 
that this was the case, or that URV was proactively chasing the airline  to make a decision 
given the urgency of the situation. Further, URV  hasnt been able to show  that it explored  
other ways  whereby Mr S could be safely repatriated home whilst it waited for the airlines 
decision, or upon discovering that the airline hadnt  provided medical  clearance.  Given 
Mr Ss circumstances I think its reasonable to expect URV  to have been more  proactive in 
this particular situation. 
URV was aware  that it was becoming  increasingly urgent for Mr S to be repatriated back  to 
the UK for surgery. The medical report dated  5 March 2019  reflects  that:
to achieve the best clinical outcome operative intervention should occur within 3
weeks from date of injury.
The injury  occurred on 25 February 2019, so the advice was that the surgery should take 
place by 18 March  2019. 
So although  I cant know if URV had been  more proactive, Mr S wouldve been repatriated  
earlier that he was, I dont think its unfair to presume that he wouldve been. And even if 
hed been repatriated back to the UK a couple of days earlier,  he wouldve been admitted to 
hospital for surgery within the optimum  timeframe  set out in the medical report. 
As it transpires, I understand the surgery  didnt  go ahead on his immediate return  to the UK 
and Mr S says this is a result of the delay in repatriating him back to the UK. He says his 
injury is now managed conservatively,  causing increased complications such as reduced  
mobility, pain and arthritis. Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that theres sufficient 
Ref: DRN90073274medical evidence  confirming that it was the delay in repatriation  which  most likely resulted  in 
the decision being taken not to operate on him  or that if he had arrived  back in the UK 
earlier than he did, the surgery  wouldve  taken  place.
So, whilst I accept that the delay - and being away from the UK for longer  than he needed to 
be - is likely to have  caused him greater distress and worry than he wouldve otherwise 
experienced, I dont  have  enough to say that on the balance  of probabilities the delay had a 
negative impact on his health going forwards. 
admitting Mr S to the UK hospital
Im satisfied that the UK hospital hadnt been adequately notified  of Mr Ss arrival in sufficient 
time to enable it to get ready  to admit him, and nor had it been given details about his 
injuries.
Ive seen a system note made by one of URVs case handlers  which  reflects:
I have been asked to arrange  admission.  PAX arrives  today, I have only seen this by 
chance. PAX is a trauma patient and so just ringing up to try and get admission a few 
hours before arrival not ideal
The system notes also reflect  that they spoke to the hospital but its noted that the medical 
information being provided was incomplete.  Its also stated that the hospital called back  to 
say Mr S should go to the accident  and emergency  department and that the orthopaedic 
team were  aware of the situation. 
Mr Ss son has also given  us an email from a doctor who was on call at the time Mr S arrived  
at the hospital.  Its reflected that: 
The staff nurse confirms  that when she asked if your dad could sit up the 
paramedics said that they didnt know anything about him and they were only asked 
to transport him from airport to hospital.  They stated they thought  he had a broken 
leg. I can confirm that no doctor,  nurse or manager  was aware of his impending 
arrival. I found out the next day that an orthopaedic reg(istrar) had accepted him but 
didnt tell anyone  apart from his consultant.
Repatriations should  not come via the ED. The patient should always  have a bed on 
a ward set aside for him and this entails be management or hospital management 
doing this, not doctors. Obviously a full medical  handover should always be given 
too. I was shocked  that there  was not a nurse or doctor present to hand  over your 
dads complex history,  no bed ready  for him and no attempt to contact renal doctors 
in advance.
I apologise that your dad had a prolonged, uncomfortable and unnecessary  stay on a 
trolley in ED and the obvious distress  it caused  you as a son
All in all, Im satisfied  that URV didnt do enough to ensure that the hospital was made aware 
of Mr Ss injuries so that he could be seamlessly  admitted to a ward.  I think  this is likely to 
have exacerbated  an already stressful situation  for Mr S and rather  than being admitted to 
the hospital upon arrival, he had to wait in an accident and emergency department 
unnecessarily  and wouldve caused Mr S additional upset on top of an already traumatic 
and stressful  few weeks. 
Ref: DRN90073275putting things right
This service doesnt have  any power to direct  URV  to pay compensation as a punitive  
measure. Im required to look at the impact URVs wrongdoings had on Mr S when 
considering whats  a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for URV to pay him. 
URV has already  offered  Mr S £400. I dont think that fairly reflects the trouble and upset he 
experienced as a result of the things that URV did wrong here. Im persuaded that £700  is a 
fairer amount to reflect the substantial distress and inconvenience it caused.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account what  Mr S says about his family  
particularly his son  being put to the unnecessary trouble by what URV did wrong   
including having  to chase URV on a number of occasions  which  was very frustrating. 
Mr S says URVs  actions also increased their levels of worry and stress. However, Mr Ss 
son and other family members arent  named beneficiaries on his policy  and they dont have 
a contact of insurance  with URV.  So, I dont have  the power to award  any compensation 
directly to them as part of Mr Ss complaint. 
I accept that seeing  his familys worry exacerbated by what  URV did wrong   particularly 
seeing his son having to regularly chase  URV  for updates and responses,  delays being 
repatriated home after 7 March 2019,  and the issues he subsequently encountered  upon 
arriving back in the UK and being  taken to hospital -  wouldve further increased his own 
worry and distress. But Ive taken  that into account  when  directing URV to pay Mr S £700. 
URV can deduct from this amount the £400  its already  offered  Mr S, if its already paid this 
to him.
my final decision
I partially uphold  Mr Ss complaint and direct  Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right 
by doing what  Ive set out above. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9007327