K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Grosvenor Credit Management  & Investigations Ltd acted unfairly in the 
way it repossessed his hire vehicle. He wants compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused.
background
Mr L is represented in this complaint by a family friend, Miss G, but for ease of reading Ill 
just refer to him.
Mr L told us that in 2015 hed acquired  a vehicle through a hire agreement with a company 
Ill refer to as V. He said hed received  a letter from Grosvenor on 5 January  2019 - which  
was a Saturday - notifying him that it had been instructed to repossess the vehicle. He said 
the letter had indicated that the agents  visit could  be avoided by contacting  Grosvenor. He 
said he intended to make the call on Monday 7 January,  but before he could do so he states 
that the agents arrived at 6.30am and repossessed the vehicle. Mr L doesnt think  hed been  
given a fair opportunity to resolve the issue before the vehicle was taken. Mr L advises that 
he later received a penalty charge notice in respect  of an incident  which  had occurred on 7 
January 2019  - but after the repossession  had taken place.
Grosvenor told us that it had been  instructed by its client,  V, to repossess the vehicle. It said 
it had sent a letter, by first class post, to Mr L advising that it would be collected.  But it 
accepted the letter  couldve given the impression that Mr L might  be able to settle the 
agreement. It acknowledged this wasnt an available option with a hire agreement. It told us 
it had paid the penalty charge notice after becoming  aware of this issue.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. He said Grosvenors letter  
had incorrectly advised Mr L he could avoid the agents visit. He felt this raised Mr Ls hopes 
that he might  be able to avoid the vehicle being repossessed. And he didnt think  that a 
reasonable amount of notice had been  given. He said that Grosvenor had paid the penalty  
charge notice which is what hed have recommended. He felt Grosvenor should pay Mr L 
£50 for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.
Grosvenor accepted the investigators view. Mr L didnt think the level of compensation 
recommended was sufficient to reflect  the distress and inconvenience caused. As its not 
been possible to resolve the complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should confirm  that in this complaint Im only dealing with the actions of Grosvenor. Im not 
looking at whether V was justified or not in repossessing  the vehicle.
I think its fair to say that any occasion when goods have to be repossessed  is likely  to prove 
stressful. But I think Mr L was caused more upset than would ordinarily attach to such a 
situation. And thats a matter for regret.  Having  said that I dont think the repossession  itself 
wouldve come  as a complete surprise to Mr L as hed previously been sent a notice,  in 
November 2018,  warning this might  occur.
Ref: DRN92329452Theres little or no factual dispute  in this complaint. Its not disputed  that Grosvenor were  
instructed by V to repossess the vehicle  which was in Mr Ls possession. Nor is it in issue  
that its (Grosvenor) letter advising of the impending repossession mistakenly gave the 
impression that Mr L might be able to avoid losing the vehicle. As the agreement was a hire 
agreement it wasnt open to Grosvenor to accept  an offer of settlement or permit  Mr L to 
retain possession  of the vehicle.
It was also unfortunate  that the timing  of the letter  meant that Mr L was unable to contact 
either Grosvenor or V before the repossession. After  hed received the letter on the 
Saturday, Grosvenors  office didnt reopen until the following  Monday. By which  time the 
agents had repossessed the vehicle. But I also acknowledge  that even if hed been able to 
make such  a call it wouldnt  have prevented the repossession.
That the vehicle  should attract a penalty  charge notice  whilst still registered to Mr L - even 
though the vehicle was no longer  in his possession or under his control - simply added to an 
already upsetting situation. And I bear in mind that the notice  wouldve arrived several days 
after the repossession  and at a time when Mr L presumably felt that experience  was 
confined to the past.
The purpose of compensation is to offer a consumer some  recompense for when a business  
has fallen short of reasonably expected standards. Its not to punish a business. But here I 
think there were three distinct areas where those standards werent met. The misleading 
content of the repossession letter; lack of adequate  notice; and the oversight in not paying 
the relevant toll. In each case I think more attention to detail wouldve easily  prevented the 
problem. 
In summary,  whilst I dont think Mr L suffered any additional economic  loss as a result of 
these errors,  I do think he experienced more discomfort and inconvenience  than even  an 
inherently stressful repossession  process would normally  create.  I think a modest increase in 
the level of compensation recommended by the investigator is fair and reasonable. And so I 
propose to require Grosvenor to pay £100  to Mr L.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
In full and final settlement  of this complaint I require Grosvenor Credit Management & 
Investigations Limited to pay Mr L £100  compensation for distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9232945