K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold them  a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
Some of the paperwork  refers to different business  trading names. But as Lloyds Bank PLC 
is responsible for dealing  with this complaint, to keep things simpler Ill just refer to Lloyds 
as the seller in my decision.
background
In 1998 Mr and Mrs R took out a joint mortgage  and PPI to protect their monthly mortgage 
repayments if they couldnt  work due to accident, sickness  or unemployment.  
Over the next nine years, Mr and Mrs R borrowed  more money  on their mortgage account  a 
number of times. And they made changes to the PPI arrangements they had in place each 
time they did that. 
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and didnt  think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs R 
disagree and theyd like an ombudsman to review whats happened.  
Mr and Mrs R are mainly  concerned that Lloyds didn't ever make  it clear to them that PPI 
was optional. Mr and Mrs R say that if theyd known this they wouldve looked at other  
options and theyre  unhappy that theyve paid for PPI. Theyre  also concerned  that Lloyds 
hasnt upheld this complaint when  it settled another PPI complaint they made - they believe 
this complaint should be upheld too. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive taken into account all Mr and Mrs Rs comments, including  what theyve said about  the 
way a different  PPI case has been  dealt with. All cases are looked at on their own merits and 
the outcome depends on the circumstances  that apply in each particular case.  So what 
happened on a different  case doesnt affect my view on this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain my reasons. 
Ive looked at what happened each  time Mr and Mrs R took out PPI and/or made changes to 
their PPI arrangements.  
what happened  in 1998
Mr and Mrs R applied for their mortgage  and the PPI during a meeting at the bank. This was 
a long time ago and it wouldnt  be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs R to recall  in exact detail 
what was said when  Lloyds sold them  PPI. So what they say about the way the way they 
were sold PPI isnt enough  on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. I dont 
know what was discussed about the PPI. But it doesnt look to me like there was anything  on 
their mortgage application  that wouldve made  them think that having PPI wasnt optional. 
Ref: DRN96650322Mr and Mrs R told us theyd thought PPI was part of an all encompassing package when 
they took out their mortgage. But looking at the paperwork they completed,  I can see that it 
wasnt included with their mortgage  they had to fill in a separate  application form to take it 
out. There was nothing mentioned on the mortgage application itself that I think would've 
made Mr and Mrs R think they had to apply  for PPI. 
On the separate PPI application  they indicated they wanted to set the policy up to cover 
them both.  They provided details of the loan they wanted to cover. They opted to split the 
policy benefits equally. So it looks to me as if Mr and Mrs R must have decided  to take out 
this insurance and discussed how they wanted  to share the cover between  them.  
Mr and Mrs R both signed the PPI application confirming they wanted to apply for the cover. 
And they also set up payment arrangements at their bank to cover the monthly PPI cost. 
Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs R mightve forgotten  some of these details  
from so long ago. But, on balance, I find that Lloyds did do enough to make it clear  that the 
policy was available  as an option  to protect  their mortgage monthly repayments. 
Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage was a major  financial commitment, due to run for a long period of 
time. Their home wouldve been  at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
PPI provided a dependable  means  of ensuring the monthly mortgage  repayments were 
protected even  if they couldnt  work. So, I can see why Mr and Mrs R mightve  felt PPI was 
useful. 
On balance, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs R wanted to have the benefits and 
security of having PPI and they decided to buy the policy,  knowing  it was up to them  to apply 
for it if they wanted  to have it. 
Lloyds says it recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs R. Although Mr and Mrs R say that Lloyds  
didnt recommend PPI to them,  looking  at their complaint on the basis that Lloyds  advised  
them to take out PPI imposes an extra obligation  on the lender. So, this gives 
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  the best chance of success. If a financial business  makes a 
recommendation about PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable as well as giving  important policy information in a clear way.  
Mr and Mrs R were both eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions that applied. And the way the benefit  was split between them seems 
reasonable as they were both responsible for paying  the mortgage.
When their mortgage started, Mr R couldve relied  on getting 3 months  full sick pay followed 
by 3 months' half sick pay. And Mrs R told us she was entitled to 6 months full sick pay 
followed by 6 months'  half pay. But this doesnt mean that PPI wasnt right for them.  
The policy wouldve covered  their mortgage repayments (plus some  extra) and paid out in 
full for longer - up to 12 months per claim on top of any sick pay. I think  this couldve been a 
useful benefit  at whats likely to have been  a difficult time for Mr and Mrs R  especially  if 
they mightve faced  extra  costs  as a result of illness or disability. 
The policy wouldve also paid out in the event that Mr R or Mrs R became  unexpectedly 
unemployed. 
Ref: DRN96650323Repeat claims were possible. In this way, the policy offered them long term cover for their 
mortgage. 
Relying on each other to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable  as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  And, although 
Mr and Mrs R had some savings, I dont know if they wouldve always had savings to rely on 
if they needed to use these to cover their outgoings and they werent  able to work. 
Overall, looking at their circumstances at the time, I think PPI offered  Mr and Mrs R useful 
protection and it was suitable for them. 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But Mr and Mrs R were  both in full time 
employment and in good health when they took out the PPI and they werent affected by any 
of the main conditions limiting the policys benefits.  So, even if all the policy terms and 
conditions werent  explained as clearly  as they shouldve been, I dont think  having more 
information about what wasnt covered wouldve put them off taking it out.
Based on all the information Ive seen, I think Mr and Mrs R chose to take out the policy 
when they were aware that they didnt have to have  PPI if they didnt want  to. And they 
signed an instruction  to their bank to pay the monthly premiums for the policy. So it appears 
to me they were happy  to pay for the cover theyd chosen. And it doesnt look as if the policy  
was an expense they couldnt  afford at the time  so the cost didnt make it unsuitable for 
them. Shortly after the policy was set up, the bank wrote to Mr and Mrs R confirming details 
of the cover  theyd taken.  It also told Mr and Mrs R that if the cover wasnt  suitable for them 
they could cancel the policy within 30 days at no cost and any premiums paid would be 
refunded. So I think  its likely that Mr and Mrs R would've contacted Lloyds  at this point to 
cancel the cover if it wasnt something  they had wanted to pay for  Ive seen nothing  that 
suggests to me this happened.  
Looked at overall, I dont  find that I've seen enough to say that Lloyds mis-sold them PPI in 
1998. 
what happened  in November/December 2000/January 2001
In November 2000 Mr and Mrs R applied for some  extra borrowing on their mortgage 
account. Theres a section on the loan application with options  that ask whether or not they 
were interested in having PPI. So I think they wouldve been able to see that they had the 
option to indicate that PPI wasnt something  they were interested  in having. This section has 
been left blank on the form Mr and Mrs R completed.
And I can see that a couple of days later, in December 2000, they completed a separate  PPI 
application increasing their level of cover  to take account of their extra  borrowing. In January 
2001 Lloyds wrote to them thanking Mr and Mrs R for their recent request to amend their 
insurance. It sent them a new policy schedule showing  the change  and the new monthly  cost 
and invited them to phone  if they had any questions about it.
Lloyds said this amendment was arranged over the phone and that it recommended the PPI 
to Mr and Mrs R. 
Ref: DRN96650324I think it was a suitable recommendation. Mr and Mrs Rs employment arrangements were  
the same  as when theyd  taken out their mortgage  in 1998. And as far as I can see there  had 
been no change  in their overall  circumstances. So they continued to be able to take 
advantage of all the policy benefits.  
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs R during discussions with the 
bank when they took it out. But the cost of the policy was shown in the letter  Lloyds sent 
them with the policy change information and they couldve queried it then if they decided  this 
wasnt something they wanted to pay for. But, from what Ive seen, it doesnt look as if that 
happened. 
Mr and Mrs R havent suggested that they couldnt afford the monthly premiums. And they 
wouldve signed an instruction form to their bank to cover the cost. So it seems they were 
happy at the time to pay for PPI. Based on all the information I've seen, I dont find PPI was 
mis-sold to them when they amended  their cover on this occasion. 
what happened  in August 2004
In August  2004,  during  a meeting  at the bank,  Mr and Mrs R took out more borrowing on 
their mortgage account. They also completed a separate PPI application  indicating  they 
wanted to buy extra cover for their additional  borrowing  and share the policy  benefits 
between them. 
PPI wasnt extended  automatically when Mr and Mrs R arranged this further  advance. 
Looking at the paperwork they completed, it appears that they applied  for more PPI and 
agreed the extra cost of the additional cover  as they wanted the PPI benefits to cover  their 
increased borrowing. And I can understand why. As far as I can see their circumstances 
were broadly  the same. By buying additional cover, Mr and Mrs R could rely on having  the 
same benefits and long term protection they already had set up for their existing mortgage. 
Lloyds said it recommended the PPI  and I think it was suitable  for them.  
Mr and Mrs R continued to be able to take advantage of all the benefits under  the policy.  
And theres  nothing to suggest that the extra cost was a problem  for them  when they set up 
the arrangements at their bank to pay for this additional PPI. 
what happened  in November/December 2004/January 2005
In November/December  2004 Mr and Mrs R applied for more  borrowing on their mortgage  
account. The loan agreement they signed when this loan was set up in included information  
that made it clear they werent required  to take out any insurance through the lender  and 
the only insurance they had to have wasnt PPI. So I think  they wouldve understood that it 
was up to them to say if they wanted  PPI.
Mr and Mrs R also completed a separate PPI application  indicating  they wanted  to buy 
extra cover for their additional borrowing and share  the policy  benefits between  them.  
Ref: DRN96650325I think its likely, looking at the paperwork they completed, that they chose to have more PPI 
and agreed the extra  cost of the additional  cover as they wanted the PPI benefits  to cover 
their increased borrowing. And I can understand why. As far as I can see their 
circumstances were  broadly the same  although  they were  adding significantly to the 
amount owed on their mortgage. By buying  additional cover, Mr and Mrs R could rely on 
having the same benefits and long term protection they already had set up for their existing 
mortgage. 
Lloyds said it recommended the PPI  and I think it was suitable  for them.  
Mr and Mrs R wouldve  been able to take advantage of all the benefits under the policy. And 
theres nothing to suggest that the extra  cost was a problem for them  when they set up the 
arrangements at their bank to pay for this additional  PPI. 
Taking all their circumstances into account, even  if there were  failings in the way Lloyds sold 
them PPI, I dont think that better information wouldve put Mr and Mrs R off buying  extra  
cover when they took out this further  borrowing. 
what happened  in 2006
Mr and Mrs R completed  a loan application  for more borrowing on their mortgage account. 
Ive also seen the separate PPI application they completed to increase  the amount of cover 
they had for their borrowing. The loan agreement they signed clearly showed  the PPI they 
also took out at the same  time under the heading Optional Insurance. 
So I think they wouldve  been able to see that, as on the previous occasions,  having PPI was 
an option with their extra borrowing. And I find that it was added  to their mortgage  account 
when they applied successfully for the extra cover.
Based on all the information I've seen,  it looks like the PPI Lloyds says it advised 
Mr and Mrs R to take out continued to be suitable for them. I cant  say that the information 
Ive seen about their circumstances  suggests that they didn't  any longer need the policy or 
that they werent able to benefit  fully from the cover  offered. 
I think they would've understood that there  was an additional cost each time they upgraded 
their PPI to cover  their extra borrowing   so it looks to me like they were happy  to pay for the 
cover they wanted.  As Mr and Mrs R paid for the PPI each month,  they were able to cancel 
some or all of the cover theyd taken out at any time, without incurring  any extra cost, if their 
circumstances changed or they decided that they no longer wanted to pay for it.
So, on balance, I dont  find that Lloyds mis-sold them PPI in 2006.
what happened  in 2007
In 2007, Mr and Mrs R arranged another further  advance on their mortgage during a meeting 
at the bank.  
The loan agreement  included  information  about the PPI under the heading Optional 
Insurance. And Mr and Mrs R had to complete a separate application as before to take out 
the insurance. 
Ref: DRN96650326So, theres nothing  to suggest  to me that Mr and Mrs R wouldnt have been aware at the 
time that it was up to them  to arrange  this PPI if they wanted to protect their extra borrowing 
 and thats what I think they did.
It appears their circumstances remained broadly the same  as far as I can see and the PPI 
protected the whole  of their borrowing in the event either of them  became  ill or too disabled  
to work or if they became unexpectedly  unemployed.  They  were  able to benefit from 
everything the policy offered. 
So, even if Lloyds failed  to give them all the information it shouldve done, I dont think 
having more information wouldve stopped Mr and Mrs R taking out the PPI in 2007. 
This means  that, looked  at overall, I dont find that Mr and Mrs R lost out as a result of 
anything that Lloyds did wrong  when  it sold them PPI.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give back  to Mr and Mrs R some of the 
commission they paid.  The Supreme  Court  ruling and new rules  and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr and Mrs Rs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Lloyds 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs R paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
Taking everything into account,  I dont find that Mr and Mrs R have lost out as a result of 
anything that Lloyds did wrong.  So this means it doesnt need to do anything  to put things 
right.
In coming to my decision Ive thought  carefully about  everything that Mr and Mrs R have 
said, including the comments made  in response  to our adjudicators view. I appreciate they 
feel strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will come as a 
disappointment. In my decision I've dealt with all the main points raised that have an impact  
on the outcome  of their complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will 
help explain  how Ive reached my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 July 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9665032