K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited turned down part of his travel  insurance 
claim.
background
Mr S has a travel policy as a benefit  of his bank  account. He was abroad when he fell ill and 
a doctor  treated him. He cut short his trip and flew home early. He claimed for the cost of the 
medical treatment and the cost of returning home  early. Aviva  paid for the medical treatment 
but didn't pay for the cost of cutting short the trip.
Mr S didn't  think that was fair and brought his complaint  to us. The adjudicator  thought that it 
was reasonable  for Aviva to decline  part of Mr Ss claim. Mr S didn't agree so his complaint's 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
A doctor treated Mr S abroad for a common condition of the gut. Mr S has some pre-existing 
issues that could  make his condition worse.  The doctor told him that he should seek  further  
treatment from his own doctor. So he flew home early to continue  treatment. 
Mr Ss policy  says that in order  to be covered  for the costs  of returning home early he must 
contact Avivas medical emergency assistance  staff before doing so. Mr S said that he didn't 
do that because  he was so unwell he didn't read the policy  wording at that time.  And I can 
understand that Mr S might not have realised it was important  to contact Aviva before he 
returned home while he was feeling  so ill. But had Mr S contacted Aviva it might  have  been  
able to arrange suitable treatment for him at a local facility which  might  also have meant he 
didn't need  to fly home. Alternatively  Aviva might have arranged  the necessary flights itself. 
But because Mr S didn't  contact it he didn't  give Aviva that opportunity.
The policy also says that Mr S must support  any such claim with a medical report  from the 
treating doctor confirming  that it was necessary to go home  early.  Mr S didn't receive  that 
medical report at the time that he saw the doctor.  But later, with the help of a relative, a 
doctor from the clinic  abroad provided a note confirming Mr S had received treatment 
together with advice  to seek further  treatment  from his own doctor. But that note doesn't say 
that it was medically  necessary for Mr S to cut short his trip in order to do so. And I note that 
it was some six days after Mr S saw the doctor  that he actually flew home.
Mr S said that, while abroad, he and his family were very concerned  about his health. They 
felt it was clear he would require further specialised tests and they weren't  convinced  those 
would be available  while  he was abroad,  particularly because doctors there  wouldn't  have 
access to his medical history. So Mr S decided to return home to continue  treatment without  
speaking to Aviva. Mr S summed  it up like this:
Under the circumstances it is the patient who decide [sic] for his own well being and not the 
Insurance co
Ref: DRN98236782In other  words because  Mr S felt so unwell,  the doctor had told him to see his own doctor, 
and he wasn't convinced he could receive  the treatment he needed abroad,  he decided to fly 
home straight away. And while hes submitted a doctors note advising that he seek 
treatment from his own doctor I haven't seen any medical evidence that he had to fly home 
immediately for treatment. And, without that evidence, I think  it was reasonable for Aviva to 
turn down Mr Ss claim for coming home  early.
Mr S has alleged  that one of Avivas agents  abroad  demanded  a bribe from him and his 
family or otherwise the agent would write a negative report. Avivas looked  into this but 
doesn't support Mr Ss allegation. I wouldn't of course condone  any form of criminal 
behaviour by an agent of an insurance company, as that would clearly be both unfair  and 
unreasonable. But Im not in a position  to investigate that matter. As I understand it an 
allegation of this nature would be a serious issue and one better dealt with by the police in 
the place where  it happened. So I don't intend to consider that matter further here. 
Similarly, by Mr Ss own account the doctors  note hes provided also raises some questions. 
Thats because Mr S says that he was seen by a male doctor  and that's who he and his 
relatives spoke with. But the doctors note hes submitted  is from a female  doctor. There 
could be a simple  explanation  for that, and it was Mr S who pointed out the anomaly himself. 
So I don't think  it means hes necessarily  done  anything wrong when  submitting  the doctors 
evidence. But it does  muddy the waters  as to the accuracy of the doctors note.
But in any event, as I've said above, Mr S hasn't provided medical evidence that it was 
necessary for him to return  home when he did. And thats what  his policy requires in order to 
be covered for his claim.  So I think it was reasonable for Aviva to decline it.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9823678