K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Es complaint is about  Legal and General Insurance  Limited (L&G). 
L&G uses  agents to administer the policy and handle legal expenses claims on its behalf 
and my references to L&G include acts of its agents. 
background
I sent the parties my initial in a provisional  decision where I summarised the background as:
Mr and Mrs E made a claim under the legal expenses section of their home insurance policy 
in 2016. The claim was handled  by L&Gs claims-handling agents but Mr and Mrs E were not 
happy with how the matter was handled.  They complained to us about  the handling of the 
claim previously, in particular the delay in initially registering the claim and appointing panel 
solicitors to act on their behalf. L&G admitted  that there were  delays.  They brought a 
complaint to us about that and a final decision was issued on that complaint. For the 
avoidance of doubt, I am unable to consider again  any of the points that were included  in 
that complaint.  
However, Mr and Mrs E have now brought this complaint against  L&G on the basis that:
the policy was not fit for purpose and 
they feel that L&G shouldnt have passed their claim  to its claims-handlers in the first 
place as they didnt handle it properly.
they also complain  that L&G delayed the investigation into their complaint and
that they provided conflicting information.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and explained their view that there were 
some customer service  issues  in providing  incorrect information during the complaint and so 
L&G should  pay £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused. But the 
investigator didnt  agree  with Mr and Mrs E that L&G had mis-sold the policy.  She said the 
policy was sold as an additional cover to the home insurance policy and wasnt  
recommended by L&G. So L&Gs responsibility was to provide sufficient information about 
the policy such that they could make an informed choice. The investigator  said the 
documents sent to Mr and Mrs E explained  there  was an administrator of the policy and so it 
was clear that L&G would pass claims to this agent.  
Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the investigator  and didnt think  £50 compensation was 
sufficient. They have  also raised issues about  the way L&G has dealt with their complaint 
including a subject  access request.
I then explained  why I didnt intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint:
It is not unusual  at all for insurers  to appoint agents  to act on their behalf to carry out various 
functions in relation to an insurance policy. Particularly with legal expenses  cover the insurer 
will use an agent to assess claims and administer  a policy. Mr and Mrs Es policy  explains 
this and its in keeping with industry practice. 
The legal expenses  element of the policy was included by Mr and Mrs E when buying their 
home insurance policy with L&G. It was on a non-advised basis  so L&G had a duty to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the information it provided was clear, fair, not misleading and 
Ref: DRN98655772sufficient to enable  Mr and Mrs E to take an informed decision.  This doesnt mean L&G had 
to explain everything  but it did need to explain the policys main characteristics. 
Having looked  at the policy documentation its clear that Mr and Mrs E were eligible to claim 
benefits under the policy. The policy terms are fairly standard  and enable Mr and Mrs E to 
claim cover where certain conditions are met. The issue  Mr and Mrs E raise concerns the 
use by L&G of agents. The policy explains that agents are used and as Ive said earlier,  this 
is standard industry practice. It allows insurers, among other matters, to use relevant experts 
for particular  issues, such as handling  claims  and administering the policy. Im not 
persuaded that the use of agents by L&G means the policy  was mis-sold. There was 
sufficient information  that explained  this clearly.
The handling  of the claim has been dealt with by one of my ombudsman colleagues 
previously and I make no further  comment on this issue.
Mr and Mrs E raised a complaint with L&G and there were some  issues with how L&G dealt 
with the complaint including  the timeliness and some of the information  it gave to them.  
My power to consider complaints derives  from the Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) and the Dispute  Resolution  Rules (DISP) in the FCA handbook.  
The DISP  rules say the Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the compulsory 
jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission  by a firm in carrying out a regulated activity or an 
ancillary activity. These activities  are set out in the Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000 
(Regulated Activities) Order 2001.
Complaint handling  isnt a regulated activity or something ancillary to a regulated activity in 
this case. But L&G has agreed to pay Mr and Mrs E £50 compensation and so its a matter 
for Mr and Mrs E to let L&G know whether they accept that amount.
replies to provisional decision
I havent seen  a reply  from L&G but Mr and Mrs E have sent me a letter.  They have raised  a 
number of concerns;
Concern that Im looking at the complaint too narrowly (mis-sale) and not at the fact 
L&G tried to make it appear that their complaint was out of time.  
They believe a letter from L&G dated  8 November  had been  fabricated and contained 
a false statement that there had been  a telephone conversation with the customer 
service team on 31 October  2016. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In their complaint  form Mr and Mrs E stated that they believed  L&G for the past six years had 
sold a product that isnt fit for purpose. Im satisfied that its fair to look at whether the policy 
was mis-sold and Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Es reply to reach a different outcome  on 
that point.
Ref: DRN98655773Within the wider context  of Mr and Mrs Es unhappiness with L&G are concerns about how 
L&G handled their claim and the issue about the letter  and telephone conversation relate to 
how L&G handled  their complaint.
I explained that one of ombudsman colleagues had already dealt with the claim handling 
aspect and Mr and Mrs E are aware of this because they received a final decision. And 
because of that I cant make any comment on the handling of the claim as our statutory 
function has been completed. 
In my provisional decision I mentioned that Mr and Mrs E were unhappy with the way L&G 
had handled  their complaint. I said there  were  some issues with how L&G dealt with the 
complaint including the timeliness and some  of the information it gave  to them.  Although I 
didnt specify I was aware that this included the telephone call and the letter  both of which 
relate to how the complaint was investigated  (or not) and dealt with. But we cant  look at 
every issue  that is brought to us and my power to consider  a complaint originates from the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and the Dispute  Resolution  Rules  (DISP) 
in the FCA handbook. 
The DISP  rules say the Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the compulsory 
jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission  by a firm in carrying out a regulated activity or an 
ancillary activity. These activities  are set out in the Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000 
(Regulated Activities) Order 2001.
Complaint handling  isnt a regulated activity or something ancillary to a regulated activity in 
this case. And because  of that I cant look at the issues about how L&G dealt with the 
complaint Mr and Mrs E had raised. It can be a subtle distinction  between claim handling, 
which we have looked at, and how a business  has handled a complaint about service,  which  
in this case I cant look at.
my final decision
I appreciate this will be frustrating for Mr and Mrs E but I dont uphold  their complaint that the 
policy was mis-sold. And I cant  look at the issues theyve raised about how L&G handled 
their complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 July 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9865577