K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  about U K Insurance Limited declining his wall claim under his home 
insurance policy.
background
Mr Ts son noticed cracking in the front wall outside Mr Ts home. Mr T and his son said a 
car mustve hit the wall as theres extensive cracking and the bricks  can be moved.  UKI 
considered and then declined the claim. UKI said the damage was down to wear and tear 
which is excluded under the policy. Unhappy  with this Mr T brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said damage  caused gradually and wear 
and tear are specifically  excluded under the policy. Our investigator said he understands that 
Mr T thinks the damage mustve  been  caused by a car hitting the wall. But UKI has provided 
images of the street from a year before the claim showing the same cracks are already  
there. He said that UKI had acted reasonably when it declined the claim. Mr T asked  for his 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In evidence UKI said the photographs it provided from a year prior to the claim showed that 
the damage now being claimed for had already happened. It said that although Mr T said a 
car had now dislodged the brick  the evidence said it was wear  and tear. I think thats  fair 
comment from UKI. Although I understand what Mr T and his son said about  a car mustve  
done it, the evidence does suggest  the damage  had already  occurred a year before.
UKI also said you could  see two large cracks  in the middle of the pillar  near the top of the 
fence and it showed damage  at the top where there was a hole in the wire. Again  I think  the 
photos do show this and dont differ from the photos a year later.
Mr T said his son later explained that hed found one of the bricks on the floor and hed put it 
back. Mr T said this was evidence that a car mustve hit the wall. But looking at the photos  
there isnt any difference between them. So even if a car did hit the wall the damage  doesnt 
look any different to how the wall looked a year before. Based on this I think  UKI acted  
reasonably when it declined the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Ref: DRN90597702John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9059770