K820x#14Complaint
Mrs M has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc has unfairly increased the cost of her pet 
insurance policy.
Background
Mrs M took out a Petplan policy in 2011 to cover her two dogs. The policy  is underwritten  by 
Allianz. 
In 2015 the cost of the policy was £679.76  for the year. Allianz offered to renew the policy  in 
2016 for a premium  of £786.65.  Mrs M contacted  Allianz as she was unhappy with the 
increase and was offered a 10% discount - so she paid £707.99 for the policy that year. 
In 2017 the policy premium  increased  again  to £892.18. Mrs M says the increase is 
extortionate when no claim has been  made,  especially  when there is an additional  excess  to 
pay because of her dogs age. Mrs M also says that because of her dogs  age she cant  
move to a different  policy  and Allianz  is exploiting  long term customers  with aging  pets
who have never claimed on their policy.
Allianz say the increase in premium  has been  calculated correctly for the risk that is 
presented to them.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by explaining  that businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for
the insurance cover they provide and how much of an excess  to apply to their policies, and I 
dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  cost or what  excesses it 
should apply.  I would  be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should operate   
and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mrs Ms policy  or the excess amount is too 
high. And I cant say she should have been  charged  less for the policy  in the past or that she 
should be charged less in the future.
Insurance premiums  are calculated so that they can reasonably  be expected to cover the 
likely claims  arising  from an insurance  contract, with a safety margin to ensure the long-term  
viability of the insurer. The calculation is generally  based on the probability of the insured 
event occurring, combined with the likely  financial loss resulting from the claim. All insurers  
take a number of different factors into account  when doing this calculation.
Its very common  for pet insurers to increase premiums as well as the amount their 
customers are expected to contribute towards a claim, as a pet ages. This is because the 
risk of insuring the pet increases with age, and because older pets are more likely to become 
unwell and be diagnosed with long term/serious  health problems. If they didnt do this, the 
premium would probably need to be even higher, as the insurer would be taking a greater 
risk.
Other factors  which contribute to the price increases are things such as increased vet costs,  
changes in insurance premium tax and other  changes in underwriting.  We wont interfere 
Ref: DRN98942132with an insurers assessment of risk or the calculation they do to determine what the 
premium will be.
But I do need to be satisfied that Mrs M hasnt been  singled out in any way. So Ive looked  to 
see whether Allianz  have  treated all comparable customers  fairly  and equally.  Allianz  have 
provided some information to me which shows how Mrs Ms premiums  were calculated. 
I can see that the age of Mrs Ms dogs did contribute towards the increase  in premium, as 
well as an increase  in insurance  premium tax from 10% to 12% (something out of Allianzs  
control). But the main  reason  the increase seems so significant is because Mrs M received a 
10% discount on her 2016 premium. 
I know that Mrs M doesnt think its right to calculate  the percentage of her 2017 premium 
increase based  on what  she would have  been charged in 2016  she says this voids the 
discount and instead thinks it was actually  a deferred payment. But I disagree.  The cost in 
2016 should have been £786.65 and she paid £707.99  saving over £78 that year.  The 
amount of her policy in 2017 would still have  been £892.18, regardless of whether she had 
received the discount in 2016  or not. So she has still saved over £78. And I dont think  its 
reasonable to expect  Allianz to maintain a discount for the rest of the time she has the policy 
 it was a one-off gesture  to address her concerns about the premium increasing  at that 
time. 
Looking at the premium (before the discount)  for 2016 compared  to the premium offered in 
2017, the increase is around  13%. This is in line with the sort of increase you can generally 
expect year on year for this type of policy. But I accept  it felt like a much  larger  increase to 
Mrs M in 2017 as she had paid a discounted rate the year before. 
When Mrs M took out her policy in 2011 I do think that Allianz  should  have been clearer  
about the fact her premium would increase each year.  But I think its likely  Mrs M would have 
understood that her premium could change  each year and would have realised  the policy 
would be more expensive  as her dogs got older. I also think it was to be expected that the 
premium in 2017 would be greater than the premium (before the discount) in 2016.  
Mrs M says that Allianz are exploiting people who are in her position as they cant  move to a 
different policy  because of their pets age. But I havent seen anything to suggest thats the 
case - although I accept it is harder to find cover for older pets. Thats  because  insurers  dont 
want to accept the risk of insuring pets that are more  likely to need to claim. I think any 
alternative cover that is available  is likely  to be expensive, and likely to also include a higher  
claims excess (like Mrs Ms existing policy)  to reflect the increased risk of claims for older 
pets. And I think this shows why Allianz increased the cost and excess  payment as they did. 
I understand that Mrs M has not had to make a claim  on the policy  for her dogs.  But I note 
that the price  of the policy would have  been  the same  even  if she had. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Allianz  have  treated Mrs M in the same way as 
they would  do any other  policyholder in the same position and I don't think  Mrs M has lost 
out because of anything Allianz  have done wrong.  So I wont be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Ref: DRN98942133Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9894213