K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that the turbo has failed  twice on a vehicle she financed through  Northridge 
Finance Limited  (Northridge).  She wants them to reimburse the repair  costs.
background
Mrs K took receipt of a used car in March 2015. She financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with Northridge.  The car had completed just over 15,403  miles and was 
about a year old at the point of supply.
In February 2016  the turbo  failed.  The vehicle had completed just over 29,000 miles at this 
point and the dealership  repaired the car under warranty. But in April 2018 the turbo  broke 
again and the dealership wouldnt cover the costs. The manufacturer has agreed  to fund half 
of the repair  bill.
Mrs K obtained an opinion from a third party  garage who said the turbo  shouldnt  have failed 
again after only 20,000 miles so she asked  Northridge to pay for the repairs  as she said it 
was clear the vehicle  was faulty at the point of sale.
Northridge explained that their responsibility for the vehicle was not unlimited. They were 
responsible for ensuring the quality  of the vehicle  was right at the point of supply and as the 
turbo hadnt failed  for a year and the car had completed about 14,000 miles at that point,  and 
wasnt new when it was received, they didnt feel it was reasonable to suggest  it was faulty 
when Mrs K took receipt of it. 
So Mrs K referred her complaint to this service. But when our investigator  looked at the 
evidence he agreed  with Northridges position. He noted the car had completed  15,000  miles 
at the point of supply  and that Mrs K had had satisfactory use of the car until it failed after 
completing further, significant, mileage.  He also noted that the car had been able to 
complete a further 27,000  miles after it was repaired  and he didnt think  it would  therefore  be 
reasonable to suggest Northridge were responsible. He didnt think that if the car was faulty 
at the point of supply  Mrs K would have been able to cover  this amount of mileage.
But Mrs K disagreed and she asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs K but Im afraid I dont think it would  be reasonable to ask 
Northridge to take any further action. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN91122752Mrs K acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Northridge is 
responsible. I take account of relevant law when deciding  what is fair and reasonable. On 
this basis if I thought the car was faulty  when supplied, Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask 
Northridge to put this right. 
But Northridges  responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
Mrs Ks car had already completed 15,000  miles when she took receipt of it and she appears  
to have enjoyed  relatively trouble free motoring until shed covered a further 14,000  or so 
miles and had had the car for almost a year. Whilst I understand it must have been 
disappointing to find the turbo had failed so early  in the cars life I am not persuaded that it 
was most likely the fault was present or developing at the point of supply. I think its more  
likely, given the passage  of time and the trouble free mileage, that the fault developed later 
and if thats the case Northridge are not responsible. And if theyre not responsible  for the 
first failure it would not be reasonable  to suggest  they were responsible for the second.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9112275