K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr H complain that Platform  Home  Loans Ltd wont switch  their mortgage to a 
capital repayment  basis and extend the mortgage term by another  12 years.
background
Mrs and Mr H took out a mortgage with Platform in April 2008. This mortgage was sold to 
them by an independent broker. The mortgage  was taken out on an interest only basis  
(payments are only taken to cover the interest  and the capital balance  doesnt reduce) over 
a term of 10 years.
In February 2018,  Mrs and Mr H asked Platform to change their mortgage to capital 
repayment over a new term of 12 years. They wanted to do this so that they could pay the 
outstanding balance left on the mortgage  because their term was due to end in May 2018.
Platform said they would consider a term increase  of five years and seven months but have  
since told us they didnt look into the request correctly. They said they didnt consider 
Mrs and Mr H being existing customers (but looked  at in instead  as new borrowers). Platform 
said once they identified their error, they contacted Mrs and Mr H to discuss  their financial 
situation.
Platform considered  Mrs and Mr Hs income and expenditure along with a £20,000 lump sum 
payment that they were told Mr H would make  from his savings. Platform, after considering  
everything, said that the mortgage  repayments would be unaffordable  over a 12 year term 
on a capital repayment basis. So they declined Mrs and Mr Hs request.
In May 2018  the agreed term of the mortgage came to an end. And because it was an 
interest only mortgage, the capital balance which was approximately £151,550 at the time, 
was left outstanding. Mrs and Mr H also raised  concerns that their mortgage  was mis-sold.
Mrs and Mr H couldnt understand how the mortgage repayments were  unaffordable  when 
Mr H was still working. As they remained unhappy  with what  Platform  had said,  they brought 
the complaint  to our service where  it was looked at by one of our investigators.  He didnt 
think that Platform were  unfair in declining the request  for a term extension and change  to a 
capital repayment  mortgage.
Mrs and Mr H didnt agree with what the investigator had said and they asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman. So it has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Im sorry to disappoint 
Mrs and Mr H, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the 
same reasons.
Ref: DRN99516212Firstly, Id like to clarify what I will be considering on this complaint. Mrs and Mr H also raised  
concerns that their mortgage was mis-sold. But we have already explained in a previous 
complaint brought to our service that were  unable to look into that issue.  This is because the 
mortgage was sold by a broker who has gone  out of business and not Platform. We provided 
information about the Financial Services Compensation  Scheme (FSCS)  as they may be 
able to consider  claims about the broker. Because Platform arent responsible  for the advice 
given by the broker, I wont be considering this particular issue  any further.
The starting point  here is that, when Mrs and Mr H took out the mortgage, they agreed to 
repay it in May 2018. Things havent  turned out as they had hoped  so theyve asked for a 
term extension and a change from interest only to capital  repayment, in order  to pay off the 
outstanding balance.
In my view, its fair for a lender to expect a borrower  to repay their mortgage at the end of the 
agreed term. If the borrower  is having difficulty doing  so, or is unable  to, there are various 
steps that a lender needs to take,  including  considering whether to extend the term.
The regulator of the financial services industry introduced rules setting out how lenders 
should treat borrowers in situations like Mrs and Mr Hs. Under those rules, Platform  had to 
consider whether extending the mortgage term and repayment method is in Mrs and Mr Hs 
best interests. Lenders should also engage with borrowers at the earliest opportunity, not 
waiting until the end of the term, to discuss how the mortgage would  be repaid.
Platform initially told Mrs and Mr H that they wouldnt be able to extend their mortgage by 
five years and seven months. But they told us that they didnt look into this request properly, 
as they based it on a new borrower and not an existing  one. So they contacted  
Mrs and Mr H to look at what they could do with regards to extending  the term. I can also 
see from the notes  on file, that Platform  did contact  Mrs and Mr H a few years prior to the 
term expiring  to discuss their options  for paying off the mortgage. And it looks  like Platform  
tried to help Mrs and Mr H with the options they wanted to explore.  This is what we would 
expect a lender  to do based on the guidance  set out by the regulator.
Platform carried out affordability calculations to see if the changes that Mrs and Mr H wanted  
would be affordable to them. They declined Mrs and Mr Hs request for the term extension 
and change to a capital repayment mortgage  because they said that Mrs and Mr H wouldnt 
be able to afford the repayments.
Ive had a look at the affordability calculations that Platform carried  out. These were based  
on information such as Mrs and Mr Hs circumstances and income,  along  with some national  
statistics for their outgoings. National statistics data include outgoings such  as utilities,  food 
and general expenditure. Mrs and Mr H also said they would be able to pay £20,000 towards 
the mortgage so Platform  also took this into consideration in their calculations. Platform  said 
that they payments would be much more  than Mrs and Mr H are paying at the moment  and 
from what Ive seen,  I agree with this too.
The mortgage term extension that Mrs and Mr H would like, takes Mrs H into retirement age 
and beyond. And from the information that Ive seen,  it appears that Platform have looked at 
various term options for Mrs and Mr H  but all assessments result as unaffordable.
Ref: DRN99516213Mrs H has said that she doesnt understand how the repayments  are unaffordable because  
Mr H is still working  .She believes they are still able to make  the required  payments towards  
the mortgage if  Platform change the mortgage to a capital  repayment one and extend the 
term by 12 years. But the calculations that Platform have completed  dont  support this. So 
while I appreciate  Mrs H thinks  they can afford the new payments,  I cant agree, based on 
what I have seen, that this is the case.
Because of this, I dont think it was unfair for Platform  to decline Mrs and Mr Hs request. I 
think that Platform have  looked at Mrs and Mr Hs circumstances, as they were  required to 
and they have concluded that extending the term wouldnt be appropriate. For the reasons 
Ive explained,  I dont consider the term extension and the change in repayment method 
theyd like would be in their best interests.  So I dont think  Platform has been unfair towards  
Mrs and Mr H. And I dont  think I can reasonably  direct them  to extend the term and change  
the repayment method in the way Mrs and Mr H have  requested.
Its also worth pointing  out that an extension on interest only terms wouldnt be the right thing 
either for Mrs and Mr H. This is because they dont  have a repayment  strategy  at the 
moment and it could  end up with them being in the same position  again having paid more 
interest and with less chance of them moving elsewhere.
The mortgage balance  is still outstanding  so I suggest that Mrs and Mr H keep an open  
dialogue with Platform to discuss any alternative  repayment proposals that they might  have. 
Platform have also suggested  that Mrs and Mr H may want to get independent advice. The 
investigator who looked at this case  for Mrs and Mr H provided them  with details of some 
organisations they may wish to contact to get some  advice.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9951621