K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is that investments recommended  to them  by MC3 Investments 
(MC3)  a Scottish Widows bond  in 2002  (SW02), a Standard  Life bond in 2004 (SL04), a 
Skandia bond in 2005  (S05) and a top up Scottish  Widows bond investment in 2006 (SW06) 
 were unsuitable in terms of exposure  to risks and unaffordability.
background
I issued a jurisdiction  decision in this complaint, with regards to whether (or not) the 
complaint had been made in time. I concluded  that the overall  complaint  about unsuitability 
of the bonds is in time, however any isolated complaint about unaffordability is out of time. 
One of our adjudicators proceeded to investigate the merits of the complaint on this basis. 
He concluded  that the complaint  about unsuitability should be upheld.  In the main, he said:
Mr and Mrs M had a cautious risk profile for the investments. They were not 
inexperienced investors, as they had made investments over a number of years prior 
to SW02. However,  this did not dilute the conclusion that MC3 was the expert in its 
relationship with Mr and Mrs M so it remained responsible for giving them suitable 
investment advice.
For SW02 Mr and Mrs Ms objective was to achieve tax efficient growth which  could 
provide future income if required. SW02 consisted  of a 75% allocation in a with-
profits bond  (with  some  exposure  to property)  and a 25% allocation in a property 
fund. The combination within SW02 over exposed Mr and Mrs M to a higher level of 
risk in property that mismatched their cautious  profile. There is evidence in the 
factsheet for SW02 dated December 2002  describing such  risks. 
The SW06 top up investment was unsuitable  for the same reason, given that it had a 
40% exposure to property  and because it also had exposure to sub investment 
grade bonds. 
For SL04  Mr and Mrs Ms objective  was to invest in a low risk portfolio for capital  
growth, with facility for making  withdrawals  without penalties.  SL04 also included  a 
25% allocation  in property. Concern about  over exposure to property relates  to SL04 
too.
For S05 there is a lack of evidence about Mr and Mrs Ms objective at the time.  
However there is evidence of a disproportionate 75% allocation to property funds 
within the bond, which mismatched their cautious  risk profile.
The adjudicator proposed  redress  for the investments, based  on a cautious  benchmark 
comparison, up to the dates they were either surrendered or transferred/switched  on the 
basis that they did not continue to be unsuitable  thereafter. MC3 disagreed  with this 
outcome. In the main it said:
The adjudicators  reliance upon  a cautious risk profile for Mr and Mrs M is misguided 
as it is based  on the present approach to risk profiling   whereas 18 years ago, 
around when the investments began, risk profiling was different.
A similar point  applies  to the adjudicators view on the unsuitability of exposure to 
property. His view in this respect  heavily influenced his conclusion. It is an unfair view 
based on hindsight.  Perception about such exposure after the credit crunch period 
was not the same prior to that period. Property funds were considered to be a low to 
medium risk area around the time of the investments.
Ref: DRN98468812The adjudicator was not persuaded  to alter his view.  He said he had not taken a view based 
on hindsight and he repeated his previous reference  to evidence from the fund fact sheet in 
2002 which described, at the time,  the higher risks in exposure  to property. The matter  was 
then referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as expressed by the adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. I do not consider 
that SW02 (and SW06),  SL04 and S05 were suitable for Mr and Mrs M.
MC3 makes a reasonable point about the unfairness of judging  the events between  2002 
and 2006 with the benefit of hindsight. However, I do not consider that the adjudicator  did 
this. There is evidence  within the complaint file of the adjudicators notable effort in 
contacting the relevant bond  providers and in obtaining evidence from them about the bonds 
as they were at or around the times Mr and Mrs M invested in them.  
The adjudicator also made use of available  evidence of the assessments  in terms 
objectives and risk profiles   that took place at or around the time of the investments. I have 
used the same body  of available  evidence  without any influence from hindsight.
I too consider  that Mr and Mr Ms exposure  to property funds across the bonds mismatched 
their cautious risk profile.  
I understand MC3s argument that investment risk profiles were less sophisticated around 20 
years ago than they have  become in recent  times. Nevertheless, evidence  supports the 
conclusion that Mr and Mrs M had a cautious  investment profile  that meant the sought to 
take only a low level of risk with their investments.  
There is a 2002  financial report  for them that says they required a lower  risk investment  
and a 2004 financial report says they wished  to invest in a low risk portfolio . There is 
also a fact find document, which appears to be related to the first investment, in which 
cautious is circled  amongst other  options   as their risk profile.  There does not appear  to 
be evidence of their cautious/low risk profile  being revised between 2002 and 2006.
This is the basis on which the complaint  about  unsuitability rests  Mr and Mrs M say the 
investments were too risky for their profile. It is also the basis  on which the bonds have been 
considered. I have not taken a generic or hindsight based view on property funds. Instead, I 
have taken the approach that the adjudicator appears to have used, by considering evidence 
about the components of the bond investments in relation  to their profile.
SW02 and SW06
The investments began with SW02 in 2002.  As stated earlier, Mr and Mrs M had a history  of 
investments at the time,  but that does  not defeat  evidence of their expressed desire to invest 
in a cautious and low risk fashion. 
The 2002  related factsheet for the property fund referred to the risk of illiquidity  and 
uncertainty about valuation of the investment.  I do not consider that such  risks were suitable 
for their cautious approach for SW02 and for the SW06  top up investment. A 25% exposure 
Ref: DRN98468813to such risks in the former (which, in total,  was probably higher given that the with profits  
element of the bond appears  to have had some  property exposure) was significant enough 
to make the bond  unsuitable. The same conclusion applies  perhaps more  so  for the 
latter given that it had a higher (40%) exposure to the same  or similar  type of risks.  In 
addition, the 2006 factsheet  that relates to the non-investment grade securities in SW06 also 
described them as higher risk.
SL04 and S05
Similar considerations apply to these bonds.  
I consider the financial report  of 2004 relevant to them both. That report shows  that Mr and 
Mrs M retained  their cautious/low risk profile at the time and the bonds should have reflected 
this. SL04 appears  to have been constituted  as follows;  25% Fixed  Interest, 25% Index 
Linked, 25% Distribution  (with cash) and 25% Property. S05 had a 75% allocation  to two 
property funds, one of which warned  in its factsheet  of the same type of risk of illiquidity  
and uncertainty  about valuation as I mentioned above.
MC3 says property funds  were a low to medium risk area at the time these bonds were 
recommended. I consider  that statement to be a somewhat generic argument. In terms of 
matters subjective  to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint (and investments) evidence from at least  two 
of the factsheets  of the relevant property funds  from 2002 and 2005  does not support the 
notion of suitability for their cautious/low risk profile. Uncertainty about being  able to sell their 
asset (due to illiquidity risks) and about  future valuation of that asset do not appear  to be the 
sorts of risks Mr and Mrs M would  have wanted  to undertake within such a profile.  The 
majority concentration  of these risks in most (75%) of S05 arguably compounded its 
unsuitability.
fair compensation
In deciding what is fair, my aim is to put Mr and Mrs M as close  as possible to the position 
they would  probably now be in if they had not been given unsuitable advice.  
I take the view that they would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what they would have done  differently, but I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is 
fair given  their investor  profile. I also consider that end dates apply to the calculations of 
redress where the bonds have been  surrendered or transferred/switched. Like the 
adjudicator, I too do not consider them to have been  unsuitable thereafter.
what must  MC3 do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs M fairly,  MC3 must:
Compare the performance of their investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation for 
financial loss is payable.
MC3 must also pay interest as set out below.
Provide a separate calculation for each  investment and provide those calculations  to 
Mr and Mrs M in a clear and simple format.
Ref: DRN98468814Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namesstatus benchmarkfrom (start  
date)to (end  
date)additional interest
SW02 and 
SW06 surrendered 
or 
transferredfor half the 
investment:  FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income  
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other  half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered 
or 
transferred8% simple per year 
on any loss from the 
end date to the date 
of settlement 
SL04
surrendered 
or 
transferredfor half the 
investment:  FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income  
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other  half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered 
or 
transferred8% simple per year 
on any loss from the 
end date to the date 
of settlement
S05
surrendered 
or 
transferredfor half the 
investment:  FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income  
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other  half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered 
or 
transferred8% simple per year 
on any loss from the 
end date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  MC3 should 
use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other payment 
out of the investment should be deducted  from the fair value at the point it was actually paid 
so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point  on.
Ref: DRN98468815why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs M wanted capital growth and potential income, with a low level of risk to 
their capital.
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would  be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return Index is a mix of diversified 
indices representing  different asset  classes, mainly  UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk 
to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr and Mrs Ms profile  was in between, in the sense that they were  
prepared to take a low level of risk to attain their investment objectives.  The 50/50 
combination would reasonably put them into that position. It doesnt mean that they 
would have invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind 
of index tracker  fund. Rather, I consider  this a reasonable compromise that broadly  
reflects the sort of return they could have obtained from investments suited to their 
investor profile. The additional interest  is for being deprived of the use of any 
compensation amount since the end date(s).
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I order MC3 Investments 
to calculate redress  as detailed above, to pay Mr and Mrs M any compensation resulting  
from the calculations  and to provide them with the calculations  in a clear  and simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 September 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9846881