K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc rejected their claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  for a refund  of fees they paid to a property investment company 
in connection  with the intended purchase  of two properties.
background
In 2012 Mr and Mrs O decided to buy two properties  as investments. These properties were 
not on the general market but were  exclusive deals. Mr and Mrs O paid arrangement fees 
and brokers fees for both properties, which came to a total of nearly £9,000 (including  VAT). 
Three quarters of that amount was paid using  their HSBC credit  cards.
Mr and Mrs O say they were promised that the ground rent and service charge would be low, 
and that this turned out to be untrue. As a result, they changed  their minds about buying  the 
properties, and asked for a refund. When this request was refused, they asked HSBC for a 
refund under  section 75. But HSBC  declined, because  each  of the properties cost more  than 
£30,000, and section 75 does not apply to a claim which relates to any item priced  at more 
than that.
Mr and Mrs O disagreed  with HSBCs  analysis  of their claim, and they brought  this complaint  
to our Service. They argued that as the total fees they had paid came to less than £30,000, 
their claim was covered  by section 75. They  said the payment of fees was a separate 
transaction from the actual purchase  of the properties. But our adjudicator  did not agree. He 
thought that the fees were  too closely connected with the intended property purchases for 
them to be treated separately.
Mr and Mrs O asked for an ombudsmans decision.  They said that this Service  had upheld a 
similar complaint they had made before.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have searched our records and I have  not been  able to find a previous similar complaint by 
Mr and Mrs O. But even if I had found  one, I would not be bound by my colleagues decision 
in that complaint, because ombudsmens decisions are not binding  precedents  in the way 
that the courts  decisions are. I am required to form my own view of this complaint, rather  
than to follow the views of others in other  complaints.
Section 75, where it applies, makes  the provider of credit jointly and severally liable  with the 
supplier of goods or services for any breach  of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  someone to enter a contract 
which they would not have entered  if they had known the true position at the time.
Section 75(3)(b) says that the section does not apply to a claim  so far as the claim 
relates to any single item to which the supplier  has attached a cash price  not  more  than 
£30,000. Single item is obviously not the same thing as the total bill, so just because the 
total bill exceeds  £30,000 doesnt always mean  that there cant  be a successful claim under 
Ref: DRN90002402section 75 for individual items costing less than that. (For example, one contract to buy two 
items costing £25,000 and £35,000  would still be partly covered by section 75.)
My role in this complaint is to decide  whether HSBC was correct  or mistaken when it decided 
to decline Mr and Mrs Os claim for compensation under section 75. So in deciding  that 
issue, I must  decide whether section 75 applies to their claim. And to do that, I must decide 
what items the claim relates to.
The reason  Mr and Mrs O changed  their minds  about purchasing the properties, and asked 
for a refund of the fees they had paid, is because the ground rent and service charge turned 
out to be very much  higher than they had been told. That meant the properties were not 
economical for them to own. Its not in dispute that they were misinformed. I accept their 
evidence about  how important this was to them, and so I accept that this was a 
misrepresentation.
The misrepresented  facts were clearly  about  the properties, not about the investment firms 
fees. But a consequence of the misrepresentation was that Mr and Mrs O entered  into 
another contract to pay the fees.  I dont think it makes any difference that this was a 
separate contract.  They  agreed to it because they relied on what they were told by the firm.
I have read the two documents entitled  Arrangement Fee Agreement,  which  are in identical 
terms. They include the following terms:
As the purchaser of the above-mentioned plot, I hereby agree to pay [the firm] the 
Arrangement Fee in respect of providing this investment.
I agree to pay the above  Arrangement Fee at the point of reservation,  I am aware 
that failure to do so is a breach of the reservation  contract  and may result in the unit 
being sold or transferred  to another buyer without further notice.
It is also agreed that I will not be able to exchange contracts on this unit or any other 
or further units on this scheme without paying the agreed Arrangement Fee to [the 
firm] for each unit.
It is also agreed that I will not approach the vendor directly in order to procure or 
negotiate any further properties (Emphasis  added.)
The first three paragraphs I have  quoted,  if we ignore the fourth  one for now,  would all tend 
to suggest that the service the arrangement  fee is for is really inseparable from the purchase 
of the property being arranged. But the fourth paragraph makes  it clear that the vendor 
selling the property is a third party,  not the property investment firm. And so the arrangement  
fee must  be for something genuinely  separate from the purchase of the property (though still 
relevant to it). Mr and Mrs O had a contract  (or two contracts) with the firm to arrange an 
exclusive deal with the vendor, and another contract (or two more  contracts)  with the vendor 
to actually buy the two properties. What the firm told them induced them to enter both (or all 
four) contracts. The contracts with the vendor are outside the scope of section 75, but the 
contracts with the firm are for a service  or services  costing less than £30,000. So I think  
section 75 does apply  to the arrangement fees and, for the same  reason, to the brokers  
fees.
HSBC has argued that since  the arrangement fees were non-refundable,  then it should  still 
not be liable  to refund the fees, even if section 75 does apply to them. But a term which  says 
a fee is non-refundable  cannot be a defence to a claim  for misrepresentation. Such a term 
Ref: DRN90002403only deals with the situation where   absent any misrepresentation or breach of contract  a 
customer asks for a refund.
So I am currently minded  to uphold this complaint and to require HSBC to refund  all of the 
fees, with interest  from 10 April 2018  (being  the date that HSBC  declined Mr and Mrs Os 
claim).
Finally, HSBC has offered  Mr and Mrs O £50 for inconvenience because of a minor 
customer service  issue  during the handling of their complaint. I think  that is fair.
So I am currently minded  to uphold this complaint. I will consider any representations 
I receive from the parties by [5 March  2020].  But unless anything changes  my mind, I intend 
to order HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Pay £4,080  to Mr O,
Pay £4,478  to Mrs O,
Pay simple interest  on both refunds at eight per cent a year from 10 April 2018 to the 
date of my final decision.
responses to my provisional  findings,  and my final findings
Mr and Mrs O accepted  my provisional findings. HSBC asked for more time to reply,  and so 
the deadline was extended  to 17 March and then to 25 March. Today as I write this, on 30 
March,1 no response has been received, and no request for a further extension has been 
received either. So I have  decided to proceed without waiting any longer.
There is no reason for me to depart from my provisional findings, and so I confirm  them  
here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Pay £4,080  to Mr O,
Pay £4,478  to Mrs O,
Pay simple interest  on both refunds at eight per cent a year from 10 April 2018 to the 
date of my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020. 
Richard Wood
ombudsman
1 This decision may be dated with a later date at the top of page 1, because decisions are officially 
dated with the date that they are processed by our administrative staff, which  is not always the date 
on which they are written and sent to processing.
Ref: DRN9000240