K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that British Gas Insurance Limited  is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold that company responsible.
Ms S had a property  that she had let out to tenants at a monthly  rent of about  £700.00.  She 
had British Gas HomeCare cover for the property.  
On Friday 31 August  2018 the tenants  had no hot water. Ms S contacted British Gas for 
help. After several visits, British Gas hadnt restored hot water.  
The tenants consulted  a third party engineer who did a report. The tenants paid the third 
party two equal  amounts  of £116.29.
After further visits from British Gas, Ms S got another company to replace  the boiler on 
11 and 12 September  2018. Ms S says that cost £2,575.00. The tenants had been without 
hot water  for 11 days.
Ms S complained to British Gas.  When they came to pay the rent in October  2018,  the 
tenants made deductions including a deduction  for the third party  engineers costs and a 
deduction for the cost of a night  in a hotel. 
British Gas sent a final response on 26 October  2018. It said it would credit Ms Ss account  
with £31.58 and it sent her two cheques, one for £116.29 and one for £200.00.
Ms S brought her complaint to us on about  7 November  2018. On about 21 November 2018 
British Gas sent her a second cheque for £116.29.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  that, 
under the terms  of the policy, British Gas wasnt liable  for the hotel  costs,  reduction in rent 
and replacement for the new boiler.  She thought  the amount British Gas had offered Ms S is 
sufficient for the inconvenience it caused  her.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms S 
and to British  Gas on 13 November 2019. I summarise  my findings:
Ms S had to deal with more appointments and telephone calls than were reasonable 
and she had some difficult  conversations with the tenants. 
Overall I was minded  that £200.00  was fair and reasonable compensation for such  
distress and inconvenience. And British Gas also sent cheques  for £232.58 for the 
third party engineer and made a credit to her account of £31.58. 
Ref: DRN99943242I expected British Gas to send Ms S a replacement for any cheque she can no longer 
present for payment.  But otherwise I wasnt minded to find it fair and reasonable to 
direct British Gas to pay any more in response  to this complaint.
Subject to any further information from Ms S or from British Gas, my provisional decision 
was that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct  British Gas to do 
any more in response to this complaint.
Ms S accepts  the provisional decision. She says she looks forward to British Gas issuing 
new cheques.  She is not pleased with the outcome, but she is glad this is now resolved. 
British Gas hasnt  responded to the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S says her boiler was nine years old.
From 2014  to June  to 2018 Ms S had cover  only for the central  heating  boiler  and controls 
(with an annual  service). From 15 June  2018 Ms S also had cover  for other parts  of the 
central heating system,  home electrics and plumbing and drainage (subject to an excess  or 
fixed fee of £60.00 for each completed  repair).
The policy terms included the following:
Authority to carry  out work
If youre not at the property when our engineer visits,  you must make  sure that there  
is somebody else present  who can give instructions to our engineer, on your behalf.

Pre-existing faults
Our products dont include cover for any faults or design faults that:
 Were already there when your boiler,  appliance or system  was installed, or were  
caused by anybody other than us when any change or additions were  made  to your 
boiler, appliance or system
 Weve told you about before and you havent fixed
From the British Gas file, I see that following the first call on Friday  31 August 2018, 
British Gas tried unsuccessfully to contact  Ms S. I dont  find British Gas responsible  for any 
unreasonable delay before it visited on Sunday 2 September.
One of its gas engineers  said that the fault was an electrical issue.  From what  happened  
later I think  he was correct. On 4 September 2018  a British Gas electrical  engineer visited  
and made  the following note:
SUPPLY FROM  SPUR  OK BOILER  CONTROL WIRING  FAULTY,  ISOLATED  
BOILER AT SPUR
Ive seen a British Gas invoice  for £60.00 following that visit. But I dont think  there  was any 
completed repair. So I think British  Gas was right to cancel that invoice later.
Ref: DRN99943243British Gas visited twice  on Thursday 6 September 2018. After the second visit a British Gas 
engineer made the following note:
No power at boiler, fuse spur is fine, re wire required left al off AR
From that, I find that British Gas had told the tenants the boiler  needed re-wiring and he had 
left it switched off and categorised as At Risk.
Ive seen a British Gas invoice  for £60.00 following the visits on 6 September. But I dont 
think there was any completed  repair. So I think British Gas was right to cancel that invoice 
later.
From a call recording, I accept that on 6 September a British Gas supervisor told one of the 
tenants there had been a "breakdown in communication".
On Friday 7 September 2018 there were further  visits. A British Gas gas engineer made  a 
note as follows:
Replaced faulty 2 port valve and actuator but problems with main  electrics 
electrician req
A British Gas electrician  made a note as follows:
Reqs  gas eng
From that note, I think the electrician either thought  there was a problem with the boiler or he 
thought it wasnt  his job to work on the wiring  of its controls. I find that British  Gas hadnt got 
to grips with who needed  to do what  to solve the hot water problem.
On 7 September, the tenants contacted  the third party  engineer. He wrote  a clear report with 
photographs. He considered the control wiring  dangerous and he removed the main fuse. 
From the emails I see that the tenants were undergoing fertility treatment. In the course  of 
many visits,  I find it likely that British Gas was told about that. Ive seen evidence that  by 
7 September  the tenants booked a hotel for the night  of Sunday 9 September  at a cost of 
£125.00.
I accept that, following  the visits on Friday 7 September 2018, British  Gas didnt follow up.
But another company delivered  and installed  the new boiler  on Monday 10 and 
Tuesday 11 September. So  by then - British Gas could  no longer do repairs  to the old 
boiler wiring and this was no longer  an issue. And Ms S told British Gas about  the new boiler  
when she complained on Thursday 13 September.
The unexpected cost of the new boiler  left Ms S in a difficult financial position. But she had 
taken the decision  that it was best to replace the old boiler. For that reason, I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to direct British Gas to reimburse  her for her card payment for the new boiler 
 or interest on it.
Ref: DRN99943244On about 3 October 2018 Ms Ss tenants made  deductions from their rent payments. They  
deducted slightly more  than £232.58  for the third party engineer and they deducted £125.00 
for the hotel. They also deducted rent for 11 days  £258.00.
 
In its final response letter  British Gas said the repair engineers dont have to give quotes  for 
upgrade work, but to do so wouldve been better  service. I agree with that. 
Ive found some shortcomings in the service  from British Gas. It couldve communicated 
better and it made multiple inconclusive visits which mustve caused  some delay. Ive 
thought about the effects of these shortcomings in terms of financial loss and distress and 
inconvenience.
Im not persuaded that the tenants had any right to make deductions  from the rent. So I cant 
say that British Gas caused Ms S a financial loss in that regard.
British Gas has sent cheques to Ms S for £232.58  for the third party  engineer. I dont find it 
fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to pay Ms S compensation for any financial loss or 
to pay her interest.
As Ms S is the policy holder, I can only consider distress and inconvenience British  Gas 
caused her personally  by the shortcomings Ive found.  
No doubt she had to deal with more appointments and telephone calls than were reasonable 
and she had some difficult  conversations with the tenants. 
But overall I find that £200.00  was fair and reasonable  compensation for such distress  and 
inconvenience. And British Gas also sent cheques for £232.58  for the third party  engineer 
and made  a credit to her account of £31.58. 
I expect British Gas to send Ms S a replacement for any cheque  she can no longer present 
for payment. But otherwise I dont find it fair and reasonable  to direct British Gas to pay any 
more in response to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. I 
dont direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9994324