K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mr J complains that Covea Insurance plc mis-sold an accidental  death life 
insurance policy to Mr J. They want the claim paid.
background
Mr J took out an accidental death  life insurance policy  with Covea in 2011. Mr J fell in 2018, 
was admitted to hospital and died about 21 days later from a heart attack.  His estate made a 
claim under the policy. Covea declined the claim; it said that the estate  couldnt  prove  that 
the fall caused Mr Js death.  
The estate  of Mr J complained to Covea. It pointed out that the autopsy report  for Mr J didnt 
support the argument that the fall was the sole cause of death, which was what the terms 
and conditions of the policy required for a payment to be made. The death certificate said 
that Mr J died of natural  causes following an acute myocardial infarction; the fall wasnt  
mentioned as a contributory factor. Covea also said that the definition of an accidental bodily 
injury was one solely  and directly caused  by outward violent and visible  means, and not 
including sickness, disease or medical disorder; Mr Js cause of death didnt meet this test.
The estate  of Mr J complained to us. It said that the policy was mis-sold as Covea never 
intended to make a payment under it. The estate also said that if the fall hadnt  happened,  
Mr Js health wouldnt have deteriorated  and led to the heart attack. The investigators view 
was that Covea had acted  fairly and reasonably in declining the claim. She noted that the 
evidence available  didnt  show  that the fall caused  Mr Js death; he died from a heart attack.
The estate  of Mr J disagreed. It said that the fall was the butterfly effect that led to Mr Js 
death. Once he was in hospital, the estate said that Mr Js health deteriorated. It also said 
that it believed  Covea rarely paid out under this type of policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Covea is an insurer; its fair and reasonable for it to rely on the expert opinion of the coroner 
and pathologist  about Mr Js death and its cause. The conclusion  of the autopsy is clear  
Mr J died from a heart attack,  having  had significant  problems  with his heart that built up 
over time. His death was sudden and unexpected, but the coroners officer noted that Mr J 
was admitted with several health issues, not just pain following the fall. The officer describes 
that Mr J on admission was also suffering from a flu-like illness and had an infection, which 
developed into sepsis. The pathologist  listed a number of factors that was found,  and none  
related to the fall or Mr Js time waiting to be found  afterwards.
It was fair and reasonable for Covea to decline the claim. The evidence  doesnt show  that 
the fall was the sole and direct cause of Mr Js death and it is for the estate to prove that to 
successfully claim.
The estate  of Mr J says that the policy  was mis-sold,  but theres no evidence  of this. For 
example, theres  no evidence Covea advised Mr J about the policy or that it wasnt suitable  
to his needs. The fact that the policy was very specific about what it would cover doesnt 
seem that it was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN96492162my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr J to accept or reject  my decision 
before 23 February  2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9649216