K820x#14Complaint
Ms W complains that AXA Insurance Plc has caused unnecessary delays  and poorly 
handled a claim  she made under her buildings  insurance policy.
Background
Ms W brings  this complaint on behalf  of her and her late husband, Mr L. Because of this, Ill 
refer to her throughout and the references I make  to Ms Ws actions also include the actions 
of her late husband. 
Ms W had a buildings insurance  policy with AXA.  In 2005 she made a claim on the policy for 
subsidence and AXA settled this.
In 2012, she made a further claim which, some time later,  AXA accepted. This complaint 
covers the period from the start of this new claim until AXA issued its final response in 
November 2018.
This background is not intended  to provide a definitive list of every detail of the claim over 
the six years  covered  by this complaint. But instead to provide an overview  of some of the 
key issues that caused  the claim to take the time it did. For ease of reading  Ive separated 
the events into the relevant years.
2012
The claim was registered with AXA in the summer  of 2012. It employed a loss adjuster, 
which Ill refer to as C, to manage the claim and the remedial work  on its behalf. C undertook 
an inspection of the site concluded the damage to the property had been caused  by the 
gradual creep of land that was inadequately  retained. It said this was a recurrence of the 
problems experienced in 2005.
2013
The claim was a complex one and having considered the reports provided by C, AXA 
accepted it in June 2013. It said it would only cover the damage to the buildings  but not 
additional work to prevent future landslips.
C arranged for a ground and stabilisation expert to visit the site and in August it suggested a 
number of options to address the issue. AXA chose  the one it considered fitted within  the 
limit of its liability  but also offered a cash settlement in case  Ms W wanted  to choose one of 
the other options  that would help prevent  future occurrences of the problem. 
Ms W responded to the suggestions  in some detail and a further visit from the stabilisation 
expert was arranged. It was also recommended Ms W should  employ  an independent 
structural engineer  to act as a management  function  because of the difficulties in accessing  
the area of the property affected.
2014
In January, AXA authorised C to make a higher settlement offer and Ms W agreed to 
consider this. She eventually responded a couple of months later, in March.  Ms W let AXA 
know her preferred engineer in April and C confirmed approval. AXA chased for an update  in 
June and Ms W let it know her engineer had made a number of site visits but his report  was 
delayed due to him experiencing ill health.
Ref: DRN91973492C chased for an update in October  and Ms W acknowledged the complexity of the claim and 
explained that a number  of contractors had declined to take on the work. She also said 
things had taken  longer  due to the change in owners of the land below her property.
2015
In January, C chased for an update. Ms W responded with a proposal of rough estimates for 
the work  required but without copies of quotes from contractors. C requested these  and 
Ms W supplied them  in April. As the costs couldnt  be substantiated, it was agreed an 
independent structural  engineer, which Ill refer to as D, would be appointed.
D visited the site and noted that complex site investigations would be required involving a 
large crane with drilling equipment and that access  to the site was a major  issue.  In August  
D informed the parties  there was an active badger  sett on the land and permission for this to 
be closed would be required before the work  could commence. A specialist ecology 
consultant had to be employed  to deal with the badger sett. After all required processes 
were complete, the set was eventually declared  closed in December.
2016
C chased for an update in February  and authorised the commencement of the site 
investigations. A report was produced in April and provided to C and Ms W. In May C 
authorised D to go ahead and design the new retaining wall. Following a site meeting with 
Ms W in June,  a piling specialist was employed  to undertake  the piling works. The enabling 
and reinstatement work would then be put out to tender.
Through July and August C chased for updates and due to holiday commitments,  a site 
meeting was arranged for September. Ms W let the parties know  a complaint had been 
received from her neighbour as they were concerned  about  a potential wall collapse and 
they hadnt been able to undertake any work  on their garden because of the badger  sett 
closure. D confirmed there  was no danger  of a wall collapse and D obtained advice from the 
ecological expect in terms of badger  prevention methods.
Through November  and December draft drawings were provided to Ms W and D put the 
enabling and reinstatement works out to tender. Bids were received from two companies in 
December. Ms W queried a number of issues with D. A construction company, which  Ill refer 
to as W, won the tender.
At the end of December, C let Ms W know the works  had been approved to proceed  and 
asked if she wished to cash settle based on the quotes received. But Ms W said she didnt 
want to cash settle and C authorised D to proceed.
2017
A start date for the works  was agreed for March. It became clear due to access 
complications it would be necessary  to form a second access  to the property and some 
negotiation took place  about how this would be paid for. Works commenced  in March, the 
piling work was completed  in June and all foundation works were  finished in July. 
In August,  Ms W was unhappy with the conduct  of W and it was agreed work would be put 
on hold until the end of August. There were other disputes involving, amongst other things  
the work,  the tender documents and payments made to W. It became clear that relations 
between the parties  had broken down  and Ws contract was terminated.  
Ref: DRN91973493Ms W told C she wished  to use her own contractor to complete the work. But she then let C 
know in September  the contractor didnt have the capacity to take the job on so she was 
looking for an alternative. At the end of September, Ms W appointed another  contractor, 
which Ill refer to as M.
There followed some  disagreement  about the costs and timescales of the work and so a site 
meeting was arranged for early November. In the end Ms W asked if M could take over the 
management of the project  from D. C agreed to this and M took over from December.
2018
In January, M said it had concerns  over the suitability of some of the work  and eventually in 
June an agreement was reached for the additional repairs  to be completed.  These structural  
works recommenced in July and were completed  in September.
In July of 2018,  Mr L sadly passed away.
The tender analysis for the garden  reinstatement  was received by C and a contractor was 
appointed to undertake the rest of the work.
At this time Ms W complained to AXA saying she wasnt happy with how things had been 
handled. It accepted it had been  responsible for some of the delays in the project  but didnt 
think it was responsible for everything that caused it to take the time it did. 
It issued its final response  in November 2018 offering Ms W £5,000  compensation to reflect  
the impact of the problems it had caused. But Ms W didnt think this was fair saying  it should  
also pay a further  £5,000  to reflect the impact of its shortcomings on her late husband too. 
So she brought her complaint to us and told us she wasnt happy  with the competency of the 
contractors, their standard of work and the consequent delays in the claim.
Our investigator considered the evidence and said claims  of this type often take some time 
to resolve. That said,  she concluded that AXA had caused some avoidable delays and this 
had a significant impact  on Ms W. Because  of this she thought AXA should make a 
compensation payment to Ms W and, given the severity of the impact,  she thought  the 
£5,000 offered by AXA fairly  reflected the impact of the way the claim had been handled.
Ms W didnt  agree, saying  she believed  AXA should pay her double this and she asked an 
ombudsman to make a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I realise Ms W is 
likely to be disappointed  by this so Id like to explain my reasoning.
My role here is to review the evidence  impartially  and from an unbiased  perspective. So that 
may mean at times my decision  sounds  rather matter of fact. But before I begin, Id like to 
start by passing on my condolences to Ms W following her husbands death.  I realise dealing  
with this claim at a time he was ill must have been difficult.
Ref: DRN91973494My role as an ombudsman at this service is to say how complaints should be resolved 
quickly and with minimal formality. Im not required to go into forensic detail about everything 
thats happened but to be clear Ive read and considered all of the evidence submitted by 
both parties in reaching my decision.
Its not uncommon for claims involving subsidence to take a number of years to resolve 
particularly where  the remedial  work required is significant or the circumstances of the claim 
or location of the property are challenging,  as is the case here. This claim was sizeable with 
AXAs settlement figure being in excess of £660,000. Additionally, I think its clear from the 
evidence that Ms Ws propertys location added a number of significant challenges to the 
work that had to be undertaken.
When considering  the impact of the time the claim took, Ive kept this in mind. And where  
delays were unavoidable or werent  the fault of the business, I wont hold it responsible  for 
the time that passed. But where the business was responsible for delays and caused things 
to take longer than they should have, then Ive considered the impact of this on Ms W.
Its clear from the timeline of events detailed above  that the claim went  on for a considerable 
period and there were many reasons for this. I acknowledge it took some five years  for AXA 
to appoint a contractor but the delays during this time werent entirely  AXAs responsibility. I 
also note there was a long delay following the submission of Ms Ws engineers report  before 
AXA took any action.  So undoubtedly, some  of the delays were in AXAs  control and its 
acknowledged this, apologised, and made  an offer of compensation. 
Some of the issues  such as the problems with the badger sett and the change in contractors 
took a significant time to resolve  but werent solely AXAs responsibility. 
Overall, as Ive said above, its not uncommon for claims of this nature and complexity  take a 
number of years. I think AXA could have done more to handle the claim and remedial work 
quicker but Im not persuaded it was responsible for all the delays.
In considering the complaint, Im also mindful that the full reinstatement  cost of the building  
insured under the policy was £580,538, AXAs limit of liability under the policy.  And from 
what Ive seen it has paid significantly more than this in settling the claim  having paid 
Ms W over £660,000 with a further  outstanding reserve on top of this. 
Additionally, I need to keep in mind that Ms W was still able to live in her house  during the 
time the claim was ongoing. I do acknowledge though, the ongoing works caused significant 
problems with her neighbours. Also she and her husband werent able to able to enjoy the 
garden while the work was going  on. And her husband passed away  before he got to see the 
garden fully restored. I can understand why this would  have  been  distressing. I dont think  
any sum of money can make up for this. And while I acknowledge Ms W says AXA should 
pay an additional £5,000 for the impact  this had on her late husband, thats not how we 
approach compensation at this service.
Ref: DRN91973495I have thought very carefully about  all thats  happened during this claim and have kept in 
mind everything both of the parties have said in their submissions. Having done  that, I have 
reached the conclusion that the £5,000 offered by AXA is a fair way for it to acknowledge the 
impact of its claim  handling on Ms W and her late husband. 
I know this is less than Ms W thinks is right but I consider it fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances for the reasons Ive explained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  AXA Insurance UK Limited  to 
pay Ms W the sum of £5,000 if it hasnt  done so already.
AXA Insurance UK Limited must pay the compensation  within 28 days  of the date on which 
we tell it Ms W accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9197349