K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  to them alongside  a mortgage in 1994.  
background
The PPI was set up to cover Mr W only and the monthly cost of the cover  was £17.25. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI was mis-sold.  He said that the offer Halifax  made to 
repay some of the commission  it received  from Mr and Mrs Ws PPI premiums was a fair 
way to settle the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with that view. They said the policy  
wasnt suitable for them because they had sufficient means if Mr W was out of work. They 
provided me with evidence of some investments. I am grateful to Mr and Mrs W for their 
efforts in locating  that additional  information.
As Mr and Mrs W disagree with what our adjudicator said, the matter  has been passed  to me 
to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, but Im afraid I cant  say PPI was mis-sold. And I 
agree with our adjudicator that the offer from Halifax to repay some of the commission it 
received was a fair way to settle  the complaint.  Ill explain why below. 
The parties agree that PPI was sold during a face to face meeting between the parties. I 
cant know what said at that time.  So to help me decide whats  likely to have happened,  Ive 
looked at what  Mr and Mrs W remember about  the sale. And Ive also considered  the 
documentary evidence  thats available from the time. 
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether it would have been  made  clear  to Mr and Mrs W 
that the cover was optional and they didnt have to buy it if they didnt  want it. I can see from 
their PPI questionnaire  that Mr and Mrs W recall  that Halifax  told them the PPI was a 
condition of their mortgage.  
I dont doubt that what  Mr and Mrs W told us is what they honestly  remember about the sale. 
But I also have to bear in mind  that it is difficult to recall exactly  what happened over 25 
years ago  which  is when this policy was sold. Looking at the paperwork,  I can see Mr and 
Mrs W had to complete a separate application form for the PPI, so I think theyd have known 
this was a separate product to their mortgage.  And theyd also refused other  financial  
products that were  linked  to their home.  So on balance, I think they would probably have 
known they could have refused the PPI if they wanted to. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale. That means  Halifax had to make  sure the cover was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs Ws needs.  To help me decide whether the cover was suitable, Ive 
looked at what  we know about  their personal circumstances at the time. And Ive also 
considered the terms and conditions of the policy.  
Ref: DRN90923122I can see that if theyd had to make  a claim on the PPI, the mortgage repayments would 
have been covered for every  month  that Mr W was out of work because he was unwell or if 
he was made redundant up to a maximum of 24 months. 
Mr W had some sick pay from his employer,  but the PPI would have lasted for considerably 
longer than his full pay in that regard.  
Ive also thought very carefully about  what Mr and Mrs W told me about their investments at 
the relevant time. They told me they had an amount equivalent to more than the value  of 
their mortgage. They  provided two documents which they said supported their case. I can 
see the documents are both dated some time after the PPI sale. On the mortgage 
application form, they said they had quite a bit of capital   but it wasnt  as much as they now 
recall. 
In any event, it looks as though  Mr and Mrs W didnt want  to put their invested capital 
towards their housing costs  otherwise  they wouldnt have taken out a mortgage to run 
alongside their investments.  And a PPI policy would have allowed them to retain their 
investments at the same time as having  their mortgage repaid for two years if Mr W was out 
of work. Its not actually  clear to me how accessible their invested funds were. And I need to 
make clear  that the mortgage was secured on their home. The consequences if they fell 
behind with those  repayments could have  been significant. 
Mr W appears to have  been in good  health when the PPI was taken out. So I dont think he 
would have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I 
havent seen anything else unusual about his circumstances that would have stopped  him 
from being able to make a successful claim if he needed to. 
So putting  all of this together, I cant say Halifaxs recommendation  was unsuitable. 
Halifax still had to give Mr and Mrs W enough information about the PPI so they could  
decide for themselves whether it was right for them. I accept its possible that Halifax didnt 
tell them  everything  it should have done.  But Ive set out above how the cover could have 
been helpful if Mr W was off work. And so it follows  that I dont think more  or better 
information would have put them off buying the PPI. 
On balance, I dont  think PPI was mis-sold, which means Halifax  doesnt have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI. As I said above, it has paid back some of the cost to Mr and Mrs W. 
Thats because it acted  unfairly when it didnt tell Mr and Mrs W about  the high level of 
commission and profit share it received  (more than 50%)  from their PPI premiums. To put 
that right, Halifax paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that was above 50% 
of the PPI premium.  Im satisfied that is a fair outcome in this case.  
 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. 
Ref: DRN90923123But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9092312