K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about interest hes been charged  on his Santander UK Plc credit  card.  
background
Mr R opened a credit card with Santander  in February 2017. The credit  card came with 
interest free balance  transfers for 41 months and a £3 monthly  fee. It also had a 0% 
purchase interest for the first six months.  Mr R transferred £10,250 from another credit  card 
he held. 
Due to an error by Santander  the 0% purchase interest period went on for 12 months  instead 
of six. 
In September  2018 Mr R contacted Santander as he noticed hed been charged  interest  on 
his outstanding balance. The person he spoke with wasnt able to explain why and said the 
relevant department would look at why hed been charged.  Mr R complained and spoke with 
Santander again on 2 November 2018. The call handler said that the interest had been 
correctly applied, in line with the account terms. 
Santander sent Mr R its final response on 5 November 2018 but didnt find any errors had 
been made. Santander said to avoid paying any interest on purchases after the promotional 
period Mr R needed to clear the full balance  of his credit card.  
Mr R asked our service  to look at his complaint and it was passed to an investigator. During  
her investigation  there was a problem with Mr Rs November 2018  payment and it wasnt  
made as promised. That meant Mr R incurred  further purchase  interest  of £18.52.  Santander 
agreed the payment hadnt  been  applied correctly and refunded the interest  he paid and 
credited his current account with £50. 
The investigator said interest had been applied in line with the credit card terms and 
conditions. She didnt find that Mr R had been overcharged after the 0% purchase  interest  
period ended. The investigator didnt ask Santander  to take any further action. 
Mr R asked to appeal  so his complaints been passed to me to make  a decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R says that when he applied for the credit card he was told that if he kept the outstanding 
balance below £10,250 (the amount he transferred  from another  credit card) he wouldnt 
have to pay interest. But Ive listened  to the application  call along with a follow  up call where 
Mr R arranged for a regular payment of £500 to be made to his credit  card and I didnt hear 
the call handlers  give that information. I can see how strongly Mr R feels  in this matter but, 
from what I heard, I found the correct information was provided. 
I note that during the application call the call handler  specifically asked Mr R if he understood 
how the credit card worked  and asked him more than once to read the key facts and terms. 
She provided time during  the call for the information  to be read. Mr R then confirmed he 
understood how the card worked.
Ref: DRN91756212Ive looked at the key facts and credit  card terms. The investigator set out the relevant 
sections of both documents  so I wont repeat them here. But Im satisfied from what Ive read 
that they explain that (outside of the 0% purchase period) interest will be charged on 
purchases if the full outstanding balance isnt cleared.  Interest has been applied in line with 
the terms. Santander incorrectly left the 0% purchase promotion in place for 12 months 
instead of six but that error  was in Mr Rs favour  and hasnt led to a loss.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr R but I havent  found he was misled when discussing the way the 
credit card worked during the application or while setting  up his regular payment. I havent  
found that Mr R has been  overcharged by Santander. 
Mr R has forwarded us further evidence of issues hes had when making payments in 
November 2018  to the credit card but has confirmed they dont form part of this complaint. 
So Im not going to comment on what happened. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr R but as I havent found any evidence that he was misled 
concerning how interest  would be applied or that hes been unfairly charged,  Im not telling 
Santander to take any further action to resolve this complaint. I note Mr R says hes paid £3 
a month  for the credit card. But thats in line with the type of card he took out and what he 
agreed to. So Im not telling Santander  to refund  the fees hes paid. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9175621