K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank  PLC, trading as Cheltenham and Gloucester (Lloyds), mis-
sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs B bought the policy  in 2002 at the same time as taking out a further advance on 
their mortgage. They  applied for the further advance and PPI policy  in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr B for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £127.63 a month towards  Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim as well as an additional  payment  of 
£3.00 for every £1,000 Mr and Mrs B borrowed. At the time it cost £5.00  a month.
At the time,  Mr B was employed as a warehouse  operative. He has told us he was entitled to 
employee sick pay if he was too unwell to work.  We asked Mr B for more information about  
his employment  but didnt  hear anything further from him, so Ive based my decision on what 
we have been told. Mr B didnt tell us of any other  financial  means, such as savings, he 
could have relied upon in the event he wasnt working. Mr B told us of a medical condition he 
had been diagnosed with in 1990.  
As the policy was for the sole benefit  of Mr B it will be his circumstances from the time of the 
sale I will be mainly  considering.
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 1991 and      
Mr and Mrs B took out a further advance in 2000 as well as this one in 2002  and a further 
one in 2005. The mortgage  account  closed in 2014. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Bs representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.                    
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives believe there  to be no evidence  to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs B about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN97664702The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs B and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs B received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Mr and Mrs B arranged  a further advance  on their mortgage after mortgage lending  became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
Ref: DRN97664703This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of                
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Ref: DRN97664704key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of            
Mr and Mrs B, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what extent                   
Mr and Mrs B suffered loss or damage and what I consider  would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs B 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Mr and Mrs B have said that if 
they hadnt been pressured and rushed, they wouldnt have taken the PPI.
As Ive said above,  Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage started  in 1991 and they took a further 
advance in 2000, two years  before  this sale in 2002.  PPI wasnt taken on the earlier 
borrowing. So, I think they knew they could have the borrowing without the PPI, but I 
appreciate I cant know what was said to Mr and Mrs B during the meeting and feeling  
pressured is subjective. 
However, the documentary evidence Lloyds  has been able to give us suggests the policy 
was optional. The Home  Owner Loan  Application Form has been completed  by hand and 
signed and dated by Mr and Mrs B. I note there is a separate  section entitled  Payment 
Protection Insurance followed by two boxes.  The box to say I wish to apply for C&G 
Payment Protection  Plus cover. I have completed the relevant proposal form and am 
returning it with this application has been  ticked.  There was an equally prominent box which  
could have been ticked if Mr and Mrs B hadnt wanted the PPI. 
The Payment Protection Plus Proposal  Form  referred to has also been completed  by hand 
and signed and dated by Mr and Mrs B. The form details the cover Mr and Mrs B wanted as 
well as asking some information about  Mr and Mrs Bs employment and health. There was 
clearly some  discussion about the policy and how it could  most be of benefit to Mr and Mrs B 
as it was taken for the sole benefit  of Mr B who I note earned more than Mrs B at the time. 
Mr and Mrs B also completed and returned a direct debit bank mandate  in order for the 
monthly premiums to be taken from their bank account. 
Ref: DRN97664705Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs B knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  and Mr and Mrs B agree that advice was provided during this sale.  
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs B with reasonable  care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs B. The adviser had information about some of Mr and Mrs Bs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  Payment Protection Plus 
Proposal Form was completed  to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs B had a need for the 
policy  by asking  some questions about their wider circumstances such as any health 
issues and existing means  I dont think  it did enough to ensure  the PPI was suitable. It 
didnt ask about Mr Bs employment benefits if he was too unwell to work or lost his job.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B given their circumstances. So, 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs B had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Bs ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if     
Mr B was not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for any 
employee benefits he may have been  entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs B. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs B. 
From what  we have been told there was nothing about Mr Bs employment or 
occupation which would have made  it difficult for him to claim. Regarding the pre-
existing medical condition Mr B has told us about  and which was diagnosed in 1990, 
he didnt tell us of any time needed off from work and it looks like it was controlled  by 
medication. So, I dont  think  its likely  Mr B would have thought it likely that he would 
need time off from work because of this condition over and above any other  illness. 
There were also no additional  restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr B be disabled  or unemployed for 60 
days before they could make a claim and would  only pay benefits for a maximum  of 
12 months for each  claim, it still provided  valuable cover given: Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
Ref: DRN97664706home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs B be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr B was unable to work through  accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs B 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs B agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs B, Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs B all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like                
Mr and Mrs Bs. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs B about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs B have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
Ref: DRN97664707industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent did     
Mr and Mrs B suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to                  
Mr and Mrs B. So, I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable  to 
conclude Mr and Mrs B suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs B would  have still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds done things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs B have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs B would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs B say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs B had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event       
Mr B was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment,  they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs B applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr and Mrs B would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs B would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
Ref: DRN97664708In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs B would  get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Bs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs B thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any condition, injury, illness,  disease or 
sickness which Mr B knew  about  or should reasonably have known  about  at the start 
date or about  which Mr B had seen or arranged to see a doctor, or for which he had 
received treatment from a doctor during the 12 months before the start date and 
which occurred or re-occurred during the first 24 months of the start date of the 
policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr B be unable  to 
do the duties of his normal  employment  or similar  gainful employment which his 
experience, education  or training reasonably  qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr B was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. Mr B was in permanent employment 
and as Ive already said, the pre-existing medical  condition he told us about appears to have 
been controlled by medication. I dont think this condition would have been foremost in his 
mind when he applied  for the policy to the extent that he would have thought  he would need 
to take any time off from work and claim on the policy rather than any other illness. So, I still 
think they had some good reasons  to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs B would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs B had known they could  only claim for disability if Mr B was unable  to do both 
his normal employment  and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view he 
might reasonably become qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about what  
they would  have done. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  although its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr B was unable (through 
Ref: DRN97664709disability) to carry on his own occupation  the chances that he would  be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs B that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was most likely a longer period than Mr B would have received full sick pay 
for, and his statutory redundancy  entitlement was also likely to be significantly less than 12 
months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs B would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr B be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk 
and might potentially  help preserve Mr Bs sick pay or redundancy money he may have been 
entitled to for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs B would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr B were made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not   
Mr and Mrs B would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs B would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position               
Mr and Mrs B found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs B believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN976647010Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs B compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs B think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs B, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2002  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs B and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9766470