K821x#15Complaint
Mr B (by way of a representative) says he was in a debt spiral at the time he borrowed from 
Elevate Credit International (trading as Sunny). He says that Sunny didnt carry out enough  
checks before providing him with his loan.  Mr B says that, had Sunny  carried  out further 
checks it wouldve realised that he was struggling  with multiple  loans taken at the same  time. 
background
Mr B approached Sunny for a running credit  facility in December 2013. Mr B was given a 
facility with a £750  credit limit.
This was a running  credit account where  a consumer could either  request funds up to their 
agreed credit limit in one go or take multiple drawdowns up to their limit. Each withdrawal 
was required to be repaid in five monthly instalments. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Bs complaint. He thought the checks Sunny carried  out 
before granting  this facility were proportionate.  
However, our adjudicator  thought Sunny should  have  stopped  Mr B taking further 
drawdowns from 28 April 2014 because he wasnt using  the facility  as Sunny had intended. 
And that Sunny shouldnt have approved further loan requests from this date. 
Mr B appears to have  agreed with the adjudicators recommendation.
Sunny disagreed with our adjudicators opinion. Sunny  says it completed sufficient checks  to 
show it that the running credit facility was affordable for Mr B. Sunny believes that Mr B was 
using its product in the manner in which it was intended, namely for short  term borrowing  
needs, often repaying  early and paying significantly less in interest.
These points didnt change the adjudicators view. As no agreement  was reached,  the case 
has now been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
The relevant  regulations  in place at the time Mr B was given his Sunny facility
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that Sunny gave Mr B this facility when 
it was regulated by the Office of Fair Trading  (OFT). The OFT had issued guidance on this 
type of lending and what it says should  be expected from lenders when granting these types 
of loans. 
In addition to this, Section 2.2 of the General Principles of Fair Business Practice section of 
the OFT guidance  says:  creditors should  monitor the borrowers  repayment  record  during 
the course of the credit agreement, offering assistance where borrowers  appear to be 
experiencing financial difficulty.
Ref: DRN92959272In practice all of this meant that a lender  had to take proportionate steps to ensure a 
consumer would be able to repay  what they were borrowing in a sustainable  manner without 
it adversely impacting on their financial situation.  Put simply Sunny had to gather enough 
information so that it could  make  an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance  didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.  And any checks  had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, and when that was due to be repaid.
But to be clear, Mr B wasnt given a payday  loan where he had to repay all of what he 
borrowed plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility where there  
was an expectation  that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within  a period of 
five months. So overall I think that this means  the checks Sunny carried out had to provide  
enough information for it to be able to understand whether  Mr B would likely be able to 
service and then repay this facility within a reasonable  period  of time.
As Ive said,  Mr B was granted  a running  credit  facility with a £750 limit. According to the 
credit agreement, had he drawn down the full amount on the first day of having the facility, 
his largest contractual repayment he would  need  to make would be £269.81.
Before granting the facility  Sunny  asked  Mr B about his monthly  income, which he confirmed 
was £1,400, and it also completed  a credit check. Having considered all the information  
Sunny gathered about Mr Bs circumstances, it could  see that Mr B would  likely  be able to 
afford the repayments  he was committed to making. I also think,  given this was the start of 
the lending relationship, it was not unreasonable for Sunny to have relied on the information 
it was provided. So, I dont think proportionate  checks wouldve extended to Sunny asking 
Mr B to evidence what he was declaring about  his income or expenditure. Therefore, I dont 
think Sunny  was wrong to have initially approved the facility. 
However, that doesnt mean that Sunny hasnt done  anything wrong.  Ive also looked  at how 
Mr B used the facility,  with a view to seeing  if there was a point at which Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
Our adjudicator thought Sunny shouldve seen this by the time Mr B applied  for his ninth 
drawdown on 28 April 2014.  By this point, our adjudicator thought that Sunny would have 
seen that Mr Bs borrowing history showed he was potentially reliant on the facility.
I can see Mr B initially requested two drawdowns  totalling £375. It appears Mr Bs first 
repayment was around  £148.39 which he repaid  at the end of the month. Around a week 
later, Mr B started borrowing from Sunny again  and by the time his next repayment was due 
at the end of January 2014,  he had borrowed the majority of his agreed credit limit.
I can also see Mr B went on to make a repayment  of £242 at the end of January 2014. But 
he proceeded to request the remaining credit available to him of £161.59 two days later. This 
suggests Mr B may have  potentially been struggling financially resulting in him needing to 
access further funds  available  to him. I think this is something which should have put Sunny 
on notice but I dont think this should have warranted further action at this stage because Mr 
M had only had the account for a matter of weeks. 
Ref: DRN92959273However, I can see Mr B went on to repay £335.38  for February  2014  whilst requesting  
further funds available on the same  day. And he continued to repeat this borrowing pattern in 
March and April 2014.
When Mr B requested further  funds on 28 April 2014 after making  his contractual repayment, 
I think Sunny  should have  halted any further lending.  At this point Mr B had used his account 
this way on four occasions and Sunny should  have  been aware that he was not using  his 
account as intended or making  any headway  in repaying his loan. Indeed, what  appears to 
have happened  it that Mr B was needing to borrow  further from Sunny  in order  to fill a hole in 
his finances that was made by making  repayments to Sunny. And so this isnt a sustainable 
form of borrowing.
 
As Ive explained above, Sunny was required to monitor Mr Bs account and step in where 
financial difficulty became  apparent. But I dont  think Sunny did this early enough. I 
acknowledge that Sunny said it completed  additional  affordability  checks  for each drawdown 
Mr B was granted. But at this stage of his borrowing, I dont  think  it was enough to rely on 
the information Mr B was telling it or the results of a credit check. A credit  check doesnt 
necessarily give a complete picture  of a persons financial  situation  as there may be things 
going on in the background which a one wouldnt pick up. And for the reasons  Ive explained 
above, I think there were  clear indicators that Mr B was having difficulties which shouldve 
alerted Sunny to that possibility. 
So Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint from 28 April 2014 and Sunny should put things right as 
detailed below.
putting things right  what I think  Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid from 28 April 2014  until the facility was 
closed;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Bs credit file from 28 April 2014  
until the facility  closed. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN92959274My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Mr Bs complaint. 
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right for Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9295927