K822xcomplaint
Mr B acquired a car in March 2016,  by means  of a 36 month hire agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  (MBFS). He complains that, a few months 
before this agreement  ended, MBFS incorrectly told him he could sell the car to a third party 
 as a result of which, he incurred excess mileage that he would otherwise have avoided.  
Mr B wants  MBFS to reduce  the excess mileage charges he incurred when the agreement 
ended, in recognition of its mistake.
background 
Mr B said:
He contacted MBFS several  times  before the agreement ended, because he was 
interested in purchasing the car  with a view to the possibility of subsequently selling 
the car on to a third party
On each occasion, MBFS confirmed that he would  be able to do so when the 
agreement ended
On the basis that he would  be purchasing the car, he did not feel any need to worry 
about excess mileage
And so he travelled  further in the car than he would have done, if he had been 
correctly informed that he would not be able to purchase 
Mr B was required  to return the car, when his agreement ended.  The car had travelled just 
over 12,800 excess miles, for which he was charged  (in line with his agreements terms and 
conditions) 10p per mile (plus VAT).  
MBFS said:
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs agreement clearly stated that he would not be the 
cars owner
But it accepted  that Mr B had been mistakenly  informed on several occasions that he 
could purchase  the car, for which it apologised
And it had offered  Mr B compensation of £250, for distress  and inconvenience  
caused by its mistake,  which had been paid to him
It was unwilling, though, to vary any parts of the agreement that Mr B had signed  
including the excess mileage charge provisions in the agreement
Monthly payments  under Mr Bs agreement had been calculated,  using the cars 
expected resale value  when the agreement ended (which  would be influenced by 
mileage travelled)  the excess mileage charges  compensated  it for the cars 
reduced resale value,  because of additional  miles travelled
Mr B had benefited from travelling more  miles in the car than agreed,  and he had 
been compensated for its mistake  of giving him incorrect information 
It should not be required to forgo any of its compensation,  as set out in Mr Bs 
agreement, for the cars  reduced resale  value
Our adjudicator used  a recognised industry  car valuation tool to estimate whether the model 
of car acquired by Mr B in 2016  would have reduced  in resale value  and, if so, to what 
extent  because  of the excess  miles  travelled  when  Mr Bs agreement ended. This tool 
indicated that the model  of car would reduce in value, by an estimated figure of a little over 
£1,300. 
Ref: DRN98831582Taking into account the above investigation,  our adjudicator did not think the complaint 
should be upheld.  He was unable to conclude that Mr B had been charged unfairly for the 
excess mileage.
Mr B disagreed with adjudicator, saying:
He had received  the £250  compensation from MBFS, but he felt the payment made  
was insufficient
Everyone seemed  to miss that MBFS told him he could purchase  the car, which was 
why he continued  to drive it and to accumulate the excess  mileage
If he had been  told that he could not do so, he would have made no objection   but 
he would  have  been concerned about  excess mileage and acted differently
And so this complaint was referred  for review  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
MBFS has accepted  that it made a mistake, and the questions  I need  to consider are: 
Has Mr B suffered  a financial loss  and, if so, of what  amount  and should he 
receive compensation from MBFS for this reason?
Is the compensation MBFS  has already  paid for non-financial loss (distress and 
inconvenience) appropriate in the circumstances of this complaint?
Mr B told us that, after his hire agreement with MBFS ended, he subsequently purchased  
from a dealer the car he had been hiring. Our adjudicators investigation  of resale  values 
indicated how much less he might have paid, compared with the same model of car with 
about 12,800 fewer miles on the clock. The discount figure  is quite similar to the excess 
mileage charge incurred  by Mr B.
The available information on financial loss is incomplete. The tool used by our adjudicator is 
only an indicator, and not a precise calculator. Also, the relationship between estimated 
resale values and dealer prices can be distorted in many ways. 
And so my finding  about financial loss has to be made on the balance  of probabilities. It is: 
I am unable  to conclude  that Mr B suffered a measurable financial loss  which  means I do 
not think that MBFS should make a further  payment to Mr B for this reason.
There are technical notes about  distress and inconvenience on our public website,  in which  
we describe:
how we decide whether to award  compensation for distress, inconvenience,  trouble, 
upset, damage to reputation, pain and suffering
how we decide what to award, where compensation is appropriate
cases where we have awarded  compensation
I feel that compensation of £250 in this instance (as awarded by MBFS)  is appropriate, given 
the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint. It is consistent with our approach  to awarding 
compensation, and with those case descriptions and awards.
Ref: DRN98831583And so I find that I have  come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator, for similar reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9883158