K821x#15complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Santander UK Plc has refused to reimburse her after she was the 
victim of a scam. She thinks Santander  should have prevented  the scam from happening  in 
the first place.
Miss A has brought this complaint to our service on behalf of Mrs S, as she has a lasting 
power of attorney.
Background
what Mrs S says happened
On 24 January 2019 Mrs S, who was 85 at the time, received a call, to her landline,  from a 
fraudster pretending  to be a Chief Constable from the Metropolitan Police. Mrs S says she 
was asked to call another phone number to verify that he was a Policeman because  so 
many people had been scammed. Mrs S called the number she was given on another 
phone. She thought she was speaking to a female  Police Officer  who confirmed the Chief  
Constable was who he said he was. Mrs S says that from then on, she believed  she was 
dealing with the Police. 
When Mrs S later discussed what had happened  with Santander after making her complaint 
(a call I have listened to) she said:  I suppose being my age, Id always,  the Police to me 
were always  the right people, you never went against the Police, the Police  were  telling  you 
what to do, so you did what the Police told you to do.
Mrs S says the Chief Constable told her that someone had used  her debit card to buy a laptop. 
He said that the Police had also found  that the fraudsters had got into her Santander  account  
and the Police  were  worried that someone in Santander was involved. The Chief  Constable 
said that they needed someone like her to help with their investigation. She agreed to help. 
Mrs S says she was subsequently called by a Police  Sergeant  who asked if she could 
withdraw money from her account so the notes could be checked  to see if they were  
counterfeit  this was all under the pretence that Mrs S would be helping with a Police 
investigation. She was told to say she needed  the cash to buy a car, if she was asked what  
the money was for by branch staff. She was told she shouldnt tell anyone what  was going 
on  if she did the Police  investigation wouldnt be successful.  
Mrs S went  to her local branch, on the same  day, and withdrew £8,500  in cash from her 123 
Santander account. Mrs S says that when in branch,  the staff had some  concerns over the 
withdrawal she was making. She was taken to one side by a member of staff and asked 
what she was using  the money  for. She says she told the branch manager that she was 
buying a car to treat herself. Mrs S says the branch member of staff said that if there  were  
any problems, she could  talk to him but she says she felt too frightened  to tell him anything. 
Mrs S took the cash home where it could be checked. When  Mrs S returned home, she was 
called by the fraudsters again who asked her to read out the serial  numbers on the notes. 
She says she was told that some of them were fraudulent.  Mrs S was asked  to attend a 
Police station to hand over the fraudulent notes. She said she couldnt  do this, so the 
fraudster said they would  arrange  for a courier to come to her home  instead.  Mrs S said a 
courier came  to collect the cash the same day. She told Santander the chap that collected 
the money was dressed as a security man, everything about it was perfect.
Ref: DRN91713132When Mrs S didnt  hear anything back from the Police for a couple of days, she called the 
actual Police. She was told that the Police  wouldnt ask her to do anything of this nature and 
that she had been the victim of a scam.
Miss A says Mrs S doesnt use internet banking but frequently visits her local branch  and is 
known by branch  staff.  Miss A agrees  that Mrs S was asked some questions; the branch 
staff and manager enquired what the money was for and suggested  using another method 
of payment.  But because she doesnt ever withdraw this much cash, Miss A thinks this 
request shouldve been considered as very much out of character for Mrs S. Miss A 
believes that the staff were uneasy  about  the withdrawal, so much so that the branch 
manager walked  Mrs S to her car. 
Miss A has said she doesnt think Mrs S would have confided in the branch  staff because the 
Police had told her the staff were being investigated. But Miss A believes that if the police 
had been called, whilst Mrs S was in branch, the scam wouldve been prevented.
Miss A subsequently reported the matter to the Police. We have spoken with the Police  
Officer who told us he went to see Mrs S and, having spoken  to her, he was not 
particularly satisfied with the banks actions or lack of action because  Mrs S is quite 
elderly and confused. 
The Police Office told us he went to the branch and spoke to the duty manager  in the branch 
and ultimately, they agreed to disagree. He said the banks position was essentially that it 
was Mrs Ss money and she was entitled to it, but his view was what  reputable company 
would require that much money in cash?. He said the Police constantly send out training in 
relation to vulnerable people and he said in his opinion  the bank were  wrong  and they 
should not have given  Mrs S the money.
what Santander says happened
Santander says,  when in branch, Mrs S was asked what the money was for and she said it 
was to buy a new car. She told branch staff that she wouldnt be buying the car alone; she 
would be taking a friend with her. The branch manager says Mrs S was adamant she wanted 
the cash that day. Santander says Mrs S said shed had a prang in her car recently and 
wanted to change it. The branch manager noticed there was evidence  of damage to the 
passenger door of Mrs Ss car when he walked Mrs S to her car after she withdrew  the money. 
The branch  manager says he told Mrs S on three  separate occasions that it was his job to 
protect her money and he offered to call the Police if she was being forced to withdraw the 
funds or was in any danger. Santander  says the branch manager spent seven minutes  with 
Mrs S asking her these questions.
Santander says it believes it did enough  to try and prevent the scam  and acted correctly  in 
probing Mrs S to understand what the payment was for. It says it read a scam script which 
provided a warning about being asked to withdraw money by the bank or Police. It says 
there were initial concerns  due to the nature of the payment. Mrs S was taken to one side by 
the branch manager and asked on three separate occasions whether she wanted  him to call 
the Police. It says Mrs S remained calm  throughout the questioning process.  Santander says 
there was also supporting  evidence to back up her claim  that her car had been  in an 
accident. The branch manager says that Mrs S wasnt acting  suspiciously  and didnt appear  
nervous; she was calm and composed, so he wasnt concerned  about  the payment.  
Ref: DRN91713133When Mrs S reported the fraud to Santander, its complaint investigator noted  that these 
days there would  be know way of knowing what the cash  was for and you would use a 
more secure form of payment to buy a car, and so she asked if Mrs S had been  asked  for 
any proof of the purchase such as documents from the seller or where she was buying the 
car from when she was in branch. 
Mrs S said she wasnt asked these questions.  Santanders notes  dont show  that these  
questions were asked  in branch. Mrs S was also asked if the branch staff made it clear that 
if the withdrawal was made and it turned out to be a scam that she would lose these funds, 
Mrs S says this wasnt explained to her. She says she was told she could talk to the 
manager, but she felt she couldnt  talk to him because she was dealing with Police.  
what we said
One of our investigators  looked into things. She upheld the complaint. In summary, she said,  
in all the prevailing circumstances, Santander had not done enough to detect and prevent 
the scam  at the time Mrs S attended the branch. 
She was persuaded the transaction was significantly out of character for Mrs S. She noted  
whilst Mrs S didnt  demonstrate any vulnerabilities,  her age was a factor  due to the nature of 
these scams  and how victims are targeted. She concluded  that whilst this was finely  
balanced - and she could see that Santander had gone beyond the scam script  to discuss 
the transactions with Mrs S  her view was that under  the Banking Protocol Santander 
should have called the Police and this wouldve prevented  the scam and Mrs Ss losses. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and Santander refund Mrs S 
the £8,500 plus interest  at her account  rate. She recommended £300  compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Santander disagreed with these findings. It said, in summary:
-Mrs S had been effectively managing  her account  over the previous  12 months; writing 
cheques, making deposits, card payments, completing  transfers, withdrawing cash  and 
making foreign payments;
-Mrs S had a regular  direct debit to the DVLA and made card payments to car retailers;
-having listened to the call in which the scam was reported, it feels Mrs S is astute and 
able to communicate effectively and has been  able to provide a full account of the events;
-it didnt think that Mrs S age meant  she was vulnerable;
-Mrs S misled the branch staff and manager by saying the withdrawal was for a new car;
-Mrs S was taken to one side personally  by the branch manager where he explained it 
was his job to protect  her and her money and that he could phone the Police  if she was 
being made  to make  the withdrawal or was in any danger;
-Mrs S provided some details about the car she said she was purchasing;
-Mrs S convinced staff she was not at risk;
Ref: DRN91713134-it interacts with customers based on trust, not distrust, so Santander  doesnt  agree it 
had cause  for concern that Mrs S was at risk of financial harm;
-it followed  her instructions and has an obligation  to allow  customers  to access  their 
funds and operate the account  in accordance with the customers mandate;
-the branch manager also has discretion to allow cash withdrawals over £5,000; and
-Mrs S was read a scam script 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, Santander requested that it be reviewed by 
an ombudsman, so it has been passed  to me to make  a final decision.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises  that a bank may be liable to its customer  if it makes a payment  in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds (although  not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known  as the Quincecare duty).    
Regulated firms  like Santander are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial  exploitation (something also recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify  and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October  2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or Financial abuse  Code of Practice, which  a 
Ref: DRN91713135number of banks,  including  Santander,  and trade  associations were  involved in the 
development of); and 
in relation to branch  transactions like Mrs S  follow the Banking  Protocol  when available.
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  
with Mrs S when she withdrew  £8,500 in cash, in branch, or whether it should have done 
more than it did. 
Of particular relevance to this complaint is the Banking Protocol so I have set out more 
information about that below. But I note the BSI Code  also contains similar 
recommendations to detect and prevent fraud.
The Banking  Protocol
The Banking Protocol  is a multi-agency initiative between the Police, financial sector  
organisations (including banks, building societies and the post office)  and Trading Standards 
aimed at identifying customers who are in the process of being defrauded and implementing 
safeguarding procedures to prevent their repeat victimisation and further loss of funds. It 
has been fully in force since March 2018. 
In broad terms, according to UK Finances  toolkit for financial businesses commit to: 
Look out for any unusual or out of character withdrawals and to implement the Banking 
Protocol procedure  when such transactions are identified.
Discreetly question  the customer about  the withdrawal or transaction and their reasons 
for making  it, keeping  in mind that the customer may have been told they are helping to 
catch a corrupt bank employee and may have  been given a cover  story to tell if asked 
about the transaction.
Consider the responses against  what they expect normal  activity  on the individuals  
account. If they are concerned or suspicious that the customer  may be the victim  of 
fraud, they should  notify a senior member of staff, who should take the customer  to a 
quiet area and ask further questions to establish more details.
If the senior  colleague  believes the customer is the victim  of fraud, either  as a result of 
the answers provided or through  their general  behaviour,  they should call the Police 
immediately who will attend the branch  to speak to the customer.  
And bank  staff are encouraged to contact the Police even if they are not sure.  
Did Santander act fairly and reasonably in Mrs Ss case?
Ref: DRN91713136As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter  of good practice Santander  should  have been  on 
the look-out for unusual and out of character transactions. Im satisfied  the request Mrs S made 
to withdraw such a large amount of cash was clearly out of character and unusual  for her.  
Mrs S normally withdraws £100  in cash from her local branch every couple  of weeks. She 
uses her account to pay direct debits  and issue cheques. Her account  statements suggest 
she manages her account and maintains  a healthy balance. I havent  seen  any evidence of 
her withdrawing any more than £100  at a time. Mrs Ss withdrawals were  all made  at her 
local branch which is consistent with the branch staff saying she is known to them.   
Mrs S was 85 at the time and her age is a relevant factor here. Both the Banking Protocol 
and the BBA report on customers  in vulnerable circumstances,  acknowledge that elderly 
customers are more  likely to be targeted by scammers because  of their circumstances and 
trusting nature.  
Considering all of this, I am satisfied there  were several indicators that Mrs S could be at risk 
and Santander  ought fairly and reasonably to have been alerted by Mrs Ss request and taken 
steps to look into what was going  on. Santander clearly also recognised  this as it escalated the 
matter to the branch manager and took Mrs S to one side to ask more questions.
Im mindful of the challenges  faced by branch  staff in the moment, when confronted  with 
such situations, with only limited information  on which  to make decisions. Ive considered  the 
information the branch staff and manager  had at the time Mrs S was in branch and 
Santanders account of what was discussed.  Ive also considered the steps Santander  took 
when deciding if it did enough to detect and prevent  Mrs S from potentially being scammed.
Having considered the representations from both sides about what  happened Im satisfied its 
more likely than not that when Mrs S was in branch making the request to withdraw funds, 
Santander took the following steps: 
-the branch staff read her a scam script  which included a warning (amongst  several 
others) that the Police would never  ask someone  to withdraw money for the purposes of 
an investigation  or fraud, although  in my view the wording is not particularly clear;
-despite her response to the scam script, the branch  staff had concerns about Mrs Ss 
request and so the branch manager took her to one side to ask more questions  about 
the payment and Mrs S explained she intended to use the money to buy a car in cash;  
-the branch manager did  as Santander  says  offer to call the Police if Mrs S felt she was 
in any danger and established  that she would not be going to buy the car alone   although 
it does not appear the branch manager  established who she would be going with; and
-the branch manager walked Mrs S to her car after making  the withdrawal although 
I think that was primarily because she was carrying a large  amount  of cash.
As Ive explained, I think it is more  likely  than not that Santander  read Mrs S the scam script 
warnings. But it does not appear the scam  script had an impact on her, and I do not think  
this means that Mrs S acted unreasonably  or that Santander did enough. The Banking 
Protocol recognises  that:
Ref: DRN91713137often the bank will have to ask more  detailed and specific  questions to determine  
whether the customer might be a victim of fraud;  and
that customers  are often convinced by the fraudsters story and so ultimately  it may be 
necessary escalate the matter to the Police for customers  to realise or accept that they 
are the victim  of fraud.    
Im satisfied that in this case  the branch staff realised it was appropriate to do more than 
simply read out a scam script. And its clear  that the branch staff and manager did ask 
further questions. But having considered  all the evidence in this case, Im not persuaded its 
more likely than not that the branch staff asked sufficient probing questions. 
I note that when Mrs S spoke to Santander  after making her complaint, the Santander  case  
handler asked  if two further questions were asked in branch. These were: if she had any 
proof of the car purchase and who she was buying the car from. Mrs S says she was not 
asked these questions, whilst Santanders  own evidence does not suggest that they were. 
And on balance, I think its unlikely that they were. 
Whilst I cant say for certain whether  these  additional  questions or others, for example; 
further information about the make and model of the car and exactly what she was buying, if 
asked, would have  made a difference, from Mrs Ss recollections it seems  unlikely  she would 
have had an answer for them.  
It seems  to me that these would have been  sensible and relevant  questions to ask in the 
circumstances in order to understand more about the nature  of the payment. And I think if 
Mrs S hadnt  been able to answer  them convincingly, its likely this would have increased the 
branch managers  concern and suspicion.
Overall, I think Santander should fairly and reasonably have  asked more  questions before 
completing the transaction. And if they had its more likely than not that this would have led 
to the payment being stopped (whether by the branch manager or the Police).
Its also possible that a more detailed and bespoke  conversation around  the types of scams  
covered in the Santander script might have put some doubt  in Mrs Ss mind or helped  the 
branch manager  to form a more informed view about what was likely to be happening. 
The branch  manager says that when they spoke to Mrs S, she appeared to be calm. Miss A 
has told us, in contrast,  that Mrs S was frightened, although Ive taken into account the fact 
Miss A wasnt present at the time.
 
I agree  that the customers behaviour and demeanour are things branch staff should 
reasonably be mindful of. But even if Mrs S did appear to be outwardly calm, Ive thought  
about whether  the branch  staff should never-the-less reasonably have remained  suspicious or 
concerned in all the circumstances as they understood them  to be after asking the additional 
questions they did (ignoring  for the moment that Ive found  they should  have  asked more).
This is a well-known scam  and the Banking  Protocol provides for this exact scenario as one 
to be alert to  where consumers are told they are working with the Police to catch criminals 
in their branch.  Branch  staff are also warned that consumers  are given or told to have a 
cover story if they are challenged about the reasons for the withdrawal. Often a consumer 
will say one thing, but the circumstances might  indicate another.  Here:
Ref: DRN91713138-Mrs S was 85 years  old; 
-she was asking  for a considerable  amount  of cash;
-she said she was using  the cash (£8,500)  to buy a car  as the Policeman has pointed  
out (and Santanders  complaint investigator also noted),  that ought to have raised 
questions in itself;
-the payment was significantly out of character and unusual for her; and
-she was adamant she wanted the cash  that day  indicating  her situation was time sensitive.
Notwithstanding Mrs Ss explanation for the withdrawal and the other  steps Santander took,  
given the above circumstances, I think this combination of circumstances should fairly and 
reasonably have left the Santander  branch staff with some  doubts  about the purpose of the 
large cash withdrawal.
I think based on the information  they had about the circumstances of the transaction, the 
branch staff should  reasonably have  concluded that there remained a possibility that the Mrs S 
might be at risk of fraud  and financial harm (even if ultimately that proved not to be the case). 
Given that risk, I think Santander  should  fairly  and reasonably have contacted the Police  as 
a precautionary  step in these circumstances.
I am also persuaded that it is more likely than not if Santander had called the Police, Mrs S 
would not ultimately  have  made the withdrawal she did, and the loss Mrs S suffered 
wouldve been avoided.  Mrs S believed she was working with the Police  to prevent a crime. 
I find it likely  Mrs S wouldve explained  what had happened and the scam quickly exposed  if 
faced with being questioned by Police in person.
Overall, Im satisfied that Santander ought fairly and reasonably  to have contacted  the Police 
in all the circumstances and if it had done Mrs S would not have lost the £8,500,  she did. 
And Im satisfied Santander should  compensate Mrs S for that. 
In reaching my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable  in this case, Ive thought 
carefully about everything Santander has said.
I note Santander  says that Mrs S misled the branch staff. But I am satisfied Mrs S was carefully 
manipulated and coached  by fraudsters to think she was helping  the Police to prevent criminal 
activity and to stop someone from the bank  from taking her own money. She was given a cover 
story to carry this out. This is a well-known feature of scams  and the Banking  Protocol  highlights  
that bank staff ought to be vigilant in probing  consumers  and that they shouldnt necessarily 
accept what a consumer  says at face value. And I dont  think the fact Mrs S relayed the cover 
story she was given to Santander means that she should not be compensated.   
I also note the branch  manager asked Mrs S, on more than one occasion if she wanted them  
to call the Police  effectively passing  the decision  to Mrs S. The Banking Protocol highlights  
that customers are often coached and under  pressure to make these withdrawals or 
transfers so under the Banking Protocol (and I think fairly and reasonably)  the decision  
whether to call the police or not rests  with the bank. 
Ref: DRN91713139Mrs S told Santander during their investigation  call, that when the branch manager said that 
they could call the Police if she was worried about anything: I was dying to tell him that I was 
dealing with the Police and of course I couldnt.  
I dont think the fact Mr S did not accept the branch managers invitation  to call the Police means  
the branch manager could reasonably feel reassured in this case. And the fact the branch 
manager asked  Mrs S three times  if she wanted  to call the police suggests they may well have 
remained concerned  and suspicious notwithstanding the responses Mrs S gave. In those 
circumstances, Im satisfied Santander  should  fairly  and reasonably  have called the Police.  
fair compensation
Im satisfied Santander should reimburse  the £8,500  Mrs S lost as a consequence of the 
scam together with interest.  Having considered Mrs S account history  I think  its more likely  
than not that had she not withdrawn the money it would have remained in her 123 Santander 
account attracting  interest at the account  rate. So, interest should be calculated at the 
account rate.
Miss A has told us that Mrs S has been  left shaken  by the scam.  The strain that this has 
caused her couldve  been prevented had Santander acted as it ought  to have. So, for these 
reasons I think Santander should  pay Mrs S £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
final decision
As set out above I uphold Mrs Ss complaint  against Santander UK Plc. And in full and final 
settlement of the complaint,  I require Santander to:
-refund Mrs S account with £8,500; 
-pay interest on that amount at the respective account interest rates, from the date of the 
withdrawal to the date of settlement.  If Santander  deducts tax from the interest element 
of this award, it should provide Mrs S with the appropriate  tax deduction certificate;  and
-pay Mrs S £300 in compensation  for the trouble  and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A on behalf 
of Mrs S to accept or reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Sophia Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9171313