K821x#15complaint
Mrs C says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy on a store card.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy Mrs C took out in 2001.  It was added 
to her account in store.
The PPI was sold to Mrs C by a third party but FICL  have accepted responsibility for this 
complaint. Ill refer to FICL as the seller to keep  things  simple.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL didnt agree with the adjudicators view so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint  because  I dont  think FICL gave Mrs C clear 
enough information about the policy. I say this because I dont think  Mrs C was made fully 
aware of the costs  and benefits  of the PPI. I think  this wouldve mattered to Mrs C because 
she has told us she wouldve received more six months full sick pay followed by six month 
half sick pay from her employer  and had more than 3 months  of her salary in savings 
FICL has told us it thinks it would be unlikely that Mrs C would have been entitled to the level 
of sick pay she has told us about considering her job role and the time she had been in the 
position, but I havent seen enough to doubt  what Mrs C has told us.
So I think Mrs C could have met her store card repayments for a while  without the policy.
Therefore I think Mrs C probably would not have wanted the policy  if shed properly 
understood the cost and benefits. And I think Mrs C has lost out because of what FICL did 
wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs C would owe on her store card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest  added to those charges.
Ref: DRN97382762FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs C owes  and what  she 
would have owed.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when FICL works  out what Mrs C would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs C paid more than enough to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Mrs C paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point 
when Mrs C wouldve owed FICL something on her store  card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year
C.FICL  should tell Mrs C what its done to work  out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs C that relates to this PPI
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  pay Mrs Cs compensation in line with the 
instructions set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9738276