K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that Motor Car Centre  Limited trading as The Car Company misrepresented 
a finance agreement for which it acted as credit broker. He says it included a credit  brokers  
fee in the cash  price  of the vehicle  without his knowledge. He wants a refund of this charge.
background
Mr F tells us that in June  2018 he agreed to purchase a vehicle through  The Car Company. 
He says that having decided upon  the vehicle he wanted and entered  the finance agreement  
he went to pick it up from the premises of another business Ill refer to as T. 
He says that T gave  him a pre-delivery inspection form which he signed. And that he was 
also provided with a sale receipt  - which he also signed and which showed the price of the 
vehicle to be £3,395. He says the cash price  was to be funded through a hire purchase 
agreement - which The Car Company arranged with a provider of regulated finance 
agreements Ill refer to as C. Mr F says he was asked by The Car Company to sign 
documents electronically on the day he acquired the vehicle. He says he was given copies to 
take home and it was only then - after reading  them - he realised  the figures didnt match. He 
says the agreement stated the cash price of the vehicle was £3,995. Mr F says although he 
was aware there might be an administration fee, hed never been advised as to the amount 
of that fee - and would never have entered the agreement  if hed been  aware  of the actual  
charge. Mr F says he feels the agreement was set up in this way to induce him into believing 
the vehicle was being acquired for the lower price.
The Car Company  told us it had acquired the vehicle from another  garage at a cost of 
£3,395. It had then sold the vehicle to Mr F for £3,995. It said Mr F had known the vehicle  
was being sourced from T by The Car Company and the price  he was required to pay. And it 
said that Mr F had signed a sales order form which  stated the sale price of the vehicle.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He said the cash  price of the 
vehicle had been £3,395.  But the price on the hire purchase agreement  and vehicle order  
form was shown as being £3,995. He thought a £600 brokers fee had been  charged to Mr F, 
but this had not been in accordance with the relevant regulations. 
The Car Company  disputed the findings  of our adjudicator. It said it hadnt brokered  the 
finance; rather it had engaged in vehicle broking. As its not been possible to resolve this 
complaint an ombudsmans been  asked  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr F has experienced  the upset and disappointment of being charged more  than 
he thought hed agreed when he acquired this vehicle. 
As The Car Company is disputing that it was acting as a credit broker,  or charged a credit 
broking fee to Mr F, I need to go into some detail regarding the nature of the transaction that 
took place.
Ref: DRN90213832Mr Fs conditional  sale agreement is a regulated credit agreement  and our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to it. Mr Fs complaint is about an alleged misrepresentation by 
The Car Company  as to the nature of fees it charged him whilst acting as credit  broker  for 
his conditional  sale agreement with the supplier of finance.
A conditional sale agreement is very similar to a hire purchase agreement  in that the 
provider of credit (in this case  C) purchases  the goods from the retailer (in this case  The Car 
Company). It (C) then allows the consumer, Mr F, to use the vehicle  and pay for it by 
instalments. The vehicle only belongs to Mr F if and when he repays  the whole cost of the 
agreement.
Credit broking is a regulated activity where  the broker  (in this case The Car Company)  brings 
together the customer  (Mr F) and the provider of the regulated credit agreement  (C). And 
usually a credit broker  receives a fee for its services from either party.
Where evidence is unclear or contradictory  - as some of it is here - Im required  to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities, and on what I think  is fair and reasonable..
The first issue that needs to be established  is if The Car Company was acting as credit 
broker in the transactions  which involved Mr F. Im somewhat surprised this issue is in 
dispute and I can only think  theres  been  some misunderstanding on the part of The Car 
Companys case handler.
Its not disputed  that Mr F attended the premises of The Car Company  and went  through  the 
loan application  process by accessing the credit  providers system. He signed the agreement 
electronically. And the agreement itself states that The Car Company is acting as the credit 
intermediary (broker). Ive also seen a document headed Proposal Reply dated 8.6.18  and 
sent from C to The Car Company. This confirms the finance proposal  in the name of Mr F is 
accepted and it also refers to a finance  commission of £479.40. I asked The Car Company if 
this was also its credit broking commission but it failed to answer this question.
Although The Car Company has told us that it acted as a vehicle broker, the information 
Ive seen leaves  me in no doubt it was acting  as credit broker  for this agreement  between 
Mr F and C.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a customer into entering an 
agreement. And theres a dispute  as to exactly what Mr F was told and what  he agreed when 
he was at the offices of The Car Company. I think the process was then further confused  as 
there were some unusual  features to this deal. Although Mr F had in effect  concluded the 
deal through The Car Company, he had to collect the vehicle from T. And its when  he 
signed paperwork at Ts premises he saw the price of the vehicle was stated as £3,395.  
When Mr F returned  home and checked the documents  hed been given by The Car 
Company he noticed the discrepancy.
Amongst the documents with which Mr F was supplied was one headed Customer  
Declaration Form.  This detailed various aspects of the agreement  and confirmed Mr F 
understood the nature of the agreement. But I can see there were two versions of this form - 
one supplied  to Mr F and one retained by The Car Company.
Ref: DRN90213833The version retained by The Car Company contains a sentence which  appears  at the end of 
a sequence of declarations and immediately above Mr Fs signature.  This reads:
I can confirm The Car Company have charged  a broker  fee of £600 which  is built into my 
loan.
The form supplied to Mr F when  he visited The Car Company premises prior to collecting the 
vehicle contains  no such entry.
The Car Company  explained to our investigator  that the form was out of date and had been 
amended internally, so its accountant was aware the vehicle was sourced as opposed to 
having been acquired through part-exchange  or auction.
I do not find this a wholly credible explanation. If the fee was transparent and had been  
notified to Mr F then its not clear why the customer declaration forms would not be identical.  
The form supplied to Mr F omitted  any reference to a brokers  fee. The form which  was 
retained by the business had been deliberately altered  after the event, and an additional 
sentence had been inserted. So this wasnt just a case of filling  in a blank box or space - this 
was a calculated  act to change a material part of the document.  The altered form appeared 
to show Mr F was aware of the brokers fee and had agreed to it.
I think its reasonable to infer that this entry was made to disguise the fact that a credit  
brokers fee had not been fully disclosed to Mr F. And to give the impression that The Car 
Company was complying  with the relevant regulatory requirements. That it also notified the 
business accountant of the charge was in my view merely incidental.
Under the rules  of the FCA, which are to be found in the Consumer Credit sourcebook 
(CONC), the relevant provisions relating to credit  broking provide:
CONC 4.4.2 
(1) A firm must disclose  to the customer the fee, if any, payable  by a customer  to the firm
for its services;
(2) Any fee to be paid by the customer to the firm must be agreed between  the customer
and the firm, and that agreement  must be recorded in writing or other durable medium
before a regulated credit  agreement  is entered  into;
(3) A firm must disclose to the lender the fee, if any, for its activity  payable by the customer
for the purpose  of enabling  the lender to calculate the annual  percentage rate of charge for
the credit  agreement;
(4) A firm must disclose to the customer how and when any fee for its service  is payable
and in what circumstances  a refund may be payable, including  how and when a refund is
available under section 155 of the CCA.
And as its not been disputed that the business copy of the form was altered only after Mr F 
entered the regulated credit agreement,  it seems theres also been  a failure to comply with 
paragraph (2).
Ref: DRN90213834In summary,  I find that The Car Company acted as credit broker  to the finance agreement 
between Mr F and C. I think Mr F probably knew in general terms that a fee would be 
charged by The Car Company in respect  of the arrangements it made in relation to brokering 
the finance agreement.  But I dont think that the fee of £600 was fully disclosed or that Mr F 
agreed to it. Indeed I think active steps were taken  to disguise its application.  Nor do I think  
the fee was charge in compliance with the requirements of the CONC rules in terms of being 
recorded in a durable medium before the agreement was entered into.
In these circumstances, Im upholding the complaint. And I think  it is fair and reasonable that 
Mr F should have the fee of £600  refunded.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
To resolve  matters Im ordering Motor Car Centre  Limited trading as The Car Company to:
Refund £600 to Mr F together with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year from 
date of payment  to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9021383