K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited, trading as Satsuma, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.  
background
Mr H took out four instalment  loans with Satsuma between January 2018  and 
December 2018.  The loans were repayable in nine, ten or 12, monthly instalments. Mr H 
repaid loans one and three but hasnt repaid loans two and four. A summary of Mr Hs 
borrowing from Satsuma is as follows:
 date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
11 January 2018 700 21 August 2008
210 September 2018 200
320 October 2008 100 18 December 2018
419 December 2018 £1,700
Mr H says that he took out consecutive loans from lenders to repay previous loans. He says 
that he was struggling  to pay for essential living costs. Mr H wants  a refund of interest and 
charges, plus interest, adverse information  removed from his credit file and the outstanding 
balances written off. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Hs complaint. She thought  that Satsuma shouldnt 
have given Mr H loan four. 
Satsuma agreed with the adjudicators view but we didnt hear from Mr H. As there was no 
agreement between the parties,  the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN91425502the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma was required to establish whether Mr H could  sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. Of 
course, the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
I dont think that Satsuma was wrong to give Mr H loans one to three.  When he applied  for 
those loans, he told Satsuma that his income  was £1,300 and his outgoings were 
£400/£450. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Satsuma to conclude that Mr H could  
afford to repay those  loans. 
Ive noted that when  Satsuma gave Mr H loan three, he hadnt repaid loan two. But his 
repayments for loan two were up to date when  he asked for loan three. Also,  based  on what 
Mr H told Satsuma about his finances, it appeared that he could afford the cumulative  
repayments for loans  two and three.  
Given the repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Hs circumstances at the time 
and his history with the lender at that point, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate  for 
Satsuma to ask Mr H for the amount of information needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr H provided or the information 
Satsuma shouldve been aware  of, which meant  it wouldve been proportionate for it to start 
verifying what Mr H said. 
Satsuma has agreed  with the adjudicator  that it shouldnt have given Mr H loan four. So, I 
dont need to look at that loan in detail here.  
One of the things Mr H wants is for Satsuma to write off the outstanding balances. I dont 
think that would be fair here. Thats because I havent upheld loan two, which is one of the 
outstanding loans. In relation to loan four, Mr H has had the use and benefit  of the capital 
sum he borrowed, so it wouldnt  be right to direct Satsuma to write off the capital. It should  
refund interest  and charges,  with interest, and remove adverse information  about loan four 
from Mr Hs credit file when that loan has been  repaid. Its fair for Satsuma to use the 
compensation to reduce or repay  the outstanding balances  Mr H owes.   
Ref: DRN91425503putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loan four and write off any 
outstanding interest and charges on that loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded  interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
deduct from the refund above  any capital  sum still due in relation to loans two 
and four. If there remains an outstanding balance owed to Satsuma, it should 
agree an affordable  repayment plan with Mr H;
Once Mr H has repaid the capital owed in relation to loan four, Satsuma should 
remove any adverse information  about  that loan recorded on Mr Hs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off, if he asks for one
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Im upholding Mr Hs complaint in part. I now require 
Provident Personal Credit Limited,  trading as Satsuma, to take the steps  set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
   
Ref: DRN9142550