K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the charges  and interest  applied to his credit  card account by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard). 
background
Mr S had a credit  card account with Barclaycard. He says that when he opened this account  
the Bank of Englands base interest rate was around 8%. But it has since  reduced by over 
90% to 0.75%. And he feels Barclaycard should have reduced its interest rates accordingly.
In August  2018  he wrote to Barclaycard and asked it to refund the interest and charges  it 
had applied  to his account,  and agree  new terms and conditions that reflect  current  
economic circumstances. He also asked it to amend his credit file to report  that the account 
was in dispute, not default, whilst it investigated this complaint.  
Mr S didnt receive a response from Barclaycard, so he brought  his complaint to our service.
Barclaycard said that it had sent Mr S a letter on the 18 September 2018. This letter 
confirmed that interest and charges  had been  applied to his account correctly, in line with the 
terms and conditions. Barclaycard told our investigator it had kept Mr S updated with the 
terms and conditions of his accounts,  and any interest rate charges. And that it felt these 
rates were  reasonable and met industry  standards. It said that it had informed Mr S he 
hadnt made the minimum payment  required to his account for a number of months.  And as 
a result of this the account had defaulted on 27 July 2018. It also said it had asked Mr S if he 
was experiencing any financial difficulties, but hed confirmed he wasnt.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that the 
interest rates Barclaycard  apply is a commercial decision that our service wouldnt interfere 
with. He noted that Barclaycard had acted in accordance with the account terms and 
conditions. And was satisfied that the applicable  interest rates were displayed  on Mr Ss 
statements. 
Mr S didnt accept these findings.  So the case has been passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr S will be very disappointed, but 
Ive reached the same  conclusions as our investigator did here.
I understand Mr S feels that the interest  rates he has been charged dont reflect the current  
economic environment. But as our investigator explained, its not the role of this service  to 
evaluate Barclaycards  business practices. Barclaycard is entitled  to make a commercial 
decision about the interest  rates  it offers to customers. And I cant  interfere with its general  
approach to setting  these  rates. Rather the role of this service is to look at individual 
complaints. And to evaluate the impact  of any mistakes by Barclaycard on its customers.
Having considered all of the evidence  carefully, Im not of the opinion Barclaycard has made  
any mistakes  here. Ive found that it has treated Mr S fairly and reasonably when applying 
interest rates to his account. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN93101092The interest rates Mr S was being  charged  were clearly displayed  on his statements.  I can 
also see that these  statements  notified him of any changes to interest  rates. So Im satisfied 
he ought to reasonably have been aware  of what these interest rates were.
Im also satisfied Barclaycard applied  interest  and charges  to his account in line with the 
account terms and conditions. They state that  interest rates will move  up and down in 
line with changes to the Bank of England Base  Rate.  And Barclaycard has shown us 
evidence that this has happened  on Mr Ss account. I can see his August 2016  statement 
advised that the standard and simple cash interest  rates on his account had decreased by 
0.25% following a 0.25% reduction in the Bank of England Base  rate (from 0.75% to 0.5%). 
Mr S has suggested Barclaycards interest  rates should have dropped by a similar  
percentage to the Bank of Englands base rate. But nowhere in the terms and conditions of 
his account does it suggest interest  rates will be amended in this way. And Mr S wouldve 
agreed to Barclaycards terms and conditions when he opened the account. I should also 
add that banks are entitled to take many factors into account when setting interest  rates on 
accounts. So, although I know Mr S feels very strongly about  this matter, I havent  found that 
Barclaycard was, or is, under  any obligation to reduce  its interest rates.
Mr S has said he feels he was bound by an agreement with Barclaycard that he didnt have 
any control over. But it was his choice to enter into this credit agreement  with Barclaycard. 
He was free to look elsewhere for better  rates. And he was entitled  to make arrangements  to 
clear his balance  and close his account if he became dissatisfied with the interest rates  he 
was being charged. 
I can see Mr S is unhappy that Barclaycard didnt amend  the status of his account to show 
that it was under dispute when he raised  this complaint. But the account  had already  
defaulted at this time. Barclaycard has an obligation  to report  accurate  information about 
accounts to credit reference agencies. So I dont think  it did anything wrong here.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9310109