K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold payment protection insurance  
(PPI) to her alongside a mortgage. 
When Miss M took the mortgage out, Lloyds were trading as TSB. Again,  to keep things 
simple, Ill refer to Lloyds for the rest of this decision. 
background
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  and I said I wasnt planning  to uphold the 
complaint. I asked Miss M to send me any evidence she had that PPI was taken out before 
1997. That provisional decision is attached and it forms part of my final decision. 
Miss M sent me a number  of mortgage  statements. And Im most grateful to her for the 
obvious time and effort  that shes gone  to in gathering those documents together. In her 
covering letter, Miss M was clear that she believed PPI had been added  to her mortgage  
considerably before  1997. 
We didnt receive a response from Lloyds. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case
Having done this, I havent upheld  the complaint. Ill explain why below. 
I dont at all doubt  that what Miss M told us is her honest recollection of what  happened 
when PPI was sold and how her mortgage account  was set up. Ive looked  carefully  at the 
mortgage statements. I can see that Miss M paid for buildings  insurance alongside her 
mortgage throughout the years. And she was paying  for property  insurance  in 1992. But 
those policies werent PPI. I cant see any evidence of PPI until February 1997. 
So while I appreciate the help Miss M has given me to decide the complaint, Im afraid  the 
information shes sent to us doesnt  persuade me that I should depart from my provisional 
findings. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss M. But for the reasons given in my provisional  decision, I 
dont uphold this complaint. And so Im not going  to ask Lloyds to take any further action  to 
put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Ref: DRN98456342Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Copy of my provisional  decision
complaint
Miss M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold payment protection insurance  (PPI)  to 
her alongside a mortgage. 
When Miss M took the mortgage out, Lloyds were  trading as TSB. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
Lloyds for the rest of this decision. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  Miss M disagreed  with that view. She 
said she wasnt  told the policy would only pay out for one year and that she had sick pay for that 
length of time.  She also said she had proof that shed  been  paying  for PPI from before 1998.  
Ref: DRN98456343As Miss M doesnt agree  with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case .  
Provisionally I havent upheld  this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The first thing I have to decide is when this policy was sold to Miss M. Lloyds computer records seem 
to show  that the policy was sold in February 1997. But Miss M is adamant  that she bought the policy 
in 1992 at the same time her mortgage  was originally taken out. To support that, Miss M sent to us a 
copy of her mortgage statement from April 1996 to April 1997. That document  says that Miss M had 
PPI. 
I dont think the statement  Miss M sent necessarily shows that PPI was taken out before Lloyds says. 
I say this because Lloyds told us shed taken the policy  out in February 1997.  And so PPI would be 
included on her mortgage statement from April 1996 to April 1997.  Miss M has only sent one page of 
the document to us. And so I can only see the payments up to December  1996. I dont know whether 
there were any changes in February 1997  that would indicate shed taken  the policy out then. 
But in any event, I dont  think it would make a difference to my decision regardless of whether  the 
policy was sold in 1992 or 1997.  In coming to this provisional conclusion, Ive assumed that Miss M 
worked in the same kind of role in both of those years and would have received  the same level of sick 
pay. 
Ive thought about whether Miss M would  have  known  the policy  was optional and she didnt have to 
buy it if she didnt want it. In her PPI questionnaire,  Miss M didnt  say that she thought the policy was 
compulsory. I think Lloyds probably  said it was a good  idea that she take cover out, but I dont think 
thats the same  as saying she had to buy PPI. 
Also, if the cover was taken out in 1997, that would have been  five years after the mortgage started.  I 
think Miss M would have known it wasnt a condition  of her borrowing. And I think  she would have 
realised she didnt have to take it out. 
Lloyds probably advised Miss M to buy the cover. So they had to make sure it was suitable for her 
needs. To help me decide whether it was suitable, Ive looked at what  
Miss M told us about her personal circumstances. And Ive also looked at what  we understand the 
terms and conditions  of the policy were likely to have been.  
I think  that if Miss M had been made redundant or become unwell, the policy would have covered  her 
mortgage repayments for up to 12 months. Miss M told us that she didnt need the PPI because  would 
have received sick pay from work  for 12 months.  Its not clear whether  Miss M would  have got full pay 
for that time or whether  there would  have been a period  of half pay. 
Even if I assume she could have received full pay for 12 months,  I still think Miss M could have found  
the policy  useful if she couldnt work. I say this because the mortgage was secured  on her home  and 
there was a great risk to it if she fell behind with her payments. I think that with PPI Miss M would 
have been able to use her sick pay towards her other  essential expenditure at what would have no 
doubt been a very stressful time for her if she couldnt work.  
When she took PPI out, I dont think Miss M would have been  affected by any of the policys 
exclusions about medical conditions.  And I havent seen anything unusual  about  her circumstances  
that would have  stopped her from making a claim if she needed to. In or around 2000,  I note that Miss 
Ref: DRN98456344M did suffer an accident and she was off work. During this time, she was able to make a successful 
claim. 
Overall, even taking account of her generous sick pay, I think this policy probably  was suitable for 
Miss M at the time it was recommended  by Lloyds. 
Lloyds also had to give Miss M enough  information about the PPI so she could decide for herself  
whether it was a good fit for her needs.  That information had to be clear, fair and not misleading. I 
accept its possible that Lloyds didnt  tell Miss M everything  it should  have done about  the policy. But 
as I said above, l think she might have found the PPI useful if she was out of work. And she probably 
chose to take it out at the time. I dont think more  or better information about the insurance would  
have put Miss M off buying it. 
Provisionally for the reasons Ive set out above,  I dont  think this policy was mis-sold. And at this 
stage, I dont  need to ask Lloyds to do anything more. 
my provisional  decision
Provisionally, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 29 
November 2018 after which  I will issue a final decision. In particular, I invite Miss M to provide any 
further evidence or documents  she has which  shows she took the PPI policy out in 1992. When 
sending information,  it would be helpful for documents to be sent in their entirety. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9845634