K822xcomplaint
Mr G has complained about the compensation he has been offered by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC (Barclays) for the mis-sale of a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
background 
Mr G complained to Barclays that he had been  mis-sold a PPI policy with his credit card 
(account number ending 8001). 
Barclays upheld his complaint and offered compensation to Mr G. But it deducted £532.20  
from the compensation as it said Mr G had made  a successful claim on the policy.  It said the 
claim benefit was credited  to his account  on 5 December 2001.
Mr G disagreed. He phoned  the insurer who couldnt  find any record  of the payment. 
Barclays said this was an error but offered  Mr G £25 as a gesture of goodwill because of the 
misinformation he had been given.
Mr G remained  unhappy. He said he had other  PPI policies and would  have claimed on 
those at the same time if he wasnt able to work, which  he hadnt. He didn't think  he had 
made a claim so didn't think Barclays should have  deducted it from the compensation it paid 
him. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought that what  Barclays  had done 
was fair. But Mr G remained dissatisfied. As the complaint remains unresolved,  it has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Barclays has already  offered compensation for the mis-sale I wont be looking at how the 
policy was sold to Mr G. I will only be looking at how Barclays has compensated Mr G and 
whether that was fair.
When a business  calculates redress we expect  it to put the consumer in the financial 
position he or she would be in but for the PPI. This would include a refund of premiums,  any 
associated interest and costs plus 8% simple interest for the time the consumer has been  
out of pocket. 
In this case, Barclays has said Mr G made  a claim against the policy  so that amount should  
be deducted.
The claim dates from 2001  and there is little documentation available. But I dont find that 
surprising as it was a long time ago and businesses arent expected to keep paperwork 
indefinitely. 
But Barclays  has been able to give us a copy of Mr Gs bank statement from the time the 
claim was paid  December 2001. Mr G says the statement isnt right and has been 
amended by Barclays. While the layout of the statement  may be different than Mr G 
Ref: DRN96147392remembers, I think that it is unlikely the record of his account has been  amended  and I cant 
see any evidence that is the case.
And Barclays has also been able to provide a copy of its internal screenshots of what 
happened on Mr Gs account.  This states  that he made a claim on the policy and the 
incident date is recorded as 30 October 2001, giving rise to a payment to Mr G of £532.20. 
So it looks  likely Mr G made the claim  and it was paid out on 5 December 2001.
Mr G has said that he had other PPI policies  and would  have  claimed on those at the same 
time if he wasnt able to work. Ive decided another of Mr Gs complaints, again against 
Barclays for another PPI policy (account number ending 3433). And I see that Mr G also 
made a successful claim on that account,  at the same time and with same  pay out date. And 
in that case Barclays  also deducted the claim.  So I think its likely  Mr G did make the claim. 
And it seems most likely  the insurer made  an error when it told him it had no record of a 
claim. But Barclays has already offered £25 as a gesture of goodwill. And I think  that is fair. 
Taking all of the above into consideration, I think its most likely  Mr G did make a successful 
claim. Had Mr G not taken out PPI, he wouldnt have had to pay for it, but at the same  time 
he wouldnt  have benefitted from the claim amounts. And he would have had to make  the 
credit card payments himself. 
So I think its fair for Barclays to deduct  the amount of any successful claims on the policy 
from the mis-sale compensation. 
It wouldnt be fair for Mr G to have received the benefit of the claim amounts and then also 
receive back all the money he had paid in premiums.
my final decision
Because of what Ive said, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint  as Barclays Bank UK PLC 
has fairly compensated him. It is for Mr G to decide  whether to accept the offer of £25.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9614739