K821x#15complaint
Mr G says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about twenty-three payday loans and a running account  (flex credit) 
facility that Quick Quid provided to Mr G from March 2009 onwards. Mr Gs last loan was 
provided in April 2014.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Gs complaint and thought  that Quick Quid  shouldnt 
have provided  loans fifteen to twenty-three  to Mr G. Quick Quid disagreed so the complaint 
was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr G, I think Quick 
Quid should reasonably have seen  Mr G was unlikely to have been  able to make his loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner  by the time it provided loan fifteen. I say this because:
Ref: DRN96036842by this stage, Mr G was into his sixth consecutive month (in the second chain) of 
owing Quick Quid money. And he was borrowing double  the amount of the first loan 
in this chain. In my view, Mr Gs pattern of borrowing  up until this point was in itself a 
clear demonstration  of Mr Gs inability to settle his loans over the life of the credit 
agreement.
Mr G continued to be provided with new loans shortly after having repaid  previous 
ones. So Quick  Quid ought to have realised  it was more likely  than not Mr G was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole the repayment of his previous loans left in 
his finances and that Mr Gs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. I accept 
that some of the loans were for smaller amounts  but these  were  then followed by 
larger ones.
Mr G wasnt  making  any real inroads  into what he owed Quick  Quid and his 
indebtedness was being prolonged for an extended  period of time. Loan twenty-three  
was provided almost two years after Mr Gs first in this chain. This meant that Mr G 
paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, service  a debt to Quick Quid  over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr G lost out because Quick  Quid provided loans fifteen to twenty-three because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Gs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time he owed Quick Quid money was likely to have had 
negative implications on Mr Gs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him 
in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans fifteen  to twenty-three and Quick Quid  should 
put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr G paid on loans fifteen to twenty-three;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded amounts from the date they were 
paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Mr G owed Quick  Quid  money  means that any information  still 
recorded about the upheld loans is adverse. So all entries about loans fifteen to 
twenty-three, should there remain  any, should be removed  from Mr Gs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Gs complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr G compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN96036843Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019. 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9603684