K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr J says Santander UK Plc (at the time Abbey National)  mis-sold  him the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr J case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr J says that he wasnt aware that the MPPI was optional  and his representatives  have 
suggested that it may have been presented as a condition  of getting his mortgage. 
Santander isnt able to provide all the paperwork from the time it sold Mr J his mortgage and 
MPPI policy  but this isnt surprising for a sale that took place in 2002,  and businesses  
arent required to keep records indefinitely. But it has been able to provide his mortgage 
application and a welcome letter for the MPPI  which was sent to his address. It says that a 
separate application from wouldve been  completed for the MPPI. And I think  its likely that 
Mr J completed  this application. 
Mr Js mortgage application  doesnt mention MPPI at all. Theres nothing  to suggest that an 
application for MPPI is compulsory, or that the mortgage is more likely to be approved by 
taking it  so in order for it to be taken out, a separate application would need to have been 
made. The welcome letter which was sent out to Mr J also shows that it was a separate  
product and sets out the cost of the policy  chosen.
So taking everything in to account,  I think its likely  Santander made it clear that Mr J didnt 
have to take out the MPPI and that he chose  to take it out  although I can understand why 
he may not remember this as it was so long ago.
Santander recommended  the MPPI  to Mr J so it had to check  that the MPPI was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr J about the MPPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But as I think its likely  he chose  to take it out - it looks  like he wanted  this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr J.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr J because: 
Ref: DRN93453992Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr J about that. Because Santander didnt tell Mr J, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the MPPI premium  - and I think  that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr J and his representatives have said -but these points dont 
change my decision, and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy  was mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr J any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the MPPI  premium. Santander should also pay back  to Mr J any extra interest 
he paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr J the extra he paid each month  because  the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of MPPI. Santander should also pay 
Mr J 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr J can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Mr J.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr J any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9345399