K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited  unfairly declined  a claim for damaged 
flooring under his home insurance policy.
background
Mr C made  a claim to Ageas for an escape of water  from a mains pipe in his attic. He sent 
Ageas estimates  for the reinstatement works and damaged contents. The estimate  included  
new flooring for all upstairs  bedrooms, stairs, landing,  hallway, lounge,  kitchen and porch.
Ageas appointed an agent to validate  the extent  of the damage  to the floorings but settled 
the rest of the claim. The agent said the flooring wasnt damaged  as a result  of the escape of 
water but due to general wear and tear. So Ageas said it wouldnt  pay for replacement  
flooring.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service.  He provided evidence  from a furniture retailer that 
his flooring had suffered water damage. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
wasnt persuaded Mr C had shown that the carpets he was claiming for had been damaged 
by the water leak.
As Mr C didnt  agree, the matter has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most policies on the market, Mr Cs provides cover for damage  caused to his property 
by a range  of insured  events. The events are listed in the policy  and, of relevance  to this 
complaint, include  an escape of water. For any claim  to be successful, its a requirement  in 
the first instance for Mr C to show that an insured  event has occurred and that its caused 
damage to his property.  If he is able to meet this requirement, Ageas is required to settle the 
claim unless  it can show  the claims defeated  by a policy exclusion or condition.
In this case it is not in dispute that an insured event has caused  some damage to Mr Cs 
property  there was a burst water pipe in his attic and the water  then caused  damage to 
various parts of the property. The issue for me to consider is whether Mr C has shown that 
his carpets, laminate and vinyl flooring  have  been  water-damaged  or whether, as Ageas 
says, theyre showing signs of wear and tear.
In this case theres conflicting information  over the cause of the damage to the flooring. So I 
have to decide what I believe is most likely  to have  happened based on the evidence  Ive 
seen. With that in mind, Im more persuaded by the evidence Ageas has provided. Ill explain 
why.
Ageas paid to redecorate  damage in two bedrooms, stairs, lounge  and passageway. Its 
agent said that in his professional opinion water  wouldnt  have travelled through walls to 
damage flooring  in rooms where there was no damage to the ceiling. I think  thats a 
reasonable assumption. I also note that with regard to the kitchen Ageas agent was told that 
there had been  a leak from an underground pipe which had caused damage.
Ref: DRN98803422The inspection carried out by Ageas agent was within two months of the damage and before 
the property had been redecorated so that he could see the extent of the damage  to the 
ceilings. The agent said the staining to the ceilings in one bedroom and the landing  was 
minimal. I think  its likely  that the damage  to flooring in those areas would also be minimal at 
best. The agent said the carpet in one bedroom was dry and dusty and in a poorly 
maintained state  with no signs of water damage. He peeled back the landing carpet and 
found it dry with no watermarking to the back. It also didnt  smell damp. He said the same 
was the case  with the carpet in the second bedroom. 
Mr Cs expert visited the property several months later and by that time it had been  
redecorated. So he wouldnt have been able to see how much  water would have been likely 
to have come through the ceilings. He reported  that The carpets, 2x rugs and laminate 
flooring clearly show stains which could have come  from a large amount of water.
The most striking difference between the two reports concerns the rugs in the lounge. 
Ageas agent  included  a photo of a rug and said it was worn  and heavily stained  with three 
circular marks  but the stains werent consistent with a single escape of water. There  is no 
reference in the report to another  rug. Mr Cs expert included a photo  of a different rug 
showing what seems to be a large watermark  in one corner.  As Mr C didnt mention this 
damage to Ageas when he first made the claim, I place more  weight on the report of Ageas 
agent in this respect.
Mr Cs expert runs a furnishing  shop  and has quoted to replace Mr Cs flooring. I think that 
means he has a vested interest  in Mr Cs claim succeeding and his opinion might reasonably 
be considered  to be less independent than that of the agent appointed by Ageas.
Overall, I dont think its been  satisfactorily shown that the damage to the flooring was more 
likely than not caused by an escape of water. So I think Ageas treated Mr C fairly  when it 
declined this part of his claim.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9880342