K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ms unhappy with Usay Business Limited because she believes its mis-sold her a 
private medical insurance policy. 
background
Mrs M contacted Usay in October 2017 to source a private health insurance policy for her 
husband. Upon  completion, she asked Usay  whether she too would be able to switch. Mrs M 
had an existing policy which wasnt due to expire until the end of November, so there  was 
still some  time before she was able to go ahead with it  but she still wanted a quote  so she 
could have a think about whether it was the right policy for her. This was an advised sale 
over the phone. 
Mrs M accepted the quote and was given  all the necessary information, including the policy  
terms and the illustration of benefits. 
Mrs M became unwell in March 2018  and needed to go for some tests.  She said after only 
two tests, the outpatient policy limit had been  reached. Mrs M said her previous  policy  would 
have covered her in full and without limitation  for the same  tests. And so she cannot 
understand why Usay  told her this new policy was better for her. Mrs M also mentioned  that 
Usay told her the outpatient  limit of £1,000 would be sufficient cover because  only the costs 
of cheap tests would be deducted from this pot.  
Usay said it gave Mrs M all the information  she needed to make an informed choice. It felt 
there was a suitable explanation given around the £1,000 policy limit and that Mrs M had 
understood this as it was discussed  on a number of occasions. Usay said it completed a 
demands and needs  statement with Mrs M and felt upon reflection that these  had been  met 
and that the policy was suitable. 
Our investigator thought Usay had adequately discussed the limitation to outpatient  
treatment. She highlighted that during  one particular call, Mrs M had asked whether she 
could increase the limit, only to be told by Usay  that the only other available option  was to 
remove the limit altogether  which would in turn increase  the cost of the premium. As Mrs M 
didnt want to do this, it stayed the same.  And our investigator didnt think Usay  had mis-sold 
the policy. 
Mrs M still didnt  agree  and mainly  for the same reasons given above. But in addition, she 
highlighted that Usay mislead her by assuring her that only cheap tests  would be deducted 
from the outpatient policy limit. And that because  both the diagnostic  tests shed had were in 
excess of £400   this was incorrect  advice.  
And so its for me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
Usay has made an error here. Id like to explain why.
Both Mrs Ms policies were with the same provider  albeit  they offered varying levels of cover. 
Ive not seen the full policy documents of the previous policy, but Mrs M has provided  part of 
the policy which showed cover would have  been  available in full for the tests shed 
Ref: DRN96607182undergone from March 2018  thats because theres not a limit on outpatient diagnostic  
tests. But Usay made Mrs M aware from the beginning that this was not the case  with the 
new policy. It also said the new policy offered more comprehensive cancer cover at a more 
competitive price, which having considered  the demands and needs of Mrs M at the time, 
this was the main  driving force behind her decision to look around the health insurance 
market for a new policy.
Im satisfied the outpatient benefit  limitation was made clear  in the written literature Usay had 
sent her. I note this was also discussed  on a number of phone calls  Im satisfied Usay took 
reasonable steps to make  sure Mrs M was aware  of the limitation to this particular benefit. 
This is further supported by her understanding of having to pay for outpatient treatment after 
the benefit pot had been  depleted.  Mrs M called Usay to discuss this part of the policy in 
particular and had identified that this policy limit could be reached following a small number  
of appointments.  And so Im satisfied, on balance, this is something  she understood well. 
Usay completed a detailed health  questionnaire with Mrs M and it was decided that she was 
in reasonably good health and had been  for some time. She shared with Usay  that shed 
suffered with carpal tunnel syndrome but reassured  it that this wasnt a problem and didnt 
foresee it becoming  a problem in the near future. Usay explained  this was a moratorium  
policy and so provided she didnt suffer with symptoms for two years, then this would no 
longer be considered a pre-existing medical  condition and therefore likely to be covered  
which Mrs M said she understood. And so based  on this information, I dont think  there was 
anything unusual that would have triggered  Usay to consider  offering  Mrs M a policy with no 
limitation for out patient treatment.
That said,  I note Usay  offered Mrs M the opportunity to have a quote for that type of policy, 
but she said she didnt  want  or need that  especially as this would have increased the 
premium of the policy and the excess.  
Based on the evidence  available, I dont agree that Usay has mis-sold the policy.  Its 
unfortunate that Mrs Ms health  deteriorated a few months after she took out the new policy,  
but this was unforeseeable. The new policy took into account her needs  at the time, whilst 
clearly explaining some of the key differences, like the outpatient limit. its not always 
feasible or reasonable to explain every  point of difference between policies. But Im satisfied  
that Usay took reasonable steps  to do this and answered Mrs Ms questions  about the 
limitation clearly prior to her taking out the policy. 
I understand the point Usay put forward about  cheaper tests being deducted from the 
outpatient diagnostic  test limit. However its difficult to say how much diagnostic  tests will 
cost. In Mrs Ms policy, it gives examples  of diagnostic scans like X-rays, ECGs and CTs 
which are generally cheaper  than other  diagnostic tests. But the costs can rapidly escalate 
depending on the type of problem being investigated  and how often tests are needed  to help 
diagnose the condition. The pot can be rapidly eroded,  as was the case here, depending on 
these factors. Some conditions will simply cost more to investigate. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Ref: DRN96607183Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9660718