K821x#15complaint
Ms G is unhappy with the lack of progress and lack of updates on her claims for mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  being dealt with by Claim Easy  Ltd.
background
Ms G instructed  Claim Easy in August 2017 to make a large number of PPI claims,  with a 
number of different  PPI providers, on her behalf.  Over two years  later,  while some of the 
claims have now concluded, some are still being dealt with. Ms G has complained  about  how 
long these claims have  taken, and that Claim Easy hasnt  kept her updated  as promised.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator.
Our investigator found Claim  Easy couldve provided  Ms G with a better level of service, and 
updated her more regularly. He felt that clearer guidance couldve been given to Ms G at the 
outset, which wouldve avoided some  delays later on. He also felt some  claims werent  
progressed properly as Claim  Easy didnt refer a claim to a broker  when they couldve. 
Claim Easy had offered to reduce their success  fee to 20% plus VAT for any future claims, 
and the investigator  thought they should  honour  this. But he also thought  they should pay Ms 
G £250 for the trouble  and upset caused  by the delays in processing her claims, and for the 
lack of updates given.
Claim Easy agreed with the investigator but Ms G didnt.  So this case  has been  passed to 
me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive seen that Claim Easy dealt with 32 claims for Ms G. These claims covered accounts in 
Ms Gs current and previous name, at her current address and at multiple  previous 
addresses. Because of this Id expect Claim Easy would need  to do a reasonable amount of 
investigation with the PPI providers, and that the process of dealing with all of these claims 
wouldnt necessarily be quick. But I would also expect Claim Easy  to deal with these claims 
without any undue delay.
The latest update on file is dated August 2018  and shows that two claims had been 
successful and seven  were still being  progressed  with the PPI providers. The remaining 23 
claims had been  unsuccessful because PPI hadnt  been sold to Ms G. Ive seen that Claim 
Easy had asked  Ms G if she had any proof PPI had been sold on these accounts, so they 
could challenge  the PPI providers response if necessary. I cant  hold Claim Easy 
responsible for the failure of these claims,  and I think it was reasonable for them  to ask Ms G 
if she had anything that would show PPI had been  sold.
Ref: DRN91041562But Ive also seen Claim Easy regularly requested Ms G to complete new Letters of 
Authority. While a large  number of claims with different PPI providers could lead to a large  
amount of paperwork that needed to be completed, Ive seen Claim Easys failure to 
progress claims  has resulted in Ms G having to complete  otherwise unnecessary paperwork. 
I agree  with the investigator that this was a failure in their service.
I havent seen  any evidence of regular updates to Ms G either, despite her chasing  for them  
and (at one point) Claim Easy  saying they will update her every two weeks.  This is also 
unacceptable service.
From correspondence  Ive seen, I can see this was a very frustrating experience  for Ms G. 
So I agree with the investigator that Claim Easy should pay her compensation for this. Given 
the circumstances I think  that £250 is fair and reasonable for the large amount of trouble and 
upset caused,  so I wont be asking them to pay anything more.  But I do expect Claim Easy  
to honour their previous offer to only charge Ms G a success fee of 20% plus VAT (the 
amount of the fee cap imposed for new PPI claims started after July 2018) if any of the 
remaining claims are successful.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Ms Gs complaint. Claim Easy Ltd must  pay Ms G 
£250 in compensation for the trouble and upset caused by their failure to progress all of her 
claims, and their failure to keep her reasonably  updated.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9104156