K821x#15complaint
Ms N complains that West Bromwich  Building Society (WBBS)  didnt make  it clear to her
how much  she was paying for buildings insurance policy  and she has paid more  than she
could have for this as a result.
background
In 1997 Ms N took out a new fixed rate mortgage with WBBS.  She was able to obtain a 
better fixed rate if she took out buildings insurance  provided by WBBS alongside the 
mortgage. Although  the buildings insurance  policy  was provided by WBBS it was  
underwritten by a separate  underwriter (company A) and WBBS acted as the intermediary 
facilitating the policy alongside  the mortgage  it provided. But company A was responsible  for 
the cost of the insurance and how this was priced.  Ms N took the buildings insurance offered
with the mortgage.
Ms Ns buildings  insurance policy auto renewed each year and was in place until she 
cancelled it in February 2016. Ms N has said she didnt realise how expensive  the policy was 
and it wasnt clear  because she was paying  for this with a single monthly payment which 
covered both the mortgage and the insurance.
Ms N said she called WBBS in March  2014 to question why her payments for the mortgage  
were so high  saying  shed  been urged by friends to check  this as they believed she was 
paying too much. She said WBBS reassured her that the payments were correct.
In 2015 Ms Ns friends again raised concerns about  what she was paying and she spoke  
with a financial advisor. It became apparent the buildings insurance  was a big part of the 
monthly cost and on the advice of a neighbour, Ms N checked online for a comparison.  She 
said she found buildings insurance for considerably  less than she had been  paying. So 
because of this she called  WBBS to raise a complaint as she felt shes  been overcharged for
a number of years when  it hadnt been  made clear what the cost of her insurance was.
WBBS said the policy was underwritten by company A but it felt the policy offered very 
comprehensive cover, covering the vast majority of situations and, as such,  is priced 
competitively given the level of cover provided. It said renewal letters for the insurance had 
been sent in September  each year and this confirmed the level of cover and policy excess 
allowing the Ms N the opportunity to renew the policy or cancel the policy if she wasnt happy 
with it.
It said the insurance was only compulsory during the initial fixed rate period when the 
mortgage was taken out in 1997 (for three years) and after this, Ms N could  have changed 
the policy and not affected the preferential interest rate on the mortgage.
Our investigator looked at Ms Ns complaint and said she didnt think company A had treated
Ms N unfairly when it priced her policy. She explained the policy was a block  policy and the 
level of cover increased each year with the Annual Rebuilding Cost Index which  tracked 
the percentage increases  in rebuild costs. As a result of the sum insured increasing each 
year the risk value changed and the cost of the policy increased to reflect  this. So the 
investigator was satisfied the policy  hadnt increased  in cost unfairly. 
She felt the application form for the mortgage demonstrated that Ms N had a choice to take 
the insurance with WBBS and that Ms N chose to do this. So she didnt think the policy was 
Ref: DRN92673592mis-sold. Although Ms N was later able to find a policy for substantially  less than shed been 
paying WBBS, she said this didnt  indicate it had done anything  wrong.  
She didnt  comment on the information  provided by WBBS during the time Ms N had the 
policy running alongside her mortgage.
Ms N disagreed and reiterated that shed  contacted  WBBS in 2014  for clarification on the 
cost of her mortgage/insurance payment and that it should  have done  more to explain what 
was driving the price  at this point. And that she didnt  think it was clear  what  she was paying  
for her insurance when  she had this. Because she didnt agree the complaint was passed to 
me for decision.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in April 2020   a copy of my findings is 
included below. In summary I said that I didnt think WBBS was responsible for setting the 
price of the policy but it was responsible for providing Ms N with the information about  the 
policy and its price. And I thought it hadnt  been  as clear as it could have  been  about this 
when it explained  how the price was changing   with some  elements of this being  mis-
leading. And I explained  what I thought WBBS needed to do to put things right.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im planning on upholding this complaint 
and will explain  why below.
My role isnt to tell a business  what it should  charge its customers for the services  it offers 
as effectively, Id be telling them how to carry out their commercial  operations.  What  I can 
do is check on a case by case  basis whether a customer has been  treated fairly with how a 
business has applied  its pricing model.  If I felt something happened which resulted in 
unfairness, I can give a direction to put this right.
I need to be clear that although our investigator  looked at price of Ms Ns policy and how 
this increased over time,  I dont believe how this increased or was priced is the 
responsibility of WBBS.  The policy is underwritten by company  A and it is responsible for 
this. And although company A has provided the information to assist our investigator in 
looking at this part of
Ms Ns complaint, I wont be commenting  on how the price  increased in this decision against
WBBS.
Ive looked at WBBS role in providing  the insurance  and I think something went  wrong here.
Ill explain  what I feel WBBS needs  to do to put this right.
Ms N has said a number of times that she doesnt  believe  WBBS made it clear to her 
what the cost of her insurance was. She feels as a result  of it not being  clear shes  been 
overcharged as shes paid more than she should  have.  She questioned her monthly  
payment for the mortgage being  incorrect as she didnt realise the true cost of the 
insurance.
WBBS didnt set the cost of the policy but it did administer it, sending  out the renewal 
information and taking the payment for the policy with a combined direct  debit payment 
which also collected Ms Ns mortgage  payment. When providing the information about 
Ref: DRN92673593the renewals WBBS  needed to ensure it was treating Ms N fairly.  And that it provided her 
with information  which was clear, fair and not misleading as part of this.
Ive looked at a sample of the renewal  documents sent to Ms N during the time she had 
the policy. These were  sent by WBBS. Having done  so I can see why Ms N wasnt  sure 
about the cost of her insurance  having increased.
In September  2001  Ms N was sent her renewal information, the first page  of the letter  was 
headed in bold type GREAT NEWS FOR POLICYHOLDERS ! with the first two 
paragraphs giving the following statement:
Your buildings Insurance policy  arranged through the Society is due for renewal on 29
September 2001. This year we have some excellent news  for you!
In spite of insurers  in general, increasing premiums following record claims last year 
caused by extreme  weather  conditions, we have once again arranged for premiums to be 
held at last years levels. 
Included with this was the policy schedules  on the following pages which  did give 
the breakdown  of the cost of the cover and explain what his cover  related to.
The 2003  renewal letter did indicate the policy was due to increase, but this was for the 
first time in a number  of years, giving  the following information:
At West  Brom, we have held our household  insurance premium rates unchanged for 
the past seven  years  despite market wide increases. To maintain the existing high 
levels of cover, we have  had no option  but to pass on a premium increase to our 
customers at this renewal.
On the same  first page the letter then gives a total figure for the revised monthly  payment 
including the mortgage payment on the same  page.  This doesnt distinguish what the cost 
of the insurance  is or the mortgage but simply a combined total. But the annual cost of the 
insurance is displayed  within  the policy schedule on the following pages.
The 2004  renewal information included a line within the first paragraph to confirm that 
WBBS had been  able to continue the high levels  of cover without increasing premium  rates  
for a further 12 months. A similar  statement was included in the 2010 renewal document 
template and although this wasnt a copy of Ms Ns letter, I think its fair to assume it 
indicates what she received.
Ive not been able to see the renewal documents for every year that Ms N had the policy   
with the time that has passed since this was taken out this isnt surprising  but I think  the 
sample provided gives a good indication of how the policy  and the cost of it was presented  
to her over the years by WBBS. And in three out of the four renewal packs Ive seen, the 
clear inference was that the cost of the policy wasnt increasing.
Our investigator set out previously the cost of Ms Ns policy  over the time she had it  both 
parties have seen this before so I dont intend to add this in again. It is clear  there  were  
price rises every year,  even those  years when the covering letter said the premium rates 
werent changing. So the information in these covering  letters was misleading.
Ref: DRN92673594The statements  like those  Ive quoted above demonstrate why Ms N wasnt  reasonably 
aware of how the policy had changed  overtime and was unsure as to why her payment  
for her mortgage and insurance combined was so high.
Ms N didnt engage on the renewal price of her policy until 2014.  And this engagement 
was focused on the overall  cost she was paying  for the mortgage and insurance. It wasnt 
until 2015 that she realised what she was paying for her insurance and how this 
compared to what was available with other providers. What is clear  is that Ms N wasnt  
sure what  was increasing the cost of her monthly  payment,  which she often referred to as 
her mortgage payment.
I think the information provided by WBBS was misleading on the price of the policy and 
how this was increasing. And had it explained each year the price had increased Ms N 
would have been more aware of what was increasing the cost of her monthly  payment. 
When she realised it was the cost of the insurance increasing she shopped around and 
found the policy for substantially less than shed been paying before.
Ms N is upset  and distressed at the difference in price shes been  able to find her 
insurance for now.  She is concerned shes been over charged for a number of years for 
this. Its very difficult, if not impossible,  to say what she would have done if shed been 
given clear information. She always needed  insurance, but she might have decided  to shop 
around and she might  have got it cheaper. But theres  no way of knowing what she might 
have paid if shed  shopped around. But it is clear she didnt know  what  she was paying  and 
that she was shocked when she found out.
I can understand  why Ms N is so concerned by this and feels WBBS has failed to give her 
the information she needed  to make an informed  choice about whether to keep  the policy 
provided by it or not. And this has caused significant distress  now as she looks  back at 
what she was charged for the policy  over the years. And the award for the distress and 
inconvenience needs to recognise this and the loss of opportunity  to shop around earlier.
Ms N responded without  anything else to add accepting the decision. WBBS said the 
following in response:
There was no price  rise on the policy in 2010  so the renewal letter for this year was 
correct in what it said.
It said the renewal pack always consisted  of two parts, the covering  letter and the 
schedule and that the schedule clearly showed the annual premium and the level of 
detail in this has been amended following the recent  transparency guidelines.
Although the copies  of letters sent to us refer to premium rates  staying the same,  it 
always included wording that premiums due to be paid by the customer  had 
increased as sums insured were  increased  in line with indexation. And from 2004 this 
wording in the covering letter was also put into bold text.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive not seen anything  to 
persuade me to depart from my provisional  findings  and I am upholding Ms Ns complaint. Ill 
explain why below.
Ref: DRN92673595I agree  with what WBBS  has said in response to my provisional decision and that Ms Ns 
policy didnt increase in price  in 2010  so to say it increased every year isnt true. But it did 
increase in price  every  year bar this year. And I havent seen anything to suggest  that the 
statements made in other  years about  the price not increasing were  correct. And I beleive 
the reassurance  about the policy price not increasing was untrue and misleading.
I also agree  that the renewal pack included the schedule information on the second page 
and this detailed  the cost of the policy and I explained this was provided in the provisional 
decision. However, the information in the covering letters with statements about the cost of 
the policy not increasing meant that Ms N would have been  unable to know  the cost on the 
new schedule was different to her previous one. And with the promises  made about her price 
not changing, I think its unlikely she would have  felt the need  to compare this.
Rules around transparency with information have  changed in recent years since  Ms Ns 
policy was cancelled. And Im not suggesting  the schedule  should  have included any 
information previously  that wasnt required.  But the covering statement which proceeded this 
should have been clear  about the price  and dont think it was.
I think it follows that these  statements about the price and the policy  not changing would 
have been mis-leading. And despite the covering statements including  information  about the 
overall level of cover  increasing and the price  in line with indexation  which  in later years 
was bolded, I think its unreasonable to say the renewal information was clear. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  the lack of clarity around what was driving the price of 
Ms Ns combined payment was misunderstood  with her believing for a long time that her 
mortgage interest rate was wrong.  She clearly  believed from the statements made about her 
home insurance that this price hadnt  been increasing and I can understand  why she 
believed this.
Ms N was upset at the fact she missed out on the opportunity to shop around for a different 
insurance policy sooner.  I cant  know how much  she would have been able to find a suitable  
alternative policy for, but it is clear she lost this opportunity and has been extremely 
distressed as a result  of this and believing  she has been overcharged for a number of years.
I think WBBS  need to do something to put this right  recognising this level of distress and 
inconvenience caused with how it administered Ms Ns policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Ns complaint against West 
Bromwich Building Society.
To compensate Ms N for the distress and inconvenience caused it should  make a payment 
of £1000.00  to recognise the significant  impact this had on her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9267359