K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC (trading  as TSB) mis-sold Mr and Mrs W payment  
protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me. I also thought  the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld, but I thought it would be fair to set out my reasons and understanding  of 
the facts first. So I wrote the following provisional decision and asked everyone for 
comments:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The PPI covered both Mr and Mrs W. If either  needed to claim,  Mr W would have 
received 80% of the benefit, and Mrs W would  have received 20%. The adjudicator 
incorrectly said that only Mr W was covered. This was an error in writing the letter.  I 
can see from our records that she did however take the correct  information into 
account in reaching  her view of the case. And I can confirm that my decision would 
be the same  whether or not Mr W was the sole beneficiary of the policy. 
Our adjudicator also said the sale of the PPI happened in June 1996, but I think  it 
was in February of that year, when Mr and Mrs W signed the mortgage application 
form. And she said neither  they  nor Lloyds could tell us how it had been sold, when  
Mr and Mrs W had said they thought it was sold in a meeting at a Lloyds branch. I 
think theyre probably right about that. But again,  neither of these points in my view 
alters the outcome of this complaint.
Ive considered carefully the comments of Mr and Mrs W and their representatives. 
However, I dont currently think I should uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I dont have clear evidence to show that Lloyds failed to make  Mr and Mrs W aware 
the PPI was optional; or that it didnt  ensure  that they freely  chose  to take it. 
Mr and Mrs W have  said the PPI was added without their knowledge. The available 
copy of their application is not now very legible, but it does look from its layout and 
the ticked boxes  as if Mr and Mrs W wanted  to have PPI, and the mortgage offer 
form does clearly say that PPI has been  agreed  and how much it would cost.  And 
both the application and the offer said the benefit was to be split between Mr and 
Mrs W in the way Ive described,  which suggests to me that there had probably been 
discussion about PPI and what,  if any, cover they wanted. And, as this did happen 
about 23 years ago, it wouldnt be surprising if not all the details have been 
remembered about what happened.  
Overall, on the information Ive got at the moment I dont think I can fairly  say Lloyds 
Ref: DRN97929332added the PPI without Mr and Mrs Ws consent.  I think its more likely they agreed to 
have it, knowing they had a choice.
Its not clear whether  Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. But even if it 
did, it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. Being  unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits  if Mr or Mrs W couldnt work due to 
sickness. It would have  paid unemployment benefits if either of them lost their work. 
And it seems they didnt  have savings to fall back on. This all would have put 
Mr and Mrs W in a more secure position, if they eventually lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. 
Mr and Mrs W have  said that Mr W would have been paid anyway if he was sick, 
because he was a director of his own company. But if thats right its likely that his 
long term sickness would  affect the income  of his company, on which  he is likely to 
have relied. And he would also have benefited from the PPI if his company stopped 
trading and so he became unemployed. Unlike some PPI policies, it looks  as though 
the likely  terms of their policy wouldnt have made  it any harder for him to make a 
claim if he was self-employed  than if he had been an ordinary employee. And if he 
was in fact an employee and entitled to sick pay, or to a redundancy payment if he 
lost his job, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this  as it would have done for 
Mrs W.
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs W say these werent  made  very clear and they may be right. But I dont 
anyway think full and clear information  about  the costs would have  affected  whether 
Mr and Mrs W took the PPI. The policy would continue for as long as they kept 
paying the premiums,  or they could  cancel it without further cost at any time if their 
situation changed or they no longer wanted it,
Its possible Lloyds didnt  clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But 
its unlikely Mr and Mrs W would have been  affected by any of these. They were 
eligible for the policy that I think they took out, and theyd be paying for it monthly,  so 
they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation changed.
Lloyds didnt respond. But Mr and Mrs W said they didnt agree with my view. They said that:
The PPI was made a condition  of the loan;
Lloyds at the time had a policy of adding  as much extra insurance as they could get 
away with;
Nobody at Lloyds has ever declared  they would  earn commission  for the sale of 
insurance;
The policy wouldnt  have ever paid out as Mr W was director  of his own company and 
could only have  become unemployed if hed made himself unemployed  which  
would not have been covered. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs W have said, but this hasnt changed  my view of the case.
Ref: DRN97929333Mr and Mrs W are, it seems, saying they were made to feel that in reality  there was no 
choice about taking PPI. But without stronger  evidence in support  of this, it wouldnt be fair 
for me to decide that the bank adviser acted wrongly  in the way Mr and Mrs W are saying. 
I do understand that Mr Ws employment  circumstances were unusual, but the PPI still would 
have been potentially useful. Even though  he could  not sack himself  and claim  under  the 
PPI, he could potentially  have claimed if his business failed and he found himself effectively 
unemployed. 
So Im confirming my provisional  decision,  and Im not upholding this complaint. 
 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 June  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9792933