K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that Allianz Insurance Plc didnt reduce the price  of her pet insurance policy 
after adding exclusions and so limiting  the cover  available. And she wants  compensation for 
the way Allianz  has dealt  with her. Mrs E has a representative in this complaint.
background
I set out the details of the complaint in a provisional decision dated 6 February  2020,  which  
Ive attached to this decision.
In summary,  I wasnt minded to uphold Mrs Es complaint on the basis that I wasnt  
persuaded that Allianz had treated her unfairly  when pricing the insurance policy.  
replies to my provisional  decision
Although weve sent the provisional decision to both parties to the registered addresses we 
have, and with a deadline of 20 February 2020, Ive not seen any replies.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and mindful that Ive not 
seen any replies  from the parties, Im not reaching  a different outcome to that in my 
provisional decision.
For clarity,  the reasons in my provisional  decision are my findings in this final decision;
I have reviewed the information Allianz  has sent us about the pricing issue.  It is commercially  
sensitive so I will not be sharing it with Mrs E. But like the investigator I am satisfied that 
exclusions did not affect the price  Allianz charged Mrs E. She may well have thought  that 
restrictions in cover should have led to a price reduction but thats not how Allianz priced  the 
policy. Allianz has shown  us it prices all customers with the policy Mrs E had in the same  
way based on the factors identified by the investigator.  So, considering all the information  
from Allianz about how it priced Mrs Es policy, Im satisfied it treated her fairly. 
On the more general point about compensation Mrs E has asked that we consider the stress 
and anxiety caused by Allianz in the way it has failed to honour  its contract  and acted in a 
wholly cavalier and dilatory manner. As my ombudsman colleague has already  decided, 
Mrs E failed to take reasonable care when she bought the policy.  And it was this that 
ultimately led to dental claims being declined. The ombudsman decided  that Allianz  was 
entitled to reject the claims  and apply the relevant  exclusions. Those  are not issues  I will be 
addressing in terms of compensation  as that was for the other  complaint. What  I will look at 
though is whether there was any distress  and inconvenience linked with the pricing 
complaint.
It wasnt until September 2018  that Mrs E first mentioned a pricing issue in an email  relating  
to the other complaint. In it her representative  said;
[Allianz] dramatically reduce the benefits  of Dexters insurance cover  however, they have  
made no reduction in the insurance fee. As a quid pro quo for benefit  reduction and 
consequently risk to the insurers there  should  have been  an appropriate reduction in the fee 
Ref: DRN99557162charge for the cover. Whilst we realise  that the matter has now passed  to the Ombudsman, 
we would be grateful  if you would place  this additional information  before him. 
In large part Mrs Es unhappiness stems  from having a claim rejected, which  my 
ombudsman colleague  has already  dealt  with. A secondary issue was the imposition of 
exclusions relating  to obesity, which again my ombudsman colleague has dealt with. 
For this complaint, on the basis that Im satisfied Allianz treated Mrs E fairly regarding  the 
pricing of the policy, I see no persuasive  reason to award compensation. Allianz  explained in 
its response to Mrs E what it had done around  the pricing of her policy and it has in my 
determination acted  fairly.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mrs E complains that Allianz Insurance Plc didnt  reduce the price of her pet insurance policy after 
adding exclusions and so limiting the cover available. And she wants compensation  for the way 
Allianz has dealt with her. Mrs E has a representative in this complaint.
background
Allianz had rejected a claim and added a number of exclusions  to Mrs Es policy,  which we 
considered a complaint  about. One of my ombudsman colleagues issued a final decision,  which 
determined that Allianz fairly rejected the claim  but while  some exclusions should  stay others should  
Ref: DRN99557163be removed.  Mrs E believes  that as cover is more restricted, she should  pay less and wants 
compensation.
One of our investigators explained that shed  obtained information from Allianz that showed  how the 
policy was priced from when it started, changes to the policy coverage and at renewal  of the policy. 
She said that in the other complaint it was established  Mrs E hadnt given  all the information she 
should have to Allianz. But she found from Allianzs  information  that the price  was based on the pets 
breed, age, gender and location. And having reviewed the information the investigators opinion was 
that Allianz had calculated the price  fairly and the exclusions made  no difference. 
The investigator went  a step further and asked Allianz  if it had ever reduced the price after adding 
exclusions to other customers, and it confirmed it had not. And she said that while Mrs E feels  she 
couldnt make  an informed decision  about  whether to pay the price  quoted at the outset, Allianz  didnt 
have all the information from her it should have  about  the pets medical  history. The investigator also 
said that in 2017 when the policy started discounts were applied  12 months cover for the price of 
10. This meant the 2018 policy increased  in price given there was no discount together with an 
increase in insurance premium tax.
Mrs E disagreed and in summary said;
only one aspect  of the claim was addressed, which was in large  measure settled by the 
ombudsman decision.  
The claim  is for compensation for the stress and anxiety  caused by Allianz in the manner in 
which it has failed  to honour its contract and acted  in a wholly  cavalier and dilatory manner  
throughout this matter.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I have reviewed the information Allianz  has sent us about the pricing issue.  It is commercially 
sensitive so I will not be sharing it with Mrs E. But like the investigator I am satisfied that exclusions 
did not affect the price Allianz  charged Mrs E. She may well have thought  that restrictions in cover 
should have led to a price reduction but thats not how Allianz priced the policy. Allianz has shown us 
it prices all customers with the policy Mrs E had in the same way based on the factors  identified by 
the investigator. So, considering all the information  from Allianz about  how it priced  Mrs Es policy, Im 
satisfied it treated her fairly. 
On the more general point about compensation Mrs E has asked that we consider the stress and 
anxiety caused by Allianz in the way it has failed to honour its contract and acted  in a wholly cavalier 
and dilatory  manner. As my ombudsman colleague  has already decided,  Mrs E failed  to take 
reasonable care when  she bought the policy. And it was this that ultimately led to dental claims being 
declined. The ombudsman decided  that Allianz  was entitled to reject the claims and apply the relevant  
exclusions. Those are not issues  I will be addressing in terms of compensation  as that was for the 
other complaint. What I will look at though is whether there was any distress and inconvenience  linked 
with the pricing complaint.
It wasnt until September 2018 that Mrs E first mentioned  a pricing  issue in an email relating to the 
other complaint. In it her representative said;
[Allianz] dramatically reduce  the benefits of Dexters insurance cover however,  they have made no 
reduction in the insurance fee. As a quid pro quo for benefit reduction and consequently risk to the 
insurers there should have been an appropriate reduction in the fee charge  for the cover. Whilst  we 
realise that the matter has now passed to the Ombudsman, we would be grateful  if you would  place 
this additional information  before him. 
Ref: DRN99557164In large part Mrs Es unhappiness stems from having a claim rejected, which my ombudsman 
colleague has already dealt with. A secondary issue was the imposition  of exclusions relating to 
obesity, which again my ombudsman colleague has dealt with. 
For this complaint, on the basis that Im satisfied Allianz  treated Mrs E fairly regarding the pricing of 
the policy,  I see no persuasive  reason to award compensation.  Allianz explained in its response to 
Mrs E what it had done around the pricing  of her policy  and it has in my determination acted  fairly.
my provisional  decision
Im not currently minded  to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN9955716