K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Next Retail Limited have reported adverse information  about her store 
card to credit reference agencies.  
background
Mrs S had a store card with Next since 2013.  In April 2017, she ordered items which,  in total, 
cost more than £3,000  but says she didnt receive  her order. She says there are 
discrepancies relating  to the location Next has said the order  was delivered to. She also 
says she did not sign for it. Mrs S says she shouldnt have to pay for items she did not 
receive. Mrs S is unhappy that Next has reported adverse information  about her store card 
to credit reference agencies as she says this is affecting her ability  to re-mortgage  now. 
Next acknowledged  it misinterpreted the couriers GPS  co-ordinates when it investigated 
Mrs S concerns. However, it says its courier team has always maintained that the four 
parcels relating  to this order were signed  for by the occupier on the specified  day of delivery. 
Based on the evidence  it had, Next declined Mrs S claim and asked her to pay her minimum 
account repayments. 
From May 2017 Mrs S account  fell into arrears as she made no payment towards  it despite  
having a large  balance  outstanding from previous orders. In September  2017,  Mrs S entered  
a reduced repayment  plan with Next of £100 per month until March 2018 and then a 
repayment plan of £5 per month from April 2018  until January 2019. Next says it reported 
the four consecutive  months of arrears  and subsequent payment plan to the credit  reference 
agencies. 
Mrs S was unhappy with Nexts response, so she brought her complaint to us. Our 
investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought  Next took reasonable steps to 
investigate what happened, and Mrs S had a responsibility to keep up repayments  on her 
account considering there was a balance  outstanding from her previous orders. So, he 
thought it was fair for Next to report what it did to credit reference  agencies. 
Mrs S disagreed. She maintains Next confirmed on several occasions the order was 
delivered to a different address. She also says she offered to make a part payment towards 
her previous  balance, but this was refused by Next. She asked for the signature of receipt on 
the order to be verified  as she says it wasnt hers. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs S complaint.  I understand this will come as a disappointment  to her, but Ill 
explain my reasons why.
Next has only been able to provide limited information from the time about the deliver.  Thats 
not entirely surprising  given  how long ago everything happened. Where  the evidence  is 
incomplete, inconsistent  or contradictory, as some of it is here, Im required to decide 
matters on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I consider most  likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN95019952Mrs S says she waited at home all day on the specified day of delivery,  but she didnt 
receive her order. She says she immediately queried this with Next when she received a text 
saying the order  had been delivered.  Mrs S says Next has said on several  occasions  that the 
order was delivered  to a different house on her street. 
Next acknowledges  that it provided  conflicting  information about which house the order  was 
delivered to but says this was because it misinterpreted the couriers  GPS  co-ordinates. Ive 
looked at the GPS  co-ordinates, and I dont think they allow me to say which  house the 
delivery went to, I say this because  the properties  on Mrs S street are closely  situated  next 
to each other. But what does seem  clear is that the courier  was on Mrs S street and in the 
vicinity of her house.  
Next says the courier has always maintained that the order  was delivered to Mrs S address  
on the specified day and it was signed  for. Mrs S says the signature is not hers and has 
asked for it to be verified. Im unable to say whether the signature  was Mrs S or not. But I 
have also considered the couriers  recollections  from the time of delivery. The driver was 
able to recall the conversation they had with Mrs S about the order itself such  as the size of 
the order amounting  to a new wardrobe and about  Mrs S husband also being  a delivery 
driver. I note, Mrs S says her husband  and the driver had met each other previously when 
theyve been out delivering. But, overall,  Im not persuaded that this is enough to fairly say 
the drivers recollections  were untrue.  
So, on the balance  of probabilities and having  carefully considered the information  from both 
parties here,  I cannot say that Mrs S did not actually  receive  the items she disputes. It is 
reasonable therefore to expect Mrs S to pay for those items. 
  
Next has a duty to ensure any information it does report  to credit reference  agencies is 
accurate. Mrs S is unhappy with the markers placed by Next on her credit file. Having 
reviewed Mrs S account, I think it was fair for Next to notify the credit  reference agencies 
about the four missed payments and the subsequent payment plan. 
I say this because  prior to the April 2017 order, Mrs S had an outstanding balance of over 
£1,000 from previous orders. Whilst I acknowledge during the time Next was investigating 
her concerns  about her missing order, she may have not wished to make  payments towards 
the disputed order,  I still wouldve  expected  her to make payments towards the outstanding 
balance from her previous  orders. 
Mrs S says she did offer to make part payments on her account, but Next refused this. Ive 
looked at Mrs S account notes from the time, but I cant see this was discussed other than 
the subsequent payment plan in September 2017 and April 2018. I dont think there  was 
anything preventing Mrs S from paying any amount she wished into her account. But Mrs S 
made no payment  on her account in May 2017, June 2017, July 2017 and August 2017. For 
these reasons, I think Next was entitled  to notify  the credit reference agencies about  those  
missed payments and the repayment  plan Mrs S subsequently entered.  
I understand Mrs S feels strongly about her concerns against Next, but based on the 
information I do have,  I cant fairly  ask Next to do anymore. 
Ref: DRN95019953my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.  
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9501995