K822xcomplaint
Ms C is complaining that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy to her and her late ex-husband (Mr C). Shes unhappy that Lloyds paid half of 
the compensation to her ex-husbands cousin.
background 
In 1993 Ms C and Mr C took out a PPI policy alongside a joint loan they took out through  
Lloyds. Ms C complained  to Lloyds that it has mis-sold the policy  and in June 2018  Lloyds 
agreed it had and offered her compensation of around £600. But it only paid half of this to 
her as it says that Mr C was entitled to the other  half. And it said that it had written  to him 
about this.
Ms C queried this, given  Mr C had died around five years ago. And she found out that Lloyds 
had paid this to Mr Cs cousins. Lloyds accepted it had made an error and it offered her £150 
in compensation.  And it said that Ms C was entitled  to the rest of the compensation and it 
said it would  pay this to her. 
Ms C didnt accept this as she didnt  think this was enough to reflect the distress  and 
inconvenience this had caused. Lloyds  still thought  it was fair compensation so Ms C asked 
this service to step in. She explained  that the error  has caused her anxiety, upset and 
embarrassment. Mr C had passed away some years  ago, and Ms C had set this aside and 
tried to move on with her life. She didn't feel that the response shed  been  given offered any 
apology or explanation for what went wrong.  She wanted the compensation to reflect  the 
impact the breach of data security  had had on her.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She was satisfied that this matter  had caused Ms C 
caused a lot of distress  and inconvenience. And she didnt think  Lloyds  had taken into 
account the impact  Lloyds error  had had on Ms C. The investigator said that Ms C had had 
to revisit extremely upsetting events of some years  past following an acrimonious 
separation. The investigator also thought that Ms C had valid concerns  about her personal 
information being shared  with an unconnected third party. So she thought that an amount of 
compensation in the region of £300 was fairer compensation.  She also thought  that Lloyds 
should send Ms C a letter  of apology.
Lloyds accepted the investigators opinion. But Ms C didnt agree. She said Lloyds paid this 
compensation to her before  she accepted  it. She also said that she still hadnt received an 
apology. But in particular  she didnt think that £300 was enough  compensation taking into 
account the seriousness of the complaint and the many mistakes  Lloyds staff had made. So 
she asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Ms Cs comments into account  that she doesnt think £300  is fair compensation, 
but I think it is and Ill now explain why. 
I think it would first help to set out this services role. The Financial Ombudsman Service is a 
dispute resolution service.  Were not the industrys regulator, so its not our role to fine and 
Ref: DRN98546682punish businesses  where there things go wrong. Our role is to look to try and put things right 
where a business  has done something  wrong.
I dont dispute  that this matter has been  very distressing to Ms C. And in particular I note the 
following issues that this has caused:
1.Shes had to reconnect with Mr Cs family which I can imagine  would have been  
distressing following  the acrimonious separation she had with him;
2.She was concerned that personal  information had been passed on to another person 
unconnected to the loan; and
3.Shes had to spend a significant amount of time trying to put this right.
Im conscious that Ms C has acted in two capacities here  a complainant in her own right 
due to the mis-sale  of the PPI on a loan she took out and also as the executor of Mr Cs 
estate. As an executor  of the estate, Ms C isnt an eligible  complaint  the eligible 
complainant in that respect is Mr C and shes acting as his representative. So I cant require 
Lloyds to compensate  her for any distress  and inconvenience shes  suffered in acting in this 
capacity. And it appears to me that a lot of her distress and inconvenience rests from this.
But Im also conscious  that she had an entitlement  to the compensation payable  as a result  
of the mis-sale of the PPI policy. And I think a lot of the distress  and inconvenience  shes  
suffered is also a direct result of the fact that Lloyds  mis-sold this policy and the way its 
handled her complaint.
Taking everything into account,  I think £300  is in line with what  I would have required Lloyds 
to pay her. So I think the investigators recommendations were  fair. I also agree  that it should  
send Ms C a letter of apology for the distress  and inconvenience its caused her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Lloyds Bank Plc to pay Ms C £300  in compensation. It should pay this to her directly 
if it hasnt already done so. It should also send  Ms C a letter of apology  for the distress and 
inconvenience its caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9854668