K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about a life protection policy they took out following advice 
from Barclays Bank UK PLC. They have said they were told they had to take the policy  in 
order to have the mortgage approved. But they have now realised this wasnt in fact the 
case.
background
Mr and Mrs H are being represented by their daughter. 
They were  applying for a mortgage in 2014. They were borrowing just over £100,000  over 
the course of twenty two years. The mortgage  was set up on a capital repayment  basis. At 
the same  time they took out a joint decreasing term assurance policy for the same amount 
and term as the mortgage.
They have said that Barclays told them  they had to take the policy  to successfully obtain the 
mortgage. Theyve explained they refused it initially but were told they had no choice. They  
have complained now because a friend recently informed them that they didnt need the 
cover and shouldnt  have been told it was a condition of the lending.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt  be upheld.  She 
was unable to find any evidence that Mr and Mrs H were told by Barclays  the policy  was a 
condition of their lending. She was also satisfied that, given their circumstances, the policy  
was suitable for them  and provided  them with useful protection.
Their daughter disagreed with the assessment.  She clarified that Mr and Mrs H were not 
claiming the recommendation was unsuitable,  only that Mr and Mrs H werent given a choice 
as to whether  to take the policy  or not. And ultimately  the adviser was wrong to have mis -
lead them.
The investigator explained that without  evidence of what  happened  at the time of the sale it 
is very difficult  to uphold the complaint.  Their  daughter strongly disagreed with the 
investigator so the complaint has been passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
I know how strongly their daughter feels about  there being no evidence from Barclays  to 
confirm Mr and Mrs H werent told they had to take the policy.  But I have to be completely 
objective in making  this decision so I need  to see evidence to support the complaint as well. 
And if that is lacking its very hard to find in favour of the complaint especially given the fact 
this is a legally binding decision.
Its also worth pointing  out that the mortgage  conditions document which  Mr and Mrs H 
would have had in their possession clearly  states that the only insurance they were required 
to take as part of their lending conditions was buildings  insurance.  No mention at all has 
been made of life protection. So even if Mr and Mrs H were told they had to take out the 
policy for the lending  it was their responsibility to read their mortgage conditions.  This 
Ref: DRN96291702wouldve made the conditions clear to them and they could have questioned Barclays if they 
were indeed told during  the meeting that they had to take out the policy.
Having looked  though  the documentation completed at the time of the sale I am also 
satisfied that discussions  were had between Mr and Mrs H and the adviser about the policy. 
There are two different  quotes detailed as well as the potential implications of not having 
such a policy  in place.  Therefore,  I think its very likely that they did discuss  the matter and 
Mr and Mrs H understood  on what basis the policy was being  sold to them.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H havent questioned the suitability of the policy  but it is worth 
making a couple  of things clear in relation to this. Given  they were  married, had two 
dependants and were  taking on a joint borrowing, the decreasing  term assurance  policy  was 
a useful one for them  to have. Having the policy meant that a lump sum payment would be 
made if one of them passed away during the term of the mortgage. This money  could then 
be used to discharge the remainder of the mortgage thereby taking away  the burden on the 
remaining family to find a way of paying  off that debt. 
Also the mortgage  was set up on a capital repayment basis so a decreasing  term assurance  
policy was also the most  suitable type of cover for them in light of them not wanting  cover for 
anything else. This was the cheapest  type of cover they could have had and meant  that the 
sum assured on the policy would decrease largely in line with the mortgage decreasing 
thereby ensuring  they were never over covered and so werent  even paying  for more cover  
than they needed.
Overall, therefore, while I know this will disappoint  Mr and Mrs H, I just cant safely conclude 
that they were  told by Barclays they had to take the policy. I appreciate their daughter feels  
that their word is enough but Im afraid  in this case based on everything  else I have seen 
what they have  said doesnt persuade me that they were  told they had to take the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 May 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9629170