K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The card was sold by Burton but FICL  is now responsible for it. 
background
Mr C bought the policy in 2003 at the same  time as taking out a store card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.  Having done  so, Ive decided  not to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL  shouldve made it clear  the PPI was optional.  And it shouldve  got Mr Cs 
agreement to buy it. Mr C says he wasnt told about the PPI at all. Ive seen a copy  of 
Mr Cs store card application.  There was a section  on the application where he could 
say if he wanted  to buy PPI with the card. And Mr C signed to say he did want  the 
policy in this section.  Ive taken on board what Mr C says about  signing where FICL 
indicated. But I think its clear on the form that Mr C needed  to select  PPI separately  
to the store  card in order to buy it. So I think FICL made Mr C aware that he had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it shouldve  provided clear  information to Mr C to allow him to decide  if he 
wanted to buy the policy.  Mr C says this didnt  happen. So Ive considered the 
information provided at the time of sale. Having done this I think its possible the 
information FICL gave  Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  
But if Mr C couldnt work for a long period of time he mayve  found it difficult  to make 
the card repayments.  The PPI wouldve  paid 15% of Mr Cs card balance  if he 
couldnt work due to illness, or he lost his job. The payment wouldve been in addition 
to any sick pay, or unemployment benefits, he might have received if this happened.  
It couldve provided a benefit until the card balance was repaid or he returned to 
work. Which is longer  than his sick pay wouldve lasted.  
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Mr C couldnt afford  to make  the monthly payments to 
the PPI at the time of sale. And he doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of 
the main things the policy  didnt cover such as pre-existing medical conditions.  So 
based on what I know about his circumstances it looks like the policy  couldve been  
useful to him. And I dont think Mr Cs lost out due to anything  that FICL mightve 
done wrong.  
Ref: DRN98083292Ive taken into account Mr Cs comments,  including what hes said about  not making a claim 
when he was unemployed at an earlier time.  Whilst this doesnt change my findings above,  if 
Mr C believes  he shouldve been able to make a claim he should  contact  FICL  and they may 
be able to consider  the claim retrospectively. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9808329