K820x#14Complaint
Ms F complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited  unfairly rejected her claim for storm 
damage to her roof on her home insurance policy.
All references to Tesco  include  their agents.
Background
Ms F contacted Tesco in November 2018  to register a claim for storm damage to her roof. 
Tesco agreed to send an assessor to inspect the damage. The assessor provided a report,  
which said the damage was because of long-term deterioration of the lead flashings on the 
roof. He recommended the claim  be declined, as the damage wasnt a result  of a one-off  
storm.
Ms F disagreed with the findings of the assessor.  She said her roofer  had found  damage that 
must have  been  caused by high winds. This included movement of the chimneystack, 
cracked tiles, and dislodged haunching. Tesco contacted the roofer to discuss  the damage. 
It then maintained its position  that the claim should  be declined, as it said the roofer couldnt  
attribute the damage to a single storm event.
Unhappy with Tescos  response, Ms F referred the complaint to our service.  Our investigator 
looked at everything  and recommended  the complaint not be upheld.  She found there  were  
storm conditions present at the time of Ms Fs claim,  and she agreed  the damage  to Ms Fs 
roof was typical of the damage caused by a storm. But after considering  all the evidence  
from Tesco and Ms Fs roofer, she found  the damage to the roof happened over time and 
was not because of one single event storm. The storm had simply highlighted the problem.
Our investigator also considered if Ms F had a valid claim under the accidental damage 
section of her policy, but she found  that Tesco had relied  on an exclusion for general 
maintenance fairly. So she didnt think Tesco should  do anything further in regards to the 
claim.
Ms F disagreed with our investigators findings.  She said she felt the storm was the main  
cause of damage to her roof. Ms F said she wasnt looking for the full cost of the claim. She 
understood there was some evidence of wear and tear, but she felt there  were  areas  of the 
roof and chimney that had been affected  by a one-off storm. Ms F felt there was vital 
evidence missed which pointed to storm damage, and she said the assessor did not get up 
on the roof to do a thorough inspection.
Ms F asked for an ombudsmans  decision, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why below.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I need  to consider  whether Tesco  has assessed Ms Fs claim 
fairly under the terms and conditions of the policy. And to do this I need to consider:
Ref: DRN950529921.Was there evidence of a storm around the time of the claim?
2.Is the damage typical of the damage that would be caused by a storm?
3.Was the storm the main cause  of the damage?
In order for the claim to be successful, the answer to all three questions  must be yes.
Ive also checked  the terms and conditions  of Ms Fs policy.  The conditions  state  the insurer 
will not pay for costs associated with general  maintenance  to your home such as defective 
rendering, repointing chimneys  or general roof maintenance. In addition, under the storm 
event section of the policy,  it states Loss or damage: that does not arise  from one 
identifiable incident which directly  and immediately caused the loss or damage is not 
covered. So I need  to consider if Tesco has rejected the claim fairly under these conditions  
too.
Was there evidence of a storm around the time of the claim?
Ms F says it is most likely  the damage  to her roof was caused by a storm around mid-
September 2018. Ive checked  Ms Fs policy and it doesnt have a definition for storm. So 
Ive checked local weather  records  for the dates provided and considered  whether this 
service would consider  the weather at this time to be severe enough  to be considered a 
storm. 
Having done so, I can see evidence of high winds around the time Ms F says the event  
happened. And Im satisfied the high winds were strong enough to be considered  storm 
conditions. So I do think there were storm conditions around  the time of the claim.
Is the damage typical of the damage that would be caused by a storm?
Ive considered the photographs in the assessors report and the list of repairs  carried  out by 
Ms Fs roofer.  I can clearly see several  items in the repairs quoted for that would be typical  
of damage that would be caused by a storm. For example, the photographs of the roof 
clearly show some damage to the lead flashings  and some of the tiles. So I am satisfied the 
damage being claimed for is typical of the damage that would be caused  by a storm. 
Was the storm the main  cause of damage?
Tesco has relied  on its assessors report and photographs to decline the claim. Tesco also 
spoke to Ms Fs roofer, so Ive listened  to a recording  of this call too. To support her position 
Ms F has provided  the list of repairs and a written statement from her roofer. 
The assessors report says the main  cause of damage was due to the long-term deterioration 
of the lead roof flashings. But Ms Fs roofers list includes  several  other items which needed  
repairing. In particular, the repairs include the movement of the chimneystack, damage  to 
the tiles, and the supply  and fixing of a new chimney pot and cowl. So I need to determine 
whether these were  as a result of the storm or some other reason.
I asked Tesco for their comments on this and questioned the items in the roofers  invoice 
that I felt werent  related  to the lead flashings. Tesco responded with further information to 
support their decision and maintained their position  of declining  the claim. I also asked Ms F 
for her comments on Tescos response, but didnt receive anything further to consider.
Ref: DRN95052993Having considered everything  provided by both parties, I am more persuaded by the 
evidence provided  by Tesco. I say this because  Tesco has now addressed all the areas  of 
damage on Ms Fs roof and explained  why each of the items are not linked to a one-off 
storm event.
Tesco has highlighted areas of the roof where it is likely previous repairs  have taken place. It 
has shown areas on the roof where  there  is moss growth, which it says suggests the 
damage is not recent. This includes weathering around the cracked and dislodged tiles. 
Tesco has also pointed out from an earlier  photo of Ms Fs house that the chimneystack in 
question was already leaning  prior to this period  of bad weather. It says the chimney  pot and 
cowl were present when the assessor visited the property, so it must  have  been  dislodged 
between the assessors  visit and the repair work. And it has addressed the damp  issues  
inside Ms Fs property by highlighting  areas  of mould and possible areas where the ceiling 
has been repainted. 
Ive also listened  to the call Tesco made to Ms Fs roofer. There  was some  discussion about 
whether a single  storm caused the damage  to Ms Fs chimney.  The roofer couldnt  confirm it 
was because of one storm, but stated  the damage  was caused by high winds. Ive no doubt 
the roofer was being  honest with his recollections here, but I agree with Tescos conclusions  
from the call that he was unable to confirm  which storm caused the damage to Ms Fs roof.
Based on everything  Ive reviewed, I havent  seen anything that I could  reasonably point to 
as damage from a single  storm event.  I think its more  likely the damage  was as a result of 
wear and tear over time and the storm highlighted it. So I think Tesco  have relied on the 
policy exclusions fairly in declining  Ms Fs claim.
Ive considered if any of the items  in Ms Fs claim  could  be covered under the accidental 
damage section of her policy.  But there is an exclusion here that doesnt cover Loss or 
damage: that happens gradually over time. So as Ive agreed gradual damage was the 
likely cause of damage to the roof, I think its fair for Tesco to decline the claim under this 
exclusion also. So Im not going to require  Tesco  to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9505299