K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2006. Mr and Mrs M say Yorkshire  Building  Society (YBS) mis-sold them the PPI.
background
In 2000 Mr and Mrs M arranged a mortgage  with YBS. In 2006 they took out PPI to cover 
their mortgage. Even though this was a joint mortgage, only Mr M was covered by the policy. 
They paid a monthly amount for the policy and if Mr M had made a successful claim the 
policy would have paid out the monthly  benefit  for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think YBS made it clear that Mr and Mrs M didnt have  to take out the PPI and they chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why they cant remember this. Mr and Mrs M said 
the policy was sold in a telephone call but they have also told us it was taken out in a 
meeting in branch. YBS no longer has all of the records from that time but says it thinks  it is 
most likely this policy was taken out by post.  Ive been given a copy  of the PPI application 
form and this includes pre-printed details for Mr M, along with a quotation for the cost and 
the benefit applicable. From looking at this form it seems most likely this was sent to 
Mr and Mrs M in the post. On the form it states  if you wish to apply for the insurance  you 
should return the form in the envelope  provided   making a postal application seem the 
more likely option. Mr M has signed and dated the form to confirm  he wanted the cover. If 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  want to take out the insurance, they could have left the form blank and 
not returned it.
Im also aware that this policy  was taken out nearly  six years  after Mr and Mrs M took out 
their mortgage. And it doesnt appear that the sale of this policy accompanied any additional 
borrowing on their mortgage. So I think they would have known the PPI wasnt a requirement 
of their mortgage and they didnt have to take out this policy.
Mr and Mrs M have  told us they didnt know PPI had been added  to their account  but Ive 
noted that this policy  was taken out nearly  six years after their mortgage began. And I have 
seen from YBSs internal records that direct  debits for the premium were  taken  following  the 
sale in 2006. So if Mr and Mrs M didnt know what this additional payment was for or they 
hadnt agreed to take out the PPI, I think they would have questioned  this with YBS sooner 
than they did. 
Ref: DRN97276432So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think YBS made  it clear  the policy  was 
optional and Mr and Mrs M agreed  to take it out, knowing  they could refuse it if they didnt 
want it.
YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs M got the information they needed to decide 
for themselves if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of Mr M circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But YBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because:  
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  YBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M have said - including  what they have said about 
not needing the policy as Mr M was in secure employment and they had savings they could 
have used. Whilst I appreciate Mr M had been employed in the same  company for a number 
of years,  this doesnt mean  he wouldnt have  a need  for the policy,  for either sickness  or 
unemployment. And it seems Mr M did make  use of the policy  as I note that he made  
successful claims  a couple of years  after taking out the cover. By having this policy it meant 
Mr and Mrs M could  protect any savings they did have for another purpose or use them  to 
cover other essential living expenses. So these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9727643