K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited was late in paying his 
tax free cash and first income payment. He believes this breaches the agreement he had 
with Prudential. 
Im only considering the actions of The Prudential Assurance Company Limited. I appreciate 
Mr S has concerns about his previous pension provider, Prudential  Corporate Pensions 
(PCP) which is also part of the Prudential group of companies. But its a separate entity and 
Im satisfied that each  entity can only be held responsible for its own actions.
background
Mr S held a pension with PCP. In order to access his fund in the way he wished, he decided 
to transfer his corporate pension plan to a drawdown plan. Mr S initially made contact with 
Prudential in early  October 2018 when he spoke to one of its financial advisers and 
completed a fact find. The adviser recommended Mr S transfer his PCP fund to a Prudential  
Retirement Account. However,  there  was difficulty  sending  the transfer forms to PCP due to 
problems in the PCP plan number being  located.  By the time this was found, the original  
financial adviser was going on annual leave.  So in order not to delay the matters  further,  
Mr S was appointed a new financial  adviser within Prudential and the fact find was redone.  
An application for a Prudential Retirement  Account  was submitted and the transfer forms 
were submitted to PCP in early November 2018. On 2 November an application summary 
and illustration was sent to Mr S to confirm the details of his application and income 
withdrawal. This confirmed that the payment date for Mr Ss income payment as 16 
November 2018.
Mr S spoke with his Prudential adviser  on 9 November 2018  and queried this. The adviser  
explained that the payment date was an estimate and had been entered  as Mr S required  
access to him money ASAP. So this was the earliest possible date the payment could be 
made. 
Mr S was unhappy with this as there  was nothing in the paperwork to explain this. As such 
he considered  Prudential had breached its contractual  obligation to make the payment on 16 
November 2018.   He was also unhappy because hed been waiting since September  2018 to 
access his fund.
Prudential reviewed Mr Ss complaint and agreed  that the paperwork could have been 
clearer that the payment date was an estimate.  It offered Mr S £75 in recognition  of the 
trouble and upset  caused. However, it didnt  agree  that it had breached its terms and 
conditions by not making the payment by 16 November 2018. Prudential  explained that the 
funds were received  from PCP on 16 November and were  invested on 20 November 2018. 
The tax free cash and income payment were processed the next day. This is in line with its 
terms and conditions which state  that the payment will be made as soon as possible. 
Mr S didnt accept what Prudential had said. So he referred the matter  to our service  for an 
independent review. 
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  and having  considered all the 
circumstances, she concluded the offer already put forward by Prudential  was fair. 
Ref: DRN98498382Mr S didnt agree with the investigators opinion. In summary he said that: 
A contract  is an expression  of the utmost  good  faith between  parties  and from 
regulatory perspective, dealings  between parties  are expected  to be transparent. And 
consumers are to be treated fairly.  
Prudential had an opportunity to highlight  matters  that its customer should be aware  
of in the key fact document.  And provision  of an "unguaranteed" contract date is 
key/fundamental to the delivery of that contract and should be explicitly highlighted 
rather than "buried" in a large  T&C document. 
The fact that Prudential acknowledged  that its documentation is "misleading"  and that 
it will rewrite it suggests this is accurate. 
Breaching an explicitly stated contractual term is exceptionally serious  and if a court  
of law was to consider  this, they would judge  it more harshly than the investigator  
has.
The processing timescales are completely excessive for what should  be routine 
transactional activities. The fact that Prudential takes so long to process  such 
requests suggests  it has fundamental issues with its internal processing approach 
and efficiency. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am bound to determine complaints by reference to what I consider is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances,  taking into account  amongst other things the law, regulations and 
good industry practice. This service  has no powers to fine or punish firms and we do not 
make awards for punitive damages.  
Its not in dispute  that the payment didnt arrive by the date specified in the illustration. But 
Im conscious that Mr S was initially advised in October that the payment could take 7 weeks  
to arrive and he was willing to proceed  on this basis. It was only after Mr S received the 
illustration setting out the payment date of 16 November that he complained. At this point it 
was explained  that this was the earliest possible date the payment could be made and was 
entered as Mr S had requested the payment as soon as possible. Prudential accepts that its 
paperwork needs updating to reflect the position accurately. And its offered Mr S £75 for the 
inconvenience caused. So I dont intend  to comment on the content  of the paperwork. 
Whats left for me to decide  is whether  Prudential  has done enough to put the matter right. 
Having thought carefully about matters, Im not going to ask Prudential  to do any more  than 
its already offered to do. It clarified the position almost a week before the 16 November and 
Ive not been provided with anything to show  that Mr S suffered a loss as a result  of the 
payment not being made on 16 November.  In addition, Mr S didnt agree to go ahead  with 
the Retirement  Account  and income  withdrawals  on the basis  that the money would be with 
him by this date. I appreciate that he believes the overall time taken to receive  the payments 
was too long. But Ive not seen anything to suggest  that Prudential  unnecessarily  delayed  
making the payments after it received the funds from PCP. 
As Ive mentioned  above, Im only considering  the actions of Prudential  here.  Any concerns 
Mr S has about PCP are separate  and arent  Prudentials responsibility. Having looked at the 
time line of what happened, it seems that the initial delays were  caused because the original 
PCP plan number  couldnt be located and there  was an issue with a payment having not 
Ref: DRN98498383been added  to Mr Ss PCP plan. This is not something that Prudential can be held 
responsible for. Once the plan number was located,  I can see that Prudential  took action  to 
process the application in a timely manner. 
I appreciate that Mr S feels strongly  about  this matter but Im not upholding his complaint. Its 
not clear if Prudential has already paid Mr S the £75 for the inconvenience  caused. If not, I 
leave it to Mr S to decide if he wishes to accept this offer.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9849838