K820x#14complaint
This complaint is brought on behalf  of the late Mrs Gs estate by her solicitor  and executor, 
Mr B.
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society has delayed  the closure of Mrs Gs 
accounts and the settling  of her financial affairs.
background
Mrs G passed away  in 2017. Her executor,  Mr B, notified Nationwide of this shortly  
afterwards. Nationwide  acknowledged the notification.
A month or so later, Mr B asked Nationwide to release funds  from Mrs Gs current account to 
pay her funeral expenses. He addressed this request to the chief executive, whose office  
forwarded it to the relevant department. Unfortunately at some point during this internal 
transfer the paperwork was misplaced and the request  for payment wasnt  received. 
Mr B chased  the release of funds, which was finally done just over two months after the 
initial request.  Once it had released  the funds, Nationwide wrote  to Mr B asking him to 
contact its bereavement  service in future, rather than contacting  the chief executive. It said 
this would mean his correspondence arrived in the right place first time,  minimising the 
chance of mistakes.  
Around two weeks  later, Mr B requested statements for Mrs Gs accounts. Again he 
addressed this letter to Nationwides chief executive and his correspondence  wasnt  
received. He chased Nationwide for a response, writing to both the chief executive and the 
board. Mr B then wrote to Nationwides chairman asking him to close the accounts   but the 
closure form he enclosed  had a page missing.
Nationwide replied to Mr B asking for the missing  page and again asking him to contact the 
relevant department. Mr B sent a second closure  form,  but again  addressed  his letter  to 
Nationwides chairman.  Just under  two weeks after he did so, Nationwide  closed Mrs Gs 
accounts. Statements for the accounts  were provided around six weeks  after closure.
Mr B complained to Nationwide about  the delays in handling the various requests relating to 
Mrs Gs accounts.  Nationwide  apologised  for its errors but felt that Mr B had not helped 
matters by continuing to send correspondence to the chief executive, chairman and board, 
rather than the bereavement service.
One of our investigators  looked at this complaint and didnt recommend Nationwide do 
anything further.  They felt that the delays were caused by Mr B continuing to send 
correspondence to senior staff rather than the department  that could deal with his queries.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators view.  He considers there  have been serious failings at 
Nationwide that need to be investigated. So the complaints been referred to me for a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN95534842my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
view as the investigator  and for much  the same reasons.
Its unfortunate that some items of post were  lost in transit between the chief executives 
office and the bereavement service. While I understand that this process  will inevitably delay 
matters, I wouldnt expect  paperwork  to be mislaid completely.
However, I can see the correspondence from Nationwide  makes  clear that Mr B had 
previously been  advised, on several  occasions, that writing to anyone  other  than the 
department dealing with his query (in this case Nationwides bereavement service) would 
simply result in his letters being forwarded. This would incur  a delay and increase the 
possibility of mistakes being made.
Despite this, Mr B continued to write  to the chief executive, chairman and members of the 
board, none of whom I would expect to deal with bereavement queries personally.  From  the 
evidence Ive seen,  it appears he was also reluctant to engage with Nationwides  process for 
bereavement queries and he didnt  correctly complete the necessary forms with Mrs Gs 
details. It seems that Nationwide did act on Mr Bs requests once they were  received in the 
right department, with the right information.   But as they werent correctly addressed in the 
first instance, its not surprising that this took longer than it probably  would have if hed sent 
them to the correct department from the start.
Nationwide did make some mistakes in forwarding Mr Bs requests. But it clearly explained 
what Mr B needed to do in order to mitigate these risks and avoid  such  mistakes. And Mr B 
chose not to follow the recommended process.  While I appreciate  what hes said about 
having little faith in Nationwides bereavement service, I havent  seen  anything  to make  me 
think the service wouldnt  have dealt with his requests properly. So overall  I dont uphold  this 
complaint and I dont  recommend that Nationwide do anything further or compensate 
Mrs Gs estate for any delays.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B, on behalf  of 
the late Mrs Gs estate,  to accept or reject my decision  before 11 March 2019.
Cara Goodbody
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9553484