K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains about the sale, in 1997, of an endowment policy for the purposes of 
repaying her mortgage by an appointed  representative of The Royal  London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited. She says she was led to believe  she would receive in excess  of 
the sum assured at maturity. 
background
Miss H was a first time buyer  in 1997. She took out an interest  only mortgage and alongside 
that this with profits endowment policy with a target sum assured of £63,000.
In April 2018, Miss H complained about  the sale of the policy. Although Royal  London said 
the complaint  had been late, it agreed to waive the time bar due to Miss Hs circumstances. 
It agreed the policy wasnt suitable  and carried out a loss calculation  in accordance with 
industry guidelines. This showed Miss H hadnt suffered a financial  loss as a result of having  
the policy. This was because the value of the policy at the time of the calculation was higher 
than what she would  have  repaid  off an equivalent  repayment mortgage.
 
Miss H asked us to look into the complaint  as she didnt think it was fair as shed been  
making overpayments to rectify the shortfall. Our investigator  found  that Royal London had 
already fairly resolved the complaint; no overpayments had been included  in the calculation 
and she hadnt  suffered  a financial loss. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont require Royal 
London to do any more than it has. 
Miss H says she was told the policy would pay in excess of the target amount at maturity.  I 
have considered what shes said, but I havent seen any persuasive  evidence that Royal  
London gave Miss H a binding  guarantee the policy would meet or exceed the target amount 
at maturity (and no such guarantee exists in the policy  itself).
I do accept its possible the adviser sold the policy in a positive light,  particularly as 
investments were doing well at the time. But the correct way to compensate a customer  in 
this situation is to put them in the position  they would have been in had they not been given 
incorrect advice.  
Royal London has already found the policy might not have been  suitable for Miss H, so I 
dont need to make any findings about that. Had she been advised correctly  she should have 
taken her mortgage on a repayment basis. And I can see from the mortgage endowment  
questionnaire Miss H tell us this is what she would have done. 
The regulator has laid down  a standard approach for calculating  compensation for 
complaints like this in a guidance note called Handling Mortgage  Endowment Complaints, 
often referred to as RU89 calculations.  As per that guidance Miss H should be put back in 
the position she would have been  in, so far as is possible, had she not been  recommended 
an unsuitable policy. Therefore Royal London should compare the position Miss H would be 
in with the mortgage, with where she would have been had she been correctly advised  to 
have a repayment mortgage.
Ref: DRN90213522Royal London has provided a copy of its calculations and these  appear  to have been done in 
accordance with the above guidelines. The calculations show  the surrender value of the 
policy was higher than the amount Miss H would have reduced  a repayment mortgage by, 
had she been  correctly advised.  This includes refunds for premium payments and interest. 
This means  Miss H didnt suffer any financial loss as a result of being advised to have her 
mortgage on an interest only basis supported by an endowment policy.  As such  she isnt due 
any compensation.
I understand Miss H is concerned as there  will still be a significant shortfall on maturity. But 
this calculation is designed to calculate where Miss H would have been on a repayment 
mortgage; its not designed to meet any shortfall on maturity. It is now Miss Hs duty to 
mitigate any potential  further  financial loss, for instance, by taking  the surrender value of her 
mortgage, repaying that as a lump sum off the outstanding balance, and converting the 
remainder to a repayment basis. But she should  seek independent advice to see what is 
most appropriate for her needs  and circumstances. 
Miss H has also argued that she has suffered a loss because the low interest rates  over the 
last few years would have  resulted in more  being repaid off of a repayment mortgage  with 
overpayments. However,  those repayments  could have been  made  anyway and reducing 
the balance of an interest only mortgage  would have resulted in lower monthly repayments. 
Im also mindful that greater savings are usually made  when overpayments  are made during 
periods of high interest rather than low. 
In all, Im satisfied Royal London has carried out the calculation we would expect to see for 
complaints of this type and that has shown Miss H hasnt suffered a financial loss. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9021352