K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs E took out a secured  personal  loan with Halifax in December 2000 and they also 
took out a PPI policy at the same  time.  Mr and Mrs E paid a monthly amount for the policy  
which covered Mr E for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Mr and Mrs E say they are almost certain they were told by Halifax  they had to have the PPI 
to get the loan, because  theyd only been in their jobs for two years.  And they say they didnt 
need it because  they had good work  benefits, Mr E had an Armed  Forces pension he was 
drawing on and they couldve got help from their parents.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Es complaint didnt uphold it. Mr and Mrs E 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. I know  this will 
disappoint them but I hope  the reasons Im about to give help them to understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
Halifax needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs E they had a choice about PPI and get their 
agreement to it. Their  recollection is that this didnt happen and they were told they had to 
have it because they were  in fairly  new jobs. From what they say, its obvious  they arent 
completely sure this is the case,  though  they havent been  able to give us much detail 
about what happened (which isnt surprising  after nearly 20 years)  and they dont have any 
other information to back up what they say.
Halifax, on the other hand,  has given us a copy of a PPI application form which both           
Mr and Mrs E signed. There are clear options to say yes or no to PPI. And Mr E has 
signed his name beneath  the yes option. And Halifax has also given us a copy  of the loan 
agreement Mr and Mrs E subsequently signed where, again, there are yes and no options 
for PPI and, this time, the yes  option has been  marked with an x. I accept its possible   
Mr and Mrs E signed to say yes to PPI because they thought they had to. But I think  its 
more likely  and in line with how we know Halifax normally  sold PPI with these loans  that 
it discussed their insurance needs with Mr and Mrs E and, at the time, they agreed to the 
cover (although I know this isnt how they remember things). So I dont uphold  their 
complaint on this point.
Ref: DRN94037352Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs E so it had to make sure it was right for 
them. From what  they say of their circumstances at the time and the policy details Halifax 
has given us, I think it was. I say this because:
Mr E was eligible  for the PPI. And I dont think he wouldve been affected  by any of 
the main things the policy  didnt cover, for example unusual employment  terms or 
known medical conditions. So there  was nothing to stop him claiming on the PPI if 
hed needed  to.
Mr and Mrs E say Mr E wouldve got some sick pay from his employer if he was 
unwell. And they also say he had an Armed Forces pension he was drawing on 
which boosted his income.  But the PPI wouldve covered Mr and Mrs Es loan 
repayments for up to 12 months  if Mr E lost his job and for up to 60 months if he had 
an accident or became  too ill to work.  And this wouldve  been  in addition  to his sick 
pay and pension. So I think the PPI gave Mr and Mrs E useful additional protection. 
And while Im sure Mr and Mrs Es parents  wouldve helped if they could, family help 
of this sort cant  always be guaranteed and isnt the same as having  an insurance  
policy to fall back on if things  get difficult.
The cost of the policy was shown on the loan agreement. So I think  Mr and Mrs E 
wouldve understood how much theyd need to pay for it. And I havent seen anything 
to make me think the cover was unaffordable  for them. 
As well as making sure the policy was right for Mr and Mrs E, Halifax also had to give them 
enough clear information  about  it so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its possible 
some of the information  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs E wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But 
for the reasons Ive given  above about why I think the policy was right for them,  I dont think 
clearer information (if it had been needed) wouldve stopped Mr and Mrs E buying  it. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs E have lost out because of anything Halifax may have  done  wrong,  
so theres nothing it needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 August 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9403735