K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about TSB Bank  plcs refusal  to give him the refund  he considers he is 
entitled to. 
background
In September  2018 Mr P hired a car while he was abroad. He used his credit card provided  
by a third party  who is not involved in this complaint,  to pay for the hire. But on collecting the 
car the car hire company made Mr P pay what it called a deposit,  it appears it took this 
payment in advance  by pre-authorising Mr Ps credit card with TSB. 
Mr P tells us that he was given contradictory  information by the car hire company about  
where to return the car. As a result, he did not know where he was required  to drop the car 
off. On this basis, Mr P phoned the car hire company for guidance,  he tells us, its 
representatives agreed to meet him at the airport for the handover.  He also tells us the car 
was handed over, on time, undamaged and with petrol  in the tank.  According  to Mr P the 
representatives indicated  to him that he had left the car in a satisfactory condition and 
nothing further  would  be charged. 
However, subsequently and much  to Mr Ps dissatisfaction, he was charged by the hire car 
company for damage to the car, returning it late, and returning it without a full tank of fuel. Mr 
P does  not accept  that he did any of this, quite the reverse. He suggests that by acting  as it 
has done the car hire company has committed fraud  and scammed  him. Moreover, Mr P 
points out that he did have car insurance  that would have paid out if he had damaged the 
car. He took out this insurance  before his trip and he suggests that the car hire company 
was rather put out, when  he declined  to take out insurance with it. Mr P has not claimed  on 
that insurance policy because his stance  is that he did not damage the car, and so he has no 
ability to make a valid claim.
At first Mr P contacted the car hire company but this got him nowhere. So instead he turned 
to TSB for help to get his money back.
TSB initially refunded  Mr P under a process  known  as chargeback.  But when the car hire 
company defended the chargeback claim TSB reversed  the refund. Mr P objects to this. In 
addition, he also suggests that TSBs customer service fell well below the standard he might 
reasonably expect to receive. TSB has offered  him £300 in total to make  up for the level of 
customer serviced he received which it accepts  was not good  enough.  However, Mr P does 
not think this is sufficient compensation for the emotional  distress  experienced by both him 
and his partner.
TSB suggests it has gone as far as it can go. The chargeback was defended and under the 
terms of the chargeback scheme, which it is obliged to follow,  it considers there is nothing 
more it can do using  this route, in the circumstances. 
Moreover, TSB does  not agree with Mr Ps characterisation of the car hirers actions 
amounting to fraud or a scam. Rather it points out that Mr P gave the car hire company his 
card details for it to carry out the pre-authorisation,  it did not obtain them  by stealth. It added 
that if for example  he paid for hire car and it was a non-existent company when he arrived 
at his destination and as such  purchased goods that did not exist (i.e. never  was provided 
with a hire car) that would be a different situation and would be considered fraud.   However,  
this is not the case in this instance.  
Ref: DRN97028712TSB also indicated that a pre-authorisation is a guaranteed form of payment so it would not 
have been able to put a stop on the payment in any event.
Further, TSB remains of the view that the £300 it has offered for its customer  service  
shortcomings is enough. 
Dissatisfied Mr P came to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ps complaint. She concluded that TSB had acted  
fairly, and she didnt recommend taking any further  action.  She came  to this conclusion  
because the chargeback had been carried out properly in her view. 
Also, our investigator looked  at whether  Mr P might be able to ask TSB to use the provisions 
of Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (Section 75) to help him with this complaint. 
But she came  to the view that this was not possible because the way Mr Ps contract had 
been set up with the car hire company meant that Section  75 did not apply. 
Our investigator recognised that Mr P views the car hire companys actions as fraud. But our 
investigator was more persuaded by TSBs stance on that point. 
Lastly our investigator agreed  that TSBs customer service hadnt been  up to par but she 
also agreed that TSBs offer of £300 was enough. 
It seems  TSB accepted our investigators  recommendation, but Mr P did not. Mr P reiterates 
the points he made  previously. Mr P asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at his 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where there is a dispute about what happened  (as is the case  in part, in this complaint), I 
have based my decision on the balance  of probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the evidence.
chargeback
I took a look at the chargeback first because if this had succeeded Mr P would have got all of 
his money back and thats the main thing  that Mr P is asking TSB for. 
Ref: DRN97028713The chargeback process  allows credit  card users to ask for a transaction  to be reversed if 
there's a problem  with goods or services paid for. There's no automatic right to a 
chargeback, nor is chargeback a guaranteed  method of getting a refund. There are rules  for 
chargebacks. These rules  are not set by TSB, but TSB must  follow  these rules and it has no 
leeway to alter them  or discretion to apply  the rules differently. If I am to order TSB to refund 
all or part of the payment the car hire company took, I must be satisfied that TSB acted  
incorrectly in the way it made a chargeback claim under the chargeback regulations. 
Ive looked at how TSB behaved in relation to the chargeback. Ive concluded that it followed 
the process correctly.  Under the rules  it could have taken things further after the car hire 
company defended its actions. Even  if TSB had pushed on and taken the chargeback further 
it is unlikely that it would have succeeded. I say this because the car hire companys stance 
is that Mr P did breach  the contract  and it is entitled  to charge for this. Mr P does not appear 
to dispute that the contract contained  clauses about  charging for returning the car late, 
damaged and without a full tank of fuel. Instead he is indicating thats irrelevant because 
none of this happened. 
By the by however,  I dont  know  how TSB could have known what  the contract said as all I 
have seen is a copy of the contract  in Italian.  Moreover, the text in the copy  is so unclear  that 
our service  could not get professional translators to translate it. However, as I have already 
said the provisions  of the contract do not appear  to be in dispute. 
For all of these reasons, in the circumstances the suppliers defence would most likely have 
defeated any further chargeback attempt. 
Section 75
Mr P paid the supplier  using his credit card because of this he might have had the protection  
provided by Section 75. On that basis Ive looked  at this point too.
Before I go any further with this I think its important to set out my role here in relation  to this 
part of Mr Ps complaint.  In considering  a complaint about a financial services provider, Im 
not determining  the outcome of a claim that a party might have under Section 75. Rather, in 
deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Ps complaint, I have to take relevant law into 
account. Section  75 is relevant law, therefore  Ive taken Section 75 into account. But that 
doesnt mean Im obliged  to reach  the same outcome  as, for example, a court might reach if 
Mr P pursued a claim  for misrepresentation or breach of contract. This service  is an 
alternative to the courts.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr P has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier he can also bring that claim  against TSB provided certain 
conditions are met. 
One of these conditions is that there  must be a very specific relationship  in place  that is a 
valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. For Mr P to be able to rely on Section 75, he has 
to be the debtor, TSB has to be the creditor and the money had to have gone to the car hire 
company as the supplier.  The difficulty for Mr P is that there is no valid debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship here. I say this because the supplier was one company the company 
that took his money was another. I dont  doubt  that this arrangement  was a nasty surprise  to 
Mr P, as far as he was aware  his payment  went to the supplier. But his credit  card statement 
does not show  this. Rather it shows it went to the third party.  We have probed to find out 
what is the nature of the relationship between the supplier and the third party. We have  done  
Ref: DRN97028714this because if there is a close  enough relationship  between the supplier and the third party  
(known as an associate relationship)  we could treat the payment to the third party as if it 
went directly to the supplier. And this, in turn, would mean there  was a valid debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship. 
But although  we looked at this point, our investigation has not shown that the relationship 
between the supplier and the third party was close enough for us to say the relevant parties 
are associates. I realise that this is a very technical argument and Mr P may be, very 
understandably, frustrated  that his complaint falls down on such a technical point. But the 
provisions of Section  75 are technical,  and I have  no fair and reasonable basis here to 
disregard the requirements of Section 75.
Ill make  this observation  Mr P has acted honourably it appears.  Based on the information  he 
has sent us he had insurance  that would, on the face of it, have covered him for the damage  
to the car. If he had claimed on his insurance,  he would not now be so out of pocket. But he, 
correctly, has refused to make a claim on that insurance because  he does not accept that he 
did cause any damage. His actions are certainly  those of a person who is certain  he did not 
cause damage.
distress and inconvenience
I can well understand  that both Mr P and his partner  experienced distress  and 
inconvenience. But Mr P is the only eligible complainant in this complaint under  the rules  that 
govern our service, which I must  follow. So, I can make no award for Mr Ps partner  which is 
something he has asked  us to look at. 
TSB accepts it let Mr P down on occasion with the level of customer  service  it provided, it 
accepts that it for example was not always easy to contact, did not always keep Mr P 
updated and did not always contact him when it said it would. In addition,  Mr P talks about 
having the phone put down on him amongst other things. 
Its clear that TSB did not give Mr P the level of customer service he is entitled to expect. 
That said it has offered  £300 in total to make  up for this and when I look at what went on, I 
think this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. It follows I have  no proper basis to 
say TSB must pay more.
I can also well understand if Mr P feels short changed here.  He thinks  the car hire company 
has committed fraud. Fraud is a criminal  matter  and this service  has no power  to make 
findings about criminal  matters. He also indicates that he thinks  he has been the victim of a 
scam because he suggests  the car hire company took money from him for something  he 
says did not happen. But I have explained  above why I cant fairly and reasonably  ask TSB 
to do anything more  to help him. So, whilst  I appreciate  Mr P may well be disappointed with 
my decision,  and thats not my intention,  far from it, I can do nothing further for him. He has 
gone as far as he can go with his complaint with us.
Finally, I apologise  to Mr P and to TSB for the length of time it has taken this service  to reach 
this point. I thank them  both for their patience.
Ref: DRN97028715my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2021.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9702871