K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont refund two disputed  transactions  
made from their TSB current  account.
background
Two Chip and PIN transactions (totalling £100) were made from Mr and Mrs As TSB current 
account in April 2018. The first transaction was made on 13 April 2018 (for £60) followed by 
a further transaction on 27 April 2018 (for £40). 
Mr A noticed  the transactions  when he was going  through his bank statements. He didnt 
recognise either of the transactions and so he reported  them  to TSB as fraudulent. Mr A was 
still in possession of his debit card at the time. 
Mr and Mrs A say they didnt make  either  of the transactions themselves - they havent  
shared their card with anyone,  it has been  in their possession  the whole time and no-one  
knows their PIN. Theyve also told us they werent  in the area where the transactions took 
place and have  never shopped in the store in question.  
Mr and Mrs A think the only way the transactions couldve taken place  is if their card had 
been cloned by a fraudster. And Mr A has provided  an article he found online, about  
fraudsters ability to clone  cards,  to support his testimony. 
TSB decided  not to refund the disputed  transactions. It thought  it most likely Mr and 
Mrs A had authorised  the transactions themselves because:
Mr and Mrs As genuine  card had been used  alongside their correct PIN.
Mr and Mrs A confirmed the card had been  in their possession  during the period the 
transactions took place  and was still in their possession at the time the fraud was 
reported. 
There was no plausible explanation as to how Mr and Mrs As PIN had been  
compromised  Mr A had been very clear  that he had not disclosed his PIN to anyone 
else. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt  agree with TSBs  decision and they asked  us to investigate.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should  be upheld. In summary, she felt unable to 
conclude that the transactions had been made  fraudulently  and she was persuaded they 
were most likely made and authorised by Mr and Mrs A.
Mr A responded to say he didnt  agree.  He said TSB had told him the transactions had 
taken place at times  that werent possible. He felt TSB couldnt have completed a thorough  
investigation into the transactions without knowing when they had taken place. Mr A also 
highlighted that hed not been sent any evidence  that his genuine card and PIN had been  
presented. And he pointed out that there  would have  been no reason for him to cancel his 
card, and leave  himself  without a bank card for five days, had the transactions been  
genuine. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN91266002my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall  conclusions as our investigator previously set out - 
and for much the same  reasons.
Generally, TSB can hold Mr and Mrs A liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that they made  or authorised them  themselves.
Im satisfied from the technical  evidence provided  by both TSB and VISA  that Mr and 
Mrs As genuine card and PIN were used to make the disputed  transactions   not a cloned 
card. The electronic records  show me that the chip in the card was read and the 
transactions were  authorised using the agreed process  which, as the transactions  took 
place in the UK, I am satisfied was the entry of the customers PIN. Because  of this, Im 
satisfied Mr and Mrs As genuine card and PIN were  used to authenticate the transactions. 
But the regulations relevant to this case say that this is not, on its own,  enough to enable 
TSB to hold Mr and Mrs A liable for the transactions. So I also need  to think  about whether  
the evidence suggests that its more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs A consented  to the 
withdrawals being  made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for TSB to conclude that Mr and Mrs A 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
I acknowledge that there is a widespread  belief   partly because of media  reports   
that chip cards can be cloned. In fact, there  is no consensus among banking  experts,  
or scientists who have looked  into this area, that this type of cloning is even possible, 
let alone widespread. 
Cloning a chip card and PIN would  be very difficult  and time-consuming.  A fraudster 
would need access  to Mr and Mrs As card for a number of days. But Mr A was still in 
possession of his genuine card at the time he reported the fraud and he doesnt 
remember it going missing at any point prior to the transactions taking  place. Ive also 
looked at Mr As account statements from the time, and I can see Mr A was using his 
card on a daily basis. And so it doesnt  appear that the card was out of Mr As 
possession for any significant  period of time. 
I also dont think the transactions fit the pattern of a fraudster  who had access  to 
Mr As card and PIN. Mr and Mrs A had around  £2,500 available  in their account  at 
the time the first transaction took place - on 13 April 2018. But only one transaction  
amounting to £60 leaves  Mr and Mrs As account. The next transaction  takes place 
two weeks later and is for £40. At this point, there  is around  £3,500 available in Mr 
and Mrs As account. 
A fraudster  will generally remove all available  funds, over the shortest possible 
timeframe, to maximise their gain before the fraud  is identified and reported. But in 
this case, only two relatively  small transactions leave the account over a two week  
period. The rest of the available funds  remain  untouched. And Im not persuaded that 
Ref: DRN91266003a fraudster wouldve  chosen to leave a significant  balance on the account  there  
would have been no benefit to them in doing  so.
Mr A was still in possession of his genuine  card at the time he reported the fraud.  
And I can see from Mr and Mrs As account  statements  that he is using  it on a near 
daily basis during  the two week  period between the two disputed  transactions taking 
place. Mr A himself has confirmed he was in possession of the card during this time 
and no-one else has access  to it. And so there  isnt a convincing explanation as to 
how a fraudster couldve got hold of Mr As genuine card and PIN and returned it to 
him without him realising - on more than one occasion. Im not persuaded that a 
fraudster who has access to both Mr As card and PIN would bother to return  the 
card to Mr A, having not fully utilised all the funds in the account.  
The only other plausible scenario,  other than that Mr A authorised the transactions 
himself, is that someone close  to Mr A, who had regular access  to his card,  could 
have made the transactions without  Mr A knowing. This could explain why the 
transaction amounts were so low  this type of opportunistic fraudster is more likely 
to want to remain undetected. But again,  based on the evidence  Ive seen, I cannot 
conclude this is the most  likely scenario. The transactions were made using Mr As 
genuine PIN, and by Mr As own admission, he hadnt told anyone his PIN. And it 
wouldnt have been possible  for someone to simply guess  Mr As PIN in order  to 
complete the transactions.  And so there is no plausible explanation as to how 
someone, other than Mr A, wouldve been able to enter  the correct PIN on multiple 
occasions.
Ive also compared  the genuine  account activity on Mr As account statements during 
the period the disputed transactions took place with the activity that took place before 
the transactions. This is to see if the activity on the card indicates it is being used by 
someone other than Mr A. And Ive looked to see if there are any differences in the 
account usage during this time to indicate  that the card was in the hands  of someone 
other than Mr A. However, the pattern of activity  is generally the same  as Mr As.
I know Mr A has some  real concerns about the transaction times he has been provided  with 
by TSB. And it seems clear that TSB did get the timings of the transactions  wrong   on 
more than one occasion. I dont know why TSB got the transactions times wrong. It could be 
that they appeared incorrectly because of TSBs  IT glitch. But I cannot say for certain.  And 
regardless, I dont  think it makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint. VISA  has 
provided the exact timings of the transactions and these are the timings  used by TSB to 
complete their investigation. Im satisfied based on the technical  evidence Ive seen that 
these timings are correct. 
I can also see the time and effort that Mr and Mrs A have put into making this complaint. 
And I want to stress that I dont doubt  what Mr A has told us. But, given the evidence  I have 
available to me, I cannot fairly say it is more  likely  than not that he didnt authorise the 
transactions himself.  I also dont  know why Mr A would go to the trouble of ordering a new 
card if the transactions werent carried  out by him. But based on the evidence  Ive seen, I 
think its equally likely that Mr A made  the transactions and forgot about them, rather than 
he didnt make them himself in the first place. 
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance,  that Mr A authorised  the disputed  
transactions. It follows that TSB Bank plc is entitled to hold him liable for them.
Ref: DRN91266004my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9126600