K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that the Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) wont meet all her claim for damage  and 
things lost during  a burglary.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2019. A copy is attached and 
forms part of this decision.
In that I said I was minded to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and order Lloyds to reconsider her 
claim for damage caused  during  a burglary and also for items stolen at the same time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B says she accepts my provisional  decision.
Lloyds asked for clarification about what I meant  when I said Mrs B was legally responsible  
for items kept at or left at her home.  It says it asks this because  the claim is for items Mrs Bs 
son brought with him when visiting and it doesnt know  if legally  responsible would include 
those items.  
The claim, from the evidence Ive seen,  covers things belonging to Mrs B and her son or 
sons not just items brought  into the home by one of her sons.  I see no reason why Lloyds 
cant reconsider the claim, taking into account any other relevant terms and conditions  that 
might apply. 
Based on the above I see no reason to change my provisional  decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. The Society of Lloyds must now reconsider 
Mrs Bs claim for repairs to her door and new locks,  and her claim for items stolen in the 
burglary in accordance with any remaining policy terms and conditions.
The Society of Lloyds must also pay Mrs B £500 for the way its dealt with this claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN97248832Copy of provisional  decision issued  January 2019
complaint
Mrs B complains that the Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) wont meet all her claim  for damage and things 
lost during a burglary.
background
Mrs B was burgled in late 2016.  Thieves broke into her home and stole  thousands of pounds  worth of 
items whilst she and her sons  were  asleep, including  Christmas presents. Some of the items 
belonged to one of her sons.
Lloyds said it wouldnt pay for items belonging  to Mrs Bs son (Mr K) as he wasnt a permanent 
resident in the UK and was only visiting  at the time. Mrs B objected  to that but Lloyds  wouldnt 
change its mind.
Lloyds also said it would only pay for lock repairs to damaged patio doors. Mrs B says the repairs  
needed are much  more extensive as the doors no longer function properly. Lloyds says some of the 
damage is wear and tear  so for instance some of the sills are rotting  and Mrs Bs policy doesnt 
cover that. Mrs B doesnt think thats fair.
Mrs B also says its now nearly  two years since  she was burgled and the stress has made  her ill. 
She says  amongst  other things  that Lloyds keeps asking for information shes already sent and 
doesnt progress  her claim.
Our investigator thought some of Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld.  He suggested Lloyds paid 
Mrs B £500 for the delays and the way it had handled the claim. And he said Lloyds should pay just 
under £200 for new locks  on the patio doors  but not for other repairs to these. He didnt  think Mr K 
was a permanent resident at the address so agreed with Lloyds that it didnt have to pay for items 
belonging to him.
Lloyds agreed with this view. Mrs B doesnt think the compensation is high enough, and wants 
Lloyds to pay for the patio doors in full and her sons belongings as she says he is a permanent 
resident.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
There are several parts  to Mrs Bs complaint. Ill deal with them  each separately.
It might help if I first explain that both Mrs B and Lloyds have  made  several attempts  to get hold of a 
copy of the police  report relating to this burglary. That hasnt been successful, so Im writing this 
provisional decision  without  the benefit of the report.
Mrs B has agreed to that in order to avoid any more delay.  Having said that, she says the report says 
she was burgled and the thieves got in through her patio doors. Lloyds hasnt disputed  either of these  
points, so I dont think the lack of the report will affect  my decision.
patio doors
For clarity, these are the four large folding doors shown in the photos  taken of Mrs Bs house. Theyre 
at the back of the property  and are wooden doors with glass panes that appear to be hinged so all 
four can be opened, although the lock is on the two centre doors. Mrs B says shes been told by 
various contractors  that she needs to have all four doors replaced at a cost of about £2,239.
Ref: DRN97248833Lloyds sent someone out to assess  the claim  in February 2017. The report produced says that its 
likely the lock was forced with a screwdriver, and that there  was some limited damage to the door. Ive 
looked at the photos provided  and there does seem to be some, relatively minor, damage to the door 
frame by the lock.
A later visit by a contractor  suggests there  was no damage, and that the lock should be replaced. 
There arent any photos to support that.
Im currently  inclined to take the first report as the more accurate one  it has photos and it was 
completed not long after the burglary.
Lloyds said it would pay for the lock to be replaced  and upgraded, as the existing one didnt comply 
with current security standards. It offered just under  £200 for that. Mrs B didnt think  that was enough, 
but shes  only provided a quote for replacing the doors. Theres  no independent evidence that they 
were extensively damaged  by the thief or thieves. The photos I have seen show that they werent in 
the best condition before the burglary,  and Mrs Bs policy doesnt  cover wear  and tear thats built up 
over the years. Its possible that forcing the lock was the last straw and the doors wont  now work 
properly. But Im not currently persuaded the damage seen  in the photos  was enough by itself to be 
the only  or even the main  reason the doors no longer open properly.
I currently think Lloyds should pay for the new lock as it suggested  and for any minor  damage around 
the lock.
door locks
Mrs Bs sent us a quote  to replace four locks  two on the patio doors and two on the kitchen doors. 
The quote is for much  higher  security locks than were in place on the patio doors. I wouldnt expect 
Lloyds to pay for more  locks  than were originally in place. Id expect  it to replace the locks with similar 
ones, so long as they meet industry standards. It seems  to me thats what Lloyds offered to do on the 
patio doors.
Mrs B says the key to her kitchen door was stolen along with keys to the window locks.  She says she 
hasnt been able to use the door properly  since the burglary.
Lloyds hasnt  said anything  about this, and it wasnt mentioned in the first report  it got. I suggest  it 
considers this part of Mrs Bs claim. If it accepts this part of the claim  then Id expect it to replace the 
locks and/or keys with ones of a similar standard.
I have noted some contradictory notes on the insurers file  its been  suggested some locks have 
been changed  already.  Other notes say nothings had been done.  Id ask both parties  to confirm  
whats been done to date.
stolen items
The policy Mrs B has mainly  covers stolen items that belong to her family. The definition of family 
says, in summary, that this means relatives permanently resident at the address. Theres been some 
debate about whether  Mr K is permanently resident  it appears he works  in the US and visits  the UK 
several times a year.
Lloyds says Mr K isnt on the electoral roll  but that in itself isnt enough to persuade me hes not 
permanently resident,  as registration isnt compulsory. But neither does Mrs Bs statement that Mr K 
has a UK bank account  registered at the address, has a National Insurance  number and is registered  
with a local GP. All of those things would indicate he lived in the UK at one point,  or even that he 
plans to return  at some time in the future.  But he may not live here all the time now.
Ref: DRN97248834Mrs B says her son was a student  in the US but returned home  regularly. Her policy would  likely cover 
his possessions in those circumstances. Mrs B has been unable to tell us when her son completed his 
studies, other than it was some time ago. I understand hes in his early thirties, so it might be up to ten 
years since hes been a student.
Mrs B says Mr K now works in the US, although hes employed by a UK based  company. She says he 
visits regularly for a few weeks at a time. She told Lloyds  his visit in December 2016 was work 
related, including  getting  a work visa for the US. From the photos  Ive seen it seems he was 
combining that with a visit home for Christmas.
I dont currently think Mrs Bs given us enough evidence  to show Mr K does live with her permanently. 
He may be entitled to live in the UK as a UK citizen  but thats not the same as being  here 
permanently.
Having said that, Mrs Bs policy covers her for items stolen from her home which  she either  owns 
herself or for which shes legally responsible. I think that in the context  of an insurance  policy 
arranged for a consumer, it is reasonable to give the words legally  responsible the meaning  that an 
ordinary consumer would  attribute to them.  I consider that a consumer  would reasonably believe that 
they are responsible for contents in their home  that they are holding or looking after for others. This 
being the case, my current view is that this element of the policy wording  would cover stolen items 
owned by Mrs Bs children  that were kept at or left at her home. So I currently think Lloyds should 
reconsider Mrs Bs claim  including  items she was legally responsible for.
evidence of ownership
Mrs B says shes provided all the evidence  shes been  asked for to show either  she or her son own 
the stolen items. Ive only seen a couple of receipts and a few photos. Thats from a list of nearly 50 
items. I can see Mrs B sent Lloyds  some attachments  to an email a while ago, which appear to be 
photos. I dont know if they are the ones Ive already  seen  or different ones. If either Lloyds  or Mrs B 
has more evidence Id ask that its sent to us when  they respond  to this provisional decision.
delays
I can see that this claim has taken a long time. Although I think Lloyds has caused  some of this, and 
hasnt responded to Mrs B as it should, I can also see there were some  occasions when it was trying  
to arrange things  - like a phone call to progress  the claim   and Mrs B couldnt  make any of several 
suggested dates. Having looked at what both sides have said, I currently think the suggested £500 is 
a fair amount of compensation for the way Lloyds has handled the claim.  Lloyds said it would pay 
this amount.
my provisional  decision
Im currently  intending to uphold  this decision.  Im intending to ask the Society of Lloyds to reconsider  
Mrs Bs claim for repairs to her door and new locks, and her claim for items stolen in the burglary in 
accordance with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Im also intending asking it to pay £500 for the way its dealt with Mrs Bs claim.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9724883