K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2000. Mr B says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The PPI was sold during a meeting between Mr B and Halifax.  During that meeting Halifax 
shouldve made  Mr B aware  he had a choice in buying the policy.  Ive seen  a copy of the 
mortgage documents Mr B completed  at the time. The mortgage application asks applicants 
to select yes or no to taking the PPI and then sign separately from the mortgage. The yes 
box has been selected on Mr Bs form and hes signed in agreement. The PPI application 
form which shows Mr B was asked a series of questions  checking whether he were  eligible 
for the policy and also recorded his answers. I think this suggests that a discussion took 
place between Mr B and Halifax about mortgage PPI  and based on what  I know about  how 
Halifax sold policies like this at the time I think  its likely  the optional  nature wouldve been 
made clear.  
So overall I think its more  likely  Halifax made it clear to Mr B, he had a choice about the PPI 
and he agreed  to it.  
Halifax recommended  the policy to Mr B. So it had to check  it was right for him. Looking at 
Mr Bs circumstances, seem to have had a need for the cover.  And he wasnt  affected by 
any of the exclusions  or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mr B says he would  have received sick pay benefits  from his employer. But the policy  
wouldve paid out alongside his employee benefits  and wouldve also covered him if he was 
made redundant. It doesnt look like he had any other means  such as savings  that he 
could have relied upon if he lost his job. So it seems he had a need for the policy. Mr B was 
borrowing funds against a large  and long term financial commitment, which  was secured on 
his home.  So I think  having  the security that his mortgage repayments would be made  if Mr 
B was unable to work would have been  important to him.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Halifax gave 
Mr B about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Mr B chose to take out the PPI - 
so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And  for the reasons Ive explained above - it 
looks like the policy would  have  been useful for him if something went wrong. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable for him. So I dont think  better  information  about 
the PPI would have put Mr B off taking  out the cover.
Overall, I dont  think Mr B has lost out by anything Halifax  might  have done wrong. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN97652882For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9765288