K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays)  mis-sold  him a fee-paying 
Premier Life account in April 2011.
Mr A says that he only agreed to the account  because Barclays  told him it would improve his 
credit score. 
background
Mr As account had been a student or graduate account since  2002.  Mr A held a fee-paying  
Graduate Additions account since 2006  until it was changed to being a Premier  Life account 
in April 2011.
Barclays withdrew the Premier Life account, so transferred  all account  holders, including 
Mr A, on to a fee-free account with fee-paying Home, Tech and Travel Plus packs  added  in 
November 2015.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and didnt think  that Barclays  had mis-sold 
the account to Mr A. Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
Mr A has said that hes not complaining about  the accounts he was sold before the Premier 
Life account. So I will only consider if the Premier life account was mis-sold in this decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr As complaint.
I think it will be helpful to explain that where evidence is incomplete  and matters  are in 
dispute, as they are here, I make  my decision based on what  I think  is most  likely to have 
happened  keeping in mind everything Ive seen and been told by both parties. And having 
weighed everything  up, I dont  think Barclays mis-sold  the Premier Life account. 
Barclays says that it sold the Premier Life account on a non-advised basis.  This means it 
wouldve set out what the key benefits of the account were,  including the important terms 
and exclusions,  and then it wouldve been up to Mr A to decide  whether or not to upgrade. 
Mr A says that a detailed  discussion  took place and it was recommended  to him as it would 
improve his credit score. Mr A also referred to a letter that was signed by him on the day of 
the sale. However, based on what  Mr A and Barclays have said,  and having looked at the 
letter Mr A referred to, Im not persuaded that the account was sold on an advised basis.  For 
example, the letter  doesnt suggest that an assessment of Mr As circumstances took place 
or that the Premier Life account was recommended to him as it met his needs. And Mr As 
recollections suggest that during the sale hed only discussed his ability  to borrow  money.
This means  Barclays didnt have  to check if it was right for him. But it was still required to 
give him important information about the account and the associated benefits, in a non-
misleading way.
Ref: DRN97981172Mr A says that he was told that agreeing to the account would improve  his credit score, 
when in fact, having  a more expensive packaged bank account wouldnt necessarily improve  
an account holders  credit score - as a credit  score is based  on a wide range of factors. Mr A 
says that at the time, hed recently applied for a mortgage and had been rejected by high 
street lenders and had to take out a mortgage with a specialist lender at a higher than 
average interest rate.
Ive carefully considered  what Mr A has said. And Ive taken into account  the mortgage  offer 
letter that hes provided.  But there  is not enough for me to be persuaded that Barclays mis-
led Mr A into taking  out the account  in order to improve his credit rating. Let me explain why.
Mr A had held a packaged  bank account for a number of years prior to the Premier Life 
account, and apparently  had a credit score  that was lower than what he wanted. So I find it 
unlikely that Mr A wouldve thought agreeing to a more expensive packaged account 
wouldve  had any more  (if any) of a positive impact on his credit score than the account he 
already had. And the Premier Life account  cost £25 a month  which was £18 more per 
month than what he was paying  for the Graduate Additions account. And based on what 
Mr A has said, Im not persuaded  he agreed to pay £18 more per month,  and continued to 
do so for many  years, just to improve his credit score.  So I think its more  likely that Mr A 
agreed to it because he was attracted by the benefits it provided.
In April 2011 the Premier  Life account  provided  a £1,000 interest  free overdraft facility, 
worldwide travel insurance, UK and European  breakdown cover,  mobile phone  insurance, 
home emergency cover, extended  warranty and gadget cover  alongside  a range of other 
benefits. 
Conversely, the Graduate Additions  account provided mobile phone insurance, breakdown 
cover and card holder  protection, alongside a reducing interest free overdraft benefit. And 
given how long Mr A had held the account, the fee-free  overdraft amount wouldve  been 
reduced (or due to reduce) to £200 - although  it did provide a preferential interest rates  on 
balances overdrawn by more than that amount. 
So looking  at Mr As circumstances  at the time, I can see that he was heavily  using his 
overdraft, was occasionally  travelling,  had a mobile phone, had recently purchased a 
property (so couldve  potentially made use of the home emergency cover) and drove. So I 
think its likely that Mr A was able to make  use of many, but not necessarily all, of the 
Premier Life benefits in addition to the benefits of the Graduate  Additions account. 
Therefore, I think its likely that Barclays gave Mr A some information about  the account  
benefits during  the sale, and it was those  benefits that in all likelihood  attracted Mr A to the 
account. And although I accept its possible that Barclays didnt give Mr A all of the 
information it shouldve  about all of the other  benefits the account came with, Ive not seen 
anything about  his circumstances that makes me think he wouldve been  put off from 
agreeing to the account, had he been  given more information about it.
I appreciate that with the benefit  of hindsight, Mr A may now think  that that Premier Life has 
been poor value  for money.  But that in itself doesnt mean that the account was mis-sold. 
And so, taking everything into account, I dont think its likely that Barclays mis-sold the 
Premier Life account to Mr A. As such, I dont think it would be appropriate to require 
Barclays to refund the account fees that Mr A has paid for the Premier Life account.
Ref: DRN97981173I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment  to Mr A. But I hope  I have  been  able to 
explain why I dont  think the Premier Life account  was mis-sold.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9798117