K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that an appointed representative  of BIA Financial Planning  Ltd (BIA) failed 
to manage his pension and savings  investments in line with his agreed attitude to risk.
background
The advice given  to Mr W, and the ongoing  servicing of his investments, was provided by a 
firm that was an appointed representative of BIA. So although Mr W had no direct contact 
with BIA, it is that firm that is responsible for the matters that form this complaint. And for 
ease, I will generally refer to BIA throughout this decision, rather than the firm that provided 
the advice to Mr W.
Mr W held pension savings in a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and other savings 
invested through an Individual Savings Account  (ISA). In 2014 he was introduced to BIA by a 
friend, and existing client of BIA, as he was unhappy with the service he was receiving from 
his existing financial adviser. The advice Mr W subsequently received also at times dealt 
with ISA investments  held by his wife, who was present at some of the meetings. But this 
complaint only relates to the investments held by Mr W and so I will make no further 
comments, or any findings,  about the investments  held by Mrs W.
In its initial  meeting with Mr W, BIA discussed his attitude to risk. In the meeting minutes that 
attitude to risk was recorded as somewhere between low to medium  and medium. BIA said 
that any advice  on investments  it provided to Mr W would be based on this attitude to risk.
BIA recommended that Mr W move his SIPP and ISA investments to a new provider. And it 
recommended that those  investments should  be managed on an advisory  basis by a firm 
I will call H. That firm would be responsible for implementing investment strategies based on 
the risk profile suggested by BIA. Mr Ws investments moved to the new provider in 
late 2014. 
Shortly afterwards BIA met again with Mr W. At that meeting it conducted a more formal  
assessment of his attitude to risk. That assessment determined that Mr W should  be 
categorised as having a high attitude  to risk. And it appears that categorisation hasnt been 
altered over the time that he has been  advised  by the firm. But Mr Ws SIPP and ISA 
investments remained  invested  on the basis of him having a medium  risk profile.  I can see 
that this discrepancy  was noted in minutes of meetings  held between  Mr W and his adviser 
over the years.
In August  2017  Mr Ws adviser  left the employment of BIA. So a new adviser was appointed 
who met with Mr W in November 2017. At that meeting she identified  Mr Ws funds were 
being invested at the lower risk profile.  And those meeting notes record  that Mr W was livid 
when this was explained to him. So she arranged for changes to be made to Mr Ws 
investments to reflect the correct, higher, risk profile.  Also at that time Mr W moved  to a new 
discretionary fund management  service, although his investments were  still managed  and 
directed by BIA.
Mr W complained  to BIA about its failure  to direct  that his funds were  invested in line with his 
high attitude to risk. BIA didnt agree  with that complaint,  saying that it had recorded 
conflicting information about Mr Ws attitude  to risk over the years.  And it says the 
differences in investment risk were discussed  and agreed with Mr W over the years in the 
annual review meetings.  But BIA did later agree that there had been a lack of active 
Ref: DRN94511652management of Mr Ws investments. So, although it didnt think this had caused  any direct  
financial loss, it refunded all the fees it had been paid by Mr W in 2016 and 2017 amounting 
to £8,176.53.
Mr W didnt think  that BIAs  response had fairly answered his complaint so he brought it to 
this Service. The complaint has been  assessed  by one of our adjudicators.  He didnt think  
that BIA had acted  appropriately, and there was little to explain why it had recommended 
that Mr Ws funds  were  invested in line with the lower risk profile.  So he thought the 
complaint should  be upheld  and asked BIA to pay Mr W some compensation.
BIA didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If 
Mr W accepts  my decision it is legally binding on both parties.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Mr W and by BIA. Where  the evidence is unclear, or there  are conflicts,  I have made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what 
evidence we do have,  and the surrounding  circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
I dont think there is any disagreement  that Mr Ws savings have been invested  in line with a 
medium risk profile. And it doesnt seem to me that Mr W is complaining  about  the initial 
advice he received to move his SIPP and ISA to the new provider. The matter  I need to 
decide here is what assessment BIA should reasonably have made  of Mr Ws attitude to risk, 
and if that were higher than medium, whether it was appropriate for it to recommend his 
funds be invested  in line with a lower  risk.
When Mr W first discussed his investments  BIA recorded that his attitude to risk was 
somewhere between low to medium and medium. But it isnt clear on what  basis  it reached 
that conclusion.  It might  be that it had looked at the investments that formed Mr Ws portfolio  
at that time. Or it might  have had an informal discussion with Mr W. And BIA based its initial 
advice to Mr W on that attitude to risk.
I dont think that was an appropriate course  of action. BIA had already recorded that Mr W 
had stated that his knowledge and experience of investment markets was limited  and that he 
wouldnt be confident  making investment decisions without guidance. So I think  any 
self-assessment of attitude to risk by Mr W would be liable to error.  And since  Mr W had 
already told BIA that he was unhappy  with the investment performance generated by his 
previous adviser  I dont  think any analysis of those investments could reasonably  be used to 
Ref: DRN94511653derive a fair risk profile. So whilst Mr W might have been aware of the categorisation BIA 
placed on him, I cannot fairly conclude that he would have been sufficiently knowledgeable 
to challenge that assessment.
Later in 2014  Mr W completed a more formal attitude to risk questionnaire. BIA confirmed to 
Mr W that exercise resulted in his attitude to risk being graded as high.  But shortly 
afterwards it made a recommendation to Mr W, for the investment  of some further monies, 
that was based on the previous, lower, risk rating. Although the letter  did note that differed 
from the more recent assessment and suggested  a further meeting to review Mr Ws risk 
appetite in more detail.
I havent seen  anything that makes  me think Mr W disagreed with the outcome of the risk 
profiling exercise. And if fact his response, as recorded by BIA in 2017, when he was told 
that the lower  risk had been used,  would suggest to me that he thought  the high  attitude  to 
risk was appropriate. From the information I have  seen,  Mr W had access to significant other 
funds that he could use to support his retirement and so it might  have been entirely  
appropriate for him to take a more aggressive investment strategy with these funds.
I acknowledge that BIA says Mr W was sent copies of the minutes  from each of the meetings 
that were held with his adviser. I havent  seen anything to make  me think these werent 
received by him. And in those minutes  there is generally a comment  that Mr W and his 
adviser had agreed  to leave his funds invested  at the lower risk profile. So, if the minutes are 
a fair reflection of the discussions that took place, I dont think I can fairly say that Mr W 
would have been entirely unaware of the investment decisions that BIA had taken.
But I think it is important to consider those meetings  in the light of what I said earlier about 
Mr Ws relative inexperience in investment matters. He would have been guided  by BIA on 
what was appropriate.  And I think it is fair to consider  each of those meetings as providing 
advice to Mr W on his investments  after all that was what he was paying BIA to do. 
I havent seen  any explanation why BIA considered it prudent to invest  Mr Ws funds 
contrary to the attitude to risk it had measured and agreed with Mr W in November 2014. So 
that would  naturally lead me to conclude that the advice it gave to Mr W was inappropriate.
As part of its initial discussions with Mr W. BIA noted that his investment objective was to 
achieve a growth  of 5% net of any fees and charges.  So that would require  Mr Ws 
investments to grow  at around 7% per annum. BIA confirmed that level of growth would be 
achievable. And given a high attitude  to risk I would  tend to agree that would be a 
reasonable conclusion. But I couldnt reach  the same conclusion should  Mr Ws funds have 
been invested with a lower risk profile.
BIA was responsible  for ensuring that Mr Ws funds were invested in line with his objectives 
and at a risk that was appropriate  for his stated attitude. And should it consider that those 
were not in Mr Ws best interest, based  on its professional assessment  of market conditions,  
I think it needed to fully and carefully  explain any revisions to Mr W to allow  him to make an 
informed decision on how to balance the competing  factors of risk and return. I cant  see that 
it did that, and so I must conclude the advice  it gave to Mr W fell short  of what I would 
expect. I believe that, had he been  given  appropriate information and advice, Mr W would 
have pursued a more  aggressive investment approach with both his SIPP and ISA 
investments. So I uphold his complaint and direct  BIA to pay him compensation.
Ref: DRN94511654putting things right
My aim is that Mr W should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
In this section I will deal with the redress payable on the SIPP  and the ISA savings 
separately.
I take the view that Mr W would have invested  differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what those investments would have been.  But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr W's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
SIPP redress
To compensate Mr W fairly, BIA must:
Compare the performance of Mr W's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, BIA should pay into Mr W's pension plan to increase its value by the 
total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should  allow  for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If BIA is unable to pay the total amount into Mr W's pension  plan,  it should  pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr W's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr W would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
SIPP still activeFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Growth  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of 
transfer to 
new risk 
profileEquivalent  to 
the growth of 
Mr Ws SIPP 
since  end 
date
Ref: DRN94511655Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if BIA totals  all those payments and deducts that figure  at the 
end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr W wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept a high level of investment risk.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors  Growth Index is made up of a range of indices with 
different asset classes, mainly  UK equities  and hedge funds. It would be a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take a high level of risk to get a higher 
return. 
Although it is called  growth index,  the mix and diversification provided  within  the index 
is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable  measure of comparison given 
Mr W's circumstances and risk attitude.
The additional interest reflects the fact that the additional growth  would have 
continued to be invested  after Mr W transferred  the rest of his SIPP funds to the 
correct, higher, risk profile.
ISA Redress
To compensate Mr W fairly, BIA must:
Compare the performance of Mr W's investment with that of the benchmark shown below 
and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation  is payable.
BIA should also compensate  for the additional  growth as set out below.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
ISA 
Savingsstill activeFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Growth  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of 
transfer to 
new risk 
profileEquivalent to the 
growth  of Mr Ws 
ISA savings 
since  end date
Ref: DRN94511656Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
BIA totals all those  payments and deducts  that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr W wanted capital growth and was willing to accept a high level of investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Growth Index is made up of a range of indices with 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities and hedge funds. It would be a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take a high level of risk to get a higher 
return. 
Although it is called growth index, the mix and diversification provided within the index 
is close enough to allow  me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given 
Mr W's circumstances  and risk attitude.
The additional interest reflects the fact that the additional growth would have  
continued to be invested after Mr W transferred  the rest of his SIPP funds to the 
correct, higher, risk profile.
Advisor fees
Given what I have said earlier about returning  Mr W to the position he would have  been  had 
the mistake not occurred,  I think that it is reasonable to conclude  that BIA would have 
charged its agreed advisor fees. But in response to Mr Ws complaint these fees have been 
refunded. I think it reasonable that BIA be entitled to deduct  the amount of that refund  from 
the compensation that is due to Mr W. These deductions should  be made against the SIPP  
and ISA separately, and in proportion to the funds invested in each.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct BIA Financial Planning Ltd to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Ref: DRN94511657In addition BIA Financial Planning Ltd should  pay a further sum of £200 to Mr W in respect of 
the trouble and upset this matter will have caused  to him, because of the likely disruption  to 
his financial planning.
BIA Financial Planning  Ltd should provide details of its calculation  to Mr W in a clear, simple  
format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9451165