K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plc. He isnt happy about  the way it settled a 
claim under his car insurance policy.
background
Mr R was involved in a very minor accident  while parked on a side road. He says that the 
other driver (third party) reversed into him while he was stationary in his car. But the other 
driver made  a claim and said that Mr R reversed into them.
AXA tried to defend  the claim but eventually  agreed a 50/50  settlement with the third partys 
solicitor. Mr R complained about this and AXA offered him £300 in acknowledgement  of the 
poor service and delays  that had occurred but it didnt change the split liability decision. So 
Mr R complained to this service. 
Our adjudicator looked into things for Mr R but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought that 
the £300 compensation was fair acknowledgement of the poor service and delay. But he 
didnt think that AXA had acted unreasonably  in settling the claim 50/50.
As Mr R didnt  agree the matter has been  passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can understand Mr Rs strength of feeling and frustration  here.  After  all he was in the car at 
the time of impact and knows full well what happened at the time of the incident. But AXA 
has to look at the evidence available and come to a conclusion about the possibility of 
defending the case.
AXA, in line with most insurers, has a term in its policy  that allows it to take over the 
settlement of the claim.  This term gives insurers the right to decide whether they take the 
other driver to court or look to settle  a claim. I can see that AXA has discussed the possibility 
of taking this case  to court with Mr R, but legal  proceedings are very costly,  time-consuming 
and outcomes can be uncertain. As such,  it often  doesnt make  sense commercially for 
insurers to take matters to court. And the courts want  insurers to act sensibly and not 
progress matters that they have little chance  of winning.
This service doesnt look to decide liability as this is a matter for the courts.  But we do look to 
ensure that insurers act fairly in deciding  whether  to settle or pursue the other side. I expect 
insurers to make a reasonable assessment of the available evidence  and the circumstances 
surrounding the incident.
I have carefully looked at how AXA has handled  this claim. And Im satisfied that it tried to 
defend Mr R. It looked to hold the other driver  at fault during  the early  stages  of the claim 
process. But it looked at the evidence again  when  the other sides  solicitor wouldnt  accept  
this and decided  that a 50/50 settlement was the best outcome it could achieve as it was, in 
effect, one word against another.
Ref: DRN94152412I know Mr R disputes the level of damage caused  and says that he wasnt  even  moving at 
the time of impact; he was just sitting in his car. Furthermore, he doesnt feel that any injury 
couldve been sustained. But he does accept that he felt a bump  at the time and it is possible 
that this could trigger minor injury - I note that some  medical evidence  was gained  from the 
third party so I can understand  why AXA accepted  this. And there was a suggestion of an 
independent witness  supporting the third party. 
As such,  I cant conclude  that AXA acted unreasonably. I say this as it thought that a split 
liability settlement (50/50) was the best it could  achieve  and it looked  to keep the costs to a 
minimum. So although I can understand Mr Rs stress here,  especially as he knows  what  
happened at the time,  and the impact this has had on his no claims discount which  in turn 
affects the cost of his premium. But I dont think AXA has acted unreasonably as it was left 
with one persons  word  against anothers.
Finally, I note that AXA has offered £300  compensation  to account for some of the delays  
and stress  caused  to Mr R. I know this doesnt  cover the level of stress  that Mr R has faced 
in dealing with what he feels  is a false claim which has affected him greatly. But it is fair 
compensation in relation to the poor service and delay that AXA caused.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9415241