K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Simplyhealth Access acted unfairly and unreasonably in refusing to 
refund three years worth  of premium  payments. He wants a full refund.
background
Mr H had a private dental insurance policy with Simplyhealth.  He said that he became 
homeless for about two years  after taking  out the policy, and hadnt realised that he was still 
paying for the policy for nearly  three  years. Mr H asked Simplyhealth  to refund three years 
of premiums, and it refunded £49. Mr H said this wasnt enough and didnt think  
Simplyhealth had made enough effort to contact him each year as he had been homeless 
and lost his phone.
Mr H complained to Simplyhealth. It said that Mr H joined in 2016  and was sent information 
about how to cancel the policy shortly  afterwards. Simplyhealth noted that it hadnt been 
updated about Mr Hs addresses, and sent letters  about the policy to the address that it had. 
It pointed out that while  covered, Mr H couldve accessed a range of dental treatments and 
services, and that the dental practice  involved had tried repeatedly to contact him to arrange  
check-ups. Simplyhealth said that the policy was cancelled in 2019 at the request of the 
practice due to Mr Hs non-attendance,  and the refund of £49 was a gesture of goodwill. The 
dental practice had refused to refund anything, despite Simplyhealth  asking it to consider 
doing so.
Mr H complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
She pointed  out that we could only look at the actions of the insurer,  not the dental practice. 
The investigator said the evidence available showed the letters  sent to Mr H werent returned 
so Simplyhealth couldnt have known that Mr H wasnt receiving them  or the change in his 
circumstances. She said Mr H hadnt shown he had paid the £3000 he claimed, and noted  
that the amount of the monthly premiums.  The investigator said the £49 refund was fair and 
reasonable, particularly as the dental  practice had refunded  to refund anything.
Mr H disagreed. He said the investigator ignored  the fact that he had been homeless, and 
felt Simplyhealth had discriminated  against him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate the difficulties of Mr Hs situation,  it is for the policyholder  to update  any 
insurer as to their contact details. Simplyhealth had no way to know that Mr H had become 
homeless, particularly as post wasnt being returned to it. Mr H himself accepts that he lost 
his phone and moved to a variety of locations. Simplyhealth wrote  to Mr H about the policy  
and its renewal, and the dental practice  tried to contact him; these are fair and reasonable 
actions. Mr H only signed up to the policy in April 2016, so its reasonable to think that he 
knew about the policy and he was paying for the rest of the first policy year at the very least. 
I also note that the dental practice has said Mr H responded  to some text messages  it sent 
about his non-attendance, so it seems  that there was some contact.
Ref: DRN99298102I note that the policy was cancelled at the dental practices request, not Mr Hs. This shows  
that the situation was being  kept under review, which is fair and reasonable. Simplyhealth  
cant require the dental practice refund the money,  which was paid in case Mr H wanted to 
access the dental services; it was his choice not to do so or change practice.
Theres no evidence supporting Mr Hs claim that hes paid £3,000.  If the policy had run for 
the full three  years  (which it didnt), the most Mr H couldve  paid was about £440.
Simplyhealth has refunded £49 as a gesture of goodwill. Given most of the premiums  were 
passed onto the dental practice and Simplyhealth hasnt done anything  wrong,  I think  that 
this is more than fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 18 January 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9929810