K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about the advice he received, or lack of advice, about the pension Taper 
Allowance, from Compass Financial Management  LLP (CFM).  He says that it didnt tell him 
that, because  of his earnings, his pension contribution  limit from 2016  was £10,000 before a 
pension annual allowance related charge would be applied. Mr C says he would have 
restricted his contributions to £10,000  a year if he had been told about  the taper.  
background
I issued a provisional decision on 28 January 2021. A copy is attached  and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I set why I was intending to uphold  the complaint.
Mr C responded and said that that he was happy  with the provisional decision and did not 
have any further  submissions.
I have not received any further submissions from CFM.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the complaint, my decision is that it should be upheld, for the reasons set 
out in the attached provisional  decision. 
 
fair compensation
I set out in the provisional decision my view as to how Mr C should  be compensated. 
Bearing in mind that I have not received any further  submissions, my view remains the 
same.
So CFM  should pay Mr C £16,675,  plus an additional £400 for the upset and inconvenience 
caused, plus the HMRC  late payment fee of £500  (unless this is included  in Mr Cs tax 
calculation). 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and order Compass  Financial  Management LLP to pay Mr C the 
compensation detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2021.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN93345372copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr C complains about the advice he received, or lack of advice, from Compass Financial 
Management LLP (CFM), about the pension  Taper Allowance applying to his pension contributions. 
He says that it didnt tell him that, because of his earnings, his pension contribution  limit from 2016  
was £10,000, before a pension  annual allowance related  charge  would be applied. Mr C says he 
would have restricted  his contributions to £10,000 a year if he had been told about the taper.   
background
CFM did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said that its adviser had failed to bring  the tapered  annual 
allowance for those who earned more  than £150,000 a year, to Mr Cs attention.  He had therefore  
overpaid by about £30,000  on two occasions.  This had resulted in an annual allowance charge and 
late payment  fee. However, it felt that Mr Cs company  tax auditors/personal  tax advisers should 
share some of the responsibility.   
CFM also said that it did not believe Mr C had suffered  a financial loss. This was because of the 
additional value the contributions  had added to his pension.   
Mr C referred his complaint to this service and it was considered  by an investigator. He thought the 
complaint should be upheld. He thought that the error  made by CFM had led to Mr C incurring a tax 
charge that he wouldnt  otherwise have incurred. He considered what  should  be done to put matters 
right.
He considered that Mr C was in essentially the same position he would otherwise have been in, 
because of the tax he would have had to pay on income  outside the pension.  The company would 
have had a larger corporation tax bill  but he did not believe that was something he could hold CFM  
liable for. 
However, considering that Mr C had to take out a directors  loan to pay the tax charge, he thought that 
CFM should pay the interest charged  on that loan. He also thought  that CFM should make a payment 
for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr C did not accept that he hadnt been caused a financial loss and provided  his calculations  as to 
why that was.  
CFM then said: 
It thought  Mr C had introduced another factor  into the complaint and queried whether  this was 
admissible. 
That Mr Cs accountants shared liability for the second excess contribution  as it should have 
notified him that the first was excessive.  
The investigator clarified that Mr C had not in his view introduced another factor  he had only 
disputed what redress should be awarded to put matters  right. He asked for clarification from CFM as 
to why it thought Mr C had introduced a new factor. CFM indicated the new factor  was Mr Cs 
calculation of loss in response to the investigators assessment. It also later reiterated that it thought  
Mr Cs accountants shared  some liability and stated that it believed  that Mr C no longer used these 
accountants. 
Ref: DRN93345373my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I note CFMs query about the admissibility of Mr Cs redress calculation. Mr C was merely submitting  
what the correct redress should be to resolve the complaint made  to CFM. This is not a new point of 
complaint and I can consider  his submissions in this respect. I would also confirm  that whether or not 
Mr C has retained  his accountants from the time the relevant pension  contributions were  made, is 
irrelevant to the outcome  of this complaint.
CFM has said that its adviser  did fail to notify  Mr C of the change in pension allowances  that led, 
because of his earnings, to an effective restriction of pension contributions to £10,000 without 
incurring an annual allowance  charge.  So this led to Mr C making contributions of a higher  level than 
he otherwise would have done. The issue therefore is what redress,  in any, should  CFM pay to put 
matters right. 
CFM has said that Mr Cs accountants should bear some  liability, but I dont agree. CFM was 
providing advice to Mr C as to what  level of pension contributions he could  make in a given tax year.  
CFM has said that its adviser  was aware of Mr Cs level of earnings and the new contribution regime 
from 2016.  So the CFM  adviser clearly should have told Mr C about  this. I do not believe  it was then 
incumbent on Mr Cs accountants to spot that error and his accountants were  not his financial 
advisers in respect of his pension. Given the nature of his accountants role, I do not believe  that any 
lack of action in identifying the new allowance limits affects or limits CFMs liability.  
I am persuaded by Mr Cs comments and the circumstances that it is more  likely  that he would have 
restricted his pension contributions to £10,000 a year. So I have gone on to consider  how Mr C should 
be fairly compensated.  
Mr C has submitted a calculation to show how he believes he has been disadvantaged. I currently believe 
Mr Cs approach is materially correct.  Mr C has, essentially, submitted  that the tax, or charge, he will now 
have to pay is higher than if he had taken  the excess money  over the £10,000 allowance as income  in the 
relevant tax years. I currently believe this is correct   mainly as Mr C will likely incur tax on most of the 
money when  he withdraws it in future from his pension, as well as having  to pay the annual  allowance 
charge. Mr Cs calculation was:
Gross Payment   -  £68,700  (amount above £10,000  allowance)
Less Employers NIC - £8,331
= £60,369
Less Tax (45%) - £27,166
Nic (2%) - £1,207
Net pay - £31,996
Situation created  by paying money to pension  scheme:
(Future) Tax Free Lump Sum - £17,175
Net pay on remainder (£51,525 X 45%) - £28,339
= £45,514
Less annual allowance charge £31,415
=£14,099
So the difference  between the employed  income  benefit amount and the pension  benefit is £17,897. This is 
the amount that Mr C calculates he is disadvantaged by as a result of CFMs  error. 
Ref: DRN93345374My view is this is correct apart from one issue. I dont believe it is likely that Mr C will pay tax on 
pension income at 45% in retirement. That would require a very high level of income to be taken  and I 
dont believe it is likely that an individual would  arrange their income so that they would pay tax at the 
45% rate. I think it is more likely that Mr C will pay tax at 40%. So I believe the loss is £16,675. 
It is my understanding  that Mr C took a directors loan to pay the annual allowance charge. But I am 
not currently  intending to make an award  for that as I am not currently persuaded  that this was 
necessary. However, I do believe  the matter  would  have caused Mr C upset and inconvenience. So I 
am intending to make an additional award  of £400 in that respect.
I also understand that Mr C had to pay a late payment  fee to HMRC of £500 in respect of the annual 
allowance. Unless that is included in Mr Cs tax calculation, I intend to award a further sum of £500 to 
him, as this fee would not likely have been incurred  but for CFMs error.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold the complaint  and make the award detailed  above.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9334537