K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Big Cars  Ltd (in administration) failed to meet its obligation to 
settle outstanding finance with a third party  finance provider when they part-exchanged their 
cars.
  
background 
Mr and Mrs W entered into an agreement with Big Cars, which  involved them part 
exchanging their existing cars for two new cars,  with Big Cars arranging finance for the 
balance. Based on the value of the part exchange, Mr and Mrs W would end up still owing 
money to their previous finance provider, P. Big Cars agreed  that as part of the 
arrangements, it would ensure the balances  owed to P were repaid.
However, Mr and Mrs W later received correspondence from P indicating  their balances  
remained outstanding.  They spent some considerable time chasing Big Cars to settle the 
debt as it said it would.  I understand  that after a protracted  period  of delay, P has been paid. 
But the delay  led to P recording  adverse payment information on Mr and Mrs Ws credit files, 
and caused them much concern and stress. They want Big Cars to compensate them  for 
their distress,  and for the adverse payment data to be removed.
Our investigator noted that Big Cars  had entered  administration. She spoke with the 
administrator and proposed a compensation payment of £350.  The administrator said it 
wasnt in a position to make  payment  to Mr and Mrs W, but had agreed to note them as 
creditors. Our investigator explained  the administrators position  to Mr and Mrs W. She also 
suggested the administrators explain to P what had happened, and ask if P to remove  the 
adverse payment data from Mr and Mrs Ws credit  files.
The administrator has recently issued its latest  progress report  and indicated dividend  to 
unsecured creditors, and so I consider it appropriate to proceed with my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts  of this case arent in dispute.  The administrator hasnt sought to challenge  what  Mr 
and Mrs W have described, and the evidence theyve supplied  in support of the problems 
they experienced is persuasive. I have no doubt  the situation has been a source  of much 
distress to Mr and Mrs W, or that in the normal course of events, Big Cars should  pay them 
compensation. The investigator proposed  £350  in this respect, and the administrator has 
said it will recognise that amount as Mr and Mrs Ws claim.
However, I have to recognise that the situation at Big Cars isnt the normal course of events. 
The company is in administration, and as such,  under the Insolvency  Act any decision to 
make payment to creditors  such as Mr and Mrs W belongs to the administrator.  My decision 
cannot therefore be binding on the administrator,  irrespective of whether Mr and Mrs W 
accept it.
Further, any compensation I might suggest   even if the administrator agrees with it  will be 
subject to the dividend arrangements proposed in the progress report.  The indicated 
dividend is around  0.7p in the pound,  which based on compensation of £350 would equate 
Ref: DRN99884512to Mr and Mrs W receiving around £2.45.  While the dividend is yet to be finalised, I think  it 
important to ensure  Mr and Mrs W fully understand the position.
Turning to the information P has recorded on Mr and Mrs Ws credit  files, I cant be sure that 
P would agree to remove the missed  payment data even if asked by the administrator. The 
payments werent  made when due, and that means  the information  P recorded is accurate.
While it is possible  that P will agree to such a request from the administrator, I think  it may 
be more effective for Mr and Mrs W to approach P directly, and to seek to place a notice  of 
correction on their respective credit  files that explains the reason for the missed payments. 
An additional  purpose of issuing this decision,  then, is to provide Mr and Mrs W with 
supporting comment as to the fact that the payments  were  missed through  no fault of their 
own. I hope they will be able to persuade P either to take this action itself, or at least  not to 
challenge a notice of correction citing their reasons.
my final decision
My final decision, then, is that I uphold this complaint. To settle it, Big Cars Ltd (in 
administration) should:
pay Mr and Mrs W £350 compensation, noting that it will be for the administrator to 
determine whether,  and how much, Mr and Mrs W may actually receive.
assist Mr and Mrs W in their attempts  to amend their credit files, by approaching their 
previous finance  provider P to explain the situation and asking it to remove the 
adverse payment information. Mr and Mrs W should be aware that P is not bound  by 
such a request, or by anything Ive said in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Niall F Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9988451