K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains about the service she received from Nationwide  Building Society when 
she was applying to remortgage her property.
background
Miss R applied to Nationwide for a five year fixed rate mortgage,  via a broker. Miss R 
complained to Nationwide about  how things had progressed on 1 June. She told us she 
switched products with her existing provider before receiving Nationwides offer on 12 June. 
She is unhappy she is now locked into a five year fixed rate deal with her existing lender and 
missed out on the Nationwide deal.  Miss R is also unhappy with the valuation process and 
the evidence she was asked to supply  in relation to the cladding on the property. 
When Miss R complained to Nationwide  it upheld her complaint  as it identified several 
delays which  came to 19 working  days in total from the start of the mortgage application. 
Nationwide paid her £250 compensation and advised that it would consider the higher rate 
that Miss R needed to pay on her current mortgage from 1 June 2018 to 12 June 2018 when 
it made its mortgage offer, but Miss R would need to provide evidence of this cost. 
Miss R didnt accept Nationwides offer and came to this service.
The investigator recommended  that part of Miss Rs complaint be upheld.  She 
recommended that Nationwide pay an additional  £150. She also recommended Nationwide 
consider additional costs  upon evidence provided by Miss R of additional interest  costs  
incurred between 1 June 2018 until she switched to the fixed  rate deal. She didnt  think 
Nationwide should  have to pay the difference between the rate Miss R was paying and the 
rate she could have  got if she had switched to Nationwide  because she thought  Miss R 
could have allowed  Nationwide  time to look at her complaint.
Nationwide disagreed with the investigators  recommendation  because  it didnt think  it 
should have to pay Miss R a further £150. It thought  what  it had paid was fair.
Miss R also disagreed. She said her decision to take a new product with her existing lender 
was based on the absolute belief  that Nationwide declined the application  and her not 
having budgeted for the increased payments on the new variable rate. She could  not afford 
to wait for the complaint  to be investigated  without any certainty  that the complaint would be 
upheld. The sole reason that she started  the application about four months prior to her 
mortgage deal ending was that the increased  payments were not an option.
my first provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In it I said Miss R started the process  of 
remortgaging with Nationwide in February.  Her existing  deal expired  at the end of May. I 
thought it was reasonable of Miss R to expect that she had left enough time so that she 
would be able to remortgage as soon  as her existing deal expired. 
I noted it was accepted  by both parties that there were delays in the handling of Miss Rs 
remortgage. Nationwide had said it had identified 19 days of delay for which it accepts  
responsibility.
Ref: DRN96580602Miss R also thought that Nationwides requests regarding  the cladding  were unreasonable.  I 
said I was not going  to make a finding about  this because it wouldnt change  the outcome  of 
my decision  and I would need more information  to make a finding.
I said it was against  this background of delays  and what seemed like unreasonable  requests 
that Miss R found herself in the position of her deal with her current provider expiring  and her 
moving to its standard variable rate (SVR). She had explained she couldnt afford to be on 
the SVR and she felt under duress.  In her duress, and as a knee jerk reaction, she says she 
switched to a new product  with her existing provider  which was more expensive than the 
product she would have been  on if her remortgage  with Nationwide  had gone  ahead.  She 
felt it was unreasonable that she have to meet  the cost of this. I said I could  understand why 
she felt this.
Nationwide issued a mortgage offer to Miss R on 12 June.  So I could also understand why it 
didnt feel it should  meet the cost.
I thought in the circumstances  of the case it would be unfair  to ask Nationwide to meet  the 
difference in the rates. Miss R raised  a complaint with it on 1 June. From the papers Id seen 
I thought the switch  went ahead on 2 June. I thought it would have been reasonable to 
explain to Nationwide  what  she was planning to do and why and to give it a little time to 
come back  to her. I knew Miss R had said she felt she had been declined and had no 
choice. But it was clear  to me that she knew Nationwide had the wrong figure for her balance  
and that the cladding issues  had been  resolved. So I thought it was reasonable to think 
things would be sorted fairly soon.
I thought, however, Nationwide had failed to appreciate the level of distress  Miss R 
experienced. Miss R had presented all the facts in a calm,  clear  and rational way. I thought 
this meant  it hadnt been obvious that on 2 June she felt under duress and made a knee jerk 
reaction based  on her concerns about  meeting her mortgage payments if she remained on 
the SVR. I thought the £250  Nationwide offered would have been fair compensation if 
Miss R had been irritated by the delay. But in the circumstances of this case  I thought it 
caused her considerable worry. Instead I thought compensation  of £750 (so £500 more)  
would be fair.
Although Nationwide had offered to meet the difference between the SVR Miss R paid and 
the rate she would have had if she had remortgaged with it on 1 June I said I didnt intend to 
include this in the award. This was because  Miss R had told us she remortgaged on 2 June. 
Given Miss R chose  not to wait to hear the resolution of her complaint  I didnt think  it was 
appropriate for her to receive the interest Nationwide offered as it did it on the basis  that she 
hadnt already  remortgaged.
responses to my first provisional decision
Miss R didnt accept my provisional  decision. She said she spoke to her broker  a number of 
times in April and May expressing her concerns before asking for an official  complaint to be 
made on 1 June. She contacted her existing mortgage provider on 2 June 2018 for another 
offer but she didnt  accept the offer until 12 June 2018. Later that day she received  
Nationwides mortgage offer.  Miss R felt that when I referred to her decision to stick with her 
existing lender as taking  place against  a background of delays Id understated the position. 
She felt she had jumped through hoops  and still desperately tried to avoid being  in the 
position she found herself in. She said she felt nobody  was listening to her and that there 
might be something personal  against  her as though she had done  something wrong.  
Ref: DRN96580603She said when she received a letter from her existing provider setting out her new payments 
she felt helpless and completely drained. She did not have the mental  or the emotional  
capacity to deal with anymore rejections/hurdles/challenges.
By the evening of the 11 June, and having not received a resolution from Nationwide,  she 
said she made up her mind that she just need some  form of peace  of mind and to get out of 
what felt like a state of limbo. Her experience with Nationwide was one of constant delays 
and disappointments and she did not expect anything different with the complaint. She said 
she buried her feelings for months and was only able to make a complaint when she started 
to feel in a healthier  state of mind. Even just thinking  about it now made her feel anxious.
Nationwide also disagreed with my first provisional decision. Nationwide appreciated Miss R 
was irritated by the application; however, the application was not declined. It had seen 
nothing to indicate Miss R felt her mortgage application was declined, or that she was under 
duress to switch her mortgage product, and the correspondence provided at the time of the 
complaint didn't suggest this was the case either.
my second  provisional decision
I noted Miss R had said she remortgaged with her existing provider on 12 June. I had 
thought she had remortgaged on 2 June as this is what she had told us in her complaint 
form. As a result of the clarification I issued  a second provisional  decision to give both 
parties a chance  to comment.
I said I remained persuaded that Miss R switched to a different product with her existing  
provider because of the level of distress  she was experiencing. Miss R had explained she 
felt that the society  might  have something against her. She now knew that wasnt the case  
but I said I could  understand how she could feel this given the stress she had described. She 
was clearly getting increasingly worried  and felt the best thing for her to do was to switch  to a 
new product with her existing provider.
With the benefit of hindsight,  I said,  that wasnt the right decision as if she had waited a few 
more hours  she would have received the letter  from Nationwide. I didnt think  it would  be fair 
for Nationwide  to meet the difference  in monthly payments for the two products because  I 
thought  even as worried and stressed  as she was  Miss R should have given Nationwide 
more time and should have explained  to Nationwide  what  she was intending  to do before 
she did it. She had the benefit of a broker to help her so she didnt have to speak to 
Nationwide directly if this was too stressful.  
Nationwide didnt think her initial complaint  disclosed the distress I had referred  to. I thought  
the most  stressful period for Miss R was in the time immediately running up to the 12 June. 
Therefore I was not surprised that the initial complaint didnt disclose the distress. And I 
thought it was only over the course  of the complaint that it had become apparent why Miss R 
acted as she did when  she switched products. Overall I thought the compensation set out in 
my first provisional  decision seemed fair.
responses to my second provisional  decision
Nationwide didnt have  any further  comments to make. Miss R said she had received the 
decision and also didnt  provide any further  comments.
Ref: DRN96580604my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything further  for me to consider  I see no reason to depart 
from my second provisional  decision and confirm it here.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and order  that Nationwide Building Society  pay Miss R a further £500 
bringing the total compensation  paid to £750.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2020.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9658060