K822xcomplaint
Miss J has complained about the advice she was given  by St Pauls Marketing Limited  (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to transfer her pension  to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background 
The background to the complaint was set out by the investigator in his assessment. Miss J 
had said she was cold called by St Pauls Marketing Limited in 2016 and advised to switch 
her pension to a SIPP. She said after the initial call a representative  visited  her at home  and 
explained her pension would make far greater returns  by transferring than her original 
pension could make, albeit  no advice  was provided in writing.
The SIPP was opened and just over £20,000  was transferred to it. Of that, £19,252 was 
subsequently invested in Just Loans  debentures in March 2016.
Miss J, through her representative,  complained to Alexander David  in December 2018. I 
understand Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint. The 
representative subsequently referred  it to us. Our investigator asked Alexander David for its 
files and to provide any other evidence it wanted  us to take into account. However, no files 
or evidence  or arguments were received.
The investigator noted that Miss J had said that St Pauls Marketing  had advised  her, and St 
Pauls Marketing hadnt disputed  this, or disputed  that it was involved in the transaction.  He 
said there was no evidence to show that Miss J had previously self-invested. And he 
wouldnt have expected most  members of the public to be aware of this type of niche 
investment. Miss J had moved from a stakeholder pension scheme with a well-known 
assurance firm to the SIPP to invest in the debentures, which he thought was a substantial 
change to her investment  strategy. The investigator said he thought on the balance of 
probability y, it was the firms recommendation that alerted Miss J to the investment.
The investigator said that, at the very least, a direct  offer of a non-readily  realisable  security 
had been made. Therefore the firm needed to assess the appropriateness of the investment 
for Miss J by gathering information about  her circumstances, knowledge and investment 
experience in accordance with COBS 10.2.1.  He also said that the firm had an overriding  
obligation to act in Miss Js best interests.
The investigator noted that the investment memorandum  said:
An investment in the Company is only suitable  for investors capable  of evaluating the risks 
and merits of such investment and who have sufficient resources to bear any loss which  may 
result from the investment.
He said that the firm issuing the debentures had a limited history  in the marketplace, and 
parts of its business  strategy were  unproven.  The investigator also noted the memorandum 
said:
The Company is offering  for subscription the 8.25% 2018 Debentures securities which  are to  
be quoted on the Unregulated Market (E.C.M)  of the Cyprus  Stock  Exchange. Investments in 
smaller companies quoted on such an exchange  such as this exchange  and such  as Just 
Ref: DRN97568072Loans involves  greater risk than investments in securities or shares on other more senior 
exchanges.
These securities may be difficult to sell, and it may be difficult to obtain information as to how
much an investment is worth  or the degree  of risk to which  the investment is subject at any
given time.  Although the Company intends to apply for the 8.25% 2018 Secured  Debenture  
to be quoted on E.C.M there is no guarantee the listing  will be successful or that there  be a 
liquid market for the 8.25% 2018  Secured Debentures  if the listing is/was successful. The 
value of investments  can go down as well as up and prospective investors  may not get back 
the full amount originally invested.  An investment should therefore, only be considered by 
those persons who are prepared to sustain a loss on their investment.
The investigator said that in his view the investment in the debentures was high risk, they 
had limited liquidity,  they were listed on a smaller  market and had a limited  track record. He 
said that investing the majority of a pension in such a scheme increased the investment  risk 
by concentrating  the capital in a single plan, as opposed to diversifying across several 
holdings and asset classes.
The investigator said he thought St Pauls  Marketing  had recommended  the investment  to 
Miss J, and it would  have been  clear that it was unsuitable for her given her circumstances. 
He said the pension switch was unsuitable,  and Miss J ought  to have been advised to retain  
her existing plan. 
The investigator also said an appropriateness  assessment wouldve identified that
Miss J couldnt afford to invest  her sole pension provision in such a high risk, illiquid  and
niche investment. There was no evidence to suggest that Miss J wouldve insisted to 
proceed against suitable advice to retain her current pension. He thought the pension switch  
wasnt in Miss Js best interests and shouldnt have proceeded.
 
The investigator sent his assessment of the complaint to Alexander David. However it didnt
provide a response. The investigator  wrote to both parties on 3 February 2021 explaining
that the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman  for review and to make  a final
decision. The investigator subsequently wrote again to both parties on 1 March and 30 
March 2021. He said that having reviewed the case he thought compensation should be 
calculated slightly differently to what hed proposed in his assessment. He set out how he 
thought it should be calculated. No further evidence or arguments were provided.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alexander David didnt  respond to Miss Js original complaint or to the investigators  
requests for information. So theres only very limited evidence available  to establish what  
happened at the time of the transfer  and investment. 
Ive carefully considered  the evidence that is available, including Miss Js recollections of 
events. The investigator  set out his thoughts  on the matter in his assessment, and Alexander 
David hasnt disputed what  he said or provided any further evidence or arguments.
Im satisfied, on the balance of the evidence that is available, that St Pauls Marketing was 
involved from the outset  and following its input Miss J transferred her pension to the SIPP 
Ref: DRN97568073and invested in the debentures. In my experience its unusual for someone of Miss Js 
background and experience to want to transfer  an existing pension in order  to invest  in this 
type of investment without prompting.  I think it was unlikely to have happened  without the 
involvement of St Pauls Marketing. Im satisfied that it initiated the transfer and investment in 
the debentures. It was aware of where the investment was going to be made and facilitated 
it. 
The investigator thought St Pauls  Marketing  had recommended  the investment to Miss J. 
The firm hasnt disputed this. In all the circumstances and on the balance  of the limited 
evidence thats  available, I think its more likely than not that St Pauls Marketing did advise 
Miss J to transfer and invest  in the debentures. And given the significant risks presented  by 
the investment,  I dont  think it was suitable for Miss J in her circumstances,  particularly given 
she has said that she was a low to medium risk taker at best, and with little investment 
experience. 
However, even if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Miss J, I think the evidence shows  
it was involved in arranging the transaction. The debentures were a non-readily  realisable 
security.  COBS 10 required St Pauls  Marketing  to assess Miss Js knowledge and 
experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service  offered 
or demand so that it could assess whether the debentures were appropriate for her.
Miss J said she had little investment experience  and Alexander David hasnt disputed this. 
Ive seen no evidence  of Miss J having  a history of making this type of investment. The 
debentures presented significant risks and were speculative. In my view they werent 
appropriate for Miss J given her knowledge and experience and this should have been clear 
to St Pauls Marketing.
Taking all the circumstances of the transaction into account, I think  it was clear that the
debentures werent suitable or appropriate for Miss J. And like the investigator,  I dont think  
St Pauls Marketing acted  in Miss Js best interests.  
Im satisfied that if St Pauls  Marketing  hadnt  advised Miss J to transfer and invest in the 
debentures, or if it had told her they werent  suitable  or appropriate for her she wouldnt have 
transferred and invested in them.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketings failures caused Miss J to transfer  and 
invest in a product  that she would otherwise not have invested into. Im satisfied its failures 
caused the losses that Miss J has claimed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Js complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Miss J on 
the following  basis. 
fair compensation 
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Miss J as close  as possible 
to the position she would  probably now be in but for St Pauls  Marketings failures. I think 
Miss J would have invested differently. Its not possible  to say precisely what she would have 
Ref: DRN97568074done, but Im satisfied  that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Miss Js 
circumstances and objectives when she invested.  
what should  Alexander David do? 
To compensate Miss J fairly  Alexander  David Ltd should compare the performance  of Miss 
Js investment with that of the benchmark  shown below. If the fair value is greater than the 
actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than 
the fair value, no compensation  is payable.  
Alexander David Securities Ltd should also pay any interest as set out below.  
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities Ltd should pay into Miss Js pension  plan to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander  David  Securities Ltd 
shouldnt pay the compensation  into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Miss Js pension 
plan it should  pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it 
would have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The notional 
allowance should  be calculated using Miss Js actual or expected marginal rate of tax at her 
selected retirement age. 
I think Miss J is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at her selected retirement age, so the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Miss J would have been 
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction  should be applied  to 75% of the 
compensation.
In addition, Alexander  David  should: 
Pay Miss J £100  for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has 
caused her. 
Provide details of the calculation to Miss J in a clear,  simple format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities Ltd 
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income  tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss J how much  it has taken off. It should  also give Miss J 
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN97568075investment  
name status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
reinvest
ment - 
12  
January 
2021The same benchmark 
on the loss calculated 
as at 12 January 2021 
to decision date.  Then 
8% simple  a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement  isnt
made within
28 days  of
Alexander
David  being
notified  of
Miss Js 
acceptance of
this decision
Actual value 
This means  the actual transfer  value of the SIPP  at the end date (the date of re-investment).
Fair value 
This is what  the sum transferred from the pension provider would have been worth at the 
end date had it grown  in line with the benchmark.  
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should  be added to the fair value calculation from the 
point in time when  it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of 
the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases 
to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Miss Js circumstances  were consistent  with someone who only had limited capacity for risk. 
And in her complaint Miss J has said she was a low to medium risk taker at best.
In all the circumstances, I dont think Miss J would  have transferred but for St Pauls 
Marketings failures. But she was invested  in funds presenting a greater  degree  of risk than 
she has said she was prepared to accept. So I think its likely she would have switched  to 
funds better  aligned to her risk profile if suitable  advice had been  given.  I dont know exactly 
how she would have  invested.  But I think the index I have outlined above is an appropriate 
benchmark and is a reasonable proxy for the level of risk that Miss J was willing and able to 
take. 
Ref: DRN97568076The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Miss Js risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was only prepared 
to take a limited  level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Miss J into that position.  
It doesnt mean that Miss J would have invested  50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather  I consider this is a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects  the sort 
of return Miss J could have obtained  from investments suited to her objective and risk 
attitude. 
The investigator recommended  that fair compensation  be calculated as at 12 January  2021; 
the date that Miss J decided to reinvest  into the Just Loans  Debentures.  I think this is fair 
given Miss J had made her decision to reinvest  her money having already raised concerns 
about the suitability of the original advice to invest. In the circumstances I dont think 
Alexander David is responsible for any losses  arising  from the re-investment. 
And although Miss J may have suffered a degree of distress when the complaint was made 
and the return  provided on the debentures was uncertain, this would likely have been for a 
limited period given  she agreed to reinvest in the debentures when they matured in January 
2021. So I think £100 is fair in the particular circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2021.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9756807