K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that BMW Financial  Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) provided poor 
service to her when collecting a car she had acquired under a hire purchase agreement. 
background
In July 2014, Mrs C acquired a used car using  a hire purchase agreement  from BMWFS.  
The total repayable under the agreement was £37,129.70. Mrs C was required to make  an 
initial payment  of £568.06 followed  by 46 monthly  payments  of £394.06 and there was a final 
optional payment of £14,289.88  if she wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement.  
The agreement set out that Mrs C had the right to terminate  the agreement  at any time 
before the final payment was due. In doing  so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the 
car and at least half of the total repayable under the agreement. The agreement set out this 
was £18,564.85.
In January 2018, Mrs C chose to exercise  her right to terminate the agreement early.  Mrs C 
complained as BMWFS agent had failed to collect the car on two separate occasions. She 
said she was given  an all-day collection slot, but she received no communication from 
BMWFS or the collection agent to say it wouldnt be arriving. She said the same thing 
happened on the second scheduled collection day. The car was then eventually  collected at 
the third attempt, but late in the evening and outside of the usual collection times that 
BMWFS and its agent agreed.
After Mrs C handed the car back,  BMWFS later charged her a further £1,786.93 as she had 
exceeded the mileage allowance on the agreement. The agreement  set out that Mrs C had 
an annual mileage allowance of 8,000 and a total mileage allowance  of 32,000. It said that if 
she exceeded this allowance BMWFS could charge her 9.11 pence for every  mile that she 
exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the event she terminated the agreement early,  the 
mileage allowance  would be pro-rated  for the time the car was on hire. 
Mrs C didnt think this charge was fair. She said that the termination section of the 
agreement didnt state that BMWFS could charge anything more than £18,564.85,  as set out 
by Section 99 and 100 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974  (CCA).
BMWFS didnt uphold her complaint  about  the excess mileage charge. It said it was entitled 
to charge it. However,  it agreed the service it provided around the collection of the car could 
have been better and reduced her outstanding liability by £50 by way of compensation. It 
said that its collection agent had separately  agreed to send her a cheque for £60 by way of 
apology. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that BMWFS  
had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire 
purchase agreement  and the CCA. She also found that the terms of the agreement  were 
clear around  the possibility of an excess mileage charge being payable on voluntary 
termination. 
In summary,  she said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early  and S100  sets out what liabilities a consumer  has on termination.  
Ref: DRN99726982In brief,  on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least  half of the total price of 
the agreement. Total  price is defined by S189 CCA as the total sum payable  under 
the hire purchase  agreement. It does not include charges  for items that are payable 
as compensation  for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges for 
breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities  that the consumer accrued prior to termination are not 
to be affected by the termination. 
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage  charges  will accrue 
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mrs Cs agreement was clear that the 
charge accrued before  termination  and was therefore not affected by the termination. 
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance  is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage  charges must therefore be included in 
the total price  of the agreement. 
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted  towards the 
total price of the agreement. Mrs Cs accrued liability under S100 therefore included  
paying an additional amount of £1,786.93.
The credit  agreement  set out clearly  the terms surrounding when excess  mileage 
would be charged,  when  it would  accrue  and how much it would cost. 
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement  if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded. 
The investigator concluded that when  considering all the terms of the agreement as a 
whole, she was satisfied  it was made  clear and not misleading  about when an excess  
mileage charge could  be applied  and for how much. She was therefore satisfied it 
was fair and reasonable for BMWFS to charge the additional  amount. 
Lastly, she acknowledged the service  from BMWFS could have been better when it 
came to collecting the car. However,  she was satisfied £110 was fair compensation 
for the inconvenience  this had caused.  
Mrs C accepted that BMWFS could charge her for excess  mileage  but didnt agree on the 
level of compensation  that had been paid. She said shed only received £50 compensation 
and provided evidence from her bank to demonstrate the £60 had never been paid. Our 
investigator asked BMWFS to reissue the payment of £60 but BMWFS  refused. It said it and 
its agents records didnt  go back far enough  to check whether the cheque  was cashed. It 
said that Mrs C had never previously asked  for this payment to be made  so it was fair to 
assume she had received  it. 
The complaint was passed  to me for consideration. I said to BMWFS  that I was minded to 
increase the compensation payment to Mrs C to a total of £250. I explained that it didnt 
appear to be disputed that Mrs C wasnt kept updated about the collections process and that 
it failed on two occasions, which would have caused  her significant inconvenience  given  they 
were all-day  collection slots. 
BMWFS disagreed. It said that increasing  the compensation  payment felt like a punishment 
rather than an independent  decision. It said that Mrs C had never  chased  them  for non-
receipt of the £60 payment, so it was reasonable to assume she had received it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN99726983In paying a deposit and her monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement  
allowed Mrs C use of the car for the duration  of the agreement. She also had the option to 
purchase the car outright  at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£14,289.88. While Mrs C was entitled to use the car, that use was subject to certain  
conditions, such as maintaining and taking  care of the car and only driving  a maximum 
mileage each year and overall  throughout the lifetime of the agreement.  The agreement set 
out what would happen should Mrs C not meet those requirements.
Mrs C exercised her right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. In some  instances, 
voluntary termination  allows the hirer to simply hand  back the car without having to pay 
anything more. But this is dependant on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to 
the agreement, whether there are arrears to be paid, the condition  of the car and whether 
any excess mileage or other  charges are due. 
In this case Mrs C accepts  that she was required to pay £18,564.85 to voluntary terminate 
the agreement. But she disputes  the excess mileage charge of £1,786.93  that has been 
added on top of this figure. 
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have  to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination your rights section of 
Mrs Cs hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination  and in 
her case,  that was £18,564.85.  Various sections of the agreement Mrs C had with BMWFS  
also referred to the liability on early  termination, including where excess  mileage, damage 
charges or other charges may increase  the final liability.
What I have to decide is, has the agreement been constructed in a way as to allow the 
charging for excess mileage without  contravening what is set out in the CCA  regarding 
voluntary termination? In Mrs Cs specific case, I think it has. Ill explain why. 
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities  which accrue  prior to 
termination are not affected by the termination. What this means  is that Mrs C is liable to pay 
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement,  and that these 
charges are in addition  to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mrs Cs hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess mileage 
charges for depreciation. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what  charges will 
apply if that mileage is exceeded.  It says that if the agreement is terminated  early the 
mileage allowance  will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that your  obligation to 
pay any excess mileage charges will accrue immediately prior to termination . Im satisfied 
Mrs Cs agreement is worded clearly in setting  out when excess  mileage charges accrue. 
The agreement also has a sectioned headed  Termination: your rights. This section contains  
specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in summary  
sets out that so long as Mrs C has paid at least half the total amount payable  under the 
agreement, she will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about  whether this conflicts  with 
the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those  that explain charges for exceeding  
the mileage might apply.  
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think  the agreement  is 
either unclear or misleading concerning  the charges for excess  mileage. I think  it explains 
that the excess mileage  charge can be applied in addition to other  charges for voluntary  
Ref: DRN99726984termination. I dont  therefore consider that the way this specific  agreement  has been 
constructed has prejudiced Mrs C.  
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows  that Mrs C is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent  with what  is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA.  
Mrs C has also complained about  the inconvenience  and upset caused  to her during the 
collections process. BMWFS has acknowledged it provided her with poor service. However, 
Im not persuaded that £110 compensation fairly reflects the inconvenience and upset 
caused. 
Mrs C says that she received no communication about when  the collection would take place. 
She says she had to contact BMWFS  to chase the arrangement of the initial collection date.  
The initial collection  failed and Mrs C says she received no communication  from BMWFS or 
its agent about the collection  being  cancelled. She says the same thing happened again  
when the collection  was rearranged for a different  day. When  the collection did eventually go 
ahead on a different  day it was collected  after 7pm, which is outside of the usual agreed  
collection hours. 
BMWFS hasnt provided anything to dispute what Mrs C has said,  so Ive no reason to doubt 
that is what happened. As these were  collection slots which  required Mrs C to be available  
all day, it means she effectively wasted two days  unnecessarily. She says she had to take 
holiday from work to be available for the failed collections. She would always  have had to 
take at least one day away from work but there were two failed attempts in total.
BMWFS also hasnt disagreed that Mrs C wasnt kept updated about what  was happening. It 
has said the collection failed to happen because of adverse weather. Mrs C says she was 
previously told by BMWFS it was because it was their busiest time of year for collections. 
But irrespective of the reasons for the failed collections, Ive not seen anything to 
demonstrate BMWFS  made adequate attempts to keep Mrs C updated about what was 
happening. And in any event, it wasnt Mrs Cs fault the collections failed. 
Taking into account the overall delays and the apparent lack of communication from 
BMWFS, I consider a total of £250  to be fair compensation  for the inconvenience and upset 
caused to Mrs C.
I understand BMWFS has already paid Mrs C £50 so it can deduct  this payment from the 
total compensation award. Mrs C has provided evidence to demonstrate  the £60 cheque 
likely wasnt cashed. However,  its still possible it was. Therefore, if BMWFS can adequately 
demonstrate that Mrs C has received the further £60 (by showing that the cheque was 
cashed) then it can deduct  this from the total compensation award  too. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited to:
Pay Mrs C a total of £250 compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused. 
BMWFS can deduct  any compensation payments it can demonstrate it has already 
paid to Mrs C.  
Ref: DRN99726985Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2021.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9972698