K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Total Mortgage Network Limited charged her fees for a service which it 
failed to provide.  As a result  she owes an additional  £2,000 on her mortgage which was 
unnecessary. 
To resolve  her complaint  she wants compensation for the lack of services provided  and 
promises which werent kept. TMN have made it financially difficult  to live every month. She 
says she has incurred  a massive overdraft of £1,800  trying to pay the mortgage off. 
background
TMN arranged a mortgage  for Ms H in May 2016.  TMNs terms were explained in a letter 
dated 8 April 2016. The letter said TMN  would  provide services  to obtain a mortgage offer for 
a fee up to £1,295. The letter  went on to say:
£1995 'Multi-Service' Fee
If you have opted  for our 'Multi-Service' fee we will provide the above professional service 
(advice and recommendation) and we will also undertake to arrange any further  mortgages  
for you in the future. We will not charge  a fee for our advice and recommendation. However  
a third party cost i.e. solicitors fees & valuation fees,  if applicable, will be payable.  A legal 
marketing allowance  may also be made, currently  £150.00.
Although we will take every reasonable effort to contact  you before the end of your 
preferential period, as many of our clients change telephone numbers or addresses without 
notifying us the Multi-Service system will only be activated by request from you if the 
company have been unsuccessful in contacting you. Your Lender will notify you, in line with 
their procedures (normally 30 days at least prior to the end of your preferential period) and if 
you contact us then we will review  your circumstances  and advise accordingly if we have not 
already spoken  to you.
Ms H opted  for the £1,995 'multi-service'  fee. She says TMN explained this was to provide a 
lifetime guarantee  that each time her interest rate product expired she would be provided 
with support and information to take a new rate forward.
Ms H says that as her product was due to expire in June 2018  she expected to be contacted  
by TMN as she had paid the lifetime  fee. But she heard nothing from TMN and had to 
approach the lender direct, who arranged a new rate with no fees.
On Ms Hs complaint to TMN  it said it had written to her on 10 April 2018 explaining that her 
deal was up for renewal  and asking her to contact  the office to discuss  her needs and 
preferences. But TMN  received no response  to this letter. The TMN adviser had stated he 
had tried to contact Ms H several times but had no response.
Ms H brought her complaint to this service.  She said TMN hadnt sent any correspondence 
or tried to contact her at all. It hadnt provided  the service promised.
Our investigator felt TMNs first set of contact notes  dated 6 February 2019 were  more likely 
to be an accurate reflection of its correspondence with Ms H. On these notes,  there wasn't 
anything to show TMN had tried to contact Ms H other than the letter sent to her on 
10 April 2018. And it appeared that the person writing the notes had contacted the adviser a 
Ref: DRN99850072number of times in April and June 2018 to see if he had contacted Ms H. But there was 
nothing recorded  in the notes to suggest  he had.
The investigator thought TMN should  have  done  more to contact Ms H as required by the 
letter of 8 April 2016. TMN hadnt  been able to evidence  that it took every reasonable step to 
contact her. The investigator couldnt  see anything on TMNs system notes to suggest it had 
attempted to contact  Ms H other than the letter sent to her on 10 April 2018. And the 
investigator didnt  think  a single letter was enough  to constitute every  reasonable effort.  TMN 
should have tried to call, email or send  another letter.
The investigator didnt  see any reason  why Ms H wouldnt have gone to TMN  for advice in 
2018, having already paid a large  fee for this, unless she wasn't able to contact TMN's 
adviser.
The investigator thought that although Ms H didn't  get the full service she'd paid for, she did 
use TMN's  service on her mortgage rate in 2016. So she had benefited from this to an extent 
and shouldnt be refunded the full multi-service fee. She should  be refunded £1,706.83 of 
that fee, which the investigator calculated was the un-used part. And as this fee was added 
to Ms H's mortgage  she should also be reimbursed the interest she had been charged  on 
this up until the refund was made.
The investigator also felt that TMN should  compensate Ms H £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her in chasing TMN and getting no response.  This made her feel 
like she was left in the dark and had no other  choice  but to get advice  from the lender even 
though she'd paid for a service to get advice about her mortgage and rates.
Ms H agreed with the investigators recommendation.  TMN didnt agree with the amount of 
compensation. It said Ms H had received  advice and had completed on the initial mortgage, 
which wasnt the basis of her complaint. TMNs fee for a single transaction  at that time was 
£1,295. TMN was willing  to pay Ms H the £700 difference  between  the multi-service  fee and 
the single  transaction fee.
Ms H didnt accept this offer. She said the whole point of the fee was to not have  to worry 
about when the mortgage rate was to change, chase around different companies for the best 
deal, etc. The service  provided by the lender had been free. The pressure that the extra 
money had put on her had caused  her exceptional  stress.
I took a different view of the complaint to the investigator. So I decided to issue a provisional 
decision, setting  out my view of the case and inviting further comments. Both parties have 
now responded and so I issue  my final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
TMNs fee for the successful 2015  mortgage,  had it stood alone,  would  have been  £1,295.  
Instead Ms H chose to pay TMN an extra £700 for the multi-service. TMN hasnt challenged  
the investigators finding that it failed to provide  the multi-service, and I agree with that 
finding for the reasons  she gave.  The consequence  of that is that TMN should refund the 
£700 with interest.
Ref: DRN99850073The investigator calculated the interest  as if TMNs fees had been  added to the mortgage. 
But the copy of TMNs  £1,995 invoice has attached to it a visa slip dated in May 2016 (the 
day is illegible) showing that Ms H paid £1,995 by debit card.  However the mortgage 
analysis shows the fees being added to the mortgage in the breakdown. And the mortgage 
offer also shows that they were going  to be added to the new mortgage.
I think what happened was that Ms H added the fees to the new mortgage so that they were 
paid off with her other debts as part of her new mortgage. So from the mortgage analysis, 
initially the outstanding balance on the current mortgage was about  £42,000.  The repayment 
of unsecured loans/credit cards etc adds £1,364 and the TMN fee adds £1,995. This 
increases the new mortgage to about £45,000. Ms H pays the fees by debit card and when 
the advance comes through returns the money to the account debited.
I agree  that £100 is appropriate compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Ms H.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision. TMN accepted  my decision. Ms H didnt 
accept it.
She said she still didn't  understand how TMN could say that it didnt charge for advice and 
recommendation although it clearly  did using the multi-service fee. 
She believed  TMN  and its adviser  took the commission and then didnt feel obliged to 
honour the contract, and didnt retain  contact  after she refused to take out a life policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What the letter of 8 April 2016 said was that if Ms H opted for the multi-service  fee, TMN 
wouldnt charge  for advice  and recommendation to arrange any further mortgages for Ms H 
in the future. It didnt say there would be no charge for obtaining the initial  mortgage offer.
Its correct to say that TMN took the multi-service fee and then didnt honour the contract. 
Thats why I consider the multi-service fee should be refunded.
Ref: DRN99850074my final decision
My decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint and order Total Mortgage Network  
Limited to pay Ms H:
£700;
the interest paid by her on that amount of the mortgage;
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to her.
If Ms H wants to pay the £700 off the mortgage  and incurs an early  repayment charge for 
doing so, TMN should pay that too upon suitable proof of the charge.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9985007