K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined a claim for water 
damage under his home insurance  policy and refused to cover  the cost of making good the 
damage caused in investigating the problem.
background
Mr R contacted Admiral after he noticed water  damage to his lounge  celling. Theres a 
bathroom above the lounge. Initially it wasnt clear where in the bathroom the water was 
coming from. Admiral told Mr R hed have to have  the shower cubicle removed  to find the 
source of the water.
Before the shower  cubicle  was removed, Admiral sent a surveyor  to investigate.  The 
surveyor reported that there were a number of defects with the way the shower had been 
fitted. Admiral declined the claim because it said the policy  didnt cover  poor workmanship.
Mr R had the shower cubicle removed which left a hole in the lounge ceiling. He complained  
to Admiral that his claim had been declined. He also thought Admiral should be responsible 
for the cost of repairing  the damage  caused by the removal of the shower.
Admiral said it was Mr Rs responsibility to find and repair  the leak.  It denied that it had been 
unreasonable in advising him to remove the shower  as this needed to be done to find out 
where the water was coming from. It said it was entitled to decline the claim as the damage 
hadnt been caused by something that was covered by his policy.
Mr R brought his complaint to this service.  Our investigator didnt uphold it. He didnt think 
Admiral had treated  Mr R unfairly.  As Mr R didnt agree,  the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Ive looked at whether Admiral treated Mr R fairly in declining his claim. 
Mr Rs policy  covers water escaping  from (amongst other things) water pipes and domestic  
appliances. It doesnt cover damage  caused by faulty, failed or inadequate grout or sealant 
or poor workmanship.
Admirals surveyor reported that the damage had been caused by the way the shower had 
been fitted. He said there  was movement in the shower tray due to lack of support and the 
shower panels were  fitted behind the tray rather than being butted up against it, causing 
leakage through  the seals .
This is consistent with what  Mr Rs plumber found after the shower had been removed. He 
advised that three of the shower trays support  feet werent touching  the floor. He thought the 
tray was moving when  the shower  was used and that would cause water  to escape. He also 
said:
On a visual inspection of the shower  panel  within the cubicle, I could see that it had been 
fitted from floor to ceiling,  and then the shower  tray had been fitted against it, which  is a 
Ref: DRN99062242fitting fail, and would result  in leaks. Also the boards  had been butted  against each other 
when fitting, and a fitting  kit had not been  used also reducing the ability  of the shower to be 
watertight. 
He added that thered also been  some  water leaking from the sink waste  as inferior waste  
pipe fittings have been used and not fitted correctly.
Based on the evidence  from Admirals surveyor and Mr Rs own plumber Im satisfied that 
the damage was more  likely than not caused by faulty workmanship. So I dont think  Admiral 
treated Mr R unreasonably in declining his claim on this ground.
Ive also looked  at whether Admiral should cover the cost of repairing the damage caused by 
investigating the leak. Mr Rs policy covers him for the cost of removing and replacing any 
part of his home to find the source  of a leak but only if the water is escaping from a source  
covered by his policy such as water pipes or heating installations. Since the water wasnt 
escaping from a source covered by his policy, I think Admiral  was justified in not meeting the 
cost of repairing  the damage  caused by the investigations.
Lastly Ive considered whether Admiral should be liable  for the repair  costs because  it 
advised Mr R to remove the shower. It appears  from Admirals  file notes that Mr R told 
Admiral at the outset  that it wasnt clear where  the water was coming from and Admiral told 
him that the damage might  not be covered by his policy. I think it took sufficient steps to 
make Mr R aware that his claim  might not be covered.  But in any event apart  from stopping  
all future use of the bathroom  I cant see what else could have been done other than to have 
the shower taken  out because the cause of the damage could only be confirmed once that 
had been done. So Im not persuaded that Admiral gave Mr R poor advice for which  it 
should be liable.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9906224