K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco)  mis-sold  her Payment Protection 
Insurance (PPI) with a credit card.
background
In 1997 Mrs C received  a mailshot from Tesco inviting her to apply  for a credit card. Mrs C 
filled out the application including completing  the section to take out PPI.
The PPI cost 70 pence for every £100 owed  on the card and it paid a monthly benefit of 10% 
of the outstanding card balance in the event Mrs C couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or if she lost her job. And it would do so for up to 12 months.
When Mrs C complained  to Tesco about her PPI she said she couldnt recall  her sick pay 
and couldnt find out about  it now. She also said she couldnt  remember about any savings 
she might  have had.
Mrs C complained to us and completed a questionnaire. And on here she told us she was 
entitled to three months full sick pay and said she had savings she couldve used to make  her 
card repayments if she couldnt  work. She later told us she had £8,000  in savings available.
The adjudicator upheld the complaint. He said Tesco didnt make the cost and benefit of the 
policy clear enough  when Mrs C decided to take out PPI. And given her circumstances at the 
time, he didnt think it was likely she wouldve still gone ahead  with it had Tesco properly and 
clearly informed her. He recommended Tesco give Mrs C back  everything she paid for the policy.
I issued my provisional decision of March  2019 in which I said I was likely to conclude  that 
Mrs C hadnt lost out to the extent that she should  get back everything she paid for PPI. In 
summary my reasons were as follows:
this was a sale by post where Tesco did not provide advice or make a recommendation 
for PPI.
Mrs C signed separately for PPI on her credit  card application,  so I was satisfied she 
understood it was optional and that she chose to take it out.
Tesco didnt  provide Mrs C with all the information she needed  in a clear and timely  
manner to make an informed decision about PPI. But I thought shed have still gone 
ahead if Tesco  had done more because:
othe policy wasnt wrong or inappropriate for Mrs C given her circumstances at the time
oshe wasnt caught by the significant  exclusions and limitations of the cover  e.g. for 
existing medical  conditions  or unusual employment circumstances.
owhile I accepted  that what Mrs C had latterly said about her sick pay was 
reasonable given  her occupation at the time,  I didnt think  I could place  much  
weight on the level of savings she said she had at the time given shed  previously 
said she couldnt remember and given her wider financial circumstances at the 
time - including evidence about her outstanding debts and the repayments she 
was making on them
Ref: DRN95160082oThe policy  appeared  to have been  affordable at the time
But Mrs C had already  got back some  of the cost of PPI representing the amount of 
commission and profit share Tesco got that was above 50% of the PPI premium  Mrs C paid. 
I thought that was fair in this case.
Mrs Cs representative replied to my provisional  decision  and said it had nothing further to 
add. Tesco did not reply.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party has given me anything new to consider, I see no reason to depart  
from my reasoning and conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  and in my provisional decision, Ive decided  that Mrs C 
has not suffered  loss as a result of taking out PPI with her credit card to the extent  that she 
should get back all of the cost of the policy.
But Tesco Personal Finance Plc does have to pay back to Mrs C any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so theres nothing  more it needs  to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9516008