K821x#15Complaint
Miss D has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) irresponsibly provided her 
with an unaffordable open-ended  credit facility.
Background
Drafty provided Miss D with an open-ended credit facility. This was a running account  facility 
where a consumer could request funds up, to their credit  limit, which would then be 
deposited into their bank account. The facility  was provided to Miss D in June 2016. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Miss Ds complaint. He thought that Drafty shouldnt  have 
provided any further funds  after August 2017. Drafty  disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at the case. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im upholding Miss Ds 
complaint in part. Id like to explain the reasons  for my decision.
The relevant regulations in place  at the time Miss D was given her running account 
credit facility 
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that Drafty gave Miss D this facility  
when it was regulated  by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And the relevant 
regulatory rules in place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) section  of the FCA Handbook of rules  and guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  And it says a firm had to consider the potential for the 
commitments under  the regulated credit agreement to adversely impact the customers 
financial situation  as well as the ability of the customer  to make repayments  as they fall due 
over the life of the regulated credit agreement, or for such  an agreement  which  is an open-
end agreement (like Miss Ds facility) , to make payments within a reasonable period.
CONC 5.2 also includes some guidance  on the sorts  of things a lender  needs to bear in 
mind when considering  its obligations  under CONC 5.2.1.  Section 5.2.4(2) says a firm 
should consider  what  is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what  a lender should bear in mind when 
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says In making the creditworthiness assessment 
or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit..
Ref: DRN95009542CONC 5.3.1(2) then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences..
In practice all of this meant that a lender  had to take proportionate steps to ensure a 
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable  manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender  had to gather 
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance  didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.  And any checks  had to take into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being  lent and when  what was being borrowed was due to be repaid.
Ive kept all of this in mind  when thinking about whether Drafty did what it needed to before 
agreeing to Miss Ds Drafty facility. As explained,  Miss D was given what  was an open-
ended credit facility. So overall I think that this means the checks  Drafty carried out had to 
provide enough for it to be able to understand whether Miss D would be able to both service 
and then repay her facility  within a reasonable period of time. Draft also needed to monitor 
Miss Ds repayment record for any sign that she may have been experiencing financial 
difficulty.
Why I dont think that it was unfair for Drafty to have provided the initial  facility  to Miss D
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I do think  Draftys checks  before 
providing this facility to Miss D were proportionate  taking  all the circumstances into account.
As explained, Miss D wasnt  given  a payday loan where he had to repay all of what he 
borrowed plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility where there  
was an expectation  that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within  a 
reasonable period of time.  CONC doesnt set out what a reasonable period of time is. So I 
think its important to note that a reasonable period  of time will always be dependent  on the 
circumstances of the individual case. 
In any event, in this case, Miss Ds credit agreement contained a hypothetical repayment 
schedule (should the total amount available have been drawn  down) requiring monthly 
payments of just under  £70 in order for the facility to be repaid within  a reasonable period of 
time. So, in these circumstances, I think that Drafty  needed to carry out proportionate and 
sufficient checks to reasonably understand whether Miss D could make monthly repayments of 
around £70.
Drafty says it agreed to Miss Ds application after shed provided details of her monthly 
income and expenditure and looked  at her credit score.  It says the information  it gathered  
showed that Miss D would be able to comfortably make payments of around £70 a month.  
And in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Miss Ds first loan with Drafty. The information  
provided does  suggest  that Miss D was asked  to provide details of her income and 
expenditure. Bearing in mind the amount  of the monthly repayment, the questions Drafty 
Ref: DRN95009543asked Miss D, this was Miss Ds first loan and the credit score recorded,  I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Drafty  to rely on the information Miss D provided.
I accept Miss Ds actual financial position may not have been reflected either in the 
information provided, or the information  Drafty  obtained. But Drafty could only make its 
decision based on the information it had available at the time. And, at this stage of the 
lending relationship between the parties, I dont think proportionate checks  wouldve 
extended into Drafty asking Miss D to evidence what she was declaring,  or it asking her for 
her bank statements.  So overall I dont think that Drafty treated Miss D unfairly  or 
unreasonably when it initially provided her with an open-ended  credit facility in June  2016.
Why I think Drafty needed to do more  before  agreeing  to provide Miss D with further funds 
after August  2017
By this stage Miss D had once again  drawn down almost the maximum amount of funds 
available to her despite  having  had the facility  for more than a year. This was indicative of a 
consumer who may have been borrowing to make ends meet. And as Ive already 
mentioned, Drafty had an obligation to monitor Miss Ds repayment record and offer 
assistance should it have been  apparent  that she may have been experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
In these circumstances, I think that Drafty needed  to get a more thorough understanding  of 
Miss Ds financial circumstances before agreeing to provide her with any further funds. And 
as Drafty didn't  do this, I don't think that it did enough to establish  whether Miss D would be 
able to sustainably  repay any funds advanced  from August 2017 onwards.
What I think Drafty wouldve most  likely found  out if it had asked further questions  
Even though  I think that Drafty shouldve asked Miss D further questions before any further  
funds after August 2017 this doesnt,  on its own, mean Miss Ds complaint should be upheld. 
After all if further checks wouldve simply shown  Drafty that Miss D would most likely  have 
been able to repay what she borrowed  within a reasonable period of time (and so there was 
no reason why Drafty shouldnt have lent to Miss D), then further enquiries wouldnt have 
made a difference. This is because Miss D wont have lost out because  of Draftys failure to 
offer assistance and so thered be no reason  for me to uphold the complaint. 
But if further checks would most  likely have shown Miss D was unlikely to have been able to 
repay further funds  then Drafty wouldve seen that it shouldnt have lent to her. And this 
would mean  that Miss D lost out because  of Draftys failure to meet its obligations.   
As further  proportionate checks werent  carried out I cant know what exactly  they would 
have shown. But Miss D has provided us with more information on his financial 
circumstances. So Ive been able to get a picture of what they were like. 
Of course,  I accept this isnt perfect as different checks show  different  things. And just 
because something  shows up in the information Miss D has provided  it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any extra checks Drafty mightve carried out. But what  Miss D has 
provided is the best indication I have of his financial  circumstances at the time. And in the 
absence of anything  else I think its perfectly reasonable to rely on it. 
Ref: DRN95009544Ive carefully looked through everything Miss Ds provided and Ive also thought  about  
everything both parties have said. Having done  so, I dont think Miss D had the capacity  to 
repay any further funds.  As our adjudicator explained, it is clear that Miss D wasnt making 
any inroads to which she owed Drafty and in fact she was exceeding  her limit. And I think 
that further proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown the reasons for this 
was because she was struggling financially. 
In these circumstances, I dont think its reasonable to conclude that Miss D would more 
likely than not have  been able to make her payments without borrowing further or 
experiencing financial difficulty. And, in these  circumstances, Im satisfied that the further 
credit provided after August 2017  onwards was unsustainable for Miss D.  
Overall I think  not only did Drafty  fail to carry out further proportionate checks  before 
advancing further funds after August 2017,  but that Miss D also lost out as a result of this.
What Drafty should  do to put things right
To put things right for Miss D, Drafty  should:
all interest  and charges added  to the facility  as a result  of the extra  lent from 
September 2017 onwards should be removed. Any payments Miss D has made 
should be deducted from the adjusted  balance  in order words,  Miss D should 
only have to pay any interest that accrued,  on the funds  advanced before 
September 2017. The payments Miss D made  after this date should then be 
deducted from the adjusted balance. If the payments Miss D made would have  
cleared the adjusted  balance any extra should be treated  as overpayments  and 
refunded to her; and
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if there were any, from 
the date they were  made to the date of settlement ;
if the outstanding balance is cleared once all adjustments have been made then 
any adverse information recorded as a result  of this facility should  be removed 
from Miss Ds credit  file. 
if, after all adjustments have been  made, an outstanding balance remains  Drafty 
can collect this from Miss D should  it wish to do so. However, I would  remind  
Drafty of its obligation to exercise  forbearance should Miss D be experiencing 
financial difficulty and it choose  to collect any potential  outstanding balance.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must 
give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN95009545My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ds complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
should put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 June  2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9500954