K820x#14Complaint
Mr R complains that L J Financial Planning Ltd (LJFP) provided unsuitable pensions advice 
which has led to significant losses.
Background
Mr R met with representatives of a property development  company, which  Ill refer to as O, 
in 2012. Mr R discussed the prospect of investing in property overseas using his pension 
funds. Mr R was introduced to LJFP  by O to take advice  on the possibility of using his 
pension funds in this way.
LJFP recommended that Mr R switch  the benefits  he held in three money purchase personal 
pension plans to a self-invested  personal  pension (SIPP). It said it wasnt  providing Mr R 
with any advice as to the investments he intended  to make.
The SIPP was opened in May 2012 and received a total sum of £44,526.90 from Mr Rs 
previous pension plans on 15 June 2012.  Mr R invested £39,750 in a plot of land in the 
Cayman Islands through O on 21 June 2012. LJFP received a fee of £1,000 for the advice it 
provided.
Mr R complained in 2018  through a claims management company  (CMC)  after becoming 
aware that his investment was illiquid and he couldnt withdraw  any funds. He said hed been 
told the value  of his investment would grow,  which he would be able to benefit from when he 
sold the land back to O. Mr R said he didnt think the investment was suitable  for him as it 
was high-risk and LJFP  shouldve advised him against doing  so.
LJFP said Mr R had made  up his mind to invest his pension funds in land through  O before 
taking advice from LJFP.  And in any event, it said it didnt provide any investment advice to 
Mr R, it only advised on the switch of the benefits  held in his existing scheme to a SIPP.
Mr R referred  his complaint to our service. Our adjudicator didnt  uphold  it. He didnt think 
LJFP could restrict the pension advice given  to Mr R  he said it needed  to consider the 
underlying investment strategy in order to provide suitable advice. And he didnt think the 
investment in overseas land was suitable for Mr R, so he thought  LJFP  shouldve advised 
him against switching  his existing pension benefits.  However, the adjudicator  thought Mr R 
had been influenced by the representative of O, who was his nephew,  and thought  he 
wouldve most likely gone ahead with the investment  irrespective of the advice given.
Mr R didnt agree. He said he hadnt  met with any representatives of LJFP  or had any 
discussions with them  he said he didnt have  any documents  from LJFP. He didnt see how 
they couldve advised him without speaking to him. He said he only dealt with 
representatives of O and had only spoken  with his nephew about things when he was first 
made aware  of the investment opportunity, and not in any official capacity.
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change his view on the matter.  He said Mr R had 
signed a copy  of the recommendation letter  on 17 May 2012, the same date other 
documents had been signed, which suggested they had been posted to him. He thought this 
showed Mr R had acknowledged receiving advice from LJFP.
Mr Rs CMC provided additional comments. They  said Mr R had been researching  other 
overseas investment opportunities before meeting  with O. The CMC said this showed Mr R 
Ref: DRN90765422was capable of making  his own investment decisions and wouldnt have only made the 
decision because of his nephews association with O. The CMC said Mr R wouldve most 
likely followed LJFPs advice if it had advised  him against the investment with O.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the adjudicator. Ill explain why.
As the adjudicator has said, LJFP was under a regulatory obligation to make sure that the
SIPP was suitable  for Mr R. Assessing suitability would include considering the suitability of 
the investments  Mr R intended to make.
Im satisfied that LJFP  was aware Mr R intended  to invest in land overseas  through  O. I say 
this because a representative of LJFP  signed an Overseas Property Questionnaire
and Guidance Notes  issued by the SIPP provider. This gave details of the developer, O, the 
plot of land Mr R intended to purchase and the price. So, I am satisfied that LJFP knew  or 
ought to have known of his intentions when it provided him with pension  advice.
The regulations required advisers to know their client  and give suitable advice. As LJFP  was 
aware of Mr Rs intention to invest his pension funds  with O, I think  it had a responsibility to 
warn Mr R of the risks associated  with the investment.  LJFP  says that its adviser did warn 
Mr R that the investment  was high risk. But I cant see any evidence  of this. The 
recommendation letter of 11 May 2012 specifically stated that LJFP  wasnt providing any 
investment advice.
There were many risks associated with the investment Mr R intended to make; it was 
unregulated and overseas, so there would be currency exchange risks. The investment was 
also illiquid  so Mr R couldve only accessed  his funds if a buyer could be found for his plot 
of land. I think this was a high risk investment and given Mr R had very little investment  
experience and a limited  capacity for loss, I dont think he shouldve been advised  to switch 
his existing pension  benefits for the purpose of investing with O. However, I have to consider 
whether Mr R wouldve  followed that advice.
I think its fair to say that most consumers  follow the advice given to them  by a regulated 
adviser. This is consistent with the regulators view that clients who insist  on acting against 
the advice they are given  insistent  clients"  are generally considered to be rare.
But in this case, Mr R has said throughout that he didnt know he was being given advice 
by LJFP. He said his meetings to discuss the investment were with O, not with any 
representatives of LJFP. However, I think Mr R wouldve  known LJFP  had advised him to 
switch his existing  pension plans to a SIPP. He was sent documents in the post by LJFP,  
including a recommendation letter, which he signed  and returned to LJFP.  Mr R doesnt 
recall signing the letter and said he doesnt have a copy  of it. But I havent been given any 
reason to doubt that Mr R signed  the letter, along with other documents LJFP  required him 
to sign to open the SIPP.
Ref: DRN90765423Given Mr R says he only discussed the investment with O, it is not clear to what  extent he 
was relying on advice from LJFP. The evidence Ive seen indicates that it was Mr Rs 
nephew who introduced him to the investment. And Mr R told our adjudicator that his 
brother had also invested with O and that he thought it was a good  deal. He said his 
nephews involvement  added credibility to the investment proposal. Mr R also told us that 
an account had been opened  with the SIPP provider and £2,000 had been put into it  he 
said hed been  told he could withdraw  this but found  he couldnt as it was linked to his 
pension. He also said he was promised a further  £1,000 by O which  he didnt receive.
Overall, I think it was probably the views  expressed  by Mr Rs nephew, the fact his brother 
had also made an investment, and the incentives  offered to him by O that led Mr R to 
invest as he did. And I think its likely  that he wouldve placed greater reliance on the 
representations his nephew and other agents of O made than on any contrary  advice he 
may have  been  given  by LJFP. So, I think it is more likely than not that Mr R wouldve  
switched his existing  pensions to the SIPP and invested through O, even if LJFP had 
advised against it.
Ive taken into account the CMCs  comments about  Mr R having already researched  other  
investments abroad  before deciding to invest with O. He says that this indicates that he 
could make his own investment decisions and wasnt  influenced  by his nephews  
involvement. However, in my view, the fact Mr R did invest with O (despite researching other 
investment opportunities elsewhere) shows that his nephews involvement did have an 
impact on his decision. And I dont think that demonstrates that he wouldve followed advice 
from LJFP not to invest in O. Instead,  it suggests to me that Mr R was already looking to 
invest in overseas property before he had any involvement with LJFP.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9076542