K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that he was mis-sold  a reviewable whole of life policy  by a predecessor 
business that was taken  over by ReAssure Limited.  
He says he was led to believe the policy would  pay out a lump  sum upon maturity  at age 65, 
and not that itd only pay out on death.   
Hes also concerned about the poor surrender value hes likely  to get if he surrenders now 
and doesnt understand  why he wouldnt be entitled to the bonus payments that he thought  
were guaranteed once theyd been  added.   
background
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
This is a whole of life policy  that was designed  to pay out upon death  of the life 
assured. 
Theres some mention of maturity  date  probably in relation to a different product - 
that Mr C has clearly  misread  and misunderstood.  
The Illustration  document was likely to provide information about  a range of products 
and not just the whole of life policy. 
Despite what Mr C says theres no supporting evidence  that he was told the policy 
would end at 65, the Illustration document only gives a surrender value at that point.  
Given that the policy was sold almost  40 years ago its difficult  to establish  what  Mr C 
was (and wasnt told).      
Mr C disagrees  with the adjudicators view, and although hes unoptimistic about  a different 
outcome, he has asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, he said:
He feels the adjudicator has just re-hashed ReAssures findings,  and its now getting 
away with the consequences of giving  him incorrect information.
His complaint isnt about  the adviser misleading  him about the difference between 
the predicted death benefit and cash benefit  this was clearly  stated  in the plan.  
He has no illusions  about  the figures being an estimate and isnt suggesting  the lump 
sum had to be a particular amount.  
In relation to the maturity of the policy, he has been sent several bonus declaration 
letters from the insurer, for example the letter dated August  1997, which  is no 
different to the others,  states:   
o"we are pleased to inform you that as at 1/8/1997 a bonus has been  added to 
your policy,  this Declaration confirms your Alico UK policy  as a growing asset. 
This bonus is only payable in full upon  final maturity  of the policy,  or in the 
unfortunate event  of death. 
oThe adjudicator  seems to suggest both as unfortunate  event of death. 
oDespite throwing away a lot of his bonus letters,  by the time the policy  was 
taken over by ReAssure, hed accumulated around £20,000-£30,000. 
Why does he not have to pay premiums  from aged 65 is this because  the policy  has 
matured? 
Our adjudicator having considered Mr Cs additional points wasnt  persuaded  to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
Ref: DRN90825872He was sorry Mr C felt that he had re-hashed what ReAssure had said. He has only 
been able to consider the available  evidence,  and this wasnt a one sided 
assessment. 
Mr C was right to say the insurance was based  on trust, in other  words  based on 
utmost good  faith. But at the time the adviser wasnt under  an obligation to note down 
the reasons for the recommendation,  or keep a record  of what  he explained. And that 
was what he meant  when he referred to the regulations and practice at the time. 
In 1979 the adviser wasnt required to keep a record of the advice given. The adviser 
had to use reasonable care and skill in making a recommendation that was 
appropriate.  
He doesnt  agree that the information  regarding maturity and age 65 was 
misleading in the Illustration document. The document was clearly  intended  for a 
number of different  products hence  the reference to maturity dates as they might  
apply to other products.
Theres nothing within the document to suggest  that the policy  would mature  at age 
65. Any reference on the form where  an end date could be entered was left blank 
and the section about the basic plan only refers to potentially  cashing in the policy at 
age 65 rather than it maturing.
He could understand Mr Cs confusion over the reference to Estimated Maturity or 
Cash Value, but thats because the policy would have  a cash-in  value at age 65  
not a maturity value.  
He cant see how a whole of life policy can be interpreted as having  an alternative 
end date. The documentation made  clear  that the assured event was death.  
When ReAssure contacted Mr C in 2012   to let him know the way the bonuses 
would be calculated   the sum assured and accrued bonuses  on his policy were 
£26,393. 
There were  two types of this policy and Mr C had the one that continued to charge a 
premium for the whole of his life rather than stop at 65  so hes going to have to 
keep paying premiums until death.   
As an additional benefit,  Mr C also had a £10,000 level term assurance  policy  which 
is due to end in August 2019, after which time he will no longer be charged this 
additional premium  with his overall  monthly  premium.   
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr C says, Im unable to safely  
say that he was told or led to believe that the whole of life policy  would mature at age 65, 
and thereafter  pay him a lump sum. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Cs strength of feeling about this matter. 
Ref: DRN90825873Mr C has provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr C and ReAssure, and reach what  I think  is an independent,  
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Because Mr C took this policy  out in 1979, before the Financial Services Act 1986  (FSA 
1986) came in to force in April 1988,  there were different requirements when giving advice. 
The common law duty to act with reasonable skill and care when making a recommendation 
applied, rather than the suitability requirement,  which applied  afterwards.  In other words any 
recommendation had to be appropriate for the consumers circumstances, (i.e. a 
reasonable fit). Therefore  I have  to consider this complaint in relation to the rules  and 
regulations that applied  at the time.   
At the time the predecessor business  to ReAssure wasnt  required to retain  detailed  
paperwork about the conversations that took place. Therefore its understandable that there  
may not be documentation  to show what specific advice  was given. 
Crucially the business wasnt required to complete a fact find document,  record  Mr Cs 
personal and financial  circumstances, or issue  a suitability letter detailing why the 
recommendation was made. 
Because the policy was sold in 1979, roughly  40 years ago, its only fair  to both parties  
that I apply  the rules  and regulations as they applied  at the time. 
So whats  unacceptable now, may not have  been in 1979. This is generally how our 
organisation deals with older complaints. Despite what Mr C says I dont think its 
unreasonable. 
These days it would  be unacceptable for a business  not to provide reasons for its 
recommendation, but in 1979  this wasnt required  and therefore I cant fault the business  for 
not having this information.  The product  literature  that might not be to todays standard  in 
terms of clarity might  not have been in breach of any rules at the time. 
On balance I think the documentation  provided  at the time made reasonably  clear  the nature 
and operation of the whole of life policy.  
I appreciate the phrase about  maturity Mr C refers to but I think it has been taken out of 
context, thus resulting  in the misunderstanding. 
In my opinion the documentation read as a whole, not in isolation, clearly  shows  that the 
policy would only pay out following a valid claim upon death.  Unlike  a savings  policy which  is 
likely to pay out a lump sum upon maturity or upon  surrender. The latter isnt what  the policy  
was.  
Ref: DRN90825874Ive no doubt Mr C believes in what he says he was told. But other  than what he says Ive 
seen no supporting evidence to safely conclude  that this was the case.  
Even if Mr C was told something along  those lines  which I dont think  he was  based on 
the Illustrations  there were no guarantees that he was likely to receive a particular  lump  sum 
if he were to surrender  the policy aged 65. Thats why if he now chooses to surrender the 
policy he might  be disappointed  with the surrender value and I cant blame  ReAssure for 
this.  
I also understand that Mr C bought an additional benefit  a £10,000 level term assurance 
policy for a term of £40 years  which expired in August 2019. And thats the policy for which 
hes no longer  required  to pay premiums, so his overall premium will have been reduced by 
the amount he was paying.  
Whats important to remember is that Mr Cs policy was taken out on a throughout life basis 
which means the premiums he pays will continue for the whole of his life without an end 
date. 
 
With all the best will in the world, I know that memories fade over time, and its difficult to 
accurately recall what someone may (or may not) have said or been told, especially from 
four decades ago. 
 
The bonuses applied to the policy only applied to the death benefits  and not if the policy  is 
surrendered earlier.  I understand the two are calculated in different ways  which  isnt 
uncommon for this type of policy. 
So, whilst its true that the policy had a cash-in value at age 65, this wasnt a maturity  value. 
And I think the adjudicator is right to say that there werent any guarantees about any future 
cash values upon  surrender. And in this case final maturity  only applied  in death and so 
thats when the bonuses  applied rather than maturity at 65.    
I appreciate Mr C will be unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what he wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require  ReAssure to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr C 
what he wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019. 
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9082587