K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2005. Mr N says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold  him the PPI.
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
Mr N took out PPI during  a phone call with Capital One in 2005. The policy was designed to 
protect his card repayments  in the event  he was off work, through  sickness or an accident or 
if he was made unemployed. It cost 79 pence  for every £100 he owed on the card. And it 
would pay out a monthly benefit of 10% of the outstanding balance for up to 12 months  upon  
successful claim.
Mr N has told us that at the time of taking out PPI he was working, entitled to sick pay from 
his employer, had savings and was in good health.
The adjudicator upheld the complaint. She said she thought Mr N had been  given  a choice 
whether to buy the PPI or not, but he had lost out because  he was not given enough 
information about it. She said that with over 12 months of sick pay and savings, Mr N would 
not have found the PPI useful if he had been  fully informed and so wouldnt have bought it. 
She felt that Capital  One should  pay back all Mr Ns premiums with appropriate interest.
Capital One disagrees,  so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ns case.
Ill first consider the sick pay and savings that Mr N had as that was the basis of our 
adjudicator upholding the complaint, and Ill then go on to consider all the other  aspects of 
the sale.
 
When Mr N took his complaint initially to Capital One he told them  that he had 3 to 6 months  
of sick pay entitlement  from his employer. When he brought the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service he told us he had 6 months  full and 3 months half sick pay from his 
employer.
Mr N also told us that he had £6,000  of savings and was consolidating £10,000 worth of debt 
at the time of the sale. And Capital One has told us he opened his new Capital One credit  
card with a balance transfer of over £2000. I can see that on the Capital  One credit  card 
application that Mr N completed in late 2004,  he requested that an outstanding balance of 
£2,256 be transferred over from an existing card.
Ref: DRN97079862I can understand that after 14 years Mr N has had difficulty in recalling his exact  
circumstances at the time of the sale in 2005.  But I need to decide what I think  his real 
financial situation then was, as it affects  the outcome  of this case. 
Mr N was asked to provide some  evidence of his sick pay and savings but has been  unable 
to do so, which again is understandable after all these years. 
In my view, based on the information  provided  above, I think its more  likely than not that any 
savings he had were  at least balanced  against  his debts. I say this because the debt he was 
consolidating represented a significant  proportion of his savings  at the time and he has not told 
us he had any other source  of income other than the salary he was protecting with the PPI. 
I also think that he may be confused about his sick pay from his employer bearing in mind 
his original submission to Capital One and because an entitlement  of 6 months full and 3 
months half pay is unusual. But I will take into account that it could have  been  the equivalent 
in cash terms of 7.5 months  pay. 
So my provisional conclusion is that I think  its more  likely than not that Mr N had no more  
than 7.5 months  sick pay entitlements  from his employer,  and that part of his savings were  
effectively balanced  off against  existing  debt he had. And I will take this forward  into my 
consideration of the sale overall  below.
Ive provisionally  decided that in this case the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear  that Mr N didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out during the telephone call  although I can understand why he cant 
remember this.
I say this for the following  reasons. Capital  One has provided this service with a 
comprehensive list of dated call scripts,  and referred  me in this case  to the script used at 
the time of this sale. I accept on the balance  of probabilities that this script was used on 
the phone  call with Mr N. And based  on this I think it is more likely than not that the 
representative made it clear to Mr N that he didnt have to take the policy  out but that he 
chose to do so without undue pressure.
I think this was a non advised sale, by which I mean that Capital One didnt recommend 
the PPI to Mr N or advise him to take it out. I say this because the call script which I 
accept was used  clearly instructs the service  agent  not to recommend  the PPI or offer 
advice. So Capital  One was only required to provide  Mr N with enough information  about 
the policy so he could make an informed decision about whether or not to buy it himself.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. I say this 
because Ive concluded above that he didnt have any more  than 7.5 months of sick pay 
and effectively no savings to fall back on, and the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
his sick pay and for up to 12 months. It also paid out if he lost his job and he wasnt  
affected by any of the policy exclusions. At a cost of 79p per £100  of the balance, it also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have 
put him off taking  out the cover.  
Ref: DRN97079863This means my provisional conclusion is that Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr N. 
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr N because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr N about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr N, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and my provisional  conclusion is that I think 
that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr N has said - but these  points  dont change  my view.
responses to my provisional  decision
Neither Mr N nor Capital One sent any further  substantive comments  to me by the date I set.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr N and Capital One provided no further evidence or arguments,  my conclusion  remains 
that the policy was not mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is that Mr N hasnt suffered loss as a result 
of taking out PPI to the extent that Capital One (Europe)  Plc has to pay back  all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr N.
But my decision is also that Capital One (Europe)  Plc does have to pay back to Mr N any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I do not award  any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9707986