K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the charges  that Arval UK Limited applied when he handed  back a car 
hed acquired  under a hire agreement.
background
Mr B acquired a car from Arval through a hire agreement  in March 2016  for a term of 36 
months. Mr B returned the car at the end of the agreement and arranged for an inspection  to 
be carried out on it. Arval  say their collection representative wasnt  able to carry out a full 
inspection on the car as they say it wasnt in a roadworthy condition upon  arrival of their 
representative. Mr B says he was told that one of the tyres on the car was marginally illegal. 
So, he arranged for a new tyre to be fitted  and another  date was agreed for an inspection to 
be carried out. The report for this inspection highlighted several  areas of damage to the car. 
Mr B disputed the damage he was being  charged  for and doesnt think two of the damages 
charged for were on the car before he returned it. Mr B also says the mileage he agreed to 
do when he acquired  the car was 45,000 miles.  But when he returned the car at the end of 
the agreement, hed only done just over 33,000  miles. So, Mr B says the amount he paid 
when he agreed  to do 45,000 miles should  eliminate  any cost for any potential damage on 
the car. Mr B is also unhappy with the customer service he received  from Arvals collection 
representative  Mr B says the collection representative couldve waited around until Mr B 
made arrangements to get the car ready for inspection.  Instead, the collection representative  
left, so Mr B had to make another appointment for the inspection  to take place on a different 
day.
Arval said the car had been assessed in line with the guidelines set by the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing  Association (BVRLA) as to what they would consider to be fair wear and 
tear. When  Mr B raised his complaint with Arval, they agreed to completely waive some 
charges for damages resulting in the total repair cost being  £390. In addition  to this, Arval  
said their collection representative  may wait at their discretion and where their days  
scheduling allows. However, the collection representative is authorised  to abort  inspections  if 
the car isnt ready upon arrival  which is what happened at the first inspection with Mr B. 
Arval apologised  for the customer service Mr B received and agreed to credit  Mr Bs bank  
account with the MOT charge in May 2019 and the abortive collection fee which was 
credited in July 2019, in recognition of the inconvenience and distress  caused.
Our case handler looked into Mr Bs concerns. Ultimately, it was decided  that Arval  had fairly 
charged for the damage  caused on the car and that because mileage allowance is separate  
to any damage charges,  one wouldnt be used to offset the other. Therefore, our case 
handler concluded that Arval hadnt  done  anything wrong.
Mr B disagreed. He said he didnt  think Arval had treated him fairly given he returned  the car 
with far less wear and tear than expected. Mr B also thinks the charges are excessive and 
doesnt think he caused the damage  Arval are charging him for. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN97885482The terms and conditions  of Mr Bs finance  agreement include a clause which says Arval 
shall invoice  the hirer for the cost of repairs (whether or not carried  out) to a vehicle returned 
to Arval that is subject  to damage which, in accordance  with the BVRLA  Fair Wear and Tear 
guide for the contract hire industry, would constitute unfair wear and tear.
Mr B was charged for the following items of damage (taken from the car inspection report):
1.Still panel right / repair Dent £195
2.Quarter panel left / repair Dent £195
The BVRLA has produced  industry guidance to help determine what a finance  company can 
charge for when  a car is returned. This is the starting point  for me as it represents good  
practice across the industry and is fairly detailed. So, Ive taken this guidance into account  
when deciding whether Arval acted  fairly  and reasonably in the charges  they applied.  Ive 
looked at the photos  of the damage from the inspection report  provided by Arval  and make  
the following  findings on the items of damages from the above table:
1.The photo in the report shows a dent on the right panel. I can see this damage  is in 
excess of the accepted level of damage  in the BVRLA guidance as the dent appears 
to be more than 10mm in diameter. So, I think Arval have fairly charged for this and I 
dont think the amount  being  charged  is unreasonable in this instance given the size 
of the dent.
2.Arval have charged for the dent on the swage line of the left quarter panel.  The 
BVRLA guidance says dents  on the swage line of any panel  are not acceptable.  Im 
satisfied this damage is visible on the swage  line and so, I think  Arval  have fairly 
charged for this damage.
Mr B says he didnt cause the two dents on the car and therefore, doesnt think  its fair for 
Arval to charge  for these.  Mr B says he took the car to a third party to be looked over a few 
weeks before it was inspected by Arval and the third party confirmed there  wasnt  any 
damage to the car. Mr B hasnt been  able to provide  any paperwork from when the third 
party looked  over the car. 
I understand Mr Bs frustration; however, I havent got anything to persuade me that the 
damage was caused after Mr B returned  his car. I understand Mr B wasnt able to be present 
at the inspection due to work commitments. Arval have told us the car was collected at an 
address chosen  by Mr B and that it wasnt moved  after it was inspected. So, I have no 
reason to believe that the damage was caused by anyone  else.
Mr B says he thinks he should get a refund for the difference in mileage between what was 
agreed on the hire agreement and the actual  mileage  he completed  Mr Bs agreement 
shows a mileage allowance of 45,000. And I can see from the inspection report it shows,  at 
the time the car was inspected, the total mileage  done was 33,311.
Ive had a look at the terms of the agreement. And I can see they say Mr B would  be 
responsible for paying for any mileage  he does over the agreed amount (in his case 45,000 
miles). It doesnt explain that if he does under the agreed mileage that hed receive a refund 
of the difference in miles.  So, I cant reasonably  ask Arval  to refund Mr B the difference  in 
mileage as this wasnt  what was agreed to under the agreement. 
In addition to this, Mr B has said Arval  should use the costs  in the mileage difference to pay 
for the outstanding damage  on the car. However,  the contract makes no provision to offset 
Ref: DRN97885483one set of charges against the other  as Mr B has suggested. And I have  no information to 
suggest that such an approach was in the contemplation of the parties at the time they made 
the contract. So, for this reason, I wont be asking  Arval to do as Mr B has requested.  
I acknowledge what Mr B has told us about the service he received  from Arvals collection 
representative and Im sorry to hear of the difficult time Mr B experienced. Arval have 
apologised and reimbursed Mr B for the MOT cost (£151.80) and the aborted  collection fee 
(£35), totalling £186.80, as compensation for the service he received. I appreciate  Mr B says 
he tried to work with the collection representative  on the day of the first inspection to avoid 
the inspection  being aborted. But as Arval  have explained, its down to the representatives 
discretion if they wish to wait for a customer  to carry out any necessary repairs/fixtures  
before returning  the car. 
I want to assure Mr B that whilst Ive not addressed each of the service issues hes raised 
directly, Ive looked at everything he has told us in coming to my decision. And as Ive 
explained, its clear  from what Mr B has told us that he found this experience  very stressful. 
Arval have accepted Mr B could have been given a better service and I've not seen enough 
to suggest a total amount  of £186.80 isn't fair to resolve that issue. So, I dont  think  Arval 
need to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 November 2020.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9788548