K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about six instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr H between January and 
July 2018. This is a summary of Mr Hs lending history from Sunny.
Loan Taken out Repaid Amount
1 10/01/2018 01/05/2018 £350
2 11/02/2018 01/05/2018 £50
3 25/02/2018 01/05/2018 £50
4 21/03/2018 01/05/2018 £150
5 31/05/2018 10/10/2018 £900
6 04/07/2018 18/09/2018 £100
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Hs complaint in part and thought the loans from loan 4 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Sunny disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr H could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN91142282There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator, and for the same reasons, that there  was nothing to indicate 
Sunny needed  to do more when it approved loans 1 to 3. So I dont think Sunny was wrong 
to give loans 1 to 3 to Mr H.
However by loan 4 I think there were clear  signs that Mr H was struggling  to manage his 
money. I say this because  when  Mr H applied for loan 4 he already had 3 other loans 
outstanding with Sunny. I think this should  have suggested to Sunny that his finances were  
under pressure. And that this, and any subsequent  loans provided in the short  term, were 
unlikely to be sustainably  affordable for Mr H. At this point I think  it should  have stopped  
lending to Mr H. At least until such point that it had evidence that his finances had stabilised.  
And I cant see this was the case when it approved loans 5 and 6. Loan 5 was taken in the 
same month loan 4 was repaid, and I think the significant increase in the value of loan 5 to 
£900 was a likely indicator that Mr H was still struggling financially. Whilst loan 6 reduced in 
value, Mr H was still repaying loan 5 when he took it out so he needed to be able to sustain 
the increased total loan repayments over a six month period. And I dont think  the time 
between loans 5 and 6 was long enough for Sunny to safely conclude  that Mr Hs financial 
position had improved.
So I agree with adjudicator that Sunny was wrong  to provide loans 4 to 6. 
I have carefully considered Sunnys  response  to our adjudicators view. It disagreed that the 
fact Mr H had three loans outstanding when he took out loan 4 is a valid indicator that a 
customer might not be able to make  future  repayments. But I disagree, as referenced above 
CONC requires a lender to consider  whether a borrower can sustainably  make their 
repayments  so, amongst other  things,  without borrowing further.  And I dont think Mr Hs 
borrowing behaviour  between the start of January and the end of February 2018 suggested 
this to be the case. Similarly  its argument that loans 5 and 6 were  affordable  only looks at 
the strict pounds and pence calculation, without considering the sustainability of the 
borrowing. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 to 6, and Sunny should  put things right. 
Ref: DRN91142283putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans 4 to 6;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 4 to 6 from Mr Hs credit file
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Mr H a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Hs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited (trading as Sunny) should pay Mr H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019. 
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9114228