K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  Mr P 
amended in 2008. Mr P says Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS) mis-sold him the policy.
background
Mr P initially bought this policy in 2000 and made several amendments  prior to 2008. But 
these were done with another  account  holder who is not a party to this complaint. So I have 
only looked at what happened after the mortgage and PPI were solely in Mr Ps name and 
what happened when  the PPI was amended in 2008.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr P disagrees, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
In my provisional decision of 15 February 2019  I set out why I wasnt minded to uphold the 
complaint about  the mis-sale of the policy and I invited  both parties  to make any further 
submissions before I reached a final decision.  Neither YBS nor Mr P have made  any further 
submissions. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ps case.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that: 
Currently, I dont think this policy was mis-sold  and Ill explain why
Ive had a look at Mr Ps PPI application  form from 2008. This specifies Mr P as the applicant 
and he selected  cover for unemployment only. There were options  to have more extensive 
cover such  as full cover  for accident,  sickness and unemployment  but these werent  
selected. A 30 day waiting  period before making a claim  has also been selected and there 
was a longer waiting  period available should  he have wanted to apply  for less extensive 
cover. Mr P appears to have been presented with a number of choices  and hes then 
selected the cover he wanted. So I think PPI was discussed and Mr P appears to have 
exercised a degree of consideration and choice.
Ive seen a copy  of a thank  you letter he was sent for applying for PPI setting  out his monthly  
premium, as well as an insurance schedule. This set out the cover  hed applied for during his 
application. Had he not agreed to take the PPI I wouldve expected him to have questioned 
what these documents  and cost were for.
So overall, based on everything  Ive seen, I think its more likely  YBS made it clear the PPI 
was optional and that Mr P agreed  to take it.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think YBS advised Mr P to amend  the PPI so it didnt 
have to check if the changes to the PPI were  right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr P 
got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him.
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr P about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this type of cover.  
Ref: DRN90334082Mr P was eligible for the policy  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time 
it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so 
the PPI would have been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable.
Mr P says he had good sick pay provided  by his employer. But he didnt take cover for 
accident and sickness indicating hed thought about this and decided  he didnt need this type 
of cover.  He purchased cover  for unemployment only,  and his sick pay would not have 
helped him had he lost his job. As he had no other means to help him make  his repayments, 
I think he couldve found the PPI useful and I dont think better  information  about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
commission
As explained above, there was another account holder originally on the policy and mortgage 
who isnt a party to this complaint. As such,  I am unable to consider  anything that happened 
prior to the joint account holder being  removed from the mortgage and PPI account  this 
party was removed in January 2004.  So Ive also only considered the commission charged  
on the premiums Mr P has paid since January 2004  when  the joint account holder was 
removed from the account.
And YBS says it will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because:
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  YBS didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
I would also add that YBS has indicated it may be making an offer to refund some  of the 
commission Mr P paid before the joint account holder was removed from the account. Whilst 
I am unable  to consider this element of YBSs offer, Mr P and YBS can liaise  directly  for any 
offers related to the commission  charged  on the PPI for the period prior to January 2004.
Ref: DRN90334083As explained above, neither YBS nor Mr P have made any additional comments  in response 
to my provisional decision.  So in the absence of any new points for me to consider, I find no 
reason to depart from my original findings  as set out in my provisional decision so I dont 
uphold Mr Ps complaint  about the mis-sale of the policy. 
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr P any commission  and profit share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium from the date the joint account holder was removed from the 
account. YBS should also pay back to Mr P any extra interest  he paid because of that.
YBS should pay back to Mr P the extra he paid each month because the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also pay Mr P 
8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic  rate tax off this interest. Mr P can claim  back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have  to pay back  to Mr P any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium from January 2004  after the joint 
account holder  was removed from the account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9033408