K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Gain Capital UK Limiteds  system issue on 5 February 2018 and 
erroneous prices caused him to suffer greater financial losses  than he otherwise would have 
on certain spreadbets  he had placed  on its platform.
background
Mr S had a spread  betting account  with Gain. On 5 February 2018 he had a number of open  
trades, including large exposure to the US SP500  Mar18 Put 24000 and UK100 Mar 18 Put 
7000 markets.  Just after 20:00 he began  experiencing  difficulties with Gains platform  and 
between 20:00  and 21:00 was unable to close these trades online. The trades he attempted  
to close were referred for dealer review because they were too large  to be executed 
automatically and they were not approved (one was rejected because it was based  on an 
erroneous price, and Gain has said the other was rejected after Mr S didnt accept a requote  
of the price). When Mr S attempted to telephone Gain, he said he was unable  to get through  
to a dealer in order to close his positions. 
During this time, the significant  volatility in the underlying markets Mr S was exposed to 
caused gaps in the prices Gain was receiving from its liquidity providers, which in turn 
caused Gain to quote erroneous prices  on its platform. This caused Mr Ss account to fall 
below the 50% margin  closeout limit which, according to its own policy, wouldve required 
Gain to close all Mr Ss open positions. However,  given the issues  Gain  was experiencing at 
the time,  it took the decision not to close Mr Ss positions that evening because  it considered  
the prices which  had caused the account to have insufficient margin were not accurate. 
Instead, the trades were closed the following morning,  when  the pricing issues  were  
resolved, at a greater  loss than would otherwise have been the case. 
Mr S complained. In short, he said:
Between 20:20 and 21:00 the margin close out level was breached and fluctuated  
between 80% and below. During  this time Gains system  was hung which meant 
that he was unable to close his open  positions and would instead receive a red 
ticket showing that his trades couldnt  be closed. 
At 21:00  he still expected his trades to be closed due to insufficient margin because  
he says he was at 20% margin. However, his open positions  werent closed. When 
he contacted Gains support  team  he was told that due to volatility in the market,  the 
platform was closed  without prior notice  at 21:00  instead of 21:15 as was usually the 
case. 
As a provider of spread betting services, Gain was responsible for providing risk 
management services  to the client portfolio,  and that this was the sole purpose  of 
designing the Margin Close out level on the platform. 
The margin close out level was overwritten by Gains team without  communicating  
with him  the system  shouldve  closed  his trades a number  of times during the day 
and that 40 minute period. At the very least it shouldve closed his positions out at the 
end of the day at 21:00. 
The platform was jumping every  second and was basically useless  Mr S says he 
was unable to reach  customer  service  via chat or phone during  this time and when 
he did manage to speak to someone at 21:00  he was told that the system had been 
stopped due to extreme volatility.
Ref: DRN93454712When his positions were eventually closed out on 6 February he suffered a 
significant loss as a result of the market  correction which Mr S says was expected 
for that day. 
Mr S said that it was Gains responsibility to correctly close his open positions when he had 
insufficient margin. So he claimed Gain should  compensate him and pay back  80% of his 
losses on the basis that he wouldve avoided these losses  had they closed his positions  out 
properly.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2020.  In it I said:
I consider this case to be finely  balanced. Theres clearly a factual dispute  between Gain and 
Mr S over what  was happening to the platform that evening, and what steps Mr S was able 
to take in order to close  his open  trades and mitigate his eventual  losses.  
Gain doesnt dispute that at the relevant times it was experiencing issues on its platform 
caused by some erroneous prices  it was receiving on the markets  Mr S was trading on. And 
it doesnt dispute that as a result, Mr Ss account  equity was incorrectly calculated  and 
caused it to look like he had insufficient margin. 
But it has confirmed that it wouldve been possible for Mr S to continue  trading  which it 
says Mr S did twice. And it says that the first trade Mr S attempted  it provided  him a requote, 
which he rejected. And the second was simply rejected on the basis  that the quote  had been 
manifestly wrong. 
Theres also a dispute over whether Gains telephones were working that evening. Mr S has 
provided evidence  that shows him calling Gains helpline number  although that evidence 
only shows calls attempted. In contrast, Gain has provided evidence  of all the calls it 
received that evening,  and this does persuasively  show that it wasnt  experiencing issues 
with receiving phone calls. 
But the key issue  in this complaint, in my view, is what happened at the end of the day, once 
the markets were closed.  And its on this issue that I dont consider Gain has provided a 
sufficiently comprehensive response. 
I accept that Gain has said that between 20:00  and 21:00 incorrect  pricing had caused 
Mr Ss account to go into margin deficit.  And its obvious that I wouldnt expect the firm to 
close Mr Ss trades out on prices  it knew were incorrect. So Gain  has explained  that once 
Mr Ss account was reviewed, it made a decision not to close  him out. Im not currently  
persuaded that particular decision was fair and reasonable.
Gain has said that once  the incorrect prices were  addressed, its trading desk confirmed that 
Mr Ss account had sufficient margin to keep his trades open. Its for that reason that none of 
his open trades were  closed that evening   and he only went into margin  deficit  the following 
morning.  
But a document,  which  I understand was a contract  note produced at 22:00 on 5 February, 
showed that Mr Ss account clearly had insufficient  margin. The note shows  that Mr S 
needed around £17,500 available margin  in his account, but instead  had just over £3,400 
available equity. So Mr S was already in Margin deficit  by significantly more  than the 50% 
Gain says wouldve been the threshold it would normally have  closed him out at. This 
contract note was produced after the incorrect pricing had been identified  and put right and 
Ref: DRN93454713the markets had closed  so it seems to me that this is evidence that contradicts what Gain  
is saying was the situation at the time. Ive seen no other evidence to indicate that at market  
close on 5 February Mr S had sufficient  margin in his account to keep  his trades open. 
So the question  then becomes, why did Gain not close Mr Ss trades out that evening  at the 
end of day prices, once it knew these were  accurate? Im afraid the explanations  Ive been 
provided so far are not persuasive. I dont dispute that Mr S was ultimately responsible  for 
the risk on his account, and that Gains terms gave  it a degree of flexibility over how it would 
act when an account went into Margin deficit.  And I acknowledge that, in general, a 
consumer shouldnt rely on the margin call process to trigger  the closure  of open trades. 
Its well established that it is the consumers responsibility to manage any open trades and 
take action when necessary. 
But its clear to me that Gains  general response to these circumstances at the time was to 
margin call an account and go ahead and close trades that were open.  This is what it did the 
following morning. And I believe  Mr S when he says that this is what it typically  always did in 
the past. And Gains terms  clearly allowed it to close open trades when an account  had 
insufficient margin: 
11. Margin Close Out Level
11.1 If the Margin  Level for your Account reaches or falls below the Margin Close Out Level, 
this will be classified as an Event of Default under clause 16. In such circumstances we may, 
among other things  (i) close all or any of your Open  Positions immediately and without notice 
and/or (ii) refuse to execute new Trades until your Margin  Level exceeds  the Margin  Close  
out Level [] We will close your Open Positions at Our Price prevailing at the time when 
your Open Positions  are closed. 
I acknowledge the terms also gave it the option of not closing trades  and explain that it is 
ultimately the consumers  responsibility to ensure that the account has sufficient margin. The 
terms also clearly  say that theres  no guarantee that open positions will be closed when the 
Margin Close Out Level  is reached  or breached.  
But the terms clearly explain that the reason accounts have a Margin Close Out Level, and 
the reason why Gain will attempt to close trades automatically when that level is breached, is 
because the Margin  Close  Out Level is designed  to help limit the extent of your trading 
losses. 
So in deciding whether to close  or leave open  Mr Ss trades, Gain  needed  to take into 
account all the circumstances. In other words, Gain needed to ensure that it weighed up 
what was in the interests of its client as well as what it had agreed to in its terms, including  
the reasons why it had discretion to close positions  when the Close  Out Level was breached. 
Ive not been provided with any evidence or rationale as to why Gain  chose not to close 
Mr Ss trades that evening. 
In reaching my provisional view on what I consider wouldve been the fair and reasonable 
thing to do, Ive taken  into account Gains obligations under its terms. Ive also taken into 
account how significantly below the margin requirement Mr Ss account was that evening,  
and his behaviour earlier  in the evening when on at least two occasions he attempted to 
close these trades. Given all the circumstances, Im currently of the view that it was clearly in 
Mr Ss interest to limit any further risk at that point  and close out Mr Ss open trades. I 
appreciate Gain wouldnt  have been  aware how the market would open the following day. 
Ref: DRN93454714But its clear to me that given how little equity Mr S had in his account  that evening,  the risk 
of him having a negative balance in the short term was very high. And Im satisfied that by 
closing his trades that evening, Gain wouldve been acting in line with its terms, as well as 
being consistent with its obligations  to act in the best interests of its client.  
Ive not been provided with a persuasive  reason for why Gain took no action at that point. 
The only explanation for not closing Ms Ss trades  earlier in the evening  was because  of the 
erroneous prices Gain had been  receiving which caused it to question  whether Mr Ss 
account did in fact have insufficient  margin. But Gain has confirmed that this issue  had been 
resolved by the end of the day. 
So in the absence of any reason or logic behind why it took no action on Mr Ss account, Im 
not currently persuaded that Gains failure to close Mr Ss trades was fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
Given what Ive said above, Im currently of the view that the fair and reasonable way to put 
things right for Mr S is for Gain to adjust his account to where it was at the end of the day on 
5 February, using the correct prices. Whilst Ive not done the calculations  myself, the 
evidence indicates  this ought  to mean  his account wouldve been left with a small positive 
balance. 
I acknowledge that Mr S had an obligation  to mitigate his losses   and from 21:00 he 
couldve called Gains helpdesk to attempt to trade over the phone. And I consider there  is a 
possibility that Mr S wasnt fully intending to close his trades, and was happy  to wait and see 
what the markets would do. I say this bearing in mind his phone  call with the trader  the 
following morning, in which he didnt ask the trader to immediately close his trades. Of 
course by that point  he was facing far greater losses that he had been facing on 5 February. 
But Ive weighed this with the circumstances  and the difficulties which I consider he likely  
experienced (even if I cant entirely resolve  the factual disputes between  both parties), as 
well as the attempts  he did make to close his trades earlier. It seems to me that Mr S did 
make reasonable attempts before  the markets closed  and given  the platforms difficulties in 
quoting prices were not caused by him, I dont consider it would  be fair and reasonable for 
Mr S to bear the full consequences  of what happened that evening.  
So considering all the above,  my current view is that Mr S shouldnt  be left with a negative  
balance  but he should also not be left with a positive balance.
However, I do agree with the adjudicator that this matter has caused Mr S a degree  of 
trouble and upset  for which I consider a payment of £250 is fair and reasonable. 
In response to my provisional decision,  Gain said:
Prices were erroneous from 5 February 2018  20:14 to 21:04 GMT. 
On 5 February 2018 at 21:04  the US Options market closed (FTSE Options closed at 
21:00). 
It said that Gain Capital  couldnt have closed  Mr Ss trades when the market was closed   
and it wouldnt have  closed him earlier at prices  it knew  were incorrect. It referred back to the 
comments it made during  the investigation. 
Ref: DRN93454715In response to the provisional decision, Mr S said that he had more than £81,000 before 
trading started  on the day. He said that he thought he should be left with the positive balance  
that the end of the day prices would  have left him with had his trades been closed at that 
time. He also said:
Gain had already accepted its systems  had experienced issues  in the final hour 
before trading started. 
It had plenty of time to close his trades  out while his account was in margin  deficit  
and the fact that it didnt do so showed that it wasnt able to follow its usual process  
due to the system  issues and Gain wasnt working  in favour  of the customer. 
Mr S asked that his account be settled at the end of the day prices, rather  than zero.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional conclusions. 
Gain hasnt provided  any additional comments or information in response  to my provisional 
decision. It has reaffirmed what it has already said in response  to the adjudicators  view  
but Im satisfied Ive addressed those points  in my provisional decision. 
In relation to the way Ive suggested the situation ought to be put right for Mr S, Gain has 
confirmed the timing of the pricing issues it experienced as well as the closing time of the 
relevant markets. It said that his trades couldnt be closed after that. 
Mr S has, on the other hand,  said that it wouldnt be fair not to leave him with a positive 
balance which is what he wouldve been  left with had his trades been closed at the end of 
the day prices. 
Ive thought very carefully about whats fair and reasonable in this case. In my view,  putting 
things right here means weighing up Mr Ss responsibilities when managing the risk to his 
account, as well as Gains responsibilities  in operating a platform that was fit for purpose. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Im not persuaded Gains decision not to close  
Mr Ss open  positions  at the time was fair and reasonable. I say this mainly because  I think  
that once it sorted its pricing issues out, it wouldve been clear that Mr S had insufficient  
margin to keep his trades  open  and well below the 50% level when Gain  normally took 
action. At the same time, I acknowledge  the possibility that Mr S wasnt intending on closing 
his trades  that evening.  I think  strong  evidence of this is the phone  call he had the following 
morning, when he declined to have his positions  closed  despite the significant losses he was 
experiencing. 
I think its possible that Mr S may have  had opportunities to limit the losses  on his account  
the evening before, but chose not to in the expectation that things  might  improve.  Thats a 
trading decision  which I dont consider Gain ought  to be responsible for. 
So given the circumstances, Im still of the view that fair and reasonable way is to ensure 
that Mr S isnt left with a negative balance  because  I think its likely that this wouldve been  
avoided had Gain done what it shouldve done.  At the same  time,  I dont think it would be fair 
that he be left with a positive  balance,  because that would essentially mean Gain  
Ref: DRN93454716underwriting a trading decision he made at the time  it would basically give Mr S a risk free 
bet. 
Finally, Ive considered  what Mr S has said about the balance of his account that morning. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S, but I dont consider thats relevant. Mr S made trading decisions 
with this money, and that is what ultimately  caused  his balance to reduce. I agree that Gain 
was responsible for not limiting the extent of his losses, which is why I dont consider he 
should be required to pay back the negative balance he currently  owes.  But it isnt Gain  that 
influenced Mr Ss trading  decisions   and unfortunately those trading decisions turned out 
not to be profitable  for Mr S. Thats not something  that I can fairly hold Gain responsible for. 
Putting things right
As Ive already  said, it isnt possible for me to resolve the factual disputes between Gain  and 
Mr S  so Ive thought very carefully  about  the fair and reasonable way to put things right.  In 
my view, given the issues Gain was experiencing that evening as well as its failure to close  
Mr Ss positions when it could and probably should  have, I dont consider it would be fair for 
him to bear the full consequences of what happened that evening. In other words, I dont 
consider he should be left with the debt currently  on the account of over £35,000. 
At the same time, Gain has provided  evidence to show that Mr S did have some 
opportunities to limit his losses sooner. I acknowledge that Mr S had an obligation to mitigate 
his losses  and from 21:00 he couldve called Gains  helpdesk  to attempt to trade over the 
phone for example. As Ive said above, its possible Mr S was waiting to see whether the 
profitability of his trades improved  and that would be a trading decision that I wouldnt hold 
Gain responsible  for. 
So given what Ive said above, I remain of the view that the fair and reasonable way to put 
things right for Mr S is for Gain to adjust his account to where it was at the end of the day on 
5 February, using the correct prices. I understand this would leave a small positive balance 
on the account. But as Ive explained  I dont think that would be fair. So considering  all the 
above, my view is that Mr S shouldnt be left with a negative balance   but he should also 
not be left with a positive  balance.
However, I do agree with the adjudicator that this matter has caused Mr S a degree  of 
trouble and upset  for which I consider a payment of £250 is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Gain Capital UK Limited must write off the 
debt currently on Mr Ss account. It must also pay him £250  within  28 days  of when  we tell it 
he has accepted  this final decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020. 
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9345471