K822xcomplaint
Mr Ws complaint  is about an erroneous pension transfer involving a third party adviser from 
Lighthouse Advisory  Services Limited (Lighthouse)  and ReAssure  Limited as the transferor. 
background 
Mr Ws ReAssure  Retirement Annuity Policy (RAP) was wrongly transferred from ReAssure 
to a third party provider (the transferee) in August 2017. There is no dispute in this respect 
and all parties agree that the RAP should not have been transferred.
The transfer was mistakenly initiated  by the Lighthouse adviser. Lighthouse concedes this 
and there  is evidence  in a separate complaint from Mr W about Lighthouses role in the 
matter  showing that the adviser had expressly  recommended retaining the RAP with 
ReAssure (not to transfer it). 
ReAssure says it received  the RAP transfer request  on 9 August, that the transferee 
requested use of the electronic Origo  service for the transfer, that it processed  the transfer 
through that service as requested and that the transfer was completed by 16 August. It also 
says that it heard no further about  the matter until five months  later in January 2018 when 
Lighthouse informed it about  its advisers error and sought assistance  to reverse the 
transfer.
Lighthouse, ReAssure and the transferee appear to have explored  the possibility of 
reversing the transfer, however that pursuit concluded unsuccessfully. A calculation  of the 
financial loss incurred  by Mr W  based  on the loss of valuable benefits from the RAP due to 
the transfer  was concluded and there appears to have been a debate  between  Lighthouse 
and ReAssure over responsibility  for compensating Mr W. There  appears to be no dispute 
that Mr W is entitled to the compensation that has been calculated, but there is dispute over 
who has and/or shares responsibility to pay him. 
ReAssures position  is that Lighthouse bears  full responsibility for the mistake  and for the 
compensation payment to Mr W. Lighthouse  accepts 20% of the responsibility  but says 
ReAssure should  be responsible for at least 80% of the compensation payment because  it 
had a duty to ensure that transfer related paperwork was part of the process before 
proceeding with the transfer; it says no such paperwork existed in the process, that had 
ReAssure used said paperwork  its adviser would have noticed the RAP was being 
transferred and would  have  stopped the transfer. 
ReAssure disagrees  and says the electronic service nominated by the transferee  and used 
in the process  is designed to conduct transfers without the paperwork Lighthouse has 
mentioned, so it had no duty to use them or to highlight their absence.  In addition, it says the 
transfer value  was less than £30,000 and the transfer was adviser-driven  by the 
Lighthouse adviser  so it had no cause to suspect that a mistake  had been  made  or to 
query Mr Ws awareness of the benefits  he was giving up by transferring the RAP. Without 
prejudice to this position, ReAssure made  a gesture  of goodwill and offered to pay Mr W 
£200.
In the separate complaint  from Mr W  against  Lighthouse  Lighthouse maintains that 
ReAssure should  have 80% of the responsibility to compensate Mr W and it argues that 
there is evidence from the transferee that it holds  ReAssure  mainly responsible and 
Ref: DRN92813022evidence from ReAssures past correspondence  which suggests that it previously conceded 
such responsibility.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and broadly agreed with ReAssures position. 
She considered that responsibility  for the erroneous transfer was Lighthouses; she also 
concluded that the £200 payment proposed by ReAssure should  be made to Mr W as it 
would have been helpful if it had made  some  form of contact  with Mr W at the time of the 
transfer  but it did not.
Mr W accepted this outcome and ReAssure does not appear to have rejected it, but because 
of the connection between this complaint  and the separate complaint about Lighthouse and 
because Lighthouse maintains its dispute about responsibility for the matter  both complaints 
 including  the present one against ReAssure   were referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I too conclude that 
ReAssure bears no responsibility  or share  of responsibility for the erroneous transfer of the 
RAP.
I have looked  into evidence on whether (or not) ReAssure was in any meaningful way 
responsible for the erroneous transfer  and/or  whether (or not) it acted in any way that 
contributed to that transfer and/or whether (or not) it acted in any way that unreasonably 
prevented correction of that transfer.  I consider the following:
Evidence shows that ReAssure neither initiated/advised the transfer nor did it 
nominate the electronic service for the transfer process. Its role appears to have 
been limited to responding to the transfer request and completing the transfer  to the 
transferee as it requested. The electronic process does not appear to have warranted 
the paperwork requirement that has been  debated so I do not consider that a 
relevant factor.  I have not seen evidence that ReAssure was obliged to question  the 
transfer in any way or to advise Mr W of or about  the transfer. I am not bound by any 
view on the matter  that the transferee  allegedly has. I also do not consider that the 
notion of a previous concession by ReAssure is entirely  accurate  or is automatically 
binding upon  me. ReAssure  does  appear to have voiced some regret  in the matter 
previously, but evidence of its final position  is as I have  summarised  above  and it 
disputes responsibility. Like the investigator,  I consider ReAssures goodwill offer to 
Mr W to be reasonable and it is invited to ensure  that payment is made to him. 
ReAssures and the investigators shared reason for this payment  appears to be that, 
given the facts, ReAssure could (not should) have given  Mr W some  form of notice of 
the transfer but it did not.
I have not seen evidence of an act or omission committed by ReAssure which  
contributed to the erroneous transfer of the RAP. As I said above, I am not 
persuaded by the argument  of an omission related to transfer paperwork.
Available evidence  suggests that ReAssure was cooperative in the pursuit  to reverse  
the RAP transfer  and that the pursuits failure  did not result from anything  it did or did 
not do.
Ref: DRN92813023my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my decision is that ReAssure Limited is not responsible for the 
erroneous transfer  of Mr Ws Retirement  Annuity Policy, but it should pay him the goodwill  
payment of £200  it has offered him for the reasons stated above.  Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision 
before 27 September 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9281302