K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that Legal  & General Partnership Services Limited  (LGPS)  mis-sold her an 
interest only mortgage.
background
Ms C held a repayment  mortgage with her previous lender  for around £40,000. Following a 
meeting with LGPS in 2006, she re-mortgaged to a new lender on an interest only basis  for 
around £130,000 over a 23-year term. The mortgage also consolidated around  £37,000  
worth of unsecured  debt.  
Ms C says that the mortgage was mis sold and that a repayment mortgage would have been 
more suitable  and affordable for her at the time.  She says that she insisted on a repayment 
mortgage but was told by LGPS that the lender they recommended didnt offer them.
LGPS said it didnt  mis-sell the mortgage and that an interest only mortgage  was the only 
option due to Ms Cs circumstances at the time. It said that the mortgage  helped to 
consolidate Ms Cs debts and made her payments more affordable   which  was important to 
Ms C at the time. 
Our investigator considered the complaint  but didnt think that it should be upheld.  Ms C 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked carefully at all the information  
thats been made available surrounding the sale of the mortgage  and what  Ms C and LGPS  
have said now.
Theres a disagreement  over what happened at the time of sale. Ms C has said that she was 
told by LGPS that she could  only have  an interest  only mortgage and that the lender  didnt  
offer repayment mortgages. LGPS has said that all options were discussed  but that it was 
not affordable  for her to have a repayment  mortgage due to her circumstances  at the time 
and her plans to consolidate  her debts. 
Ive thought about what both parties  have  said and the available  evidence. I understand that 
Ms C now says that she insisted on a repayment mortgage as this is what she always had 
and that this was easily  affordable for her. But the documentation from the time paints a 
different picture.  
Ive taken careful note of Ms Cs recollections  and appreciate how important this issue  is for 
her. But Im also mindful that these events happened nearly 15 years ago now. Human 
memory can alter and fade over time,  thats not to say that people  remember  things 
incorrectly but rather that events can become less clear as time passes and formed from 
recollections or later views. I understand that Ms C is now unhappy with her mortgage and 
its possible that this belief is shaping her recollections of the time about  the discussions and 
options available.  
The documentation  from the sale in 2006 includes LGPS Mortgage Record of Suitability. In 
this the adviser  writes: I have explained  the different repayment  methods to you and 
Ref: DRN90856822discussed your needs as to whether you require a guarantee that your whole mortgage  is 
repaid at the end of the term, or whether you are prepared to take an element of risk that 
some of your mortgage may not be repaid . This suggests that other options were discussed.  
The documents also note: you indicated that you are not concerned  about having  any form 
of guarantee that your mortgage  will be repaid at the end of the mortgage term at this time. 
This is because in order to afford the mortgage  repayments, this arrangement was the only 
option available to you. However, you intend  to review this arrangement in the near future  to 
ensure that appropriate repayment arrangements are in place. 
So whilst Ive noted Ms Cs strength of feelings, Ive taken everything into consideration and I 
think its likely these documents are a more accurate record  of what  happened at the time. 
These notes suggest  that other  options  were discussed but that an interest only mortgage  
was chosen because it was the only option that was affordable for Ms C and that she 
planned to review the repayment strategy in time. 
The client review records from the time state  that Ms C has high credit card debts and 
makes minimal payments. She simply  wishes  to clear them. Ms C had debt of around 
£37,000 all requiring different payments and, from the information Ive seen, it seems  that 
only the minimum payment required was being made at the time. Credit cards  and store  
cards typically charge a high rate of interest and so, by consolidating this debt into the 
mortgage  at which payments were fixed for two years  I think  this made  payments more  
manageable for Ms C at the time.   
So I dont  think that this mortgage  was an unsuitable recommendation for Ms C. I think, at 
the time it appears  that Ms C was finding  it hard to keep up with her debt commitments  and 
just making the minimum payment required and that by consolidating these into one monthly 
affordable payment this provided  some  relief - which  was one of the main aims of the re-
mortgage recorded on the paperwork from the time.
It was also recorded  that Ms C needed  money for home improvements, and she has said 
that this money  was used to re-wire her entire  flat. The re-mortgage  released funds which  
meant that she was able to do this. 
Its important to remember that this sale was some  years ago and whilst mortgage  regulation  
and rules have since  changed, I need  to consider the rules that applied at the time to assess  
whether this was mis-sold - as Ms C says. This was an advised  sale and the requirements 
were for LGPS to check that Ms C could afford the mortgage, it was appropriate  for her 
needs and circumstances and for it to be the most  suitable that they could recommend at the 
time. Having  considered  everything, I think the advice to take out this mortgage  met these 
requirements. 
Ms C has since  been in touch with her lender who has said that it was offering repayment 
mortgages at the time that she took this out and that the same affordability  checks applied 
for both interest only mortgages and repayment  mortgages. Whilst I appreciate Ms C feels 
that she was told she could only have an interest only mortgage, I think its more  likely that 
this was opted for because it was more affordable and suitable for her needs at the time. 
The lender  may have  carried out the same sort of affordability checks. But a repayment  
mortgage would be more expensive, and so while  the lender would look at the same things, 
that doesnt mean a repayment  mortgage  would have been  affordable.
Ref: DRN90856823Shes also said that shes been  able to maintain the payments  throughout the term and I 
think this further shows  that this mortgage  was not an unsuitable recommendation. A 
repayment mortgage would have required a higher  monthly payment to make, in addition to 
the debt repayments that Ms C was committed to at the time. 
Whilst I understand that her circumstances have since changed and shes  now been able to 
make overpayments to her mortgage,  from what Ive seen,  I dont think it would have been 
possible at the time for her to maintain  the payments required for a repayment mortgage, as 
well as consolidating the debts that she had.
Ive noted that shes  said to our investigator  that she wasnt  aware she could change  to a 
repayment mortgage now. I would encourage Ms C to engage with her lender about the 
options available to her to repay  this interest  only borrowing whilst there are still some  years 
left until the end of the term - and seek independent  advice around  this. 
Considering everything, I think that Ms C was provided with a mortgage  that suited her 
needs at the time and so I dont  think I can fairly  uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2021.
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9085682