K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mr B bought the policy in 2000  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint because:
 On the credit application/agreement  completed at the time, which Mr B signed,  there  
was the option  for Mr B to say yes or no to the PPI  and I can see that the box to say 
yes is ticked. Ive not seen enough other evidence to say that Capital One didnt 
otherwise present  the policy as optional.  So overall  I think  Capital One made  Mr B 
aware that he had a choice about  buying  the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
 Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for him. 
 Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr B doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to him. So I dont think  better  information  
wouldve stopped  him buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Bs comments,  including what  hes said about his secure job. But 
the PPI was designed to provide protection for the unexpected  circumstances  can change. 
And for this reason,  and the reasons explained above, these points dont change my 
conclusion.
Ref: DRN94762032my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9476203