K821x#15complaint
The estate  of the late Mrs W complains  Society of Lloyds (SoL) have declined  a claim for 
escape of water, under the buildings and contents  insurance policy.
Mr W is Mrs Ws son and is the sole executor of the estate. Mrs B is Mr Ws sister and had 
lasting power of attorney over Mrs Ws affairs. I will refer to them  both throughout the 
decision.
When I refer to SoL, Im also referring to any of their appointed agents or representatives.
background
Mrs W was in a nursing home. Her house  hadnt been sold and Mr W and Mrs B were  
looking after it. As the house wasnt being  lived in by Mr W or Mrs B, an Unoccupied  
Residential Property  insurance policy was taken  out through  SoL in Mrs Ws name.  
Mrs B visited  the house in early March 2018.  When she arrived there had been an escape of 
water from a burst pipe in the attic and water was pouring through the ceiling. She notified 
SoL and started  the claim process.
SoL sent an expert to the house to assess the damage. The damage was severe as the 
position of the initial  burst pipe meant that every  room below the attic had been  affected. The 
expert compiled a report for SoL, who subsequently declined the claim. They said that Mr W 
and Mrs B hadnt adhered to a Heating  Clause in the policy  so the claim couldnt be 
considered.
Mrs B was unhappy with this and raised  a complaint. SoL didnt change  their mind on the 
claim. They said that the utility bills provided  didnt show adherence to the Heating Clause. 
So, they continued to decline the claim.
 
Mr W brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld it. He said that the gas 
usage for the period  of time in question was consistent with the average  cost for a house  
similar in size to Mrs Ws. Because  of this, he asked  SoL to reconsider the claim and 
consider the costs the estate had incurred in having the house restored so it could be sold.
SoL didnt  agree so its been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and think  SoL should  do more. Ill explain why.
Ive reviewed the Heating Clause applied to Mrs Ws policy.  Part of it says:
There shall be no cover  under insured event 3 Escape of water from any fixed appliance, 
pipe or tank  or the additional  cover  Trace  and Access during the period 1st October  to 31st 
March each year unless you comply with one of the following:
i) where the entire premises  has the benefit of a gas or oil fired central heating 
system fitted  with automatic controls and a separate thermostat, the system  
Ref: DRN93661552must be set to operate  continuously (not timed) for 24 hours each day at not 
less than 12 degrees Celsius or 54 degrees  Fahrenheit
or
ii) all water supplies to be turned off at the mains and the entire water system be 
drained of all the water.
The burst pipe happened between 1 March and 5 March, so the above clause is relevant. 
But what  I must decide is if I think its reasonable for SoL to decline the claim because of it. 
And in this case, I dont think it is.
SoL have  said that, to comply with the above clause, the central  heating  in Mrs Ws house  
always had to be on. And the gas utility bill provided  for the period before and up until the 
burst pipe showed that this wasnt the case. The utility bill showed that £14.43 of gas had 
been used between 13 February and 5 March 2018.  Had the central heating been on 
permanently during that time, SoL would expect to see much higher usage. They have 
provided an amount  closer to £400 for 20 days usage, based  on their own research.
Mrs B has told our service that she did comply with the Heating Clause. She said that she 
had left the central heating system  on continuously  so that the house  would remain 
consistent at 18 degrees  Celsius. If the temperature at the thermostat fell below 18 degrees 
Celsius, the boiler would fire up and the central  heating would come on. It would remain  on 
until the temperature at the thermostat  increased above 18 degrees Celsius,  at which  point 
the boiler would  close  down and the thermostat temperature would regulate itself. This would 
happen whenever it was necessary. And this is reflected in the gas bill provided   the usage 
is higher during this time than it was during the summer months, indicating the central 
heating system was being used more frequently at the time of the burst pipe. 
The Heating  Clause states that the central  heating system must be set to operate  
continuously. I think this is different to saying that the central heating  system must be on 
continuously. And Im satisfied that Mrs B has taken reasonable steps to ensure the Heating 
Clause is met and the temperature in the house  is consistent, and above the recommended  
temperature set by SoL. 
SoL have  said that they dont think the pipe would have burst in the attic if the house had 
been kept at 18 degrees Celsius consistently. But the Heating Clause requires the system to 
be set to operate continuously. It doesnt  say that every room  in the house needs to have  its 
temperature maintained. The thermostat regulates  the central heating  and tells the boiler  
when to turn on and turn off  this doesnt mean  that all rooms in the house will necessarily 
be the same  temperature set by the thermostat. And the attic will always  be colder. The 
information supplied  by Mrs B persuades me that the system had been set to operate 
continuously.
SoL have  said that their research shows that its extremely expensive to heat a house for 24 
hours a day. Certainly, much more  expensive than the utility  bill provided by Mrs B. I dont 
think anyone would  disagree with that. But I also dont think  its what  Mr W or Mrs B should  
be expected to do or what the Heating  Clause is telling  them  to do. 
SoL have  previously supplied information from the UK Power website  which confirms that 
the average tariff to heat a property similar in size to Mrs Ws is £25 per month. The utility  bill 
provided by Mrs B in support of the claim showed costs  of £14.43 for 20 days use. This is 
the equivalent of £22 for a months use. Considering Mrs Ws house was unoccupied and 
Ref: DRN93661553there was no other gas usage, Im satisfied that Mr W and Mrs B met the requirements  of the 
Heating Clause.  
Mr W and Mrs B wanted to sell the house  once their mother  had passed  away,  so had the 
redecoration and repair work done  themselves  once the claim had been declined.  Based on 
what Ive said above I think its fair for SoL to reconsider the claim and reimbursement to the 
estate for the repairs and redecoration. If Mr W and Mrs B havent provided the invoices for 
the work  to SoL, they will need to do so.
Mr W and Mrs B have  also mentioned the contents in the house which had to be disposed of 
as theyd been damaged  by the water leak. But I cant decide on something that hasnt been 
considered by SoL. As the claim for the leak was declined, the contents element hasnt been 
looked at. Mr W and Mrs B will have  to speak to SoL about that and bring it to our service if 
they remain unhappy with any decision SoL make.
my final decision
For the reasons  above I uphold this complaint. Society of Lloyds should now:
Consider the claim upon the receipt  of the invoices, subject to the remaining terms 
and conditions;
If any settlement includes reimbursement for the repairs, they should pay interest  at 
eight per cent simple  from the date the estate of the late Mrs W paid for the work to 
be done until the date this amount is settled.  *
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Society of Lloyds deducts income tax 
from the interest, they should tell the estate of the late Mrs W how much has been taken off. 
Society of Lloyds should give the estate of the late Mrs W a tax deduction certificate  if it 
asks for one, so it can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of the 
late Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9366155