K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a £5,000 personal  loan.  
Mr J says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold this cover  to him because  he 
was led to believe it was necessary to get the loan approved. He also says he wasnt  given 
enough information.
Because this was a single premium PPI policy, it had to be paid for in an up front  single 
payment of £1348. To pay for this, Mr J also borrowed the money from Halifax. Both the loan 
and PPI part of the loan were then subject to interest charges over an 84 month term.
background
Mr J took out the loan and PPI in 2004.  The policy provided protection  in the event of him 
being unable  to work, losing his job or dying during the term. 
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld  but Mr J disagreed and 
so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint.
The first thing I looked at was whether  Mr J was given a choice  about  taking out this policy. 
I was sent the original  loan application  form and can see there are two boxes about whether 
or not the applicant would like PPI. I think these are prominently set out as YES and NO  
options. Its very clear  that Mr J selected  the first of these which says YES, I would like to 
take advantage of  Personal Loan Repayments Insurance
Mr J signed his name inside this box and left the other one blank. So I think  he would have 
been able to understand he had an option  at this point. Hes implied he was pressured into 
this but other than him raising this issue, I dont have any evidence to suggest he was 
pressured in this case.
Halifax conceded it would have recommended the policy during the sale.  So it needed to 
ensure it was suitable for him. I looked  at Mr Js age, job, health and circumstances of the 
time to help me decide  this. 
I think Mr J would have been eligible for the PPI and I dont think hed have been caught by 
any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies. He told us he had family 
members who would have  always stepped  in to help if hed got into difficulties  and he thinks  
he therefore didnt  need this type of cover. 
I understand the point thats  being  made,  but it doesnt necessarily mean he didnt have a 
use for the cover. Policies like the one he bought are there to remove  the added  pressure of 
Ref: DRN96531832meeting loan payments in financially difficult times. In the event of a successful claim, it 
could have paid him a monthly benefit of £105. This would have been in addition  to anything  
he already had in place.  And whilst Im sure his family would have wanted to help, this would 
obviously depend on their ability to pay, over quite an extended time period. 
Sometimes we comment on whether this type of single  premium policy  would have provided 
a fair or pro-rata refund if the borrower had repaid or rearranged the loan early.  But I dont 
think Halifax would have  had anything that suggested Mr J was likely to do this when this 
loan was actually  granted,  so I dont think this is relevant in this case.
Ultimately I cant  say why he decided to choose this cover but I dont  think  the 
recommendation Mr J received from Halifax was unreasonable or that the policy  was 
unsuitable for him.
Halifax also needed to provide information  that was clear, fair and not misleading so Mr J 
could make an informed  choice as to whether he should buy the policy.  I know Mr J was 
given information  about all the costs  because he signed a credit  agreement which had set 
out the amount of the loan, the amount of the PPI part of the loan and the sum of these two 
put together.  The interest on these figures  was also set out on this document.  Mr J said in 
his complaint he wasnt told what the costs  were but this shows he was. I can see he was 
also given the insurance schedule with information  on it about who and what  was covered.
So I think the evidence  strongly points to Mr J selecting the cover and it being something he 
could have had a use for.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. And I dont direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9653183