K820x#14complaint
Through his solicitors, Mr K has complained that National  Westminster Bank Plc declined his 
buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage application after the bank received the valuation report on the 
property. Mr K is seeking compensation for what he claims are his financial losses  which he 
estimates at approximately £264,000.
background
In September  2018, through a mortgage broker, Mr K applied  for a mortgage  with NatWest 
on a BTL property.  The property price was £103,000 and Mr K wanted a mortgage of 
£77,250. 
On 24 September  2018 an independent surveyor carried out a valuation for NatWest. The 
surveyors conclusion was that the property  wasnt suitable security  for mortgage purposes, 
as it was close to commercial premises and there was limited  demand for residential 
occupation. Because the property didnt meet  NatWests lending criteria, the mortgage 
application was declined.
Mr K instructed solicitors  who wrote to NatWest to complain on his behalf. The solicitors said 
that NatWest had offered mortgages  in the same block of properties. The solicitors  said that 
NatWest had made an error in declining the application, which had caused  him losses, 
estimated at £263,980. The solicitors stated that if the matter wasnt  resolved, Mr K would  
have no alternative  but to commence court proceedings against NatWest.
A final response was issued by NatWest in which the bank  refuted  Mr Ks claim.  The bank 
said that it wasnt able to comment on any other  customers mortgages. But NatWest 
maintained that it was entitled to rely on the surveyors opinion.  It was also explained  by 
NatWest that there was an alternative to litigation,  which was to bring the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service.
Mr K instructed his solicitors to complain to us. An adjudicator looked at the complaint but 
didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied  NatWest  was entitled to decline the 
application.
Mr Ks solicitors  disagreed. In summary,  they say they are aware of another  party who has a 
BTL mortgage  from NatWest in the same block. They  say that it would  not be a breach of 
data protection  legislation for NatWest to confirm how many mortgages it has approved  for 
properties in the building,  and how many of these were for BLT mortgages.
The solicitors also think its reasonable for NatWest to provide a copy  of its instructions to 
the surveyor who carried out the valuation,  a sample  of valuations that the same surveyor  
has given the bank and a sample of the valuations provided for the successful mortgage 
applications in the building.
Because the solicitors didnt agree with the adjudicator, it now falls to me to issue a final 
decision on the complaint.
my findings
Ref: DRN94583712Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator, for largely the same  reason.
We look at account-specific complaints  in this case Mr Ks application for a BTL mortgage. 
So I have  no power to order the bank  to provide information about other customers 
mortgages, or other valuations carried out by the same surveyor on other properties, or by 
other surveyors on properties in the same building.
What I am looking at is whether or not it was a reasonable exercise  of NatWests commercial 
judgment when  it declined Mr Ks BTL mortgage application. 
NatWest is entitled  to set its own lending criteria,  and to vary those criteria from time to time 
as it sees fit. So NatWest  might have considered this type of property suitable security  for a 
mortgage in the past.  But NatWest is well within its rights to decline to lend on the same (or 
a similar) property  on a future application where that type of property no longer meets its 
lending criteria.
The surveyor instructed  by NatWest is a member of the Royal  Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors. So Im satisfied he is qualified to carry out a basic valuation for mortgage  
purposes. Im also satisfied that NatWest is entitled to place reliance on the surveyors 
professional opinion. The terms of engagement are between the surveyor and NatWest.  Im 
satisfied Mr K isnt entitled to see those terms.
I think its important to note that on a BTL property, the valuation  is for the benefit of the 
lender, not the borrower. Mr K isnt entitled  to place any reliance on the valuation in this 
case. 
This is the position  taken by the Court of Appeal in the case  of Scullion v Bank of Scotland  
[2011] EWCA Civ 693. In the Scullion case, the Court of Appeal provided  a clear 
demarcation between residential and investment purchasers. The issue in question in 
Scullion was whether  a valuer providing  a report to a mortgage  lender for a BTL mortgage 
owed a duty of care towards the borrower and was liable to the borrower for an incorrect  
valuation. 
The Court of Appeal was unanimous in deciding that a surveyor who provides a valuation 
report for a BTL lender does not owe the borrower a duty of care.  This is because  the courts 
consider BTL investment property to be a commercial venture. 
Although I can depart  from the approach followed by the courts  it if I think its fair and 
reasonable for me to do so, I dont intend  to do so here. Mr Ks mortgage  application was for 
a commercial (BTL) loan. So when assessing  the application, Im satisfied that NatWest  was 
entitled to determine the extent of the commercial risk it wanted to take. Part of this risk 
assessment was to consider the suitability of the property  offered as security for the loan.
Having considered the surveyors report,  NatWest determined that it did not want  to lend on 
this property. Thats a commercial decision NatWest is entitled to make and I have no 
discretion to interfere  with that. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr K wanted. If he rejects this final decision it will not be 
legally binding and Mr K will be free to pursue  his grievances against NatWest  in court.  A 
court might take a different view and decide  to depart from the Court of Appeals decision in 
Ref: DRN94583713the Scullion case.  Its entirely a matter for Mr K to decide if he wants  to pursue this further 
through the courts;  I am sure his solicitors will be able to advise  him of the costs implications 
of doing so.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9458371