K821x#15Complaint
Mr H complains that the van he paid for in part using his Nationwide  Building Society credit 
card wasnt  of satisfactory quality and his warranty didnt cover  the cost of repairs.  He wants  
to be refunded the amount he had to pay towards  the repairs.
Background
Mr H acquired  a van in October 2018. He paid the deposit of £1,000  using his Nationwide 
credit card. He says that a month  after acquisition the van went  into safe mode. He took the 
van to his local garage were diagnostics were  carried  out and an injector  replaced.  He says 
he recovered the cost of these repairs from his warranty  company. 
A month later, Mr H says there was another fault and again the van went into safe mode. He 
returned the van and the issue  was rectified.  However two weeks  later the van went into safe 
mode again and wasnt  driveable.  He says the van was towed to the garage and a faulty part 
replaced however  when  the van was returned he didnt  think it was running  right and so he 
took it back for investigation. He was told to take the van to a specialist.  It was found that the 
fuel pump had failed and contaminated all four injectors. He had repairs carried  out but the 
warranty company would only pay for the fuel pump as it said the issue with the injectors 
was a drive on fault. Mr H says this issue cost him £1,200.  
Mr H raised a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (section 75).
Nationwide says that Mr H acquired  the van for business purposes and therefore he didnt 
have a valid section  75 claim. It also said that there  was no evidence to say that the issues 
with Mr Hs van were  due to an inherent fault at the point  of supply and so it didnt find that a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  had occurred.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He thought  that it reasonable that Mr Hs section 75 
claim would be considered. He noted  the comments about the van being  used for business 
purposes but said that the evidence supported Mr H acquiring the van for personal use.
As our investigator thought it reasonable to consider  Mr Hs claim under section 75 he then 
considered whether the van was faulty at the point of supply. He said that there was no 
dispute that the fuel pump was faulty and that as Mr H became aware  of this after driving  
less than 500 miles  he thought  it fair to say the fault was developing at the point of supply. 
Because of this he said that the van wasnt of satisfactory quality at acquisition and so a 
breach of contract had occurred. 
Our investigator noted that the repair had been carried out under warranty  but also that Mr H 
had needed to pay towards  the repair because the warranty didnt cover the full cost. He 
thought it fair that Nationwide reimburse  Mr H the amount he paid towards  the repair  
Nationwide didnt accept  our investigators view.  It noted the van was five years  old at 
acquisition and so some wear and tear would  be expected and Mr H was able to drive 
500 miles before becoming aware of a fault.  It said it hadnt been evidenced that the 
recurring faults were  not caused by the initial repairs. It also said it hadnt seen evidence  of 
the partial refund paid to Mr H by the warranty company.
Ref: DRN95015162My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances
Nationwide has given  two reasons why Mr Hs claim wasnt successful. The first is that it 
says the van was bought  for business purposes. The second is that there wasnt a breach of 
contract. I have dealt  with these separately.
Nationwide has said that Mr H bought the van for business purposes. I have  seen a copy of 
an email from the dealer  saying that the van was for business not personal use. However 
Mr H has disputed this. He says that he van was bought  for personal use saying he is retired  
and uses the van for recreational  purposes. I cannot say for certain what  Mr H is using the 
van for however  the deposit was paid for using Mr Hs personal card and the sales invoice 
was for Mr H not a business name.  Mr H is the registered keeper of the van and I have 
nothing further  to suggest as the van is being  used for business purposes.  Therefore,  on 
balance, I find it more  likely than not that Mr H bought the van for his personal use.
Accepting that the van was for personal use doesnt necessarily mean that his claim should 
have been upheld. Under section 75, a consumer  can, in limited  circumstances, claim  
against their credit provider over the actions of a third party  supplier. In this case  Mr H has 
raised concerns  about the warranty he was provided  with and the quality of the van.
I have considered the issues  regarding the warranty and note that this is provided  by a third 
party and was provided without cost to Mr H. I understand  Mr H is upset that the full cost of 
the repairs wasnt covered. However,  in this case, I do not find I can say a misrepresentation 
occurred in regard  to the provision of the warranty  at the point of supply. Because of this I do 
not find that Nationwide is required to do anything  further in regard to this.
The next issue is whether the van was of satisfactory quality  at the point  of supply. I have 
looked through the information  provided and can see that Mr H took the van for repairs in 
November 2018  and a new fuel injector was fitted.  At this time the van had a mileage of just 
over 26,700. Given Mr H experienced this issue a month after acquisition and considering 
the mileage he had driven at that point  I find, on balance, it more  likely than not that this 
issue was due to a fault that was present or developing  at the point of supply. As the repair  
took place at no cost to Mr H, I find this a reasonable remedy.
However Mr H experienced  further issues and he says he was told the van wasnt  safe to 
drive. Repairs were then carried out at a cost of almost £2,000. I have nothing to suggest 
that these repairs  werent  successful and so I accept the issues  have now been remedied.
The outstanding issue is the cost of the repair. Mr H was only able to recover part of the cost 
from his warranty as the warranty company said that part of the repairs  were needed due to 
drive on damage.  Nationwide has said that there isnt evidence to show  that there  was an 
inherent fault with the van.
I have considered the timing and the nature  of the issues Mr Hs van experienced. The first 
repair was for an injector. The next repair was to the fuel pump and the comments  were that 
Ref: DRN95015163the fuel pump was contaminating  the injectors. The fuel pump, filter and four injectors were 
replaced. 
I note the comments about  drive  on damage, and Nationwides comments  about there  not 
being evidence  of an inherent fault.  But I find, on balance, that the issues  that needed to be 
repaired in January 2019 were due to faults that were present or developing at the point of 
supply. I say this because the mileage  in January was around  27,100  suggesting Mr H had 
limited use of the van and had only driven  around  400 miles since the previous repair.  The 
initial issue  was identified  as being  with an injector and the repair  notes from January 2019 
says the fuel pump is contaminating  the injectors.  Therefore I find it more  likely that not that 
the issue present  in November was linked to the fuel pump but at that time only an injector 
was replaced. Because of this I find it more  likely  than not that the issues  Mr Hs van 
experienced in January were developing  at the point  of supply meaning that the van wasnt 
of satisfactory quality at that time or sufficiently durable. Because of this I think a breach of 
contract did occur.
Mr H was able to recover some of the repair costs from the warranty  company. Therefore I 
find that Nationwide should only be responsible for the cost Mr H has incurred. I note the 
comments that it hasnt  received evidence of what was paid by the warranty company but I 
have heard a call on which the warranty company confirms it paid £752.40. The total repair 
cost was £1,980 meaning that Mr H paid £1,227.60.
On balance, I find the fair resolution to this complaint is that Mr H is reimbursed  the 
£1,227.60 he paid towards  the cost of the repairs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Nationwide  Building  Society  should  
reimburse Mr H £1,227.60 to reflect the amount he contributed towards the repairs of the 
van.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9501516