K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received from M S Financial Services (M&S) when 
requesting withdrawals from his pension. In addition, the pension is not providing the kind of 
straightforward investment and withdrawals that he requires. And charges are being  levied  
by the pension provider and M&S that he was not made aware  of. 
background
In 2015 Mr W approached M&S as he wanted  to take his pension benefits. His existing 
pension provider did not allow Mr W to take benefits  in the way in which  he wished. So M&S 
recommended he switch his pension to another provider and take drawdown so he could 
make the withdrawals he wished to. Mr W says he wanted a straightforward  pension, like a 
bank account,  where  he could  simply  make a few withdrawals a year when he requested. 
Mr W says he has faced significant issues in making  withdrawals  with M&S being 
obstructive and referring him to the policy provider. In turn the policy provider  said that it will 
not authorise the withdrawals without the involvement of a financial adviser. So Mr W feels  
that he may have to approach another  financial  adviser  so that he can make the withdrawals 
he wishes to. Mr W feels this is not the simple and straightforward pension  arrangement  that 
he wanted or requested when he met with M&S. 
M&S considered Mr Ws complaint but did not uphold  it. It said the charges were made clear 
to Mr W. The pension provider charge was set out in its Key Features and in its letter  to Mr 
W in which it set out its recommendations. It said that it set up the type of pension  Mr W 
requested  accessible, with his money  held in cash. 
In respect of Mr Ws complaint about access, it said that he had requested a withdrawal in 
late March 2017.  As this was so close to the tax year end it suggested  that Mr W approach 
the pension provider direct. When he did so the pension provider said that it wouldnt deal 
directly with him and referred him back to M&S. When that happened M&S liaised with the 
pension provider to make sure that the payment was made before the tax year end. In the 
next tax year a similar request was made and M&S  again made sure the payment was made 
before the tax year end. 
M&S said that since 2017 it has arranged two further payments for Mr W. At the time of 
writing, Mr W had requested a further payment. M&S did not feel that Mr W had suffered any 
loss and it had not caused him any inconvenience  any difficulty had been  caused by the 
requests for withdrawals  late in the tax year.  
An investigator at this service considered Mr Ws complaint. She did not believe it should be 
upheld. In summary she said that the charges had been disclosed to Mr W. Whilst she 
thought that the issues Mr W encountered  in making  the withdrawal in 2017  would  have 
been frustrating,  she didnt think that compensation was warranted  bearing in mind  the 
withdrawal was taken  in the tax year Mr W intended. 
Mr W did not accept the investigators  assessment. He said he didnt agree to M&Ss 
charges and was told that these would be dealt with at a later stage. He said he was first 
shown a figure of about £4,000 for the initial advice but this was reduced to £2,500  when he 
questioned it. He does not remember ever being  told about M&S fees or the pension 
providers fees and he feels that these  were hidden. Because  his pension is in cash  the 
yearly adviser fee deductions reduce his capital. If he had been  aware  of them  he feels he 
Ref: DRN99803732could have found a better  option  when the decision was taken to switch his pension  to 
drawdown. 
The issue  arose because  M&S refused to authorise the withdrawal of £4,000 in 2017 and 
told him to go to the pension provider direct  which he did but that pension provider refused 
to allow  the withdrawal. He said he had given  M&S  plenty of time  as he requested  the 
withdrawal on 20 March  2017  to administer  the withdrawal for him. He does  not believe 
M&Ss suggestion that it advised that he went direct to Zurich  so he could make the 
withdrawal before the tax year end is true. He said that he paid a fee to M&S each year of 
£200 but it refused to make a withdrawal for him. He says he has no recollection of receiving 
the recommendation letter of 16 October 2015. 
Mr Ws complaint  was then reviewed by another investigator. She thought the complaint 
should be upheld.  In summary she said:
The switch was made in 2015  from Mr Ws previous pension plan because  Mr W 
wanted flexibility to make ad-hoc withdrawals and his then current  pension  provider  
could not allow  that kind of flexibility.
The investment  in cash was made because of Mr Ws needs at the time and his risk 
tolerance.
He has made several withdrawals since 2015  and the evidence is that he had been  
able to take the withdrawals that he wished to.  
Mr W lost a GMP benefit in transferring but he agreed to that and maintaining the 
GMP wasnt a likely option  given  he did not wish to take an annuity and wished to 
access his pension  flexibly.
Its clear that Mr W wanted to hold his money as cash so it was appropriate  for his 
drawdown to be invested  in that way.
The charges  that would  be levied  were made clear.
She didnt think that the likelihood of the charges reducing the value of the pension  
was explained  sufficiently. 
She didnt believe  that Mr W required an adviser led pension  where he would 
require ongoing  reviews and incurred a 0.5%  a year fee. She thought, bearing in 
mind Mr Ws need was only for a pension  held in cash that he could make 
withdrawals from,  M&S could have arranged  a pension where this adviser 
involvement was not required  and Mr W could simply  approach the provider himself 
to make withdrawals. She thought  the ongoing  adviser charges should be refunded.
She didnt think M&S should have referred Mr W to Zurich in 2017  to make the 
withdrawal. It should have been  aware that this required its involvement. And this 
would have caused Mr W some inconvenience  so M&S should pay him £100 in 
compensation.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators assessment. He thought that a payment of £200 would 
be more appropriate  because of the stress  caused.  He said if he had known of the charges 
and the fact they might erode his capital then he would have wanted a different policy.  He 
was told that the initial  advice charge was about  £4,000 and that was only reduced when he 
queried it.
Ref: DRN99803733The investigator later discussed  the complaint with M&S. My understanding  is it said that the 
initial advice fee was reduced for Mr W. It didnt agree that it should refund the ongoing fees 
as it had provided a service to Mr W  it had provided annual  reviews and provided 
valuations. However  it didnt have any records that it had done so. M&S did say that it was 
prepared to pay the sums the investigator had suggested in settlement of the complaint. 
Mr W later asked that his complaint was reviewed by an ombudsman. When informed of 
that, M&S  said that it did not agree that Mr W should  be compensated and also asked  that 
the case be referred to an ombudsman. It later repeated that Mr W had been  made  fully 
aware of the fees and that it had carried out annual  reviews  so the 0.5%  annual  fee was 
justified.
Mr W was asked about this and he said that he had never received such  reviews  and the 
only service he received was in respect of making withdrawals. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
withdrawals
I appreciate that Mr W has said that M&S simply refused to action his withdrawal in 2017  but 
the evidence I have seen does not support that. M&S has said that it referred Mr W direct  to 
the product provider  in the interests  of speed because  it was very close to the tax year end. 
Given the way that the pension had been  set up, I think it could be fairly argued that M&S 
should have known that Mr W would be unsuccessful because the product provider required 
Mr Ws financial adviser to request that (as indicated by the providers Key Features 
document issued  when  the advice was given). But when M&S  was informed of that the 
evidence is that it did act in good  time and made  sure that Mr W received his withdrawals 
before the end of the tax year.  
I agree  that this matter could have been  avoided, whilst I think M&S acted in good faith it 
should have been aware that it would need to enable the withdrawal.  So I think  that a 
payment should  be awarded for the inconvenience  caused and that a fair payment would be 
£100.
In terms of other withdrawals, the evidence is that M&S assisted Mr W to make those 
withdrawals when required and he made  the withdrawals  that he wished to. The evidence is 
that he made several withdrawals between 2015 and 2018. 
suitability of the pension drawdown plan
As the investigator  discussed, in 2015 Mr W wished  to take his pension benefits in a flexible 
manner and take the tax-free cash sum. Because of his requirements, he needed  to switch 
his pension to a new provider. M&S advised  that he switch to a Self-Invested  Penson Plan 
(SIPP) which could then be used to enter  into a drawdown arrangement. This would provide 
the flexibility Mr W required. This would be a normal and accepted route of providing Mr W 
with flexibility and the ability for him to invest his money as he wished. 
Mr W has been clear  that he wanted a very simple, straightforward plan with very little risk 
involved. This is supported by his answers  to various questions about the risk he wished to 
Ref: DRN99803734take when the advice  was given. And Mr Ws requirement for a cash  investment was noted 
at the time. 
Mr W has described his requirement as something akin to a bank account  where  he can 
simply withdraw sums as and when he wishes (taking into account  his liability to tax). I hope 
that Mr W appreciates that due to the particular  rules  and regulations governing pensions, he 
cannot have a pension contract  that operates exactly  like a bank account. In order  to take 
withdrawals flexibly as he required, he needs  a pension plan such  as the type recommended  
by M&S. And such plans  do level charges,  I do not believe that Mr W could have obtained a 
plan where charges would  not be payable. It is clear that Mr W could  not obtain the flexibility  
he wanted from his existing pension and he would need to switch  his pension  to another 
provider.
In my view the plan suggested  by M&S  was a suitable recommendation bearing  in mind Mr 
Ws requirements.  It is generally the kind of plan that allows the holder to withdraw sums 
flexibly  as Mr W required. Furthermore,  M&S recommended a plan where  the money was 
to be held in cash   which was in line with Mr Ws requirements. Because  returns on cash  
are generally  low, this does generate  the possibility that the charges applied will reduce to 
some extent the value  of the pension plan.  This is because the charges are greater than any 
return  but that was a result of Mr W not wishing  to take any investment risk. 
So I do not believe that M&S recommendation was unsuitable for Mr W and I do not uphold  
his complaint on that basis. 
charges
The evidence is that the charges, both for the initial advice from M&S and the ongoing  
charges, were set out in the documentation provided to Mr W. 
The charges  that would be paid or deducted  from the pension  on an ongoing basis  were set 
out in the documents  issued by the product provider and were  set out in the advisers  
recommendation letter of 16 October 2015.  As the investigator  discussed,  the letter set out 
that there  would be a fee of £2,500 for the initial advice and then an ongoing  charge of 0.5%  
of the pension value a year. It may well be that the initial advice fee was reduced when Mr W 
queried it but that was negotiated between Mr W and M&S. There  is nothing  necessarily 
inappropriate in a fee being  agreed between the parties. Mr W agreed to pay that fee for the 
advice that he received   advice would normally incur a fee and this fee was not out of the 
ordinary considering the work undertaken. 
I appreciate that Mr W says he cannot  recall receiving the letter  of 16 October 2015 but it is 
correctly addressed and M&S says it was supplied.  I think it is unlikely that Mr W proceeded 
without receiving anything  in the form of recommendation by M&S or any product literature. 
So, whilst I have taken account  of Mr Ws comments, I do believe the evidence  suggests he 
was informed about the charges that would be applied. 
Having said that, I have considered carefully  the issue of the 0.5%  annual  charge. Mr W 
didnt have to have a pension drawdown plan where  the intervention of a financial adviser  
was necessary in order to administer it. In normal circumstances  I would say that an ongoing 
fee would  be appropriate in situations  where  a drawdown needed to be monitored and 
ongoing advice  provided to Mr W. But here the situation was different. As discussed,  in the 
ideal world Mr W has said he would have liked an account that operated  like a bank account. 
The pension was set up with the intention  that there wouldnt be any investment decisions or 
Ref: DRN99803735reviews and he would simply  leave the pension invested in cash, taking withdrawals when 
he decided to. It wouldnt necessarily need  any monitoring. 
Whilst I appreciate that M&S says that it did carry out annual reviews,  there  is no persuasive 
confirmation of that and Mr W has disputed they took place. But in any event I dont think, on 
balance, that such reviews were necessary and Mr W didnt  need  the ongoing advisory 
oversight for which 0.5% of his pension value was deducted every year.
So I agree with the investigator that a fair outcome  would be for M&S to make  good those 
fees. 
fair compensation
My understanding is that the fees have been  deducted from Mr Ws pension. So, but for that 
deduction, his pension value would be higher. M&S should therefore  calculate or obtain the 
value of his plan had those deductions not been made. It should then pay a sum into Mr Ws 
pension to increase  it to the amount calculated. 
If it is not possible to pay that amount into Mr Ws pension,  for example because of 
allowance implications or because the plan no longer exists, then it should  be paid to Mr W 
as a lump sum. But the sums taken from the pension would have been subject to tax. So 
M&S can make a deduction of 20% of the total sum, based  on a reasonable assumption  of 
the tax rate that would  have applied. 
In addition, M&S should pay Mr W the sum of £100  for the inconvenience  caused with 
respect to the 2017 withdrawal.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. M&S should  now calculate  and pay compensation as detailed  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2021.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9980373