K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1997. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Mr H says FICL mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr H took out his card in 1996 without PPI. The PPI was added in 1997. FICL thinks  it was 
added as a result of a phone call. Mr H thinks even if there was a phone  call he wouldnt 
have agreed to take PPI at the time.  So he thinks the PPI was added without his agreement.
FICL doesnt have  a call recording. But after more than twenty years, this isnt surprising. So 
this doesnt make me think  that there wasnt a phone call or that Mr H didnt agree to the PPI 
before FICL added it to his account.  And given  the time that has passed,  I dont expect  Mr H 
recalls much  of what happened at the time. So what Mr H has said about not having agreed 
to the PPI isnt enough to make me think he didnt agree  or enough  to make me think FICL 
most likely added PPI to Mr Hs account  without  his permission.
Mr H has said he didnt agree to have PPI on any of his other  financial products. But I dont 
think that means he didnt  agree to the PPI before FICL added  it to this account.  I accept that 
if Mr H didnt agree to it, then whether or not it mightve been useful for him wouldnt be 
relevant. But based  on what Ive seen,  there  isnt enough to make  me think that Mr H didnt 
agree to the PPI or that FICL didnt give him a choice about  it.
Mr H says he had the means to pay off his card so there wasnt any reason for him to take 
the PPI. He says he was young, in employment  and had no worries about paying  back his 
card. But the PPI was cover in case of involuntary  unemployment, accident or sickness.  
Being young  and in work didnt mean  Mr H couldnt  in future  suffer redundancy or be too sick 
to work. And from what Mr H has told us, he had less than twelve months work sick pay and 
no savings to help pay his card. Hes said his family  couldve helped,  but other  peoples  
circumstances and ability to help can change.
FICL didnt  give Mr H a personal recommendation for the PPI, so it didnt have to check the 
PPI was right for him. It did have to make sure Mr H got the information he needed  to decide 
if the PPI was right for him. And its possible the information FICL gave Mr H about the PPI 
wasnt as full or as clear  as it shouldve been. But from what  Ive seen of his circumstances, 
Mr H wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover - like exclusions for 
existing health  problems - so he couldve claimed  on the cover if something went  wrong. 
With this in mind and taking into account  what Ive already said above, based  on what  I have 
I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mr H off taking the cover.
Ref: DRN96972292Ive taken into account all Mr Hs points,  including what hes said about not being made 
aware of the details  of the product. But, for the reasons  Ive given above, these points dont 
change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9697229