K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) hasnt settled her claim on her motor  
insurance policy following  the theft of her car. Shes  also unhappy that it hasnt provided her 
with a courtesy car. 
background
Mrs As car was stolen  and she reported this to the police and UKI. The car was recovered  
some months later. UKI investigated the claim  and wanted a police report  in order to decide  
how to progress it. It asked its agents to request  a police  report but this was delayed for a 
month. The report hadnt been  provided  after nine months after the theft. Mrs A was 
unhappy that her claim wasnt  paid and she wasnt provided with a courtesy car. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought Mrs A 
wasnt entitled to a courtesy car under her policy. He thought  UKI needed the police report  
before settling the claim. But he thought UKI should have done more  to chase up the police 
report. He thought UKI should pay Mrs A £150 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by the delay  in settling her claim. He also thought it should chase up the police 
report more regularly.  
UKI replied that it didnt  think compensation was warranted as it was chasing the police  
report and it wasnt responsible for the polices slow response.
Mrs A replied that she had then been without her car for nine months. She thought  the 
recommended compensation was too low. She wanted her car returned or her claim paid 
and appropriate  compensation  for the delay. Mrs A asked for an ombudsmans  review,  so 
her complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs As car was stolen  and recovered  three months later.  UKI investigated  the claim and, 
from what I can see, Mrs As car hadnt been  returned to her six months after this. She said 
she was without a car during this time. I can understand that this must have been frustrating 
for her. 
Our adjudicator explained that a courtesy  car wouldnt be provided under Mrs As policy in 
the circumstances. It would only be provided under the policy  terms and conditions whilst  her 
car was at an approved repairer. So I cant say UKI should have provided  her with a car or 
should compensate  her for not doing  so.
Mrs A was unhappy with the delay in settling  her claim. UKI responded to Mrs As complaint 
about this five months after the car had been  stolen.  It said that it couldnt  progress her claim 
until it had received a police  report.  It said it had chased this several  times and was still 
awaiting it. 
Ref: DRN90550552I can understand that UKI would  need  the police  report before it could conclude its 
investigation and progress the claim. And I appreciate that police  reports are often delayed.  
But I think UKI should reasonably have prompted  the police for the report so as to not unduly 
delay the claim.  
So Ive looked  at UKIs file to check its actions to press  for the police report and to see 
whether it had caused any avoidable  delays. The adjudicator was only provided  with UKIs 
file notes up until Mrs A complained to it. So he saw evidence that the police report had been 
chased up once  since it was first requested.  
From what  I can see, there  was initial confusion between UKI and its agents about  who was 
requesting the police report. This caused  a months  delay in making  the initial request. UKI 
told us that its agents said there was a four month backlog in the police responding to such  
requests. And so they didnt  chase  them regularly. But I dont think  this is fair or reasonable. 
By the time UKIs agents first requested it, five months had passed since  the claim was first 
lodged. And UKI said a chaser wouldnt be made until after a further  four months. I agree 
with the adjudicator that regular chasing  could have prompted the earlier production of the 
report.
I think this was likely to have delayed the handling  of the claim. And so I think  UKI hasnt 
treated Mrs A fairly. She was caused  considerable inconvenience as she was without her car 
for a long time and with her claim unresolved.  The adjudicator recommended  that UKI pay 
Mrs A £150  compensation for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its what  Id award in 
similar circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require U K Insurance Limited to pay 
Mrs A £150  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by its handling of her 
claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9055055