K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims 
management company.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy. The policy was taken out in 2006 when 
Mrs M applied for the card in one of the banks branches.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
saying, in summary, that:
The policy was added to her card without her knowledge  or consent.
She didnt  need the PPI because she wouldve received generous  sick pay from her 
employer. And her family members wouldve covered  her repayments if shed needed 
them to.
When she needed  hospital  treatment  before she took the PPI  it didnt stop her 
working.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint  because:
Halifax has provided a copy  of Mrs Ms application form. Although it is of very poor 
quality, I can see that Mrs M signed, separately from the card application,  to say that 
she wanted PPI. So, on balance,  I think Halifax made Mrs M aware  that the PPI was 
optional and that she chose to take it  although I can understand why she can no 
longer remember  this, given it took place so long ago.
Ref: DRN98997402Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs M so it had to make  sure it was suitable  for her. 
Shes told us she wouldve received six months  full pay followed by six months half pay 
if she couldnt work  due to sickness or an accident. And I can see this is what  she told 
the Halifax member  of staff at the time. But she also said she didnt want to rely on this if 
she couldnt work.  The PPI wouldve met her monthly repayments for up to 12 months if 
she couldnt work  and covered her if shed  become unemployed. So I think the PPI 
couldve been  a useful  benefit  for her, in addition to her existing arrangements.  Overall, 
it doesnt look as if the PPI was unsuitable for Mrs M based on what  Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time.  Ive taken into consideration that Mrs M says she wouldve 
asked family members to meet her card repayments if shed needed to. But, as this 
wasnt a guaranteed source  of income,  it doesnt change  my conclusion.
Its possible  the information Halifax gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But Mrs M chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. She was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  
and the policy  was competitively priced and apparently  affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
Mrs M would have made a different decision if better information had been  provided. On 
balance I think she would still have  taken out the policy.
Ive considered everything Mrs M has told us, including  what shes  said about continuing to 
work when  she needed  hospital  treatment. But this was before she took the PPI. Although it 
shows Mrs M did all she could  even when  she was ill  to continue working, the PPI 
wouldve protected her if she was unable to do so. So this doesnt  change my conclusion.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because  Halifax  didnt tell Mrs M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, does have to pay back to Mrs M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9899740