K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs T bought the policy in 1995  to cover  the monthly payments on their mortgage. 
They say they applied for the PPI policy in branch.   
The policy documents that applied  to Mr and Mrs Ts PPI are no longer available.  I dont
think thats surprising  given how long ago the policy was sold. But I have looked at the
nearest available policies which I think are the same as, or at least similar to, the policy that
wouldve applied to Mr and Mrs T, to help me decide  this case.
 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr T only for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. 
Due to the time thats passed, its not clear how much their monthly benefit was. But 
Santander says,  its likely  that it wouldve been  set up to at least cover  their monthly 
mortgage payment  in the event of a successful claim. Based on what I know about how 
these policies were  usually sold, I think thats likely to be right.  At the time, it cost £25.98  a 
month. 
At the time,  Mr T was employed as a maintenance engineer.  Mr and Mrs T told us Mr T was 
entitled to twelve  months  full sick pay from his employer. They also say he was entitled  to 
death in service pay, redundancy  pay and had £5,000 in savings. They  also say Mrs T had 
savings they couldve relied on. Mr T has said he was in good health at the time of the sale,  
but had a number of medical conditions in the years after the sale.  
Santander has sent us evidence that indicates the mortgage account closed no later than 
2003. Mr and Mrs T agree with this. 
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ts representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs T 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ts representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN94047682claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr and Mrs T about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs T 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs T received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ts. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
Based on the evidence  weve seen  I think the credit  agreement itself concluded in 2003. 
That means the unfair relationship provisions  set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, 
the Supreme Court  judgment in Plevin  about  s.140 of that Act and the rules  and guidance  
made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission 
in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.  
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
Ref: DRN94047683complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs T with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs T sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN94047684-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs T, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs T 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs T 
and Santander,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
Did Mr and Mrs T know they had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs T have  been able to provide me with copies of the
documentation from the time of sale. I dont think thats surprising given how long ago the
policy was sold. But it does mean I have limited information about the sale,  so I have to
decide what I think is more likely  based on the available evidence and the wider
circumstances.
Santander says it wouldve  made  the optional nature of the PPI clear and not sold it to them
unless Mr and Mrs T had expressly agreed  to it. Customers  were required to complete an
application form and sign a direct debit mandate  to allow premiums to be collected  
indicating it was a separate  product. Based  on what Ive seen, Ive got no reason to doubt
that Santander followed it usual process at the time.  Taking everything into account, I think  
its more likely that Mr and Mrs T knew the policy was optional  and they agreed  to take it out 
without undue pressure.  
did Santander provide advice?
Mr and Mrs T say no advice was provided  during this sale.  Santander hasnt been able to 
provide any records  from the sale but say advice wouldve  been  provided. Based on what I 
know about how Santander sold mortgage PPI policies around this time I think its likely  that  
Santander provided advice. 
This means  Santander  had to advise Mr and Mrs T with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs T. It seems Mr and Mrs T cant  remember  clearly  what  
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  There  is no specific  evidence to show 
the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr T would have been caught by the significant  
exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  did not fully meet their needs. 
For example, there is nothing to suggest Santander  considered whether Mr T had any pre-
existing medical conditions.
Ref: DRN94047685Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs T given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Santander  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs T, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr T met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs T had a need for the policy  Mr T was the main wage earner and it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs Ts finances  would be put under strain if he were not 
working  even allowing for the sickness and redundancy  benefits  he was entitled  to 
and Mrs Ts income.  The policy would have helped Mr and Mrs T manage the 
consequences were  Mr T unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs T.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr T. There was 
nothing about  Mr Ts employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult for 
him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
While the policy included  a requirement  that Mr T be disabled  or unemployed for 8
weeks before they could  make a claim and would  only pay benefits for a maximum  of
12 months for each  unemployment claim and 24 months for disability, it still provided
valuable cover given:  Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances, the fact the policy protected the
mortgage repayments relating to their home and the potential consequences should
Mr and Mrs T be unable  to make the repayments  on loans secured against their
house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs T 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Santander was recommending  to them and make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs T were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr T unable  to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs T would have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs T agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs T Im not persuaded 
Ref: DRN94047686Santander did enough to present information about the policy  it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs T all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ts representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ts. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ts representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs T about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ts representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs T have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs T? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs T suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs T. So I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr 
and Mrs T suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must  decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs T would  have still taken out the policy, had Santander done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs T, I have  found  that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.  
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs T have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Santander had explained  things 
properly, Mr and Mrs T would have acted differently, or whether they would  have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs T say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe  I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN94047687Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs T had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Santander advised them  that there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event 
they were unable to work because of accident, sickness  and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances  at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs T knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Santander told them the exact  premium  at the 
point Mr and Mrs T applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs T 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Santander  at the time, or reconsidered 
their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs T would  have  found the cost unacceptable if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mr and Mrs T would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs 
Ts expectations about what  the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs T thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any physical or mental  medical conditions 
which Mr T should reasonably have  known of on the start date of the policy,  or which 
he has received treatment or advice for during  the 12 months  before the start date of 
the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr T 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months for accident and sickness, and 12 
months for unemployment,  rather than the remaining term of the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs T pause for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs T from taking out the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN94047688But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr T was eligible for its benefits  
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
him should the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen  any evidence to 
suggest Mr T wouldve  been caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr T didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they  
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs T would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr T needed to be totally unable to do her normal  occupation.  I
dont think this is likely to be too different to what he would have expected  to make a claim.
It seems  unlikely  he would have thought hed be able to make a successful  claim if he was 
still working.
Santander may not have told that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-month  (for 
unemployment) and 24-month period (for accident and sickness). This may have differed 
from what they expected and might  have hoped for  but 24 months was a longer period 
than Mr T would have received full sick pay for and his redundancy  entitlement  was also 
significantly less than 24 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs T would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr T be unable to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk 
and might potentially  help preserve Mr Ts sick pay or redundancy money  for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs T would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr T was made redundant, or unable to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs T would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Ts representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN94047689Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs T would not have  bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs T found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs T believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs T in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mr and Mrs T compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs T think Santander misrepresented  the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Santanders  statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr and Mrs 
T, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1995 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ts representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs T and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Santander had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs T in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN940476810Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 May 2021.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9404768