K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Mr W says 
Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him the PPI.
Lloyds doesnt  know when the PPI was sold, but it has relied on the start date of the credit 
card when investigating this complaint  which was in 1996. The earliest date for which  
weve seen PPI appearing on Mr Ws credit card statements is 2000. So, when investigating  
this complaint, we have  looked at how Lloyds sold PPI between 1996 and 2000, on the 
basis it must have been sold in that period.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case. Ive decided the policy  wasnt mis-sold. 
Ill explain  why.
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this.
Lloyds no longer has the credit card application which Mr W filled in, which is hardly 
surprising given the length of time that has passed. It has provided a sample credit card 
application form which it says was being  used  around that time. I think  this is likely to be 
similar to the one Mr W completed.  This form included a box to tick if you wanted  to take out 
the PPI. I think its more likely Mr W ticked the box on the form to confirm he wanted to take 
the cover.
So, when  taking everything into account,  including what we know  about Lloyds sales 
processes from the relevant time period, I think  its more  likely that Lloyds would have made  
clear to Mr W that the policy  was optional and that he agreed to take it out, knowing he could 
refuse it if he didnt want it.
Lloyds doesnt  have any details of how the policy was sold but has reviewed the complaint 
as though it gave advice  about the cover. As it puts greater responsibility on Lloyds, rather 
than Mr W, Ive considered this complaint on the basis Lloyds recommended  the PPI. This 
means it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and based  on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he appears to have been eligible 
for the cover and wasnt affected by any of the main  exclusions or limits on the PPI cover  
such as suffering from a medical condition of which he was already aware. 
Mr W has said he was self-employed at the time of taking out the policy  and so he shouldnt 
have been sold the cover. Having checked the policy  terms from the relevant time period I 
can see that cover is provided for self-employed people and it doesnt appear that it would 
have been any more difficult for him to claim if he was self-employed. So this doesnt  make a 
difference to my outcome.
It also seems that it would have been  a useful benefit for him. Mr W has told us he wouldnt 
receive any sick pay and he didnt have any savings or other  means with which to meet his 
repayments. This policy would have paid out for up to 12 months if he was unable to work 
Ref: DRN96058202due to accident, sickness or unemployment so I think it could have given him reassurance 
that he would have  been able to maintain his payments  on the card if he wasnt earning.
I dont know what information was given to Mr W about the cost of the policy.  So its possible 
the information Lloyds gave Mr W about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have been. But 
he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it 
could have been useful if something went wrong.  So I dont think better  information  about the 
PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. 
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because  Lloyds didnt  tell Mr W, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9605820