K820x#14Complaint
Mr N has complained about HSBC UK Bank  Plcs (HSBC)  decision  to hold him responsible 
for transactions he says he didnt authorise.
Background
In March 2018, Mr N went  on holiday to abroad  with two friends. One evening,  Mr N ended  
up in a bar where  he says he made  the first transaction,  but he doesnt recall making any 
after that. Mr N says he later realised his card was missing and called HSBC  the following 
morning. Mr N says he never would have spent the amount of money that followed the 
undisputed transaction. He feels the bank failed him by not flagging  the payments  as 
potential fraud.
HSBC feels the transactions were genuine as the chip and PIN was used and Mr N 
acknowledged he was in the bar that evening.
Ive summarised the transactions  that took place that evening  on the table below:
31/03/182:44:22 FAITO  2016 CHIP & PIN Successful £79.18
31/03/182:54:01 FAITO 2016 CHIP & PIN Successful £175.95
31/03/182:55:40 FAITO 2016 CHIP & PIN Successful £527.85
31/03/183:17:57 FAITO 2016 CHIP & PIN Successful £439.88
31/03/183:46:34 FAITO 2016 CHIP & PIN Successful £703.80
31/03/183:51:40 FAITO 2016 CHIP & PIN Successful £527.85
31/03/184:00:14 FAITO 2016CHIP & PINDecline £747.79
31/03/184:00:52 FAITO 2016CHIP & PIN Decline£351.90
31/03/184:20:34 FAITO 2016CHIP & PIN Decline£703.80
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She was satisfied the transactions  were made 
using the chip and PIN so the genuine card was used. She also considered it was more 
likely than not Mr N consented to the transactions  and authorised  them as she couldnt find a 
reasonable explanation  as to how Mr Ns PIN could have been compromised. 
I wrote  to both parties explaining I was intending to reach a slightly  different outcome to the 
investigator and upholding only the final two successful transactions.
Mr N accepted my findings.  HSBC  did not accept my findings. In summary it said:
There was no evidence that anyone other than Mr N entered  his PIN. 
The transactions were  authorised by chip and PIN, so raising a merchant dispute and 
asking what was purchased would not prove who entered  the PIN or who made the 
disputed transactions.
Ref: DRN94234062As neither the bank or I were present so we cant  assume  he was drunk. The fact Mr 
N had been drinking doesnt  mean he didnt know what he was doing   we dont 
know because we werent there.
There is no evidence he didnt pay for additional  services  if Mr N thought  he was 
paying for lower  amount than was actually charged it was his responsibility to check 
the amount.  Lap dances could explain the close proximity of the transactions.
It doesnt understand why I said the transactions should  have  been  blocked sooner.
These transactions did not breach a security  parameter within the banks  fraud 
detection system.
As the case could not be resolved informally, Ive gone on to make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered HSBCs  response to my findings, along with all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
Having done so, my decision  remains the same. For completeness, I have set out those 
findings below and addressed HSBCs  arguments within it to form my final decision.
In reaching my decision I have taken  into account the law, regulators rules  and guidance,  
relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time.
The relevant  regulations  in place at the time are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSR 2017). PSR 2017 say a payment transaction is regarded as authorised  if the payer 
has given consent  to the execution of the payment transaction. If a payment service  user 
(customer) denied having authorised an executed  payment  the payment service provider 
(in this case  HSBC)  must prove the payment transaction  was authenticated.  And if it is 
deemed that a payment transaction hasnt  been consented to, it isnt authorised.
I have also taken into account of HSBCs obligations  in respect  of protecting Mr N from fraud 
and financial  harm.  Ultimately HSBC was sufficiently concerned about potential  fraud  that it 
blocked the transactions. Ive gone on to consider whether HSBC  out fairly and reasonably 
have stepped in earlier in the circumstances of this particular complaint.
As HSBC has pointed out, I was not there at the time in question,  so I cant  say for certain  
what happened. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory  (as some 
of it is here), I reach my decision  on the balance of probabilities  in other words,  on what 
I consider is more likely  than not, in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Theres no dispute Mr N was in the club where  the disputed transactions took place in the 
early hours of the morning on 31 March 2018.  He admits he was abroad  with two friends. 
They had spent  two hours in a different bar previously where seven undisputed transactions  
had taken place.
Mr N also doesnt dispute that he bought one round of drinks on his card in the club.  He 
doesnt remember exactly the time he spent there  or what happened after this. Although at 
some point he says he and his friends  moved  on to another  club and he woke up there  on 
Ref: DRN94234063his own. He returned to his hotel  and he says he realised his card was missing  the following  
day.
Looking at the transactions up to the point HSBC blocked the card (the one Mr N admits  is 
genuine, as well as the following disputed transactions) I can see they took place in just over 
a one-hour period.  Theres  no dispute the genuine  card was always  used and the payments  
were processed using the embedded chip and Mr N entering his correct PIN.
Mr Ns recollection on some  of the details  of the night are not entirely  clear  and thats  not 
surprising in the circumstances. He had been  drinking for some  time before hand and some  
time has now passed since the night in question. There are some  inconsistencies between 
the version of events  Mr N has told us and HSBC. Thats not whats driven  my decision here, 
but Ive certainly  taken  this into account. 
Its possible Mr N did enter his PIN whenever  the payment  terminal was presented to him 
and it could be argued that this means  he consented  to all of the transactions.  I appreciate  
Mr N says he would never  have agreed to pay these kinds of amounts, but I also think its 
possible he may not have paid close attention to the amount showing on the card terminal. 
That doesnt  necessarily  mean he didnt formally consent to the transaction being processed. 
As HSBC has pointed out - Mr N was responsible for checking the amounts entered  on the 
terminal before he finished  authorising the payment  by entering his PIN. And HSBC had an 
obligation to follow Mr Ns instruction. 
But from what Mr N has said,  alleging the club possibly tricked  him, its not clear to me 
whether he entered the PIN himself or whether people running or working in the club did this 
on his behalf.  He says he was being distracted by the women in the room and has no 
recollection of buying  any further drinks or services  which again is not surprising in the 
circumstances. I accept  there would have  been  an opportunity for staff in the club to see 
Mr N enter  his PIN earlier  in the evening. This is certainly a possibility Ive considered. 
HSBC didnt approach the club in question to verify what was purchased at the time. I 
appreciate they had no grounds to chargeback the transactions (as fraud because they were 
completed using  the genuine card and PIN) but it was still open to them  to have  raised a 
merchant dispute  about what was bought. This has meant potentially  valuable evidence  
doesnt exist.  HSBC argue that contacting the bar to find out what was purchased still does 
not prove who entered the PIN and made  the transactions. But this evidence would may 
have helped show what the money was spent on and whether  it was indeed just drinks or 
other services.
Our service is aware of lap dancing bars in the area Mr N visited  which  have been subject to 
a number of very similar complaints: threatening behaviour, over-charging,  or misleading 
customers about what they were paying.  Ive taken this into account. HSBC say there  is no 
evidence to suggest Mr N did not pay for additional  services. But part of the reason there is 
no evidence is because  HSBC did not go to the bar in question  to verify what  was purchased 
at the time.
Having considered all the evidence and on balance, whilst Mr N may have  consented to the 
transactions, I consider he was being  duped by the club into making them.  That is to say the 
club was taking advantage of Mr N who had been  drinking and he was being  intentionally  
being "distracted" by the dancers in the club. I think its more likely than not that he did not 
know what he was doing at the time. I say this because  he had been more  likely than not 
Ref: DRN94234064drinking for some  time and say he does  not recall making any further  transactions  after the 
first one.
As Ive set out above, there are also some situations in which HSBC should  reasonably  have 
had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding some transactions. Ive considered the 
issues Mr N highlighted suggesting that HSBC should have blocked these transactions 
sooner. 
Even if Mr N is lying to us or just simply does not now recall  what he did - and he was in fact 
buying additional services in the club - the transactions look odd to me. They happened at 
over a very short space  of time (just over an hour), over varying  intervals but some of the 
intervals are quite short (10 minutes,1 minute,  5 minutes). Perhaps  more significantly, the 
general trend overall is for rising  amounts. I think the short intervals and amounts form an 
unusual pattern even if Mr N was buying  drinks and services. For example, at 3.46am a 
transaction of £703.80 is very shortly  followed by a transaction for £527.85  five minutes  later. 
This looks deliberate  to me.  Shortly after which the transactions started  to be declined.  
HSBC shouldnt necessarily have picked up on this immediately  a pattern  would  need  to 
emerge. And of course, the evidence shows HSBC  did pick up on the final three payment 
attempts and blocked them. So HSBC were sufficiently concerned  about  the possibility of 
fraud to block the last three transactions. In other  words, HSBC  had been  triggered by 
unusual or uncharacteristic activity. And its not clear  to me why HSBC acted at that point 
and not sooner. I appreciate HSBCs fraud systems  didnt identify these earlier payments as 
having high risk characteristics. But isnt to say that any activity not picked up on means  a 
business doesnt need to do anything more. In fact, I dont think  the subsequent transactions  
were dissimilar to the previous ones  they were for similar amounts, in the same  bar and 
happened at the same time of day. In the circumstances I do think HSBC could (and 
arguably should)  have  acted sooner here taking into account  what Ive already  said and 
specifically that:
Mr N was abroad and making transactions early  in the morning. Looking at the way 
the transactions develop, the first disputed transaction is made 10 minutes after the 
first genuine transaction in the club  and for almost  twice  the amount. I appreciate  
there were similar gaps  earlier in the evening at the first bar  but these were  for 
much smaller and very similar amounts. 
Just one to two minutes  after the first disputed  transaction  a much more  substantial 
payment comes.  This is now over six times  the original amount  spent.  And by the fifth 
transaction (the fourth disputed  transaction)  the amount was almost nine times the 
original undisputed transaction. I think at this point HSBC ought fairly and reasonably 
have blocked  the payments.
Ive considered HSBCs  arguments, many  of which seem contradictory to me because 
ultimately HSBC did recognise Mr N was at risk of financial harm  in this situation and 
blocked the transactions. Its just in this case,  I dont  think  HSBCs intervention  went quite far 
enough and I think HSBC ought fairly and reasonably  to have blocked the fifth transaction 
(the fourth disputed  transaction) onwards. 
Putting things  right
In order to put things  right for Mr N, HSBC should;
Ref: DRN94234065-refund  Mr N the fourth and fifth disputed transactions of £703.80  and £527.85
-pay simple  interest of 8% per year on the above  transactions (from the date of the 
transaction, to the date settlement is made).
HM Revenue & Customs  may require HSBC  to deduct tax from the interest it pays Mr N. If it 
does, and if Mr N requests it, HSBC should provide him with a certificate showing how much  
tax it has taken off so that he may reclaim it if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reason  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint in part. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc should  put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Kathryn Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9423406