K820x#14complaint
Mrs L has complained  that she was mis-sold  a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy  
taken out to protect a mortgage  with Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds).
background
Mrs L took out a mortgage with Lloyds in 2000, borrowing £25,000 over 20 years.  Alongside 
it she took out a PPI policy  to protect  her mortgage repayments. The policy  paid out if Mrs L 
was unable to work  due to accident, sickness or unemployment for up to 12 months in any 
one claim.  The mortgage and PPI ended in 2003.
Mrs L has said it wasnt made clear to her that PPI was an optional  product and she wasnt 
given much information about it. She has also said she had sufficient other ways to make 
her mortgage repayments, so she didnt need PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Ls complaint  about  PPI should be upheld, but she 
disagreed. So the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls complaint. Having done so, Im not going  to 
uphold it, but Ill explain why.
did Mrs L have a fair choice to take out PPI?
Mrs L has said it wasnt made clear that PPI was an optional product. Ive seen the 
application form that was filled out. On it there is a section dealing  with PPI where  Mrs L was 
asked questions about her circumstances. And there were  two options given, one to take out 
PPI and one to turn it down. So I think Mrs L was given a choice whether  to take it out.
On balance I think the PPI was discussed and presented  as optional. And I think Mrs L 
chose to take it out. I know this doesnt fit with what she has said but Im not surprised  if her 
recollections arent clear  as she took out PPI almost twenty years ago and memories  
naturally fade with time.
was the PPI policy suitable  for Mrs L?
Lloyds has said that it advised Mrs L to take out PPI, so it had to make sure the policy was 
suitable for her needs. I think that the recommendation was suitable  for the following 
reasons:
Mrs L was eligible for the PPI and doesnt seem  to be affected by any of the 
exclusions in the policy. 
Mrs L has said she had sick pay in place  of between six and twelve  months. But the 
PPI could have  paid out for longer and I think this could have been a benefit when 
her sick pay reduced  or ended.
Ref: DRN90407442Mrs L had some savings, but from the mortgage application I think these would have 
been around £600. But PPI would have paid out on top of any savings, so they could 
have been used for other living expenses at what could have been a difficult time. 
Ive also seen from the application  that Mrs L had an endowment policy worth around 
£2,00 that was due to mature the year after the mortgage started. But I cant  be 
certain of its precise value  and PPI would have  paid out on top of anything she got 
from that policy. 
Mrs L hasnt said that she had any other ways she could have  met the repayments,  
so I think PPI gave her valuable protection.
It appears Mrs L could afford  the policy at the time and I havent seen anything  
showing that she had a need to keep her costs down.
was Mrs L given information that was clear, fair and not misleading?
  
Lloyds had to give Mrs L enough information  so that she could decide whether  to take out 
PPI. Ive looked at the documentation  thats been  provided and I cant be certain  she was 
given all the information that she needed. But I think that Mrs L would have bought  PPI even 
if she had all of the information when she signed  up for it.
I say this as she wasnt  caught  by any restrictions in the PPI policy and would have  been  
eligible for the full benefits. As Ive already found,  the PPI policy  was suitable  and affordable  
for her and she chose  to take it out. So I dont think that knowing more  about the cost and 
benefit would have put Mrs L off taking it out.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint  against Lloyds Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9040744