K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about a conditional sale agreement taken out with Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plc in his name.
background
In May 2018  Mr D says he was approached  by a friend about  a doing a favour  for him. The 
friend wanted Mr D to take out a finance agreement with Santander in order to get a car. The 
idea was the friend would  give Mr D the money to make the monthly  payments and also give 
him £100 per month on top of this for himself.
It seems  Mr D was aware that the friend was intending to get a car from Santander by these 
means. But at first it was unclear if he was saying whether he knew  that the agreement  was 
completed and the car was provided  to his friend.
Mr D told us in any event  he neither saw nor signed the contract.  Neither did he ever take 
possession of the car.
Things started to go wrong. The car was uninsured and it got taken away by the police. 
Santander contacted Mr D and asked him to payoff  the balance of the finance  that runs into 
thousands of pounds.
Mr D explained to Santander that he did not take out the agreement. However he thinks it is 
not listening to him. It is insisting that he did sign the agreement  and he is responsible for 
paying the money that is owed.
Mr D thought this was unfair and wanted the whole amount written off. He also wanted 
Santander to stop asking  him for payments while  we took a look at his complaint.  He asked 
that it remove any information it may have asked to be registered on his credit file about the 
agreement.
In short,  Mr Ds position was that fraud has been  committed and Santanders investigation  of 
this fraud  has not been as robust as it should  have  been. He suggested if Santander  
investigated the complaint properly it would not be chasing him for payment. He also 
suggested its application processes were not as secure as they needed to be.
Santanders understanding  of the complaint is that Mr D thought  he was the guarantor of the 
agreement, not the one taking out the agreement. But despite thinking he was the guarantor 
he agreed with his friend that he would make  the repayments to Santander and the friend 
would reimburse  him.
Santander set out a timeline of the significant  events  from its perspective: I, in turn, have  set 
out some  of that timeline here:
Mid May 2018  the agreement began.
Late May 2018 Mr D called asking for information about the agreement.
December 2018 Mr D called asked Santander  to change the due date for his monthly 
payments.
Ref: DRN98791762April 2019 the police  seized the car.
May 2019 Mr D complained to Santander.
Santanders position is that it had looked at how the contract was set up, the information  
from Mr D and the wider circumstances of the complaint and it was satisfied that Mr D could 
fairly be held responsible  for his obligations  under the agreement.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr D came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint. He did not recommend upholding it. In 
summary, he thought  Santander had acted fairly. On balance,  he concluded that Mr D had 
signed up for the agreement. Albeit Mr Ds friend  might have led Mr D to think  he was only a 
guarantor because Mr D was paying Santander and then the friend was meant to reimburse  
him. However, Santander could not be held responsible for this.
Santander accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr D did not. He repeated his 
earlier stance. He added hed been  duped into taking finance.
Mr D asked that an ombudsman review his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive finished looking at Mr Ds complaint  
and I am not upholding it. Please let me explain why I have come to this decision.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D talks about fraud and the involvement of the police in this complaint. Fraud is a criminal 
offence. This service  has no power  to make  decisions about criminal  matters, it follows I 
have no power to make a decision about  criminal offences. If Mr D wants his complaint 
investigated as fraud  he will need  to talk to the police about this.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
The first thing Ive looked  at is whether  it is likely Mr D entered into the agreement with 
Santander at all. He has said various  things at different times about this. He told us he never  
entered into the agreement. According  to Santanders records he sent emails to it where he 
said he did sign the agreement, albeit he thought the contract might have been tampered  
with afterwards. 
Ref: DRN98791763Further, in a conversation with our service he told us he did go to the dealership where  the 
agreement was signed but he cant recall  what was talked about. Also in his response to our 
investigators view he said he was duped  into taking finance. 
Ive also seen messages  from Mr D to his friend  where Mr D talks about the friend  having  to 
take seriously his obligations to make payments towards the car finance because  my name 
[is]  on the car contract.
With such discrepancies, in mind, I have  some difficulty accepting the accuracy  of Mr Ds 
recollections.
Further, according to Santanders records, Mr D called Santander about the agreement on at 
least two separate  occasions. I have no reason in the circumstances to doubt  the accuracy 
of the records. Moreover, Mr D has not said it wasnt him who contacted Santander.  I find it 
inexplicable that Mr D would have  contacted  Santander about this agreement and asked it to 
change his payment  date,  if he was not a party  to the agreement.
For all of these reasons I find it more likely than not that Mr D did enter into the conditional 
sale agreement with Santander.
However, Mr D suggests that the contractual documentation was flawed. For example he 
tells us although Santander  has the right address for his employer,  it had the wrong name.  
He says where there were electronic signatures, they could have been done by anyone. He 
tells us where there are wet signatures, they dont match  his. He tells us he would have 
spotted these  errors  at the time. So his position is all this suggests  that the documents  were  
switched after he saw them. Or that key parts of the documents were not shown to him. I 
must fairly point out though, if this is what Mr D is suggesting happened, this means he is 
agreeing he did enter  into a finance  agreement with Santander. This does again contradict 
what he said about never entering  into a finance agreement with Santander  for the car.
The only way such a switch of documents could have happened  is if both the credit  broker 
and Santander  colluded together to do this. It is not clear why they would have been 
motivated to do this, since I have  found, as I said above that Mr D did sign up to the contract. 
Why would  they have got rid of a valid contract  and replaced it with an invalid one?  I dont  
find that a likely scenario.
Neither am I persuaded  that key parts of the documents were hidden  from him at the time. 
He has not told us that he was not allowed to read the documents  at the time. Indeed he 
suggests he did read them because he tells us he would  have seen  the wrong information 
when he was going through the contract if it had been there.
Im not an expert on signatures.  It may well be to Mr Ds eyes  the signatures on the 
documents dont  match  his. I cant  explain why he did not pick up on the discrepancies  such  
as with the employers name, for example. It is possible  though that he did not read the 
entire contract as carefully then as he has done now and he just did not see these issues. 
That however does not mean I have to conclude this is a fake contract.
The point is I have  found, for the reasons I have already gone through, that he did enter into 
this contact. And further I find, on balance, that the contractual documents  Santander  has 
provided are the ones  Mr D saw. It follows that I think it is fair and reasonable for Santander 
to be allowed to rely on the contract  they both freely entered into.
Ref: DRN98791764Mr D suggests he never  received the car, even though Santander  says that he did. He also 
points out that the V5C document is in the name of his friend not his name. But this does not 
help his complaint.  It merely shows he had the agreement  that he tells us he had with his 
friend. That is, Mr D would  apply  for the finance for the car and the friend  would use that car. 
Although I realise  the friend was also meant  to pay Mr D for the car.
It seems  that the friend has unfortunately left Mr D in the lurch. But, whilst that is unfortunate 
and I can see why that would upset Mr D, I cant fairly and reasonably hold Santander 
responsible for this.
Mr D suggests that Santanders  application processes are not good  enough.  But Santander 
gets to make  a commercial decision about  what processes it uses. But we can look at 
whether those processes mean  that Mr D was treated unfairly.  But I dont think he was. As I 
explained above, Mr D is merely being asked to keep to the terms of the agreement  that I 
have found he made  with Santander.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9879176