K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that St Jamess Place UK plc (SJP UK) failed to correctly calculate  the 
transfer value  of her pension funds following the cancellation of her investment. And she 
complains that the time it took SJP UK to move her cancelled funds to her chosen new 
provider was unreasonable.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the second provisional decision I issued in 
April 2020. An extract from this is attached and forms  part of this final decision, so I will not 
repeat that information here.
In my second provisional decision  I set out why I didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  
SJP UK have not provided me with any further comments or evidence. Mr M, on behalf  of 
Mrs M, has said that he believes it has already  been  clearly set out why they think  they have 
lost out. And overall, Mrs M isnt concerned about the outcome of the two individual 
complaints providing  one is upheld and the necessary  compensation is paid.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither party has provided 
me with any new, or further, evidence I see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I set 
out in my second  provisional decision.
I think that SJP UK acted  in line with its terms when calculating the value of the funds it 
transferred following Mrs Ms decision to cancel her investment. And I dont think SJP UK 
was directly responsible  for any unreasonable delays in the transfer  of Mrs Ms funds to F. 
But I do think that SJP UKs failure  to process  the switch to cash on the correct date, or at 
least explain  to Mrs M that the switch  had been  delayed, has caused  Mrs M a loss of 
expectation for which it should pay her some compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mrs Ms complaint. 
I direct  St Jamess  Place UK plc to pay Mrs M £622.41 in respect  of the disappointment 
caused to her by the incorrect reporting of her investments on the online portal by making an 
additional transfer to F. 
If SJP UK is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs M's pension plan, due to protection  or 
allowance issues,  it should  pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible  to pay into 
the plan, it would have provided a taxable income.  Therefore  the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income  tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs M's expected marginal rate of tax 
(that I expect to be 20%) in retirement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2020.
Ref: DRN90292622Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN90292623EXTRACT FROM SECOND  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs M complains that St Jamess Place UK plc (SJP UK) failed to correctly calculate the transfer 
value of her pension funds  following the cancellation of her investment. And she complains that the 
time it took SJP UK to move  her cancelled funds to her chosen new provider  was unreasonable.
background
As I said earlier, I have previously issued a provisional  decision on this complaint. Following  that 
provisional decision  Mrs M provided me with extensive  comments that I have considered carefully. 
And following further  investigations, and new information provided by SJP UK, I have had additional 
discussions by email with Mrs M. So rather than deal with that new information  piecemeal  I think  it 
easier for both parties if I issue a new provisional decision  dealing with the entire complaint afresh.  
But some  of my findings on the matter havent changed, and so I make no apology for the repetition of 
parts of my original provisional decision in my new findings.
Mrs M has been assisted  in making this complaint by her husband. But for ease I will refer in this 
decision to all communication and actions as having been undertaken  by Mrs M.
Mrs M previously held pension benefits  with two providers. She decided that she wanted  to 
consolidate those pensions into a single  plan and took advice on her options from an advisor working 
on behalf of St Jamess Place Wealth. Following what seems to have been detailed consideration  of 
that advice Mrs M agreed  to transfer her pension  benefits to a single plan with SJP UK in February 
2018.
After becoming  unhappy  with the service that had been  provided by SJP UK and some recent poor 
publicity for the company  Mrs M asked her advisor for information about  her rights to cancel  her 
investment. Mrs M has raised a complaint  about the information provided  by the advisor  that I am 
dealing with separately. In this decision I will only look at the actions of SJP UK.
Following the information provided  by the advisor Mrs M exercised her rights, under the terms and 
conditions of the retirement  plan, to cancel her investment. That cancellation  was notified to SJP UK 
on 12 March. Her previous  pension schemes had indicated that they would be unwilling to accept  the 
return of her investments.  So she arranged to open a new SIPP with a provider I will call F. She 
asked SJP UK to transfer  the proceeds of her cancelled  investment to F.
The transfer  to F didnt complete until 11 May. Mrs M says that in the interim  she had needed to 
regularly chase  SJP UK for updates and that the time taken to complete the transfer was 
unreasonably long.  As a result she says that she has lost out on investment returns  that would have 
been realised if the transfer had been completed  in a more  timely manner. 
Mrs Ms complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think  that it was 
reasonable to ask SJP UK to pay Mrs M compensation for the time it had taken  for the transfer to 
complete. And he noted that St Jamess Place Wealth had offered Mrs M some  compensation to 
ensure that the money that was transferred to F was equal to the funds she transferred in from her 
previous pension  schemes. So he didnt recommend  that the complaint be upheld.  
Mrs M didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has 
been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
Ref: DRN90292624In deciding this complaint I have taken account of the submissions that have been made by Mrs M 
and by SJP UK. Where  the evidence is unclear, or there are differences of opinion about  what  should  
have happened, I have made  my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words  I have 
looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide  what  is 
reasonable in those circumstances.
At the outset I think  it is useful to reflect  on the role of this service. This service  isnt intended to 
regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. 
Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by 
placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position  they would have  been if the problem  hadnt 
occurred.
I think  it is important here to be clear about the evidence  I have considered  when deciding  this 
complaint. I have been given extensive submissions from Mrs M, and I thank her for the full and 
complete information that she has provided. I have also been given similarly complete  submissions 
from SJP UK. And I have listened carefully  to a large number of telephone calls between 
Mr and Mrs M and SJP UK, calls between Mr and Mrs M and F, and calls between SJP UK and F. 
Mrs M says that she quickly  became concerned about SJP UKs ability to service  her pension 
investments after they had been transferred. She has cited  some poor publicity in the national press,  
and some servicing issues that she faced in late February.  But those issues dont form part of her 
complaint, and so I will not comment on them further. Ultimately  Mrs M didnt need to justify  to 
SJP UK why she wished to cancel  her investment  she simply needed  to provide the required notice 
within the applicable timescale.
Mrs M told SJP UK that she wished to cancel her investment on 12 March.  In her letter she made 
reference to the applicable  section  in the key features  document that related to her retirement  plan.  
So it seems  to me that Mrs M was well aware of those terms before she decided to cancel her plan. 
The cancellation notice was sent to SJP UK within  the required 30 days of the start of the investment 
and so met the necessary conditions  to be effective. But in fact there is no contention over that point  
SJP UK accepted  that Mrs M had the right to cancel  her investment and had done so in time.
In many circumstances, cancelling a retirement account such as this would simply  result in the 
pension funds  being returned to the ceding  scheme.  But Mrs Ms two previous schemes both 
confirmed that they wouldnt  be willing to allow  the return of the funds. That is their right to do so, and 
most likely something they would have  explained to Mrs M when she made her original request to 
transfer her benefits to SJP UK. So that meant SJP UK would need to find an alternative destination 
for the cancelled funds,  and hence Mrs M opened a SIPP with F.
The terms  which would  apply  to a cancellation are set out in the key features document  that it 
appears was provided to Mrs M. In a section titled What happens if I change my mind  they say;
Your money is invested from the day after we receive  your investment  and any documents  we 
need. You can change your mind and cancel  your investment before you receive your 
documentation, or up to 30 days after you receive it. If you decide to do so we will return the 
amount you invested less any fall in investment  values that has occurred  since your money  
was invested. This may mean you get back less than you invested.  Also,  you may not be able 
to return  any benefits you have transferred from a previous pension  scheme. No initial advice 
charges will be deducted from the value  of the cancelled investment and you will not be liable 
for any other advice charges  in respect of that investment. 
Mrs M says that she didnt find that statement  clear  in terms of what  would happen if the value of her 
investment had increased. And so she sought clarification of its meaning from her advisor.  It is his 
response that is the basis for Mrs Ms complaint against St Jamess  Place  Wealth  that I am deciding  
separately.
Ref: DRN90292625So what I need to decide  here is whether SJP UK acted in accordance with these terms when  it 
calculated the amount of money that it should pay to Mrs Ms new provider  following the cancellation  
of the retirement account.
I think  that the terms are explicit  about  what would happen if the investment value had fallen before 
cancellation. And I also think  that the terms clearly imply what would  happen  otherwise  that is 
should the investment not have fallen  in value. In that case the amount that would be returned on 
cancellation would be the amount that was invested. But that wasnt the interpretation  that SJP 
Wealth placed  on those  terms, and even SJP UK has given us different interpretations  over the time 
this complaint has been with us. So I need  to explore  what happened in a bit more detail.
Mrs Ms investments performed strongly in the first couple of weeks after they were moved  to SJP UK. 
And seemingly aware of the risk that she would  be liable for any investment  losses she moved  her 
investments into a cash account a week or so before cancelling the account. SJP UK originally  said 
that any transactions that were made before  the cancellation should  be considered  null and void. And 
it says the value of Mrs Ms original investment had fallen  slightly shortly before she cancelled  it.
Mrs M instructed SJP UK to move her pension  savings into a cash fund on 4 March.  SJP UK says 
that instruction was accepted and applied  on the next business day (5 March). From the information  
SJP UK has recently  sent us I can see that there had been some reduction in the value of Mrs Ms 
pension savings in the early  days  of that month. So by the time her funds were  moved into cash, there 
was little overall gain on Mrs Ms pension  savings.
But SJP UK has also pointed  out the transfer of Mrs Ms pension savings was made  in two tranches. 
Her funds came from different previous schemes and were received on different days. So SJP UK 
has reasonably said that it should treat each transfer separately when calculating its value at the date 
it received Mrs Ms cancelation notice. I have  shown  the relevant values in the table below;
Transfer In
(14/16 Feb)Switch to Cash
(5 Mar)Cancellation
(12 Mar)Cancellation 
Proceeds
Fund 1 £    389,660.21  £    391,461.15  £    391,461.15  £    389,660.21 
Fund 2 £    298,414.54  £    297,791.93  £    297,791.93  £    297,791.93 
Total £    688,074.75  £    689,253.08  £    689,253.08  £    687,452.14 
So I think SJP UK has now clearly shown how it calculated the value  of Mrs Ms pension  savings 
when she cancelled her plan. And based on what I consider a reasonable interpretation of SJP UKs 
terms and conditions  I think that the value of the funds it sent to F were what was reasonably  
required.
Mrs M has explained that she doesnt think SJP UKs actions are fair when considered  against the 
requirements of the Consumer Rights Act of 2015  (CRA). She thinks  the CRA  means  that the 
incorrect information she was given by SJP Wealth  should  mean her contract  with SJP UK is 
considered to now include those terms. And she thinks the cancellation  terms place an unfair amount  
of risk on the consumer rather  than SJP UK. 
As I said earlier I am only required to decide this complaint on the basis of what  is fair and 
reasonable. But I also dont  agree with Mrs Ms interpretation of what  applying the regulations of the 
CRA should lead to in this case. That of course would  ultimately be a matter for the Courts to decide, 
and should Mrs M reject  my final decision  on the complaint she would be free to ask for her dispute to 
be considered  there. But, in terms  of this decision, I dont consider the regulations of the CRA mean 
that SJP UK has acted unfairly in the way it has handled the cancelation of Mrs Ms plan. I dont think  
Ref: DRN90292626the terms SJP UK has relied  on should be considered unfair. Nor do I think that the contract  Mrs M 
had with SJP UK should be altered by the incorrect information she was given by SJP Wealth. 
There has been a lack of clarity  about the value of Mrs Ms investments at the date she asked them to 
be moved into cash. Mrs M has provided  us with evidence that SJP UKs online information portal 
recorded that her pension investments had a value  of £698,073 on 14 March.  And it showed that her 
funds remained invested  in a range of asset classes rather than the cash  fund she had instructed nine 
days earlier.
SJP UK has confirmed that it made an error processing  Mrs Ms request to switch her investments to 
cash on 5 March.  Due to a processing failure the actual transactions werent  processed until 
20 March, although SJP UK used  the correct  market values from 5 March  when later applying those 
changes. So that would explain why Mrs M thought her investments were valued far higher  than the 
transfer value that SJP UK provided to F. And, ultimately, even  if I accepted Mrs Ms interpretation of 
the terms and conditions to mean she should receive the full value of her investments at the 
cancellation date (which  for clarity  I do not), her loss would only be £1,800 rather  than the much 
higher amount she originally  thought.
Mrs M didnt receive any indication from SJP UK that the investment valuation shown  on her online  
portal was incorrect.  Nor did SJP UK tell her that it hadnt  correctly implemented  her instruction  to 
move her funds to cash. So I can understand that Mrs M would be very disappointed to now learn that 
her funds, after the transfer  to cash,  were valued at a much lower amount. But given  that transfer had 
already been instructed  I cant see that Mrs M has lost out as a result  her funds were never  in a 
position to earn those  higher investment returns. I do however think  that SJP UK should  pay some 
compensation to Mrs M for this error, and the loss of expectation she might  have been  caused. 
Although the amount is higher than I might normally award in these  circumstances I think that it would  
be reasonable for SJP UK to pay the sum of £622.41 it has already offered  in respect of this 
complaint.
I will now move on to consider whether SJP UK acted reasonably in the time it took to complete the 
transfer of Mrs Ms investment to F. And having done so, my conclusions are unchanged from the first 
provisional decision  that I issued.
Mrs M, as part of her cancellation letter, told SJP UK that she had instructed F to request the transfer 
of the funds.  And F initially  contacted  SJP UK just a couple of days later to set up the transfer. But 
SJP UK didnt ultimately send the funds to F until 2 May, and they werent received by F and applied 
to Mrs Ms new SIPP  until 11 May.
Here I first need to reflect  on what each of the parties understood,  and needed to do, to make the 
transfer happen.  Mrs M had cancelled her investment, and was requesting  that her funds were  
released under those  terms. That meant that she would not need to pay the Early  Withdrawal 
Charges that I understand were approximately 4% of the value of her investment. But what  F was 
requesting from SJP UK was a transfer of funds, rather than a payment of a cancelled investment. 
I think  that distinction  was important, and SJP UK needed  to be sure that F was aware  of the source  
of these funds.
What was being done  here wasnt  a usual  transaction.  So Im not surprised that it caused a number of 
administrative problems for both SJP UK and F. At the outset Mrs M was correctly advised she 
needed to tell SJP UK of her wish to cancel the investment in writing. She did that but was then asked 
for further information. The cancellation couldnt be implemented as would  normally be expected 
since Mrs Ms original pension schemes refused to allow  the return of the funds. So SJP UK needed 
to take further  instructions following that refusal to determine where the funds should  now be 
transferred to.
Ref: DRN90292627Also, the transfer  couldnt  be processed  using an automated system  that is used  for many transfers.  
So that delayed things by a week or so as Mrs M was asked to complete an additional  paper 
application form. And the letters that F sent to SJP UK failed at first to acknowledge this transfer was 
as a result of a cancellation.  So those  letters  needed to be amended and resent. Ultimately SJP UK 
didnt receive the correct  instruction from F until 27 April.
As I said earlier I have listened carefully to a large  number of telephone calls between  Mr and Mrs M 
and SJP UK, calls between  Mr and Mrs M and F, and calls between  SJP UK and F. It is clear that for 
many of those  calls things could have gone better.  SJP UK didnt always do what  it said it would when  
responding to Mrs Ms requests for information and at times was unable to clearly explain what the 
delays were in the process. And given the novel  nature of the situation F didnt always appreciate  
what SJP UK was asking it to do and why. But I dont think I can fairly say that the delays were 
caused by any serious failing by any of the parties. It was simply a case of SJP UK needing  to ensure 
it had the correct  documentation and authority  before transferring the funds.  And SJP UK made a 
number of calls to F to try and ensure those were received at the earliest  opportunity.
So on balance, and whilst I acknowledge the disappointment that Mrs M feels because  of the 
investment returns she might have  achieved  if the funds had been transferred sooner,  I dont currently  
think any delays were  unreasonably caused by failings on the part of SJP UK. And so I dont intend to 
uphold that part of her complaint.
So in summary I currently think that SJP UK acted in line with its terms when calculating  the value of 
the funds it transferred to F following Mrs Ms decision to cancel her investment.  And I dont think  
SJP UK was directly responsible for any unreasonable delays in the transfer of Mrs Ms funds to F. 
But I do think  that SJP UKs failure to process the switch to cash  on the correct  date, or at least  
explain to Mrs M that the switch had been  delayed, has caused  Mrs M a loss of expectation.
Ref: DRN9029262