K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance from 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (trading as Barclays Partner Finance ) (BPF).
background
In February 2018  Mr A was supplied with a used car and entered  into a conditional sale 
agreement with BPF.
After approximately  4 weeks  the oil light illuminated.  Mr A contacted the supplying  dealer 
who advised him to top up the oil. Mr A says this resolved the issue  for a few weeks  but then 
the oil light illuminated  again. 
In June 2018 Mr A hit the kerb and damaged the wheel. Mr A says the wheel was a 
counterfeit wheel  which  shouldnt  have  been  fitted and although he contacted the supplying 
dealer he was left to source another wheel himself.
After approximately  5 months the engine suffered a catastrophic failure. Mr A contacted the 
warranty company but it said it would only pay up to £1000 on the claim.
 Mr A contacted the supplying dealer and it arranged for the car to be collected. But it 
refused to cover the cost of repairs  because of the damage caused  by the previous accident, 
which it said had damaged the sump  and caused the engine  to lose fluids.
Mr A complained to this service. He wants BPF to cover the cost of repairs.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said there was no evidence of a fault being 
present at the point of supply.
Mr A didnt agree. He said the oil light had illuminated after 4 weeks and that hed had to top 
up the oil twice before the engine failed. He felt that BPF hadnt shown that the fault wasnt  
present at the point of supply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BPF has supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement  theres  an implied 
term that it has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. I would expect  a second  hand  car to have a degree of wear and tear. So in order to 
uphold this complaint I would  need to be satisfied that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply due to an inherent defect  rather  than general wear  and tear.
Mr A and BPF disagree about  whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. So in order  
to reach  a decision I need to look at all of the available  evidence and determine, on the 
balance of probabilities, whether I think the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply.
Ref: DRN98625502Mr A says he experienced the oil light illuminating  after 4 weeks. At the point of supply, the 
car was approximately 8 years old and had covered approximately  91,000 miles.
When oil reaches below a certain  level, it displays on the dashboard indicating  that it needs 
to be filled up. The oil light illuminating  doesnt indicate that there is a problem - simply that 
the car needs  more oil. It isnt unusual  for an oil light to illuminate more  regularly on an older  
car because  as cars age, they are more likely to consume oil due to wear.  For instance, 
worn valve  stems and seals and worn  or damaged piston rings  can allow oil to seep into 
combustion chambers. Driving style can also affect  oil consumption. Its not unusual for older  
cars with 75000 miles or more on the clock to require oil top ups every 5000 to 10,000  miles.
If there had been an inherent fault causing  oil to leak from Mr As car, I would  have expected 
this to have caused the oil light to illuminate sooner than 4 weeks  after the point of supply. 
But because the oil light didnt  illuminate  immediately, I cant safely conclude that there was 
an issue with the oil at the point of supply.
Mr A has explained that the car suffered catastrophic  engine  failure  after approximately  5 
months. The Consumer  Rights  act 2015  says that where a fault occurs  within  the first 6 
months, its the responsibility  of the business to put things right unless it can show  that the 
fault wasnt present  at the point of supply. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and 
its up to the customer  to show that the fault was present at the point of supply.
An engineers report can help in deciding whether or not a fault was present at the point  of 
supply. In this case, an independent inspection was carried out in August 2018. The report 
says that taking into account the mileage covered by the car since  the point of supply, the 
fault would  not have  been present at the point of supply. The engineer was unable  to say 
what caused the engine to fail but concluded that, based on the inspection  he had carried 
out, there  was no evidence that a lack of oil or a loss of oil pressure had caused the engine 
to fail.
Ive taken into account the second independent  inspection dated December 2018  but this 
doesnt assist  because the engine  wasnt available for inspection.
Based on this report, Im satisfied that BPF has shown that the fault wasnt present at the 
point of supply  and that lack of oil was not a contributing factor  towards the engine failure.
In order for me to recommend that BPF should cover the cost of repairs I would need to be 
satisfied that there was a fault with the car at the point of supply. Based on the independent  
report, Im not satisfied  that this is the case.
Ive taken into account all of the points  raised by Mr As representative. I wont  comment on 
all of these but have focussed  on those  which are most relevant to the determination of this 
complaint. Theres no information  to say whether the oil was changed or topped up before 
Mr A was supplied with the car, so Im unable to draw any conclusions about the mileage 
covered before the oil light illuminated.  Whether  or not the oil was changed  just before the 
point of supply,  Im still of the view that the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply because the oil light didnt illuminate until 4 weeks later.  In addition, the independent 
inspection concluded  that there was no evidence of oil loss. 
I appreciate that Mr A feels that an oil leak was the cause  of the engine failure. But the 
expert evidence doesnt  support this. I understand why Mr A wants  the engine  inspected 
Ref: DRN98625503again but I dont think this is necessary because the engine has already been inspected  and 
the engineer concluded  that the fault wasnt present at the point of supply.
Taking all of the available information  into account,  Im unable  to say that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. So I cant fairly ask BPF to meet the cost of repairs.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9862550