K820x#14complaint
Mr As representative, his wife and carer Mrs A, complains on his behalf about  a delay in 
receiving the maturity forms from Virgin Money Plc. 
Mrs A says Virgin should: 
Have sent Mr A the new bond  rates earlier so he has enough time to decide.
Mr A was given new bond rates over the phone, but they werent  happy  with them.  
Despite asking if the withdrawal could be done over the phone, they were  told this 
had to be done via post which delayed matters. 
Despite multiple phone calls Virgin were making it impossible to withdraw their 
money. 
background
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
He understands  Mr As frustration and that he needs time to decide what to do. 
Virgin acknowledged that there  was a failing in its customer service and accepts that 
Mr A was let down. But as customer service  isnt a regulated activity its not 
something that he can consider.  
Mrs A said I want  the business to train their staff in call handling,  product knowledge, 
postal knowledge  such as putting a withdrawal option form into an envelope and 
sending it to the customer.  But whilst  he appreciates her frustration he cant tell 
Virgin how to run its business. 
As a carer, and representative of Mr A, Mrs A wouldnt  be entitled to compensation 
for any trouble  and upset shes suffered dealing with the business. We dont 
generally offer compensation to third party representatives. 
The business has apologised  to Mr A so he wont be asking for any further apologies.  
Despite what Mrs A says about Mr A not being  treated fairly, he cant order  Virgin to 
send the bond rates early, thatd  be the role of the industry  regulator the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA). 
Despite it being close to the deadline  the maturity forms were sent and received  
before the bond matured, and no financial loss occurred.   
Virgin offered £75 for the trouble and upset  caused.  Overall  the amount was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs A disagreed with the investigators view and raised a number or points. In summary, she 
said:
Its unacceptable that Mr As disability  wasnt  mentioned in the investigators view 
once. This is unacceptable  under the Equalities  Act 2010.
Mr A suffers from traumatic brain  injury caused by a stroke,  which has left him with 
both physical and cognitive impairment  which means he needs  more time to process  
information.  
If Virgin was fair to its customers, itd never expect its severely disabled customer to 
action maturity within a few days.  
By law the business must make reasonable adjustments  for Mr A. 
 
Ref: DRN97470692Having considered the additional points, the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary he said:
He was sorry Mr A felt he hadnt  considered  the complaint properly. But it wasnt the 
case and it certainly  wasnt his intention to make  him feel this way.
At Mrs As insistence he went to the business  to ask what might have happened in 
Mr As case. The business  confirmed that under the Equality Act it wouldn't  send  
bond rates  earlier  to a consumer as bond  rates can change, and therefore a 
consumer could  potentially be disadvantaged  if the rates were to rise.
The business conformed that it would  make changes, such as different coloured 
paper, different size font, but there wouldnt be any preferential  treatment as to how 
the rates are distributed amongst customers.
That said, it doesnt change his view as they dont have the power to change a 
business procedure or process.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mrs A says, I think the £75 
offered for trouble  and upset is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr As strength of feeling about  this matter and Im very sorry to hear of his 
condition. 
Mrs A has provided detailed submissions to support  the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  that she and Mr A wont take the fact my findings  
focus on what I consider  to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mrs A and Virgin, and reach what I think  is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision  based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice but Im not bound by it. Its for me to decide, based  on the information Ive 
been given, whats  more likely than not to have happened.
I note that Virgin accepts that its customer service wasnt up to its high standards and it isnt 
how it likes to do things and was sorry to Mr A for this. It accepts that the information 
regarding when the maturity forms were sent was shown on its system and it shouldve  given 
Mr A this information when he requested it, which I agree with. 
Im also pleased to hear that it will be providing feedback to the department  responsible. I 
also think the £75 as a gesture of goodwill  and not as a replacement for its poor service  
Ref: DRN97470693is broadly fair and reasonable. I hope  this will go some way to appease Mr A for the poor 
service he has received.   
I hope that Virgin will take on board the many  points succinctly and eloquently made  by 
Mrs A, that might help and assist Mr A and others  like him. 
If necessary it may be that Virgin can offer some kind of additional assistance for Mr A, that 
might help to make  it easier  for him to make  a decision within a reasonable amount of time.  
Such as providing  maturity rates over the phone  the same day it sends this information out 
over the phone. So that Mr A can have  a little more thinking time. 
I appreciate the point  Mrs A says about  the postal request  to surrender the bonds. But in the 
circumstances  in an effort  to prevent fraud   I cant  blame  the business for wanting signed 
documentation to ensure  that it has the right person. 
Ive no power to force the business to do this, but it may be something it can consider doing 
if possible. 
I dont think this would mean Mr A was receiving preferential treatment or an unfair 
advantage  I dont think thats  what Mrs A is asking for. But rather providing him with an 
equal opportunity  to do what  he needs to in order to ensure that his finances are in order.  
And that he can get the best out of his investments, despite the difficulties hes facing 
following his accident  and stroke 
Whilst Virgin accept that there was a failing, it should consider taking steps  to ensure that 
these situations  can be avoided in future particularly for people with physical  and mental 
disabilities who still want to and are able to exercise  control over their finances. Im sure 
Virgin is aware of its obligations  under the Equalities  Act and treating  customers  fairly.  
Im mindful that Mrs A is unhappy the investigator didnt once mention Mr As condition.  But I 
dont think it was done deliberately to upset Mr A but rather  so that he couldnt be identified.  
Our decisions are drafted for publication,  and only the businesses is named, so consumers  
(and their financial affairs  can remain anonymous).  
Ive a great deal of sympathy for Mrs A, and the efforts she has gone through as Mr As carer  
and representative  in this complaint. Its likely she wouldve suffered trouble and upset but as 
our investigator said, its not something I can award her any compensation for. 
Im also mindful that despite the difficulties  and delays the forms were  received before the 
deadline and Mr A hasnt suffered a financial loss caused  by Virgin.   
I should make clear that its not our role to sanction  a business that is the role of the industry 
regulator the FCA. Our role is separate and distinct to the role of the FCA. Our role is to 
determine if the business has done anything wrong and, if so, thereafter  to decide what  
compensation is due to put the complainant  back in the position  or as close to the position 
as possible  they wouldve been in but for the error. 
Im unable to ask Virgin to change its procedure but I hope  that it will take on board Mrs As 
comments. 
Whilst Ive every sympathy with Mr As position, I appreciate  he and Mrs A will be unhappy 
Ive reached the same  conclusion as the investigator.  Furthermore,  I realise my decision isnt 
Ref: DRN97470694what Mr A wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not persuaded that the 
business needs to do anything in this instance. 
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr A 
what he wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I think the £75 offered  by Virgin Money Plc is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9747069