K820x#14complaint
Mr R and Mrs R, his mother, are unhappy  that Admiral Insurance  Company Limited 
(Admiral) settled a claim on their car insurance  policy (the policy).
background
In February 2018,  Mr R purchased the policy with Admiral.  He added his mother,  Mrs R, as a 
named driver.
In September  2018 Mr R was contacted by Admiral. It explained that it had been contacted 
by another insurance company as it had been  alleged that Mr Rs car had been  involved in 
an accident with a third parties car in July 2018. He disputed  that his car had been involved. 
Admiral asked him to send it photos of his car to show that there wasnt  any damage that 
could be related to the accident.
When Admiral  hadnt  received these, it contacted Mr R again.  In December 2018, as it 
hadnt received  any photos, Admiral instructed an Independent Assessor to inspect  Mr Rs 
car. 
Following the report  from the Independent Assessor,  Admiral  decided to settle the claim.
Unhappy with this, Mrs R complained to Admiral.  In summary she didnt think Admiral had 
done enough to support and protect Mr R and that there wasnt enough  evidence  for Admiral 
to go ahead and settle the claim.  
Admiral looked into her concerns. It felt it had given Mr R the opportunity to provide any 
information to show that his car hadnt  been involved. However, it agreed that at the time it 
settled the claim there hadnt been sufficient  evidence. This was because it hadnt received 
photos of the damage to the third parties  car. Once  it had received  the photos  it was 
satisfied they showed  damage consistent  with the third parties statement and its decision  to 
settle the claim was correct. To acknowledge this it paid Mr R £50.
Mr R and Mrs R referred  their complaint  to our service. One of our investigators looked into 
what had happened. She thought  Admiral had dealt with the claim fairly  and didnt  think  it 
needed to take any further action.
Mr R and Mrs R asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking Admiral to take any further steps to resolve this complaint. 
Ill explain  why.
My role isnt to look into who I think may be at fault for the accident. Ive considered whether 
Admiral had reached its decision to settle  the claim reasonably on the evidence  available, 
acted in line with the terms and conditions  and provided a clear explanation as to why it 
reached the decision it did.
Ref: DRN98613302The terms and conditions  of Mr Rs policy with Admiral say:
We are entitled to:
conduct the defence  or settlement of any claim on your behalf
This means  Admiral has full control of the claim. So it would be its decision on how to settle  
the claim.  This means that it may make a decision that Mr R doesnt agree with, but the 
policy allows  Admiral to do this. 
Mr R and Mrs R have denied their car was involved in the accident.  Admiral did ask Mr R to 
provide photos  of his car to show it didnt have any damage that may have  been  related to 
the accident. But it never received any. The third party  insurer  was able to provide the 
registration number  and photos  of the damage  to Mr Rs car. And there was also the report  
from the Independent Assessor.
As there were no independent witnesses, it was for Admiral to decide whether its chances of 
success were  high enough to defend the claim  in court, or to settle  the claim without 
prejudice and on the best terms possible.  And based on the evidence available  to it at the 
time, it decided to settle the claim in full. 
Admiral has said that before it made  its decision, it should have reviewed images of the 
other car. And therefore it hadnt acted reasonably at this point. It paid Mr R £50 to recognise 
this. It has since reviewed  images of the other car and is satisfied that it has acted 
reasonably in settling the claim.  
Having reviewed the evidence provided and the explanation given by Admiral  as to why it 
reached the decision it did, Im satisfied  that it has settled the claim fairly and in line with the 
policy terms. Ive noted that it has acknowledged  that it should  have reviewed  the images of 
the other car prior to settling the claim. And because of this it has paid Mr R £50. I think  this 
is fair in the circumstances of this complaint as ultimately Admiral settled the claim 
reasonable and in line with the terms of the policy.
I understand that my decision will come  as a disappointment to Mr R and Mrs R but I dont 
think Admiral has acted  unreasonably. And therefore I dont think it needs to do any more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint 
against Admiral Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 July 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9861330