K821x#15complaint
Mr W says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading as Sunny (Sunny)  irresponsibly lent 
to him.
background
This complaint is about six instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr W between  April 2016 and 
May 2016. Mr Ws borrowing history is as follows:
-
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ws complaint in part and thought loans 4 and 5 should  not have  
been given. Sunny didnt  agree in full  it made an offer for loan 6 only. The complaint has 
now been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr W could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr W could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN90128782Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W hasnt disagreed with our adjudicators opinion on loans 1 to 3 so I wont  be looking at 
these any further  as there is no ongoing  disagreement about  them.  But I will bear them in 
mind when Im looking at Mr Ws other  lending. Sunny has already agreed  to uphold loan 6 
so I wont assess loan 6 in my decision. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan 4 would most likely  have shown  
that Mr W was having some trouble in managing his money. By the time Mr W asked for loan 
4, I think Sunny should have done  more  than relying  on the information he was providing 
about his finances  it should have carried out a full financial review.  Loan 4 was taken only 
three days after loan 3 and was for seven times more than the amount of loan 3. So I think  it 
was clear from this that Mr W wasnt using these high-cost  loans to deal with a short-term  
cashflow problem. So, in these circumstances, Sunny ought to have realised it was unlikely 
Mr W wouldve  been able to sustainably  repay  loan 4  and any subsequent loans. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 and 5 and Sunny should put things right.  
Sunny has already agreed to uphold  loan 6.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Sunny has already agreed to uphold  loan 6 and have made  an offer in line with our 
guidelines. Therefore,  I will only address what  Sunny needs to do for loans 4 and 5.
refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans 4 and 5;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 4 and 5 from Mr Ws credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ws complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Ref: DRN90128783Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9012878