K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  concerns investment advice they received from Finance Shop 
Ltd. They feel the portfolio recommended to them was mis-sold and has been mismanaged.  
 
background
In 2014 Finance Shop carried  out a review of Mr and Mrs Ws finances. At the time they 
were retired  and in their late 70s/early 80s. They had around £106,000  invested, which  was 
providing them with a regular income to supplement their pensions.  They  were  drawing 7.3%  
in order to produce £748 per month, but it seems they were concerned  with the volatility  of 
the investment  and that taking that level of income  was leading to the erosion of their capital.
After carrying out a factfind process  the adviser recommended  they surrender their existing 
investments and reinvest the proceeds  in a new bond, into a multi-asset  cautious income 
portfolio product. He also recommended the amount  invested  be topped-up to £180,000 
using some of Mr and Mrs Ws cash deposits, so withdrawals at a lower rate of 5% would 
continue to provide  the desired £750 per month. 
By 2018, at which point  Mr and Mrs W had taken  income totalling  around £36,000, the value 
of the investment had fallen to around  £168,000. This prompted them to complain to the 
business that theyd effectively been set up to fail as it shouldve been clear  from the poor 
performance of the portfolio pre-2014 and the impact of costs that they were always going to 
lose money. 
Finance Shop didnt uphold the complaint.  It was satisfied  the advice had been suitable.  In 
brief, it felt Mr and Mrs W had been warned there was no guarantee that continued 
withdrawals of 5% wouldnt still possibly erode the capital. Their  attitude to risk had been 
discussed with them and while they potentially could  have achieved a greater return  from a 
higher risk portfolio, one of the reasons for obtaining advice was that theyd been unhappy 
with the level of risk and volatility associated with their previous investments.  
Finance Shop felt there was no evidence the portfolio wasnt clearly explained to them, as 
were the costs of the advice, which it felt were  effectively  recouped  within the first 12-15 
months of the investment.  In summary,  it concluded the performance had been reasonable 
for a cautious portfolio. 
Mr and Mrs W werent satisfied with this response  and referred the complaint to this service.  
Our investigator also concluded  that the advice had been broadly suitable;  highlighting that 
there was always a balance to be struck between risk and return.  The investigator was 
satisfied Mr and Mrs W hadnt been disadvantaged by the costs associated  with the new 
arrangement and that it had simplified their investments. Ultimately,  the arrangement 
provided a lower risk environment from which they were still able to take their required 
income. 
Mr and Mrs W continued to disagree, particularly as they felt they hadnt  been  properly 
informed of how the portfolio had previously performed.  They reiterated that the previous 
performance had been  at a level that would never have produced  the return they needed in 
order to avoid capital  erosion. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
Ref: DRN99107062my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
I think its fair to say that Mr and Mrs W were  happy,  in principle at least, to make  some 
changes to their investments in 2014. They were  concerned with the way they were losing 
value and the monthly income payments were impacting  the capital.
What theyre now unhappy  with is the fact their capital has continued  to erode and, 
irrespective of income taken, theyve  now less than they started out with in 2014.  In short, 
they think it shouldve  been clear from the previous performance of the portfolio product  that 
it was not going to make enough, particularly when  charges were factored in, to generate  the 
required income. 
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ws disappointment  that they havent been able to maintain 
their original capital. Theyre reliant  upon  the money to maintain the required income and are 
understandably concerned that its gradually decreasing. 
But that said, I dont  think the fact that they have experienced some erosion of their capital is 
an indication  that Finance  Shop  necessarily  acted incorrectly. From my reading of the 
documents associated  with the advice Im satisfied full consideration was given to their 
needs and circumstances and also to why they were unhappy with things as they were.  
The adviser appears to have considered  switching funds within the existing investments 
before also considering any potential tax disadvantages to surrendering and reinvesting. 
Having determined that taking out the new bond was reasonable the adviser went on to 
recommend a portfolio that reduced  the overall level of risk to one that was more consistent  
with Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances. 
I appreciate that by opting for a more cautious portfolio the adviser was effectively reducing 
the likelihood of the investment performance  being sufficient to support the level of income  
required by Mr and Mrs W. But its the nature of the investment advice that risk has to be 
balanced against reward. 
I dont think it can reasonably be said that in making  his recommendation the adviser was 
setting Mr and Mrs W up to fail. Even if the previous performance of the portfolio had been 
on the lower side theres no reason why its performance might not have improved. And 
theres equally no reason  why the adviser shouldnt have been  able to use his judgement  to 
determine how he thought Mr and Mrs Ws aims  might be achieved without too much risk to 
their money.  
As Finance Shop noted, a higher risk portfolio could have produced  better returns and meant 
Mr and Mrs W still had their original capital in place. But equally it couldve led to even  bigger  
losses for them.
In summary,  Im satisfied  Finance Shop recommended a suitable,  cautious and diversified 
portfolio and did so in good faith in order to try and obtain the required income without an 
inappropriate level of risk. 
Ref: DRN99107063my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 August 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9910706