K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
July 2002 alongside a credit card. Mr H, who is represented by a third party,  says 
Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think BoS made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. From what Ive seen 
about the card application  process, I think Mr H made a decision to take out the policy.  Ive 
seen that on his application  form a box was already marked with an X to show hed chosen 
PPI. So I think he would  have had the opportunity to review  his application and discuss it 
with his BoS representative  at the meeting before making his decision to buy the policy and 
then sign the application form. 
 I think BoS recommended the PPI to Mr H at a meeting in branch  even  though 
Mr H isnt so sure about this and thinks he may have bought the PPI over the telephone. As 
a recommendation,  BoS had to check that the PPI was right for him. And based  on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected  by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems  to have had a need for the 
cover.  
 Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  I say this given that 
it would  pay out in addition the existing benefits he was receiving from his employer if he 
was unable to work.  And it looks to me that it would  pay out for longer than those benefits  
for up to 12 months. The PPI would also pay out if he lost his job - and it would be paid on 
top of his employer benefits.  So he wouldnt have to rely on other  sources of funding  to help 
out. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  And although Ive thought  about  the points 
made by those representing Mr H in response to our adjudicators  opinion,  they dont affect 
my decision.  
So BoS doesnt need to refund everything  Mr H paid for it. But BoS has already offered to 
give Mr H back  some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything  more. 
Ref: DRN91211042From what  Ive seen, it looks as if BoS might not have yet paid this to Mr H. Now that Ive 
issued my decision, if it hasnt already, BoS can make  arrangements to pay the offer sum to 
Mr H. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
 Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9121104