K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the level of service Ageas Insurance  Limited provided under his 
roadside assistance policy.
background
Mr Ss car broke down and he called Ageass agent for help. It sent an engineer  but he was 
unable to repair the car at the roadside.  And so Ageas organised  a recovery. But this then 
arrived about five hours  after the breakdown. Ageas  offered Mr S £30 compensation for his 
inconvenience. But he was unhappy  with that.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Ageas  
had done all it could  to get an earlier recovery. She thought it had kept Mr S updated  and 
managed his expectations. It offered  him a taxi to transport his passengers. She thought  its 
offer of compensation was fair.
Mr S replied  that Ageas had caused  delays by giving the recovery company incorrect 
information about the car. He said hed been  given incorrect information about the estimated 
time of arrival of the recovery  vehicle.  He said hed tried to book a taxi but none were  
available. Hed also provided  details of a suitable  recovery company, but he said this was 
dismissed. He said the recovery hadnt been  classed as urgent to save  costs. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this was a distressing and frustrating experience for Mr S and his 
passengers. Hes explained that they were stuck  on the roadside with no heating, hot food or 
drinks, or toilet facilities on a cold night. I can understand that Mr S felt that they should be 
prioritised as he said one of his passengers had a disability. 
Mr S has raised several points for me to consider and Ive taken them  all into consideration. 
But Im unable to uphold his complaint, and Ill now explain  why I think  this.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Ive looked at Mr Ss policy and I can see that it doesnt offer a response time in the case  of 
recovery. So Ive looked to see that Ageas acted fairly  and reasonably in handling Mr Ss 
call-out. Like the investigator, Ive listened to the calls and read the file notes Ageas has 
provided. 
In the first call with Ageas, Mr S told it that he had one passenger  with a disability. Ageas 
told Mr S the estimated  time of arrival  for the engineer and later for recovery. I can see that 
Ageas tried to get a faster  response  for Mr S. It tried different companies and it tried to 
hasten the one that accepted the job. Mr S said the driver showed him the job sheet that 
implied that the call wasnt prioritised by Ageas. But in the first contact with the recovery 
company, a three hour response time was predicted and this was met. So I havent seen 
evidence that Ageas treated the call-out  as low priority.
Ref: DRN96214552Mr S said Ageas provided incorrect information  about his car which caused delay. But I think  
Mr S provided the correct  information about  his cars suspension early on and this was taken  
into account. I think the delay was caused  by the lack of availability of recovery vehicles at 
the time due to circumstances outside  Ageas control. 
Mr S said hed provided information  about a company  which he thought could assist but this 
was dismissed. Ageas  has explained  that it uses only companies on its books to ensure 
safety. This is its business decision and thats not something that this service would normally 
interfere with. So I cant say that Ageas acted wrongly on this point. 
Mr S said hed been given incorrect information about the recovery  vehicles arrival time at 
one point. He said he expected the vehicle in 30 minutes, but it didnt arrive until 90 minutes 
later. But in the call, the agent gave the approximate location of the vehicle and an estimated 
arrival time of 40 to 50 minutes. And the vehicle then arrived within  this time.  Ageas notes 
for the call give its time as 45 minutes  later than Mr S recalled. So I havent seen any 
evidence that Ageas tried to mislead  Mr S about  this or that it gave him incorrect  information.
Ageas said it offered  Mr S a taxi for his passengers.  Mr S told us in his complaint letter  that 
hed declined this as he didnt want to leave  the car with just one person. I can understand 
this, but I think Ageas  responded  to his distress  appropriately.  It also explained that Mr S 
could call emergency services if his passenger with disabilities required medication. So I 
think Ageas  acted fairly and reasonably in responding to Mr Ss concerns.
I dont doubt that this was a trying and disappointing  experience  for Mr S and his 
passengers. But, from the evidence available,  I think Ageas acted fairly and reasonably and 
within the policy terms and conditions in responding to Mr Ss call out. I cant hold Ageas 
responsible for circumstances  without its control,  such as the availability of recovery  vehicles 
at the time. 
Ageas offered Mr S £30 compensation as a gesture of goodwill for his lengthy wait. I can 
understand that Mr S feels this doesnt  compensate him for his experience. But, as I cant 
say that Ageas has made an error, I dont require it to offer Mr S further  compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9621455