K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about the way Secure Trust Bank  Plc handled  a request to open a fixed rate 
bond for the late Miss S. 
background
Mr C held Power of Attorney to act on Miss S behalf. In December 2017 he sent Secure  
Trust a cheque for £35,000  and a request to open  a five year fixed  rate bond at 2.51%. 
Secure Trust received the cheque and contacted Mr C on 16 December 2017 to explain that 
account applications had to be made online. 
On 18 January 2018 Mr C completed an online application. Secure Trust requested some 
additional information and the account was opened on 12 February 2018. But before the 
account could  be credited  with the £35,000  Miss S passed away.  
When Mr C spoke with Secure Trust on 28 February 2018 it confirmed interest would be 
back dated. 
Mr C complained about the way the application had been handled and the service provided 
by Secure Trust. On 31 April 2018  Secure Trust responded  and agreed to pay £150  to cover 
interest Miss S wouldve  received if the account had been opened on 10 December 2018. 
Mr C is the executor of Miss S estate  and referred  the complaint to this service. After looking  
at whatd happened the adjudicator asked Secure  Trust  to increase its offer and it 
subsequently agreed to pay £250  which represents  the interest Miss S account wouldve 
received between 10 December 2017 and 23 March 2018 when it received the death 
certificate. The adjudicator didnt ask Secure Trust to pay compensation for the service Mr C 
received while he held Power of Attorney and acted as executor because hes not a 
customer. 
Mr C has explained that Miss S existing fixed rate bond received interest until August 2018  
when he provided  the Grant of Probate  to Secure Trust so thinks  the interest on the bond  
that is the subject  of this complaint should  be paid to the same date. Mr C also feels Secure 
Trust should pay compensation for the service its provided. As Mr C didnt accept the 
adjudicators recommendations the complaints  been passed  to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive been reasonably brief when setting 
out the background here as Mr C, the adjudicator and Secure Trust have all given detailed  
explanations of the circumstances of the case. Id like to assure all parties  that in reaching 
my decision  Ive looked at everything theyve said and all the information  provided.
From what  Ive seen, the circumstances of this case are broadly in agreement. Looking at 
Mr Cs responses  to the adjudicator, his remaining concerns surround whether the dates 
Secure Trust has agreed  to pay interest between are correct. Mr C is also feels Secure Trust 
should recognise the amount of time hes had to spend dealing with the situation  and the 
service he received. 
Ref: DRN99646162I can understand why Mr C has said he thinks interest should be paid until August 2018,  
when he supplied the Grant of Probate.  The late Miss S had another  bond with Secure Trust 
and that received interest until it was closed  in August 2018 following receipt of the Grant  of 
Probate. However, weve been back to Secure Trust and asked why there  was a difference. 
Secure Trust has explained that its normal approach is to stop paying interest when it 
receives confirmation of a customers death.  And it received the late Miss S death certificate  
on 23 March 2018 which is why its given that as the date itll pay interest  to. Secure Trust 
has also explained that the other bond  in the late Miss S name shouldve stopped receiving 
interest on the same date.  However, due to a technical oversight the account continued to 
receive interest until Mr C sent in the Grant of Probate. Secure  Trust has confirmed that had 
things been handled correctly and in line with its normal procedures the late Miss S existing 
bond wouldnt have  received any interest  after 23 March 2018. 
One of our key roles  is to put consumers back into the position they wouldve been in had no 
error been made. I appreciate  why theres been confusion here and I agree Secure Trust 
couldve been clearer. But from what Ive seen, Im satisfied that in normal circumstances 
Secure Trust would stop paying interest  on receipt  of a death  certificate.  So I think  its fair 
that it pays interest until that date. 
Secure Trust agreed to pay interest  on £35,000 from 10 December 2017  until 
23 March 2018,  totalling £250.  Ive looked  at the final figure and I think  it accurately reflects 
the loss of interest between those dates. As a result, Im satisfied the settlement 
Secure Trusts offered is fair. 
Mr C has asked about compensation  for the service he received and the amount of time hes 
spent dealing with this matter. But we can only tell a business to pay compensation for the 
service provided to a customer, not a third party. In this case,  Mr C was acting under a 
Power of Attorney and as an executor for the late Miss S when he was dealing with 
Secure Trust.  But Miss S and then her estate was the customer throughout, not Mr C. I can 
see Mr C has spent a lot of time dealing  with this complaint but Im unable to tell Secure 
Trust to compensate him for the service received. 
Secure Trust has agreed  to pay £250 to cover interest the late Miss S wouldve received  
between 10 December 2017 and 23 March 2018. From what Ive seen Im satisfied  the offer 
is fair in all the circumstances. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Secure Trust Bank  Plc to pay 
Miss S estate £250.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr C in his capacity as executor  of Miss S estate to accept or reject  my decision  before 
7 March 2018.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9964616