K821x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2009. Mr and Mrs B says Yorkshire  Building Society  ((YBS) trading as Chelsea Building 
Society) mis-sold  them the MPPI. 
The MPPI was taken out with a further advance.  The advance  was taken in joint names, but 
the MPPI  only covered Mr B. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs B case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr and Mrs B say that they dont remember MPPI being discussed, and werent aware that 
they had taken out the policy. Mr and Mrs B applied  for their original mortgage in 2004  and 
indicated that they would  be interested in taking MPPI  but eventually  didnt go ahead  with 
the policy. In 2009,  they applied for a further  advance on their mortgage, and shortly after 
this were sold MPPI during a phone call.
Theres no call recording available, but this isnt surprising given how long ago the call took 
place. However, YBS has provided a copy of a MPPI declaration  which was completed by 
the advisor making the sale which indicates that they wouldve been required to gain consent  
to the policy. I can also see that YBS had already written to Mr and Mrs B confirming that 
their application  for a further advance had already  been approved about a month before the 
sale took place   so I think  they were aware they didnt have to take the policy  to get the 
advance. And taking  everything in to account,  I think that YBS made Mr and Mrs B aware 
that they had a choice in taking the MPPI   and that they chose  to take it out.       
Its likely  YBS recommended  the MPPI to Mr and Mrs B so it would have to check that the 
MPPI was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example Mr B wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the MPPI  cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs B about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as I think they chose  to take it out - it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the MPPI would have  
put them off taking out the cover. 
This means  YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs B because:  
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because YBS didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN93284002To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B have  said - but these points dont  change  my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the MPPI  premium. YBS should also pay back to Mr and Mrs B any extra  
interest they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs B the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of MPPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs B 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs B can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9328400