K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. The complaint was brought  by Mrs P, who said Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her 
the PPI. Sadly, during  the course  of this complaint, Mrs P passed away. Her husband, Mr P, 
has continued with this complaint on her behalf. The late Mrs P, and now Mr P, are 
represented by a claims management  company. 
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which include Mrs Ps 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
The claims management company disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  it didnt  raise  
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments it had 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ps. I havent  set out that detailed  information 
here, but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations  in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Lloyds made  it clear that Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because Lloyds sent in a sample copy of the credit  card application 
form in use at the time, and I can see that Mrs P wouldve had to tick a box to say that 
she wanted PPI. I think she could simply have left the box blank if she didnt want it  
theres nothing on the form to suggest the PPI was compulsory. I should  say here that 
Lloyds couldnt  provide  a copy of Mrs Ps original  application form, but this is not 
surprising as the account was closed in 2004 and businesses are not required to keep 
records indefinitely. So I have taken  the sample  form as being representative of what 
Mrs P wouldve  used.  
Ref: DRN91167242When she first sent in the complaint,  Mrs P said she couldnt remember  how the PPI was 
sold. Lloyds said Mrs P had applied for the card and PPI in one of its branches,  and that 
it had advised  her to take out the PPI  and Ive no reason to doubt that. As Lloyds 
recommended the PPI to Mrs P, it had to check that the PPI was right for her. And the 
evidence about Mrs Ps circumstances at the time shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for her. For example,  Mrs P was eligible for the cover 
and she had told us that she wouldnt have been  entitled  to sick pay from her employer 
and had no savings  to fall back on. So I think she couldve found it difficult  to meet  the 
credit card repayments quite quickly if she hadnt been able to work, and so she seems 
to have had a need for the cover.
There was nothing about Mrs Ps employment  or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim.  And when  she sent in the complaint she said she had no pre-
existing medical conditions that couldve affected her ability to claim. 
 Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mrs P as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar  to what she could reasonably have thought she was buying from 
the information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mrs P would have declined the cover  had Lloyds done anything  more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back problems and exclusions 
on claims relating to mental  health conditions, in the light of Mrs Ps circumstances at the 
time of sale and despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy  wasnt  fundamentally 
wrong or unsuitable  for her. So I think she would have still thought  she had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs P would have  still taken out PPI. I think the policy  couldve  
provided a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time.  I also think  
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought  she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
The claims management company has raised  a number of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should  have disclosed the poor value 
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  they had on 
the chances of making a claim.
But the claims management company has not said how these points apply to the specific  
facts and circumstances of Mrs Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case.  But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN91167243This means  Lloyds doesnt have to do anything  to put things right.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P, on behalf 
of the estate of Mrs P, to accept or reject my decision  before 26 September  2021.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9116724