K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that she was mis-sold  a monthly  premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
Although Marks & Spencer sold the PPI to Mrs C the insurers, Allianz Insurance  Plc 
(Allianz), have accepted  responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer just to Allianz in this decision.
background
Mrs C applied for a personal reserve account  in 2000. It appears the PPI was sold at the 
same time in connection with this account.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 December 2018,  and Ive summarised 
my provisional findings below:
 I thought Allianz made Mrs C aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it. 
Allianz hadnt been able to provide a copy of the actual application form that Mrs C 
signed. But it had given us a sample of the application form it says Mrs C wouldve had 
to complete. The form includes a box that Mrs C wouldve  had to tick if she wanted the 
PPI. 
I thought it was likely that Mrs C completed  an application form similar to the one 
Allianz had provided.  So I thought it wouldve been  clear to Mrs C that the PPI was 
optional, and I didnt  think Allianz wouldve added the PPI to her account unless shed 
ticked the box. 
 Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable 
for her. 
 It was possible the information Allianz gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But it was unlikely  Mrs C would have been affected by any of the 
main things  the policy didnt cover. And the policy was comparable  in price to other  
policies which offered similar benefits.  So I didnt think better information wouldve  
stopped her buying it.
Overall, I didnt  think the PPI had been mis-sold.
Mrs C didnt make any further representations  in response to my provisional decision,  and 
neither did Allianz.
Ref: DRN93911132my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
In the absence of any further representations  from the parties, I see no reason to depart 
from the position set out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9391113