K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender)  lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr H took three instalment loans from Mr Lender between October 2017 and July 2018.  
Details of the three loans  are as follows:
Loan Date taken Amount Monthly instalments
Highest repayment
Date repaid
1 31/10/2017 £500 3 £270.66 27/03/2018
2 06/04/2018 £300 3 £150.40 22/05/2018
3 08/07/2018 £300 6 £106.00 08/07/2018
Mr Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She sent a letter to both 
parties where she didnt  uphold it. She concluded  that Mr Lender didnt need to carry out any 
further checks at the time it granted the three  loans to Mr H and didnt do anything wrong. 
Mr H didnt agree with our adjudicator.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
H could repay the loan in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Hs income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN90555852refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender did a number  of checks before it lent to Mr H. It asked him for details of his 
income. It gathered data from credit reference  agencies. And it also found  out what  
disposable income Mr H had left over each month  based on what  he had declared to it. Mr 
Lender also used  the credit reference agency checks to gather some  more  information about 
Mr Hs financial  situation at that time.
Mr H first approached Mr Lender in October  2017  for his first instalment loan. The 
repayments that Mr H had agreed  to make on this loan were  relatively  modest compared to 
the income that hed declared  to Mr Lender.  This was the first time Mr H had approached Mr 
Lender for a loan from what I have seen, I dont think  there was any reason for Mr Lender to 
doubt the information Mr H had provided about  his income and expenditure. There was 
nothing on his credit  search  results  either  that I think should have prompted Mr Lender to 
find out more  about  his circumstances at that time.
Mr H then took out a further loan around a week after he had repaid his first one. Again I 
think this was affordable  based on what he had told them and it was still early on in the 
lending relationship. I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr Lender  at this stage to consider Mr 
H had not become reliant on its loans based on what he was telling it, its credit check  data 
and his short  lending  history with it. Mr H then took out a third loan but repaid this on the 
same day and withdrew from this agreement.
I acknowledge Mr Hs comments about  his circumstances  at the time each loan was granted.  
But I think it was reasonable here for Mr Lender to rely on the information that Mr H provided 
about his finances when  assessing the affordability of the loans. I dont think it would be 
proportionate to expect Mr Lender  to have gone further and sought  to independently verify 
what Mr H had said. And as the information  Mr H provided suggested that the loans were 
affordable for him I dont  think  that Mr Lender did anything wrong when  it agreed  to lend.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9055585