K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that Colin Appleyard Limited mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2009 when  she applied  for a loan to buy a car.
background
Mrs B complained to this Service.  She said that all the paperwork  for the car sale and the 
finance was completed  at the premises of Colin Appleyard; she said the salesman was very 
pushy and she felt she could not say no to the PPI. She later received a mailshot  urging her 
to buy PPI from the lender  but she did not complete the form or return  it to the lender. She 
concludes Colin Appleyard sold her the policy and she complains the PPI was mis-sold. 
Colin Appleyard said it did not sell the PPI policy and so it concludes it is not responsible for 
looking at this complaint.  It said it was probably sold in a follow up call by the lender or the 
insurance company.  None  of the documents completed by Colin Appleyard had PPI on it; it 
may have  discussed  PPI with Mrs B but it says she chose not to buy PPI at the time of the 
car sale because she could not afford it. Colin Appleyard also said it did not receive any 
commission for a PPI sale. It added the insurers record showing commission was paid into 
Colin Appleyards account was not correct  as the account number shown was not Colin 
Appleyards account  number.
The lender  said its loan agreement did not show any PPI on it. It concludes it did not sell the 
PPI at any stage by a later telephone  call. It accepts it sent a mailshot  to Mrs B but she did 
not sign it or return it to the lender. The lender  concludes Colin Appleyard sold the PPI 
policy.
The insurer  also said Colin Appleyard sold the PPI policy to Mrs B. It said Colin  Appleyard  
applied for Mrs Bs PPI policy by an online application process  the insurer  produced 
screenshots from its internal systems to confirm this. It also produced a screenshot to show  
commission was paid for the PPI sale to Colin Appleyard. The insurer concludes Colin 
Appleyard sold the PPI policy.
Our adjudicator thought the policy had been sold by Colin Appleyard  so he said it was 
responsible for looking at this PPI mis-sale complaint. He also upheld the complaint saying it 
was not clear the policy was shown as optional or suitable for Mrs B. Colin Appleyard 
disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
I issued my provisional decision in February 2019  where I explained why I thought Colin  
Appleyard was responsible for this PPI sale and I also explained why I thought the PPI mis-
sale complaint should  be upheld. We sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties 
and invited them to make further comments or to produce new evidence to change  my mind. 
Each party confirmed  they had received the copy of the provisional decision.
Mrs B had nothing further to add. Colin Appleyard had nothing further to add. As neither  
party has given me any new evidence to consider, I see no reason to change  the 
conclusions I made  in my provisional decision.
my findings
which business sold the PPI?
Ref: DRN99894942I considered all of the available  evidence  and arguments presented  to me, to determine  
whether this Service is able to consider  whether this complaint should be against Colin  
Appleyard. So I first looked at whether Colin Appleyard sold the PPI and therefore, whether it 
is responsible for looking at the PPI mis-sale complaint.  
Mrs B told us all the papers relating to the car sale and the finance were  completed whilst 
she was at the car dealership. She says she was not aware of an online application being 
made and she says she did not say she could not afford  to have PPI added to her loan 
account. However, she does say the salesman was very pushy and she felt she could not 
say no to PPI. Mrs B concludes the PPI was sold by Colin Appleyard.
I have looked  very carefully at the documents produced by Colin  Appleyard.  It is correct  to 
say that the Demand and Needs Document signed  by Mrs B does not show  that PPI was 
discussed or recommended to her. Colin Appleyard said she refused PPI as it was too 
expensive for her, so it concludes it did not add PPI to her account - although its 
representative did handwrite the quoted PPI figures on her car invoice. I also noted  that PPI 
was not added to Mrs Bs loan agreement produced by the lender  so this would suggest 
that Colin Appleyard  did not sell the PPI at the time it sold the car.  
However, the insurer told us the policy was sold online by a sales  adviser at Colin 
Appleyards premises completing an online  application  on Mrs Bs behalf. The insurer said 
that dealers could access its microsite  from 2008  rather than having to use the insurers  
main insurance website. It produced documents showing the sales process  charts for 
dealers selling insurance policies with loans specifically for Mrs Bs lender. The dealer would 
simply log on and apply  for the PPI. So the insurer confirms the paperwork would not have 
shown a PPI sale as Mrs Bs PPI was not sold on a paper application form.
In this case, the insurers screenshots showed  Mrs Bs PPI application  came  from a Colin 
Appleyard branch number. It also produced internal screenshots - relating only to the PPI 
application - which showed Colin Appleyards details as the branch where the sale took 
place. The screenshots also said the Sales Method  for the PPI policy was Face to face by 
Dealer. I think Colin Appleyard probably sold the PPI policy  to Mrs B and applied  for it over 
the insurers microsite.  So I think it is responsible  for looking  at this PPI mis-sale complaint 
for her.
the merits of the PPI complaint
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think the relevant issues  to take into 
account are the same  as those set out in the note on our website about our approach to PPI 
complaints.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill set out my reasons below. 
Mrs B complains that she felt she could  not say no to PPI; so she is saying it wasnt made 
clear to her the policy was an optional financial product. 
Mrs Bs insurer produced online sales process charts which  it says would have  been  
applicable to Mrs Bs loan and followed by dealers  accessing its microsite, instead of having 
to go through  the main insurance  website. Ive looked carefully at the sales  process charts.  It 
says that after the dealer has logged on, the system will issue  a statement of price, a 
demands and needs  document and a welcome letter.  However, there are no instructions 
Ref: DRN99894943relating to how or when the dealer should explain to the consumer that PPI is an optional 
product. I also could not see any evidence that Mrs B did actually sign separately for the PPI 
 as I currently think a separate document might have warned her the policy was a separate,  
optional product.
So Im not satisfied that Colin Appleyard did enough to show the policy  as a separate and 
optional product in a clear way. I think this is a very basic requirement of a PPI sale  and I 
think this is a strong enough  reason  on its own to uphold  the complaint  so I dont need to 
consider any other grounds to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Colin Appleyard Limited is responsible  for looking at this PPI mis-
sale complaint.
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Colin Appleyard Limited.
Colin Appleyard Limited should put Mrs B in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken 
out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt  been  cancelled  already, and Colin  
Appleyard Limited  should:
Pay Mrs B the amount  she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Colin Appleyard Limited can take 
off what she got for the claim from the amount  it owes  her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Colin Appleyard Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Colin Appleyard Limited must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9989494