K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that a car supplied to him under a finance agreement  with Go Car Credit 
Limited (formerly The Car Finance Company (TCFC)) wasnt  of satisfactory  quality, the 
interest rate on the agreement was too high and that it didnt  treat him positively and 
sympathetically when  his circumstances changed and he fell into difficulties repaying.
background
Mr T bought  a used  car in July 2016.  The car had covered over 85000 miles at the point of 
sale. The car cost £4175 which Mr T financed with an agreement  from TCFC.  Go Car Credit 
has taken over responsibility for dealing with complaints about TCFC but for ease I will refer 
to TCFC in this decision.
In October  2018 Mr T complained to TCFC  that the car had faults and had failed its MOT.
In November 2018 TCFC  sent a final response letter to Mr T setting out that it did not uphold 
his complaint that the car was faulty from the point of sale.
Mr T had been in difficulties repaying the amounts due under the agreement and he was 
eventually taken to court by TCFC. Mr T says that the interest rate on the agreement was 
financially crippling and TCFC didnt treat him fairly  when trying to arrange repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  think TCFC  had done anything wrong. Having looked at the age and 
mileage of the car and the miles  travelled  by Mr T he wasnt  able to conclude that the faults 
that caused the MOT  failure were there at the point of sale.  In addition  he looked  at the 
arrangements that TCFC had made with Mr T to repay the finance and he thought  that 
TCFC had treated Mr T fairly.
Mr T didnt  agree and replied to say in summary  that the faults that he had to pay for were 
there at the point  of sale and remained there until the following  year.  He said that TCFC  had 
not been sympathetic to his financial position and overcharged him. He said that the high 
rate of interest was the reason he was in difficulty and this was unfair. Mr T asked for an 
ombudsman to look at the complaint. Mr T has asked to speak with me but in the 
circumstances I have  everything I need to make a decision and I have read in detail the 
notes of Mr Ts calls with the adjudicator. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I sympathise with Mr T and the financial 
and mechanical  difficulties he has had with his car.
TCFC, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that it was of satisfactory  
quality at the point Mr T bought it. Whether  or not something is of satisfactory quality 
depends on a number of things such as the age and mileage of the car and the price that 
was paid for it. In Mr Ts case  the car was nearly 8 years old and had covered over 85000  
miles. The car cost £4175. Satisfactory quality  also covers  durability  which means that the 
components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time but again 
that will depend on the age of the car and the amount  of miles covered. So you would expect 
fewer faults  with newer cars that had travelled fewer miles.
Ref: DRN97058572I cant see that Mr T raised any issues with the car or its performance  to the supplying 
garage or to TCFC until October  2018. Although Mr T says that the car required work for its 
MOT in August 2017 he hasnt been able to produce  any evidence about  these repairs  or 
show that the faults were there  when  he bought  the car in 2016.
The car had an MOT  test in August 2017 and had covered around 6000 miles since  Mr T 
had bought the car. There were no advisory  issues which would  suggest  that there were no 
significant issues with the car at this point.  I appreciate that Mr T says he had work 
undertaken and paid for parts before the MOT but I havent seen evidence that any of the 
work that was undertaken so I cant say that the faults were there at the point of sale.
In July 2018 the car had a further MOT test and had covered another  6000 or so miles. 
There were issues with a bulb and the windscreen washer.
Overall, I am not persuaded that the issues Mr T had with the car were present at the point 
of sale. I think it is more  likely that these issues developed over time and were as a result of 
wear and tear taking  into account the age and mileage of the car. So I cant  say that the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale.
Mr T says that the interest on the agreement was excessive and led to his financial 
difficulties. He says that the agreement is financially crippling and the business has not 
been sympathetic  to his difficulties.
At the time Mr T took out the agreement the monthly  repayments and the interest rate were 
clearly set out on the agreement. I havent  seen anything that suggests that Mr T couldnt 
afford the finance  at the time and it appears that a change  in circumstances has led to his 
difficulty. I cant say that the business  did anything wrong in giving Mr T the finance  
agreement at the rate of interest it did. The agreement  was clear about  the repayments  that 
were required  and although I agree the interest  rate was high Mr T had a choice whether to 
accept those repayments and the interest  rate at the time he bought  the car
After Mr T fell into difficulty I can see that the business tried to arrange a number of 
repayment plans  with Mr T. I can see that Mr T kept in regular contact about his difficulties 
but he failed to keep to a number of repayment  arrangements that were made. Throughout 
most of 2017 Mr T didnt  pay what was owed and arrears began to build on the account. 
During 2017 I can see that Mr T promised to make  repayments and clear the arrears to 
avoid repossession of the car but then failed to pay what  had been agreed. Eventually  the 
matter was dealt  with by way of a court order.
I am unable  to interfere  with the court ruling and the amounts that Mr T has been ordered to 
pay. But, I can see from the extensive  contact  made  throughout 2017 and 2018 that the 
business did try to arrange an affordable  repayment  plan with Mr T before finally issuing 
court proceedings. I appreciate that things  were difficult for Mr T but I cant say that the 
business has treated  him unfairly.
I am sorry  that this is not the outcome  Mr T was hoping for but I cant  ask TCFC  to do any 
more. 
  
Ref: DRN97058573my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject  my decision before 
6 May 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9705857