K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC didnt  cancel his debit card after he told it his card details may 
have been compromised.
background
On 7 September 2018 Mr P asked HSBC to replace his debit card after he was told by 
another business that his card details may have been compromised. Mr P expected his card 
to be cancelled that day. But due to a bank error that didnt happen.
Mr P went  on holiday  from 8 until 16 September  2018. He said he expected his new card to 
be waiting for him on his return. But by 16 September 2018  his new card still hadnt arrived. 
So, he contacted  HSBC and discovered that his card hadnt been cancelled  when  he had 
asked it to. So no replacement had been ordered. During this call HSBC  cancelled his card 
and ordered a replacement. But it arrived after he had left for another trip abroad. This 
meant he had to travel abroad without his debit  card.
Mr P wasnt  happy with what had happened  so he complained to HSBC. In recognition of its 
error, HSBC  offered  to pay him £100 for his distress and inconvenience. This was rejected 
by Mr P. So, in October 2018, HSBC issued its final response.  In this, it apologised for what  
had happened. And it increased  its offer of compensation to £150. This wasnt paid to Mr P 
as he rejected this offer. He said he thought HSBC should pay him £500  to put matters right 
instead.
HSBC declined to increase its compensation offer further.  So Mr P brought  his complaint to 
our service.  Our adjudicator agreed  that HSBC had made a mistake here. But they said they 
thought the £150  it had offered Mr P was fair and reasonable to resolve this complaint. Mr P 
disagreed. So this complaint has been  referred to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has already accepted it made  an error here in not cancelling  Mr Ps card on 7 
September 2018 when he instructed it to do. So, the issue  here is whether it acted fairly and 
reasonably in offering to put things right. 
In thinking about this, Ive considered things from both sides. I realise that it must have been 
frustrating and inconvenient for Mr Ps debit card not to have been cancelled  and replaced 
immediately. But I think that once HSBC became aware of this problem, it acted promptly  in 
cancelling his debit  card and issuing a replacement. And I think it acted correctly in 
accepting responsibility.
Mr P said he experienced poor service because of delays  in HSBC dealing  with his 
complaint, which  he said he found  extremely frustrating. But, from the evidence Ive seen, 
HSBC didnt delay  or protract matters when it tried to put things right here. It quickly  
established that this mistake  was caused because, while the telephone representative that 
Mr P spoke to processed his request to cancel his card, they failed to confirm it. So this 
explains why this error wasnt discovered  until Mr P telephoned HSBC  nine days  later to 
query the whereabouts of his replacement debit card. I can see that, while  HSBC  had up to 
Ref: DRN93211912eight weeks to issue its final response to Mr P, it did so within four weeks of him making this 
complaint. So Im not persuaded there  was a delay in it dealing with this complaint.
HSBC has offered Mr P £150 to compensate him for the impact this mistake had. Its clear 
he doesnt think this adequately reflects his inconvenience and experience. I realise  this 
mustve been extremely upsetting  to Mr P, but I think whats  been offered is fair to 
compensate him for the worry  and trouble he was caused by HSBCs mistake. I say this 
because HSBC has recognised and compensated Mr P for the error  it made.  And Ive 
thought about the impact HSBCs mistake had on him. 
Here, its fortunate  that Mr P hasnt  lost out financially  as a result of what  happened. Mr P is 
concerned that his card details were potentially  left exposed for 9 days  despite him believing 
HSBC had acted  on his response  to cancel his card. And I recognise his concern about what 
couldve happened as a result of his debit card remaining  active. Hes mentioned the 
possibility of it being used fraudulently and without his authority. But this didnt happen and it 
wouldnt be fair or impartial of me to tell HSBC to pay compensation for something that didnt 
happen. Our service  has to consider  what  actually  happened. So, we cant  award  
compensation based on hypothetical and speculative situations. 
Mr P told our service that he had to travel abroad without a debit card because  HSBC didnt 
replace his debit  card when he asked it to. But he also told us that he was able to use credit 
cards and money he had already withdrawn during the time he was abroad.  Im satisfied he 
had access to alternative funds for the duration of the time he was without a debit card. And 
so, I think the impact of this on Mr P was less than it would  have been  if he hadnt had other 
cards or money available to use. 
I appreciate that Mr P feels very strongly  about the issues raised in this complaint.  And Ive 
carefully considered  everything he has said. But I think HSBC  has dealt with this complaint 
fairly and done  all it can to resolve this dispute.  Its already offered to pay £150 to settle this 
complaint and I think this is a reasonable amount  that reflects the impact  this mistake has 
had on Mr P. 
For the reasons  set out above, Im satisfied that HSBC acted fairly and reasonably and it 
wouldnt be fair to ask it to do anymore.  I think the compensation  already  offered is a 
reasonable amount to resolve this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only to the extent  that HSBC UK Bank  
Plc should pay Mr P £150. This is to reflect the error it made in not cancelling  his debit card 
when he asked it to But other than this I dont need  it to do anymore.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9321191