K820x#14complaint
Mr F is complaining about Phoenix  Life Limited because it wont consider a claim for total 
and permanent disability  (TPD) benefit on his life and serious illness  insurance  policy  despite  
telling him he had this cover.
background
Mr F took his life insurance policy with Royal & Sun Alliance (now  Phoenix) in 1996.  As well 
as providing life cover, it had an additional  serious  illness benefit (originally referred to as 
living benefit) that included  TPD cover. 
In 2004, Phoenix  removed the TPD benefit  from the serious illness cover and issued an 
endorsement confirming  that. Mr F was unhappy about this and brought  a complaint to us at 
the time.  Our adjudicator  was satisfied Phoenix had been entitled  to remove  the benefit and 
the policy continued without it.
In January 2017, Phoenix sent Mr F an annual reminder of benefits statement and this 
referred to a TPD benefit. Later on, in December 2017, Phoenix wrote to Mr F again saying it 
had made  an error in the annual statement by including  details of TPD benefit under the 
heading of terminal  illness. It instead  said:
. . . this actually falls under the Serious Illness benefit which is included under your 
policy.
Mr F thinks this should be seen as confirmation  his policy now includes TPD benefit and that 
Phoenix should consider a claim. Phoenix  apologised for its misleading  correspondence and 
offered compensation of £75 for any trouble and upset caused. But it maintained  TPD 
benefit was excluded from the policy and refused  to consider a claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  While she accepted the 2017 
correspondence could  have been  misleading,  she was satisfied it was an error and that TPD 
benefit hadnt been added back into the policy. She didnt think Phoenix should be required 
to consider a claim and felt it had already offered adequate compensation.
Mr F didnt  accept the adjudicators assessment. He says hes spoken to a solicitor who told 
him this is a clear case of breach  of contract. Phoenix failed in its responsibility to provide 
correct information  and its not right that it can say he has cover  and then take it away.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators conclusions for much the same  reasons.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute TPD benefit was removed from Mr Fs policy  in 2004. 
This was confirmed when  Phoenix issued a formal  endorsement. The fact he complained 
and referred his concerns to the ombudsman service shows  Mr F was aware of this.
The 2017  statement was potentially confusing as it did include reference to a TPD benefit. 
But it also said:
Ref: DRN98027172Your policy may contain other valuable benefits such as Permanent  Total Disability, 
and options. You should check your policy terms and conditions  in conjunction with 
your policy schedule to confirm which benefits are attached to your policy.
So in reality, the letter only said Mr F may have this benefit and suggested  he check his 
policy details to confirm.  I dont think it would have been reasonable to believe this meant the 
endorsement issued  in 2004  somehow no longer applied.
Phoenixs letter of December 2017  was sent because it included information  about the TPD 
benefit in its earlier letter under the wrong heading. It said it instead comes under the 
heading of serious  illness  benefit  and that Mr Fs policy includes this. My reading  of the letter  
is that it says his policy has serious illness  benefit, which is actually  correct.  I agree it could 
have been clearer  that TPD benefit  had been excluded from the serious illness  benefit in this 
particular case.  But I dont think its sufficient for me to say Mr F was entitled  to believe the 
2004 endorsement didnt now apply and the benefit had actually been added  back  into his 
policy.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Phoenix  should  be required to consider  a TPD 
claim on Mr Fs policy. While its communication wasnt  as clear as it ideally should  have 
been, I dont think  this changed the terms of the contract that Mr F knew had been amended 
in 2004 and had continued without TPD cover ever since.
Im pleased to see Phoenix  has apologised for its error. I can see its correspondence could 
have caused confusion and that Mr F has suffered some  unnecessary  trouble and upset. 
The impact  this had, and therefore  the amount of compensation  he should receive, is difficult  
to assess. But on balance, I think any compensation due is modest and that the £75 Phoenix  
has already offered is fair in the circumstances.
I note Mr F believes he has a claim for breach of contract. If he still thinks thats the case,  
and as long as he doesnt accept  my final decision, hes free to pursue his complaint 
elsewhere, including through the courts. If he is considering taking legal action, I suggest he 
considers taking legal advice first.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr F and isnt what he wanted  to 
hear. But for the reasons  Ive explained,  I dont think there  are grounds on which  I can 
reasonably conclude Phoenix  should  consider a TPD claim on his policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complain t. Phoenix has already made an offer to 
pay £75 to settle the complaint and I think thats  fair in the circumstances. So if he hasnt 
already received this and now wishes to accept  it, my final decision is that Phoenix Life 
Limited should pay Mr F compensation of £75.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9802717