K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr D says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr D didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose  to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this. On the credit  card 
application form the box has been ticked to say Mr D wanted PPI. And although he says 
it was added without  his knowledge, he made a successful claim on the PPI in 2003,  
which suggests he knew he had it. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr D so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover. I say this because Mr D had limited  other  
means to make  his credit card repayments  if he couldnt work.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr D paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr D back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  I understand  Halifax  has already paid this to 
Mr D.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9792538