K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs W. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2000 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs W was sold the policy  at the same time that she applied  for the account.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  FICL didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. This is because Mrs W suffers from a life-long  
medical condition  and has received medication since she was a child. It appears the 
condition can have  potentially serious consequences in some cases. I think there was a 
reasonable chance Mrs W would have thought she may need to make  a claim as a result of 
the condition.  But its likely this wouldnt  be covered, as its likely she would have received 
treatment and advice  in the 12 months before the policy  start date. 
I dont think FICL drew this properly  to Mrs Ws attention,  and I think  it would have affected 
whether she would have taken the PPI. 
fair compensation
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put Mrs W in the financial  position shed be in 
now if she hadnt taken  out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs W would have owed when she closed her credit 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs W owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her 
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs W would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
Ref: DRN90218482The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs W would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs W paid more than enough  to clear her balance, FICL  should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs W paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs W wouldve owed  FICL  something on her credit. The interest rate should be 
8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs W what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs W that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint. I require Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9021848