K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that the vehicle she acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed 
by Startline Motor  Finance Limited  was not of satisfactory quality.  She wants to reject the 
vehicle and end the agreement.
background
Miss C tells us she acquired  the vehicle in November 2017 from a dealer Ill refer to as T. 
She said that after a couple of months the vehicle developed a leak which  interfered  with the 
electrics and wet the seats causing  staining.  She said the vehicle  was returned to T and it 
carried out repairs. And she said it also had the vehicle  valeted on two occasions in order to 
remove the staining from the seats. Some months later in September 2018  Miss C says she 
again noticed staining to the seats  after heavy rainfall. She says she contacted T who 
refused to allow her to reject the vehicle.
Startline told us it had arranged for the vehicle to be inspected by a company Ill call D. It 
said that it didnt  think there was sufficient evidence to support a failed repair. And it wouldnt 
be upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He said that Ds report  had 
concluded that stains were still present on the rear seats. He noted that its engineer had 
concluded this was due to one of two possible causes. Either  the original  stains had returned 
- which would suggest repairs hadnt  been  successful. Or there remained a latent water  
ingress problem which  hadnt been  fully rectified during the original  repair work. In either  
instance he felt it showed the quality of earlier repairs wasnt good. And he thought Miss C 
should be allowed  to reject the vehicle.
Startline didnt agree with this outcome and said the inspection report hadnt found any water 
ingress. It felt the staining on the seat was only cosmetic and didnt affect the driveability of 
the vehicle. As its not been possible to resolve the complaint an ombudsmans been asked 
to make the final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Miss C has experienced problems with this vehicle. And in the circumstances I 
think shes shown sensible and reasonable forbearance before asking to reject it.
Miss Cs hire purchase agreement is a regulated  consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. Startline supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act 
2015 (CRA). This states that - in order to conform to contract  - goods must  be what  a 
reasonable person would consider to be of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Satisfactory quality includes appearance and finish and freedom from minor defects. 
Although with an older vehicle the expectations  would  be lower than with a new car.
Where information is inconclusive or facts are in dispute Im required to make my decision 
on a balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN91017632Its clear that within a few weeks of supply, Miss C reported a leak which had caused  
problems with the vehicles electrics and staining  to the seats.  This appears  to have been the 
result of an defective lamp seal.
Ive seen three internal invoices from T relating  to various repairs and valets  which  were  
carried out on the vehicle.
On 8 February 2018 the presence  of a leak was confirmed and the invoice records  that a 
new lamp unit was required along with a battery  and battery monitor.
On 22 February 2018 what  is described  as a full valet was carried  out and additionally a 
wire in the battery  unit was repaired.
And on 28 March 2018 an invoice records that marks to the seats were still visible and a 
further valet was carried  out to remove  them.
The fact that Miss C chose to report these issues shows they were of concern to her. But in 
allowing for the March  repairs to be carried out - rather  than rejecting the vehicle at that 
stage - it demonstrates  she was trying to allow T every  opportunity  to put things right.
Whilst the leak seems to have been repaired in early February, the stains have reappeared 
on two further occasions.  And after the second instance the vehicle was inspected  by D. 
That inspection took place on 19 November 2018. The engineers original conclusions 
confirmed the stains were present. And that they were due either to the return  of the original 
stains which arose from the leak. Or that there was still a water ingress problem not fully 
rectified by the original  repairs. It concluded that It was not possible to be more specific. 
However, after Startline  had asked for further clarification - and notwithstanding  his last 
statement - the engineer  subsequently revised his opinion and said I would say that the 
stains were due to the original water ingress problem  rather  than a current  ongoing problem. 
Why there was this change of emphasis  Im not able to say. But given his earlier statement 
that he couldnt be more specific I cant see why hed depart from his first findings.  This 
means there  remains the possibility that the earlier repair for the leak hasnt  been  entirely  
successful. But I cant say this is a probability  as other than the staining theres no sign of 
the leak reoccurring.
Startline has suggested in its response to the adjudicators  view that the staining issue  is 
cosmetic. Its also stated that Miss Cs latest complaint was outside  the six months period 
from the point of supply and theres  no supporting evidence to show  a failed repair. I find 
little of merit in these statements.
The fact that the issue  was again  reported outside the six month period  is not itself relevant. 
The original  faults  were reported within that period. So Miss Cs rights  under the CRA were 
to have those  faults  repaired to a standard where the vehicle  conformed  to contract. And if 
this didnt happen she would have the right to reject  the vehicle. Ds clarification stated  that 
the stains  were the original marks which had returned. So its hard to have more 
compelling evidence  that the two attempts at removing them  (valet)  hadnt been successful. 
Ref: DRN91017633In my opinion the starting point is that the stains werent present when the vehicle was 
supplied to Miss C. Had they been I doubt  if she wouldve gone ahead  and acquired  the 
vehicle. The likely  cause of the stains appears  to be the leak through  the seal around the 
rears lights. And any water entering  a vehicle in this manner  from outside is likely to be 
contaminated. So I think most consumers wouldnt see the issue as merely cosmetic.  On a 
balance of probabilities I dont think the vehicle was of satisfactory quality when supplied to 
Miss C.
It was open to T or Startline to have made  it more  likely the problem of staining  wouldnt 
reoccur. When the staining returned  after the first valet Id have thought it mightve  been  
reasonable to assume this method of repair wasnt going to prove  successful. And so a more 
long-term solution such as reupholstering mightve  been undertaken. I accept this would be 
more expensive but if the leak itself had been  successfully repaired then it would 
undoubtedly have  prevented any recurrence of the original staining.  I noted that the notional  
cost of each of the two valets was charged at £21. This suggests that cosmetic is an apt 
description of the valet itself - as opposed to any substantial attempt at a permanent  repair 
being made.
Ive also taken into account what might happen during the remainder of the agreement. As 
this is a hire purchase  agreement Miss C has various options. These include terminating the 
agreement and returning the vehicle  once shes made 50 % or more  of the payments. She 
can also choose to purchase the vehicle outright. But theres a requirement in the terms of 
the agreement  that Miss C must  keep the vehicle in good condition throughout its duration. 
So shed potentially  be liable for repair costs arising from the staining if she decided not to 
purchase the vehicle.  And if she did decide to retain  the vehicle its value  wouldve  probably  
been adversely  affected by the staining.
In summary,  Im upholding  this complaint.  I find the vehicle wasnt  of satisfactory  quality 
when supplied. The repairs  werent successful in returning the vehicle to a condition where it 
conformed to contract. And they didnt last a reasonable  length of time before the same  
issue returned. In those circumstances its not fair and reasonable to expect Miss C to retain 
and continue to pay for a vehicle which shed probably not have chosen if this staining had 
been present  and visible at the time of supply.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  this complaint.
I require Startline Motor  Finance  Limited to take the following action:
1.End the agreement with nothing further  for Miss C to pay from the date of 
termination;
2.Arrange for the vehicle to be collected at no cost to Miss C;
3.Refund the deposit together  with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year;
4.Pay £200 compensation to Miss C for distress and inconvenience;
5.Arrange for details  of the agreement to be removed from Miss Cs credit  file.
Ref: DRN91017634Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9101763