K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Virgin Money  plc failed to provide his new credit card promptly  which 
meant he was unable to take advantage  of a promotional offer.
background
Mr M opened a new Virgin Money  credit  card on 14 July 2018.  He said he took it out 
because of the promotional benefits offered  at the time. One of the benefits  offered, 
providing he met the eligibility criteria around  minimum  spending, meant Mr M could earn 
6,000 bonus air miles each month  for the first three months.
Mr M said his card wasnt received until 6 August 2018. To qualify for the bonus  air miles, he 
needed to spend £1,000.00 before the 14 August 2018  a month after the account was 
opened. 
Within this period  Mr M didnt spend  £1,000.00 and didnt receive the bonus 6,000 air miles. 
But he did meet this requirement  for the two following months and received the bonus  miles.
Mr M complained to Virgin Money  to say he didnt think  it had given him enough time to be 
able to use his card and qualify  for the bonus  air miles in the first month.  Virgin Money  said it 
had issued the card in line with its normal process  and couldnt  see it had made an error. It 
said it isnt responsible for the delivery of the cards so it didnt think it had done anything  
wrong.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ms complaint and said he didnt think  Virgin  Money needed to 
do any more. He could  see it opened the account on the day Mr M asked it to. And it issued 
the card on the same  day. Because it isnt responsible for the delivery  of the cards he didnt 
think it was fair to ask Virgin Money to apply the air miles Mr M said hed lost out on.
Mr M didnt  think  it was fair that because Virgin Money uses  a third party to deliver its cards it 
doesnt need to accept  any responsibility  for their late delivery.  And because of this he asked  
for a final decision on his case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator. I know this isnt the answer he 
was hoping for but Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that Mr M wasnt able to activate and use his card until 6 August 2018. And 
this left him with less time then he would have liked to be able to make purchases to the 
value of £1,000.00 and qualify for the bonus  air miles. 
I need to decide is whether I think it is fair to ask Virgin Money to do anything  differently 
because of this.
Virgin Money has shown  that it issued the card on the same day Mr M made his application. 
The pin number was dispatched separately  a few days  later.  So it looks like there was no 
delay with its process with the opening of the account and the card being generated and 
sent.
Ref: DRN94296462Like most companies Virgin Money doesnt  deliver its own post itself but relies  on a third 
party to do this. I understand  Mr Ms concern  that any delay in the post being  received which  
could have a negative impact on him as a customer should be the responsibility  of Virgin 
Money, but I dont agree.
Virgin Money has a responsibility  to make sure it followed  Mr Ms instructions and open the 
account as asked. But I dont think it can be expected to make  sure the post is received once 
sent  including any cards.
I cant see that Mr M called to chase the delivery of his card before he received  it  even 
though he was aware of the promotional offer on the card,  being one of the reasons he took 
it out. Without this I dont  think Virgin Money  would have been  aware of the delay in card 
being received  or have been  able to assist.
While I understand Mr Ms frustrations that he missed out on the promotional offer for the 
first month, I dont  think  it is fair to hold Virgin Money  responsible  for the delays in the card 
being received.  And because of this I wont be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9429646