K820x#14complaint
Mr F had a Gold  Added Value  Account  (GAVA) with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  in June 2012 
and he says it should been  automatically  downgraded to a fee free account due to a change 
in his circumstances.
background
Mr F took out the following  accounts with Lloyds:
Account Type Date of sale/change
Current Fee free Prior to September 2001
Gold AVA Fee charged September 2003
Premier AVA Fee charged February 2008
Gold AVA Fee charged April 2008
Current Fee free May 2016
Mr F says that he became no longer eligible  for the travel insurance aspect of the GAVA in 
June 2012. He says that Lloyds wrote to him to advise him of this but didnt downgrade his 
account to a fee free one. So he wants Lloyds to return the fees he paid form June 2012  to 
May 2016.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Lloyds should return the fees. Mr F disagrees  so the case  
has come  to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Fs complaint.
Mr Fs complaint is very clear. He says that Lloyds wrote to him in June 2012 to tell him he 
would no longer be eligible for the travel insurance  aspect of the GAVA. And in his view 
Lloyds should  have automatically  downgraded his account to a fee free account at that time.  
Mr F says he has been paying  for 4 years  for an account that was of no use to him.
Ive thought about this carefully  and although I know this will be disappointing  for Mr F, I 
dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in June  2010  and Ill explain why.
The GAVAs  benefits  include  worldwide travel  insurance, AA car breakdown cover (whether 
the driver  or owner  of the car or not), mobile  phone insurance, and Sentinel card protection. 
The GAVA cost £12.95 per month from 2012  to 2016.
Mr F is clear that he had found the GAVA useful and been using many  of its benefits. He 
says he used the travel insurance and Lloyds has provided evidence that over the time he 
had the GAVA from 2003, he had a car and contacted the breakdown  cover  supplier, and he 
registered for the mobile phone insurance.
So when Lloyds  contacted Mr F in 2012 to tell him that he was no longer eligible for the 
travel insurance, it wouldnt have been obviously  the case that he wouldnt use the other  
benefits of the GAVA.  And Lloyds wouldve need Mr Fs agreement  in some form to change 
Ref: DRN91811682or downgrade his account. So in my view it was for Mr F to tell Lloyds if he no longer wanted  
the GAVA.
Neither Lloyds nor Mr F have  a copy of the letter  that was sent to Mr F in 2012, but Mr F 
does not dispute that he received  it.  I think its more likely than not that Lloyds  letter didnt 
tell him it was automatically downgrading  his account, as it needed his agreement  to do so. 
And I think its more likely than not that Mr F didnt tell Lloyds he wanted the account 
downgraded as his compliant is that he thought  Lloyds would do so automatically.
So overall, I dont  think that Mr F lost out as a result of anything  Lloyds did or didnt do.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9181168