K820x#14complaint
This complaints about an equity release  lifetime  mortgage that Mr P and Ms B took out on 
the advice of TenetConnect Limited  (TCL) in 2016. The complaint is that the lifetime  
mortgage was mis-sold,  firstly because it was unsuitable and secondly, because  TLC didnt 
given them adequate information.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in my own words, and in rather less detail than 
theyve been presented.  No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal  
service we provide,  and if I dont mention something, it wont  be because  Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt  think it was material to the outcome  of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr P and Ms B when my 
decision is published. Also, some  of the monetary  amounts have been rounded slightly;  
thats deliberate,  again because it reduces the risk of identification.
In 2016, Mr P and Ms B took out a lifetime mortgage  of £95,500, on advice from TCL. The 
terms of the mortgage  provide that no monthly  repayments are required. The mortgage is 
only due to be repaid if the borrower sells the property  voluntarily, goes into full-time nursing 
care or after their death. Interest on the loan is rolled  up into the outstanding balance,  and is 
compounded. This means that if the loan runs for a number of years,  there can be a 
significant balance  to be repaid. However,  if its repaid  early,  then an early repayment  charge 
(ERC) can be payable.  That happened in Mr P and Ms Bs case, prompting them to 
complain.
The basis  of Mr Ps complaint is that the lifetime  mortgage was unsuitable for them  because  
it was only required in the short term. They also say the terms of the ERC, how it was 
calculated, and the factors that might  influence the amount, werent adequately explained to 
them.
TCL rejected the complaint, prompting  Mr P to refer it to us. Our adjudicator  didnt think TCL 
had done anything wrong. Mr P and Ms B have asked that the complaint be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If the available evidence is incomplete  
and/or contradictory,  we reach our findings on what we consider  is most  likely to have 
happened, on the balance  of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts  use in 
civil cases.
The starting point  here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2016.  The value of such  
documents is that theyre contemporaneous;  so they should reflect  what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly or missed  altogether.  
Ref: DRN94595762But where the consumer has signed  to confirm that the information is accurate, well 
generally attach some  weight to it. Its typically more reliable  than peoples  individual 
recollections at a distance of time which, although given in good  faith,  can sometimes be 
inaccurate or contradictory.  
What the point-of-sale documentation reveals  here is that Mr P and Ms B were, not to put 
too fine a point on it, in a bit of a hole financially.  They  had a mortgage on a second property 
in France, the cost of which was greater than the income they received  from renting it; a 
substantial portion of the mortgage was imminently  due for repayment, plus they had in the 
region of £20,000 in credit  card debt,  due to the pressure on their cashflow. 
They needed to sell the property in France,  but couldnt be sure theyd do so before the 
lender required  the partial repayment of the mortgage. Mr P and Ms B were able to call on 
the proceeds of an investment policy in France for some of the money they needed, but that 
still left them  needing over £70,000, allowing for currency  fluctuations,  plus they wanted  to 
clear the credit card debts. 
Mr P and Ms B had some  assets,  but specifically told TLCs advisor they didnt want  to part 
with them.  The eventual sum borrowed was £95,500. That being so, it seems  to me that a 
mortgage of some sort or another wasnt unsuitable or inappropriate; arguably  it was 
essential. Ive next considered whether something  other than a lifetime  mortgage would have 
been a better option. 
A lifetime mortgage is by its nature a long term product, and Mr P and Ms B had very 
specific short term requirements.  It may therefore  seem counter-intuitive to find that the 
lifetime mortgage was a suitable recommendation; nonetheless, that is my finding  in this 
particular set of circumstances, and Ill explain why.
The point-of-sale documentation  shows that TCLs  advisor  spent a lot of time considering  
other types of lending,  only to have to discard all of them because  they either didnt suit Mr P 
and Ms Bs requirements or werent feasible  for their circumstances. In the end, all that was 
left to recommend  to them was an equity release lifetime mortgage, and then (bearing in 
mind the likelihood that the lifetime mortgage  would be repaid once the house in France  had 
been sold) to decide which type of ERC was preferable.
I make  that latter point because the advisor  went to great pains to explain that there were 
two types of ERC; a fixed charge calculated as a percentage of the amount repaid or a 
floating charge  calculated  by reference  to an investment  index, specifically the FTSE UK Gilt 
15 year Yield Index. He recommended  the latter, chiefly because  the former  guaranteed an 
ERC would be payable in any circumstances whereas the possibility existed  with the latter  
for no ERC to be payable  depending on movements in the index.
In simple terms, if the index yield  expressed  as a percentage  remained the same  as or 
fell below a benchmark rate, an ERC would be payable whereas if the yield went  above the 
benchmark, an ERC wouldnt be payable. Unfortunately,  in Mr P and Ms Bs case,  the yield 
fell, and so they paid an ERC when they cleared the lifetime  mortgage. Worse still, they 
didnt repay  the mortgage as soon as they could do after selling the house in France. 
They waited to see of the yield would move  in their favour, and it didnt; it went  the other  
way, thus increasing  the ERC  they eventually paid. So I can well understand  their sense of 
grievance, but I can only find in their favour  if Im persuaded  TLC treated them  unfairly by 
failing to meets it obligations in the information it gave them  to support its recommendations.
Ref: DRN94595763As to the lifetime mortgage itself,  its normal  for interest to roll up, and then to attract  further 
interest on a compounding  basis. The effect  of this is demonstrated in monetary terms in the 
point-of-sale material. Ive seen  the illustration for the mortgage; it uses  an assumption that 
the mortgage will last for 19 years, but it includes a narrative pointing  out this assumption 
and reminding the reader of the lifetime nature of the mortgage. 
The mortgage offer also showed illustrative examples of the ERC that might be chargeable, 
depending on how the index moved,  along with a detailed explanation of the mechanics of 
the index. Mr P and Ms B may feel the documents were  too complex to ensure a proper 
understanding of the mortgage. I cant know how much of the information they assimilated. 
But the documents presented the information  in a format that was consistent with the 
requirements set by the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA) which regulates the sale of 
mortgages.
I make  this latter observation chiefly because Mr P and Ms B have expressly said they 
werent given enough  information  about the factors that might cause the index to move in 
one direction or another.  I agree that information  along those lines wasnt provided, but for 
me to say it should  have been  would  be for me to take the place of the FCA. I have no 
regulatory power, and its not for me to say TLC should have given Mr P and Ms B more 
information than the FCA required it to give them. Similarly,  it would be for the FCA rather  
than me to consider if the FTSE UK Gilt 15 year Yield Index is an appropriate mechanism for 
lenders to use when  calculating  ERCs.
I have to decide if TLC met its regulatory obligations when recommending  the lifetime  
mortgage to Mr P and Ms B, and for the reasons set out above,  I am. Even  if I thought there 
was more TLC could  have  told Mr P and Ms B at the point of sale about how the index 
influenced the ERC and what influenced the index, Id still then have to consider what theyd 
have done differently if more information had been provided. 
Looking again  at their situation  at the time,  and taking into account the reasons why TLC 
took the unusual step of recommending a lifetime mortgage to meet  short term objectives, 
Im not convinced Mr P and Ms B would have done  anything differently. As I alluded  to 
earlier, Mr P and Ms B had pressing financial problems that needed an urgent solution. TLC 
only recommended  the lifetime mortgage  after ruling  out every  other  alternative,  and its 
advisor recommended a floating ERC as this option at least  gave them  the possibility of not 
paying an ERC at all.
I make  one last observation. Its always difficult to predict with any certainty and reliability  the 
direction investment markets and indices will move from time to time. Here, Mr P and Ms B 
were unlucky in that their index continued  a downward trend when it seemed more likely that 
the trend would change  and the index move  upwards. TLC and its advisor  cant be held 
responsible for that. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Ref: DRN94595764Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9459576