K820x#14complaint
Mr F and Miss F complain  that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) paid a claim by a third party 
against the motor insurance policy Mr F and Miss F held with Aviva  for damage which wasnt 
their fault.
background
Mr F had a motor insurance  policy with Aviva on which Miss F was a named driver. In June 
2018 Miss F was driving the car when she had a slight collision with a third partys car.    
Miss F said she just touched the nearside  door of the third partys car. The third party said 
Miss F had scraped the nearside edge of her rear bumper.
The third party offered to have  the damage  repaired  by a local garage if Miss F paid for this. 
She produced the garages  estimate of £120  for this work. However Miss F didnt think she 
had caused this damage and said the third party  would have to make a claim against      
Miss Fs insurer   Aviva  who she said would  check this claim.
The third party notified her claim to Aviva, who spoke to Miss F on 26 June 2018. Because  
Miss F said she hadnt caused the damage being  claimed for, Aviva  checked photos of the 
third partys  car. It also sent an engineer to examine Miss Fs car. He confirmed Miss Fs car 
had minor damage to its bumpers at all four corners, which could well have caused the 
damage. So Aviva concluded that it would be unable  to dispute the third partys  claim further.
Aviva emailed Miss F on 11 July 2018  to tell her it would have to pay the third partys  claim. 
The total cost was £672.91 including  the cost of a hire car while  the damage was repaired.  
On  13 July 2018 Miss F emailed Aviva to ask for a copy of the engineers report  as she 
wanted to contest the decision. It doesnt seem that Aviva responded to this request.
In November 2018, Miss F complained  to Aviva that it had closed the claim and dealt  with 
the third party  damage without properly consulting her. Avivas claim notes say it offered her 
compensation of £50, later increased to £75, for the miscommunication on its part. However 
Miss F didnt accept this. She was unhappy  that as a consequence of Aviva accepting the 
third partys  claim  her premiums would  increase.
Aviva didnt accept her complaint. It felt it had acted reasonably to investigate Miss Fs 
concerns. But in view of the damage  to Miss Fs car that its engineer found it wasnt  in a 
position to dispute what the third party was claiming. So Mr F and Miss F complained  to us. 
They wanted  their no claims  discount to be restored,  and for the fault claims marked  in 
respect of this claim to be removed from their insurance file.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He pointed  out that 
under the policy  terms Aviva had the following powers:
If we want to, we can take over and conduct in your name or that of the person claiming  
under the policy  the defence or settlement of any claim.
We shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of any 
claim.
So Aviva had the power to handle the investigation  of Miss Fs claim  in the way it thought 
reasonable, and to settle the third partys claim if it thought that was the best thing  to do. 
Ref: DRN99222502Aviva had sent an engineer to examine Miss Fs car, and had considered photos of both cars 
before reaching  a decision.
Aviva hadnt  taken into account any witness statements.  But as there was pre-existing 
damage to the third party car he thought it would have been  difficult  for a witness  to say with 
accuracy what areas were  damaged by the collision. So he didnt think Aviva  had missed 
any evidence which would  have changed the outcome. He thought Aviva had handled the 
claim fairly.
Miss F responded to say, in summary:
there seemed  to be some confusion in what Aviva had said about whether it was 
possible for her car to have caused  the damage to the third partys car;
she hadnt received  a copy of the engineers report and pictures he took of her car;
why had the cost of the damage  increased from £120 plus VAT to over £650; 
why had Aviva offered  her compensation of £75 if it wasnt  at fault; and
why hadnt  Aviva checked with witnesses who would support her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has supplied a copy of the engineers  report and the pictures he took. It has also 
explained how the costs it paid to the third party  were made  up. Costs tend to increase once 
a formal insurance claim is made. I think the costs  in this case were  reasonable in relation to 
the damage involved.
Aviva says it offered  Miss F compensation of £75 because of lack of communication  from its 
claims team. It confirms  this offer is still open if she and Mr F wish to accept it.
Miss F has said that there  were several people about when the accident  occurred. However  
Aviva says it was never told formal  statements from these  witnesses  were  available, and 
they were never sent to Aviva. 
Miss F says she expected  Aviva to contact  the witnesses. But theres nothing in its claims 
records about witnesses,  and Im not sure how Miss F expected  Aviva  to find them without 
some help from her. Like the investigator, Im also not sure any witness would be able to say 
precisely what part of the third partys car Miss F hit. So I dont think  its likely that any 
witness could have  added any useful evidence.
The difficulty  Aviva  had was that Miss F admitted colliding with the third partys car. The third 
party was clear on what damage was caused. Avivas engineer examined her car and said 
the damage he found to it could well have caused  the damage to the third party  car.
If the claim had gone to court,  Aviva took the view that Miss F would have been found 
responsible for the damage. On the evidence available I cant  say this was an unreasonable 
view to take. 
Under the policy terms which Ive quoted above Aviva had the right of take over and settle 
any claim. This is a wide power, and we expect  any insurer exercising it to do so in a 
reasonable manner. In this case I think Aviva did take reasonable steps to investigate  the 
Ref: DRN99222503claim, and acted reasonably in deciding to settle  it. Aviva also notified  Miss F immediately 
that this was its intention.
Aviva did offer Miss F £75 as compensation  for its lack of communication. Aviva has 
confirmed this offer remains  open  and I leave it to Mr F and Miss F to decide if they now 
wish to accept it.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9922250