K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A have  complained to us that they were mis-sold three  single premium payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policies.  Two were  sold to them  with loans  in 2001, and the third 
in 2004. The policies were sold by Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  and were  
designed to cover the loan repayments  if Mr A was too ill to work or was made unemployed. 
background
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and didnt  think the policies were mis-sold. In 
relation to the policy sold in 2004, he thought that Nationwide should repay some of the cost 
to Mr and Mrs A, because Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit  share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium). 
Mr and Mrs A disagreed with our adjudicators opinion  and the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs As case.
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
Having done that, Ive decided that the PPI policies werent mis-sold and Ill explain the 
reasons for this.
First of all there were  rules about who could  qualify for the cover. Based on Mr As 
circumstances at the time of the sales he met these rules, so I think  hed have been  able to 
claim on the policies  if he needed to.
Next, Nationwide  had to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs A that the policies were optional. Mr 
and Mrs A took out the loans over the phone. Mr and Mrs A told us it wasnt  made clear to 
them that the PPI was optional and they just accepted that the policies were  part of 
the finance. 
Nationwide has been able to send us some documentation, but due to the amount of time 
that has passed theres limited information available about the phone  calls and the 
recordings are no longer available. The last of the loans finished  in 2009 so this isnt 
surprising. In addition,  Ive noted  that Mr and Mrs A dont recall  a great deal of the detail from 
the time of the sales. Again, given how much time has passed, this is understandable, and 
Ive taken this into account in considering my decision.
Loan agreements  were sent to Mr and Mrs A after the calls, and copies of these are still 
available. Each  agreement had a section  relating  to the respective PPI policy and they were  
headed; 
Optional  Credit Insurance.  
Ref: DRN98348432The signatures of Mr and Mrs A are on these  agreements  and they subsequently returned  
them to Nationwide. I dont think its likely  that having read these  agreements  theyd have 
thought that the policies were mandatory.  And I think its most likely that theyd have 
understood that they could turn down the PPI. I understand why they might no longer recall 
this given the time thats passed. Ive carefully  considered what Mr and Mrs A have told us, 
but on balance  I think its most likely that Nationwide gave them  a clear  choice and so Im 
not upholding their complaint on this basis.
Next, Nationwide  didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs A, so it didnt have to make sure 
that the policies were  suitable for them. But it was required  to provide them with enough 
information about the policies so they could  make the decision for themselves  about whether 
or not to take them out. 
Ive considered that its possible that Nationwide failed to give Mr and Mrs A clear enough 
information, in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the 
policies. This in itself doesnt mean  the PPI was mis-sold  as Im required to go on and 
consider whether better  information would have put them off taking  the PPI out.
Overall, I dont  think better information  would have put them off the policies. I say this 
because:
-The PPI would have  paid out in addition to Mr As existing job benefits.  The policies 
would have paid out for the terms of the loans if he was off work sick. And would 
have covered the repayments for up to 12 months if he lost his job.
-The cost of the policies was shown  on the loan agreements  including the amount of 
the premiums, the interest payable on the premiums,  the total cost and the monthly 
payments. So I think its most  likely that Mr and Mrs A would have understood how 
much they were going to pay.
-Given his circumstances, Mr A doesnt appear to have been  affected by the main 
exclusions/restrictions in the policies.
-Mr and Mrs A could  have cancelled the policies  at any time and would have been 
given a pro-rata refund.
So, having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think  Nationwide  mis-sold 
Mr and Mrs A these  policies.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs A.
But in respect  of the policy  sold in 2004,  Nationwide will pay back some of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs A because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs A about that. Because Nationwide didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ref: DRN98348433what the business needs  to do
In respect of the policy sold in 2004, Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs A any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide 
should also pay back to Mr and Mrs A any extra interest they paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs A the extra they paid each month on the loan 
because the commission  and profit share  was more than 50% of the PPI premium - including  
any extra  Mr and Mrs A paid if the loan was paid off early. Nationwide should  also pay Mr 
and Mrs A 8%* simple interest  on the extra paid each month. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs A can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs A, however Ive concluded  that the PPI policies werent 
mis-sold. So Nationwide Building Society doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr and Mrs A.
But in respect  of the policy  sold in 2004,  Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back  
to Mr and Mrs A any commission  and profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 April 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9834843