K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the redress offered  by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK Limited  
(MBFS) after it agreed he could reject a car bought with a finance agreement.
background
MBFS said in its final response  in August 2018  that it accepted there  were  recurring  issues with the 
car and on balance it was likely these were present  at the point of sale. It offered to take back  the 
car, settle  the finance and return the deposit  Mr S had paid. It also offered him 20% of the monthly 
rentals as a gesture of goodwill for any loss of enjoyment he might have experienced. It pointed  out 
that a courtesy  car couldve been  provided  by the retailer if the car had been booked  in to it in 
advance. But here, as a gesture of goodwill, it would cover 50% of Mr Ss hire car costs up to the 
date of the final response letter.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. He considered  MBFSs offer of settlement 
and felt that it needed to do more to put things right. In particular he said:
Mr S has returned the car to the dealership and had been renting a hire car. MBFS had 
said that it couldve possibly provided  a courtesy  car if hed followed the correct  procedures. 
But as a gesture  of goodwill it offered to cover 50% of the car hire costs up to the date of 
the final response letter. But half the hire car costs  should be covered  until the present day;
MBFS should end the agreement with nothing more to pay and it should collect the car at 
no cost to Mr S. It should also return Mr Ss deposit plus interest;
MBFS should confirm  how long Mr S has been  without  the car and pay him compensation 
for loss of use of it. It has offered  20% of Mr Ss total payments for this which  is fair;
As the agreement shouldve  been ended when it was agreed the car could be rejected all 
payments made towards the agreement from the date of the final response letter should 
also be refunded  to Mr S; and
MBFS should pay Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused. It should also remove any adverse information from his credit file. 
Mr S felt that all the car hire costs  should be met.
MBFS didnt entirely agree. It said Mr S had full use of the hire car but its being asked to pay for 
both half the car hire costs and to return the full payments from the date of rejection. Thats 
betterment. It shouldnt  be responsible  for the car hire costs.  It agrees to take the car back,  return 
his deposit plus 20% of payments he made up to the date of the final response,  to cover  half of the 
car hire costs up to the final response date and return in full the payments made since then.
MBFS has recently confirmed that the agreement has now ended and its written  off any 
outstanding payments. Mr S also says MBFS has told him it will be paying  him back his deposit to 
help with him getting another car. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN98165892MBFS accepted in August 2018  that there  were issues  with the car at the point of sale and Mr S 
could therefore  reject it. So, all that remains is for me to consider the redress  MBFS has offered to 
put things right.
In the circumstances its clear the agreement shouldve been ended  from about the time the final 
response was issued in August 2018. And the car shouldve been  taken back  and the finance 
settled by MBFS at around that time. 
There does seem to have been some delay in these  things happening. But MBFS has said recently 
that the agreement has now ended and its written off any outstanding  payments.
Unfortunately, some  more  payments were  taken from Mr S after the final response letter was 
issued. I think its therefore  fair that these payments are refunded  to Mr S and, as he lost the use of 
this money, he should also be paid simple  interest at the rate of 8% a year from the date each of 
these payments was made until the refund is provided.
Its also reasonable for Mr S deposit  to be refunded to him. Its not clear  to me whether this refund 
has been made or just promised. But in addition to making the refund I think MBFS should also pay 
Mr S interest on it from the date he originally paid the deposit until the date the refund was or is 
made.
It seems  Mr S took the car back to the dealer without telling MBFS. It says if it had known and the 
correct procedure had been used, a courtesy car mayve been  provided by the dealer. 
Although MBFS isnt contractually bound to meet these car hire costs it has agreed,  as a goodwill 
gesture, to cover 50% of the car hire costs until the date of the final response letter. That seems  
fair. But it hasnt agreed to continue contributing to them after the date of the final response letter. 
It says that as its refunding in full the later agreement payments, to pay the hire costs  would 
represent betterment.
Im afraid I dont agree. MBFS say the retailer mayve been  able to provide a courtesy car if Mr S 
had used the correct procedure for returning the car but one wasnt  guaranteed. I think it was 
reasonable for Mr S to hire a car to keep mobile as his car wasnt available. It has also taken some 
time for the agreement to be ended, a refund of the post final response payments to be agreed and 
the deposit to be repaid to assist  in him buying  another car. As such  I think  its fair and reasonable 
in this case for MBFS to continue contributing  to the car hire costs  Mr S has paid from when the 
final response was issued to date. But I cant reasonably ask MBFS to pay them all as Mr S would 
like. I agree with the investigator that a continuing  contribution of 50% of them  is fair subject of 
course to Mr S providing appropriate receipts  and evidence of paying  them.
MBFS also agreed in its final response to pay Mr S 20% of the monthly rentals hed made  to that 
date as a gesture of goodwill for any loss of enjoyment he might  have  experienced. I think thats 
fair.
I also agree  with the investigator that MBFS should pay Mr S £150 compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  hes experienced.  And it should  also remove any adverse information  from his 
credit file.
Ref: DRN98165893my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK Limited should, if 
it hasnt already done so:
1.Collect the car at no cost to Mr S;
2.Refund to Mr S the deposit he paid for the car together  with simple interest at the rate of 
8% a year* from the date the deposit was paid until the date of settlement:
3.Subject to receiving  documentary proof  of them, pay to Mr S 50% of the car hire costs  hes 
incurred to date;
4.Pay to Mr S a sum equal to 20% of the monthly  agreement payments he made up to the 
date of the final response letter for any loss of enjoyment he might  have experienced;
5.Refund in full all the agreement payments paid by Mr S after the date of the final response 
letter together with simple  interest  at the rate of 8% a year*  from the date each such sum 
was paid until the date of settlement;
6.Pay Mr S £150 compensation; and 
7.Remove any adverse  information about this agreement  from Mr S credit  file.
MBFS must  pay these sums within  28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr S accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on them  from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year* simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires MBFS to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  
my decision  before 2 February 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9816589