K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that due to delays  and poor service  on Phoenix Life Limiteds part his 
pension transfer  was delayed. Mr M says he has lost out financially as a result.
background
Mr M retired in mid 2018. Around this time Mr M asked Phoenix for a statement for his 
pension. Mr M noticed that pension contributions  were missing.  He raised this with Phoenix. 
It said that Mr Ms employer had failed to make a pension contribution  in January 2018. This 
caused subsequent contributions to be applied late.
Phoenix Life said it had received  all the premiums due from Mr Ms employer by early 
September 2018 and these were added  to Mr Ms policy on the 19 September  2018. But 
Phoenix Life failed  to send Mr M an updated  quotation. 
It said that if it had sent a new quotation  promptly it would have expected  to receive Mr Ms 
instructions to transfer his pension pot by the 26 September 2018. 
Mr Ms total fund value was £126,900.18 on 26 September  2018.
Unfortunately, due to Phoenixs failure to send Mr M a new quotation promptly the transfer 
did not go ahead until 5 November 2018. The transfer value  of Mr Ms pension  pot was 
£117,854.03 on the 5 November 2018.  
Mr M complained to Phoenix. He said he had suffered a loss due to the fall in the value of 
his fund between  the date the transfer could  have gone ahead (26 September  2018) and the 
date the transfer  actually  took place (5 November 2018).
Phoenix accepted  that Mr M had been disadvantaged due to its poor service. It said that 
Mr Ms pension  pot had fallen by £9,046.15  during the delay. It said it wanted to ensure Mr M 
didnt lose out financially  due to the delay. It contacted Mr Ms pension  provider  and asked it 
to carry out a loss assessment based on the assumption that £126,900.18 had been 
transferred rather than £117,854.03.
Mr Ms pension  provider  said:
As the transfer  value would have been  considerably higher had it come  in on the correct  
date, the policy holder  has first lost out on the transfer value by £9046.15. However had the 
higher amount come in on the correct date, the chosen fund investment actually suffered a 
negative unit price  adjustment  and therefore the policy holder has gained on growth  by 
£2,545.71.
Therefore the total impact to the policy holders account is a net loss of £6,500.44.
Phoenix transferred  a further £6,500.44 to Mr Ms pension pot to make good the loss he had 
suffered as a result  in the delay in sending an updated quotation.
It also said in a letter to Mr M dated  15 November 2018:
I am sorry  that in this instance we have  not provided you with the service I would have 
anticipated and that you have been using your own savings whilst you have been  awaiting 
the transfer of your pension. I therefore intend to make a payment of £200 to you for the 
trouble and upset  caused.
Ref: DRN98785082In addition to this, I intend to pay a further  £50 for the delay  in concluding this complaint and 
I can confirm that a cheque totalling  £250 will be sent to you within  the next 7-10 working  
days.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with Phoenixs  response  and brought his complaint to this service.  He 
said he felt it should pay a further  £2,545.71 into his pension pot.
Our investigator said she didnt think Phoenix needed to do more. She explained that it had 
put Mr M back  in the position he would have been  in if the higher amount of £126,900.18 
had been transferred to his new pension provider on 26 September  2018,  taking  account  of 
the fund movements since that date.
She explained that as the fund Mr M had chosen with his new provider had fallen in value 
Mr Ms fund would also have fallen in value - by £2,545.71. As this was the case she said 
she was satisfied that the £6,500.44 Phoenix  had paid had put Mr M in the position he would 
have been in, but for its poor service.
She noted that Phoenix had failed  to tell Mr M about the missing pension  contributions  from 
his employer and didnt send out a revised quotation  promptly. In order  to compensate Mr M 
for these  failings Phoenix had paid Mr M £250  compensation for the trouble and upset  
caused. She said she felt this was fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M didnt  accept our investigators view.  He said that when he received the view letter he 
thought he would be receiving a further  £250, in addition  to the £250 Phoenix had already 
paid him. When our investigator confirmed that this wasnt the case  he asked for his 
complaint to be determined by an ombudsman.  
Mr M said the £250 he had received from Phoenix  in late 2018 was for the time he had spent 
trying to resolve this matter and the cost of the phone  calls he had made. He said the 
payment didnt cover the stress and worry this matter had caused him. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator set out, Phoenix has paid a further £6,500.44 into Mr Ms pension pot 
with his new provider  to make good the loss Mr M suffered as a result  of the delay in 
receiving an updated  quotation.
I think this is a fair and reasonable  outcome and Mr M hasnt raised  any further concerns 
about this aspect of his complaint.
But Mr M says that he had agreed  with Phoenix  that the £250 it paid him in late 2018 was 
only intended to compensate his for the phone calls he made  to try to resolve this matter and 
was not intended to cover the trouble and upset  caused.
Phoenix didnt  agree  this was the case.  It said that in the negotiation call it had with Mr M on 
15 November 2018 it had said it would pay £250 for the calls Mr M had made and for the 
trouble and upset  this matter had caused  him. It said it then confirmed this in it final 
response letter. 
Ref: DRN98785083I asked Phoenix to provide this service with a recording of the call it had with Mr M in which it 
discussed the redress. Having listened  to this call I am satisfied that the £250 Phoenix  paid 
to Mr M was to cover both the cost of the calls he had made to it and for the trouble and 
upset this matter had caused him.
In the call Phoenix explained  that it would contact Mr Ms pension  provider to ensure that the 
amount it paid into his pension  plan covered the loss he had suffered. Mr M then asked:
Does that take into account all the phone calls and all the stress Ive suffered or not?
Phoenixs representative replied:
I know initially I said £125 when  I first spoke to you but I dont think  thats enough so Ive 
raised a cheque for £250.
In view of this I cant reasonably say that the £250  Phoenix paid to Mr M was only intended 
to cover the cost of the phone calls Mr M had made to it. Mr M specifically asked about both 
the phone  calls he had made and the stress this matter had caused him. In response 
Phoenix said it would be sending Mr M a cheque for £250 to compensate  him.
I have also taken into account that in the letter Phoenix sent,  following this phone call it said:
I therefore intend to make  a payment of £200  to you for the trouble and upset caused. The 
letter went  on to say it would also pay Mr M a further £50 for the delay  in concluding his 
complaint.
I have carefully considered whether  the £250  Phoenix has paid to Mr M, for the trouble and 
upset this matter has caused,  is fair in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
I appreciate that Mr M feels  Phoenix  should pay him more.  But I cant reasonably  require it to 
do so. I am satisfied that the redress it has paid put Mr M in the position he would have been 
if Phoenix had sent an updated quotation promptly. And I think the £250  it has paid for the 
worry this matter caused Mr M and the time he spent trying to resolve this matter  is fair.
I do understand that this decision will come  as a disappointment to Mr M. But having listened 
to the call Mr M had with the Phoenix in November  2018 I cant reasonably say that the £250  
it offered was only to compensate Mr M for his time and the phone calls he had made.
my final decision
My decision  is that I think the steps  Phoenix Life Limited took to resolve this matter  were fair. 
It does not need  to do any more to resolve  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9878508