K821x#15complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Crown Motors Bushey Heath (Distributors) Limited (Crown Motors) 
wont refund  the deposit he paid towards  a car. 
background
I issued my provisional decision in January 2021  (copied below). I explained I had carefully 
considered all of the available  evidence  and arguments from the outset,  in order to decide 
what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I had also taken into account relevant 
regulatory rules as well as the law and good  industry  practice.
Having done so, I explained  I intended to uphold the complaint and to issue  instructions  to 
Crown Motors to put things right.
Mr G has accepted my provisional decision without making any further comments or 
submissions. Crown Motors has not accepted my provisional decision and has made a 
number of comments, as outlined  below.
Firstly, Crown Motors  has strongly reiterated its position that Mr G always  intended to buy 
the car outright and that the finance  application  was a paper exercise only, made to look as 
real as possible in order to establish Mr Gs credit-worthiness for his own satisfaction. As all 
parties are aware, this explanation  is at odds with Mr Gs description of events. 
It is not possible for anyone who was not present to state with complete certainty  what the 
intentions of the parties were at the time.  So I have  had to consider  which  version of events 
is the most  plausible  in the light of the evidence that is available.  As explained in detail in my 
provisional decision, on balance I find Mr Gs explanation more likely. Crown  Motors 
reiteration of its position  has not changed my view on this.
Secondly, Crown  Motors  has also queried  the instructions to pay simple interest at the rate 
of 8% per year, saying that 1% would be more reasonable given the financial climate during 
the period that this matter  has been in dispute.  In addition, Crown  Motors has stated that the 
time taken  by this Service to reach  a final determination on this case is excessive and has 
suggested that any payment of interest should  be reduced to reflect  this.
The appropriate rate of interest cannot be not determined simply by considering the financial 
climate during the period  in question.  The rate of interest is intended to compensate  
customers for loss of access to their money,  which potentially couldve influenced a whole 
range of spending, borrowing and investing  decisions over that time. While it is true that the 
money wouldve  been unlikely to achieve  8% in a savings  account during the period in 
question, had it instead been used to pay down  existing  debt it might  well have prevented  
charges of more  than 8%. The right investment may also have yielded higher returns. 
As for many customers  it is difficult to state with confidence exactly what  they wouldve done 
with the money,  we typically  ask business  to apply a standard rate of 8% simple interest, 
which mirrors  the current rate on judgement debts. I havent seen anything  within the 
evidence submitted in this case  to suggest  that I should depart from our standard approach 
and, therefore,  in my view it is both fair and reasonable to apply 8% simple interest to the 
award made  to Mr G.
Ref: DRN91150892I acknowledge Crown  Motors frustration at the time it has taken to reach  this stage in our 
process, and I thank both parties for their patience in this matter. However, as previously 
explained, the interest is intended to redress Mr Gs loss from the point these funds 
shouldve been  returned to him up until the point  they are returned. As such,  it must  cover 
the entire period Mr G has been without this money, including the time it has taken for his 
complaint to be considered and upheld.
Lastly, Crown Motors has referenced another case which it describes as an identical 
situation and says that completely the opposite outcome was reached  by this Service. As 
this decision relates  solely  to the merits  of Mr Gs case, I cannot  comment  on any other case 
(although I note the case Crown Motors has referenced did not reach  the final stage  of our 
process and therefore  no determination was ever made by an Ombudsman).
my findings
The deadline  for further submissions has now passed. Having reconsidered the complaint 
again in its entirety,  along with the additional  comments that have been provided by Crown 
Motors, I have reached the same decision as before, and for the same reasons.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Crown Motors Bushey Heath (Distributors) Limited to:
Refund Mr G £995.
Pay simple interest  at a rate of 8% per year from the date Mr G paid the deposit on 
8 October 2016 until the date payment of the above is made to Mr G. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2021.
Ellie Clare
ombudsman
Ref: DRN91150893copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Crown  Motors Bushey  Heath (Distributors) Limited (Crown  Motors) wont refund 
the deposit he paid towards a car. 
background to complaint
On 8 October 2016, Mr G went to Crown  Motors and chose a car with a total cash price of around 
£33,335 including  additional  costs, such as delivery.
Mr G paid £1,000 as a deposit, which he said he understood was to cover the cost of bringing the car 
from another area. He signed  paperwork to part-exchange his old car for £7,000. A contribution  
towards the purchase from the dealership meant that the remaining balance was around £22,835. 
At some point in the negotiations, the dealership  contacted a finance provider  to enquire  as to Mr Gs 
suitability for financing  the remainder of the transaction by way of a finance agreement.
The next day, 9 October 2016, Mr G changed  his mind about the car. But Crown Motors wouldnt  give 
him back his deposit. Mr G said he has contacted Crown Motors several times since then,  but it wont 
refund the deposit. 
Mr G contacted this service on 8 October 2017 and asked us to look at his complaint. 
We contacted Crown  Motors  to let it know that Mr G had raised a complaint. Since  then, we have 
received a great deal of correspondence  from Crown Motors, and its solicitors, setting  out why it 
thinks that this service  doesnt have jurisdiction to look at Mr Gs complaint and why it thinks  the 
complaint is without merit.
Ive already issued a decision setting out my thoughts on why I think this service has the jurisdiction to 
consider Mr Gs complaint and why I am not persuaded that there is any compelling reason  to dismiss 
it. In this decision,  I will focus on the merits of Mr Gs complaint, although my consideration of this 
services jurisdiction to consider the complaint will also remain under  review.  
In my provisional jurisdiction  decision,  I set out in some detail the submissions  made by Crown  Motors 
and its solicitors. For the sake of brevity, I have summarised the key submissions relevant to the 
merits of the case below. Most of the submissions have been made by the solicitors on behalf of 
Crown Motors, but for simplicity, I refer to Crown Motors throughout.
In summary, Crown Motors  submissions in relation  to the merits of Mr Gs complaint are as follows:
oThat Mr G entered into a legally binding  contract  to buy the car for £33,000. He paid a deposit 
and signed the contractual document. Mr G then changed  his mind about buying the car, 
leading to a breach of the contract to purchase. Crown Motors  was entitled to damages as a 
result of that breach.
oThat the following points  are fundamental and well-established concepts  of contract  law, and 
cannot be overruled by this service:
-Parties should be put in the position they would have been in had the contract  been 
fulfilled - and not in their pre-contractual positions - in the event that one party breaches 
that contract.
-Parties can set out in advance what their anticipated  losses would be in the event  that a 
party is in breach.  This can take the form of a deposit, to represent the amount that is 
forfeited in the event of breach. The only objection  would be if the deposit amount was 
out of all proportion to any legitimate  interest. 
Ref: DRN91150894-Whether the actual loss is greater or less than the deposit paid is irrelevant, provided it 
represents a reasonable  pre-estimate of likely loss.
oThat,  based  on the principles above, returning the deposit isnt a legal remedy available to Mr 
G. Given the value of the contract in this case, the deposit was proportional and represented 
a reasonable pre-estimate of likely  loss. Even if the actual loss to Crown Motors was less than 
£1,000, Mr G has no legal entitlement to the return  of any part of the deposit. Conversely, if 
the loss was greater,  Crown Motors has no entitlement to pursue  Mr G for this sum.
oThat there  was no finance agreement, and no intention  for finance being a potential  funding  
mechanism for the car in question. Mr G agreed and fully intended to purchase the car 
outright, and paid a deposit on this basis. All parties were clear  on this point.
oThat,  after the contract of purchase was agreed and the deposit paid, Mr G asked for a 
quotation to see if he would be accepted  to fund the balance by way of a finance agreement. 
An enquiry was made by the dealership on his behalf, the result of which was that he would 
be accepted if he wished  to fund the balance  in this way. However, it was only ever a paper 
exercise - using the already  agreed purchase of the car as an example  - to confirm Mr Gs 
credit-worthiness for his own satisfaction. This is not uncommon, and many customers  make 
similar enquiries, simply out of interest.
oThat,  as the credit  application was an afterthought and was not ever seriously  considered as 
a potential funding  mechanism, it was not relevant  to the transaction to purchase the car  or 
the associated £1,000 deposit. As such it has no impact on this complaint, and the principles 
outlined above still stand.
oThat,  although Mr G cancelled  the deal the next day, Crown Motors incurred  the cost of re-
advertising the car and selling it to a new buyer. So, even  if Mr Gs complaint  had involved  a 
finance agreement, Crown Motors would be entitled to keep the £1,000 deposit.
oThat the offer for Mr G to put the deposit towards another car from Crown  Motors was fair.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments from both parties. Im required  by 
section 228 of the Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000 (FSMA)  to determine a complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances  of the case. 
In doing so, in accordance  with DISP  3.6.4 R of the Dispute Resolution rules  (DISP rules) found  in the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook,  Im required to take into account  the following:
(1)relevant:
(a)law and regulations;
(b)regulators  rules, guidance and standards;
(c)codes  of practice; and
(2)(where appropriate) what he [the ombudsman] considers to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
Ive taken all the above into account when  determining  this case, including the relevant legal 
principles in contract law. But, in cases involving regulated credit agreements, it is also necessary  to 
consider the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and any additional obligations this 
may create.  
Ref: DRN91150895It seems to me that the thrust  of Crown Motors argument is that it made  little more than a cursory 
enquiry about finance  to assess  Mr Gs creditworthiness,  and that it was understood by all parties that 
Mr G intended to purchase the car outright, rather than via a finance agreement. So, the first question  
I need to consider is the nature of the transaction that took place  between  Mr G and Crown Motors.  
the transaction 
Crown Motors says that the enquiry about taking out a finance agreement  was not relevant  to the 
transaction to purchase the vehicle for which Mr G paid the £1,000 deposit.  As such, Crown Motors 
believes the matter should simply be considered under  the general  principles of contract law. And, 
under these general principles, Crown Motors  has argued  that Mr Gs breach of contract to purchase 
entitles it to damages, namely retention of the £1,000 deposit.  
I acknowledge all that Crown Motors has said about the relevant legal  principles in contract  law, but I 
dont think it is as simple  as that. As I set out in my provisional jurisdiction decision - and as I repeat 
here, given  it also pertains  to the merits of this complaint - I think that Crown Motors engaged in 
credit-broking activity,  and the question of Mr Gs deposit is connected to this activity. So, Ive 
considered all that has happened  here,  having  regard to the CCA and the general principles of 
contract law, as I am required to do.
As I set out in my decisions on jurisdiction, I think Crown Motors went  further than making an enquiry 
simply to assess Mr Gs creditworthiness. I think an application for credit was made  with a view to Mr 
Gs acquiring the car by way of a hire purchase agreement. Further to that, and pertinent to the merits 
of this complaint, I think that the stage had been reached in which a prospective  credit agreement 
had been entered into. I set out my reasons for saying this below.
cash or credit
I have thought  carefully about what Crown Motors has said about  Mr Gs intention to purchase the car 
outright, and that the finance enquiry  was merely a paper exercise to assess Mr Gs credit-worthiness,  
for his own satisfaction. However, Im not persuaded  by this and I explain why below.
Firstly, Mr Gs account  is that he wanted to take some time to consider  the proposed finance before 
making the purchase, but that Crown Motors told him the offer was available for one day only,  so he 
paid the deposit.  Mr G says,  having had time to reflect overnight, he changed  his mind and cancelled  
the next day. Having reviewed the telephone calls between Mr G and our investigator, I also note Mr 
G made reference to a PCP (Personal Contract Purchase) in the initial call, and repeatedly 
referenced the thought of the monthly, final, and overall  payments relating to the finance as his 
reason for changing his mind about the car. I find Mr Gs account plausible  and consistent.
Secondly, I think it is unlikely Mr G wouldve  negotiated the transaction  and paid the deposit to secure 
the car without having set in motion or reached an agreement as to how the remainder of the 
purchase would have  been  funded. Instead it seems likely to me that the funding of the remaining part 
of the purchase price wouldve been an integral part of any negotiation,  and that the paperwork from 
the time would reflect this.
Although Crown Motors  has said that Mr G intended to fund the rest of the purchase price outright, it 
has not provided any paperwork  to support this claim,  and there is no reference to any such cash 
payment in the available documentation. On the other hand, an application  for credit was both made 
and approved  on the day negotiations  to purchase the car took place.  Furthermore, I can see that the 
Vehicle Order Form (which also references the £1,000 deposit) clearly states  £22,835 as finance 
due, while recording  the outstanding balance  as zero.  
Thirdly, based on information provided by the finance house, I understand that Crown Motors first 
obtained a quotation for Mr G, and this was then followed by an application  for credit. There was an 
assessment for credit,  and no further details  were required (for example, income and expenditure), so 
Ref: DRN91150896the application was approved  subject to standard conditions - and this was conveyed  to the 
dealership via the dealer proposal  reply. 
The next stage wouldve been to print and sign the agreement,  before returning it to the finance house 
along with relevant  identification, for review and execution. So, rather than simply making  a cursory  
enquiry as to suitability for finance or just obtaining a quotation, I am satisfied an application for credit  
was made. 
Taking everything into account, it is my view that Mr G intended to fund this transaction  by way of a 
credit agreement and not by way of a cash purchase.   
a prospective credit agreement
Further to the above, not only do I think an application for credit was made, I also think  that the 
process had reached the stage that a prospective credit agreement was in place. This is relevant  
because the CCA makes  provision for what happens to a cash deposit taken in a transaction involving 
a prospective credit agreement. However, before  considering  the relevant  provisions  of the CCA, it is 
necessary to establish what is meant by prospective agreement and how it applies in this case.  
The CCA defines  a credit  agreement  as an agreement  between  an individual (the debtor) and any 
other person (the creditor)  by which the creditor provides the debtor with credit  of any amount.  
However, the CCA does not provide a definition  for a prospective agreement, so Ive considered  the 
comments of Professor Goode as to what amounts  to a prospective credit agreement  (at paragraph 
31.31 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice (Issue 55, November 2017):
It is not clear at what stage a contemplated agreement becomes a prospective  agreement 
for the purpose of the CCA  1974, s 57. In most cases, nothing turns on the answer to this 
question, but there may be circumstances in which  a supply transaction initially concluded on 
a cash basis becomes a linked transaction because of subsequent negotiations with a third 
party for credit to finance it, so that withdrawal from the prospective credit agreement would 
operate to cancel the supply transaction.  So far as s 57 is concerned, matters  must at least 
have reached  the stage  where there is something to withdraw from. Mere  contemplation  of a 
credit or hire agreement in the mind of the putative debtor or hirer would  obviously not suffice,  
nor, it is thought, would a mere enquiry to the putative creditor or owner about the availability 
or terms of credit.  It would seem necessary that the parties  should  be engaged in negotiations 
for agreement, using  the term negotiations in its ordinary  sense and not in the extended 
sense of antecedent negotiations employed in the CCA 1974. However, this by itself does 
not suffice to attract s 57, which operates only in relation to a prospective regulated 
agreement. Accordingly, what must be in prospect  at the time of a purported withdrawal under 
s 57 is an agreement that would fall within the definition of a regulated agreement. 
Prospective necessarily imports a degree of contingency. It is thus not necessary  for the 
projected terms to have  become crystallised to the point where it can be said that any ensuing  
agreement would definitely  constitute a regulated agreement it suffices that there is a clear 
prospect that it would  do so.
In this case, the agreement had been  negotiated and the key terms of the credit  agreement had been 
defined. The dealer  proposal reply sets out the key terms of the approved credit  application  namely 
the deposit, the amount  of credit to be advanced, the monthly repayment amounts, the interest rate, 
and the guaranteed minimum future value  of the car. The only remaining steps were for the 
agreement to be printed, signed by Mr G and Crown Motors, and then returned to the finance house 
with supporting documentation.  
The application fell away  on the finance  providers systems when  it was not taken  up. But the process  
had reached  a stage in which Mr G had to indicate - to Crown Motors, at least  (as the credit broker 
and, in this regard,  agent  of the finance house) - that he no longer  wanted to proceed with the 
acquisition of the car and, therefore,  the hire purchase agreement. As such, I am satisfied that the 
term prospective agreement applies in the circumstances here. 
Ref: DRN91150897It is also important  to note that the deposit  in question was part of the overall transaction. As such, the 
deposit appears on the dealer proposal  reply and finance quotation documents. Once the application  
for credit had been made and accepted subject to standard  terms of approval, the deposit had 
become an integral and inseparable part of that hire purchase application  and prospective credit 
agreement. 
the legal position
As I set out above, the CCA makes  provision  for what happens  to a cash deposit taken in a 
transaction involving  a prospective credit  agreement. Section  57 CCA provides that:
(1)The withdrawal of a party from a prospective regulated agreement  shall operate to apply 
this Part to the agreement, any linked  transaction and any other thing done in anticipation 
of the making of the agreement as it would apply  if the agreement were made  and then 
cancelled under  section 69.
(2)The giving to a party  of a written or oral notice which, however expressed,  indicates  the 
intention of the other party to withdraw from a prospective regulated  agreement operates  
as a withdrawal  from it.
(3)Each of the following  shall be deemed to be the agent of the creditor  or owner for the 
purpose of receiving a notice under subsection (2)
(a) a credit-broker or supplier who is the negotiator in antecedent negotiations, and
(b) any person  who, in the course  of a business carried on by him, acts on behalf of 
the debtor or hirer in any negotiations for the agreement.
(4)Where the agreement, if made, would not be a cancellable agreement, subsection  (1) 
shall nevertheless apply as if the contrary were the case.
I am satisfied  Mr G provided oral notice to Crown Motors of his intention  to withdraw from the 
prospective hire purchase agreement when  he went back to Crown Motors on 9 October  2016 and 
said he no longer wished to proceed with the transaction. So, section 57(1) of the CCA would operate 
in the circumstances  and mean  that Mr Gs deposit must be treated as it would if the agreement had 
been cancelled under section 69 of the CCA (as I am satisfied it was paid in anticipation of making the 
agreement).
Section 69 of the CCA provides that if, within a specified timeframe (met here) a notice of cancellation  
is given which indicates  the intention of the debtor or hirer to withdraw from the agreement,  then:
the notice shall operate 
(i) to cancel the agreement, and any linked  transaction, and
(ii) to withdraw any offer by the debtor or hirer, or his relative,  to enter into a linked  
transaction.
 
Section 70 of the CCA sets out what happens  to money paid in contemplation  of the agreement  or 
transaction. Section  70(1) states:
 (1) On the cancellation of a regulated agreement, and of any linked transaction, -
(a) any sum paid by the debtor or hirer,  or his relative, under or in contemplation  of 
the agreement or transaction, including any item in the total charge for credit, shall 
become repayable.
Ref: DRN91150898So, taking all this together, I think under the provisions  of the CCA Mr G is entitled to the return  of the 
deposit he paid under (or in contemplation) of the agreement he entered  into with Crown Motors to 
purchase the car.
However, I note section  70(6) of the CCA provides:
If the total charge for credit includes an item in respect of a fee or commission charged by a 
credit-broker, the amount  repayable under subsection (1) in respect of that item shall be the 
excess over £5 of the fee or commission.
As the dealer  proposal reply contains a reference to commission, I think Crown Motors is entitled  to 
retain £5 in accordance with section 70(6) of the CCA.
regulatory responsibilities
I have also thought about Crown Motors regulatory obligations under the Principles for Businesses 
set out in the FCA Handbook. Principle  7 sets out that A firm must pay due regard  to the information 
needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear,  fair and not 
misleading. This obligation  applies to any documentation or information Crown Motors provided to Mr 
G about the transaction.   
Crown Motors maintains that it was clearly  understood by both parties that Mr G was going to pay the 
balance for the car in cash. However, as set out previously, the documentation provided to Mr G 
indicates that the balance was to be paid by way of finance, for which an application was made  and 
approved. If the transaction was intended to be completed  in cash, Crown  Motors ought  to have 
provided paperwork  to Mr G that clearly  stated this. 
As such, even  if Crown  Motors did believe the transaction would be completed by Mr G in cash, this 
would mean  Crown Motors did not give due regard to its regulatory obligations (Principle 7), as it 
failed to provide clear,  fair, and not misleading  paperwork. So, I would still think it fair and reasonable 
for Crown Motors  to refund  Mr G the deposit he paid.
summary of provisional  findings
Taking all the considerations set out above into account,  in my view it is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Gs complaint to require  that Crown Motors returns  the deposit  he paid in 
contemplation of the agreement to purchase the car. For the reasons given  above, Im satisfied that 
the provisions of the CCA mean that Mr G was able to withdraw from the prospective credit 
agreement (of which Im satisfied the agreement to purchase the car formed  part).  
It follows that I intend to uphold this complaint, and to require Crown Motors  to return  to Mr G the 
deposit he paid, less £5 in respect  of the commission. I also think that, as Mr G has been deprived of 
these funds, Crown Motors should pay simple interest of 8% on the amount to be refunded.  
For completeness, I should also note that Crown Motors has made a number of references to losses 
incurred as a result of Mr G not going ahead with the car purchase, and has also provided a 
breakdown of these losses. However, Crown Motors has not responded to our requests to provide 
documentary evidence to support this claim or demonstrated any attempt  to mitigate  any such losses. 
In any event, I have considered this submission and I am not persuaded that under the CCA, Crown 
Motors is entitled to compensation  for any losses it purports to have incurred, nor am I persuaded  that 
it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances to take any such losses into account.
my provisional  decision
Im minded to uphold  this complaint and direct  Crown  Motors  Bushey Heath (Distributors) Limited to 
put things right as follows:
Ref: DRN91150899Refund Mr G £995.
Pay simple interest at a rate of 8% per year from the date Mr G paid the deposit on 8 October  
2016 until the date payment  of the above is made to Mr G. 
If either party has anything further to add, they should do so by the date specified above. I will then 
consider any further evidence or submissions before reaching a final decision on the complaint.
Ellie Clare
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9115089