K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
Background
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2003. It was part of an insurance 
package called a Total Mortgage  Protection  Plan, or TMPP for short.
Mr and Mrs M paid for the PPI with a regular monthly  premium,  which  didnt attract interest.  
It covered them both in case  either of them was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs M, I have not found that this policy  was mis-sold  
 Ill explain why.
This sale was 16 years  ago and the accounts  involved have long since closed, so I think  its 
understandable that neither side have all the original documents from the time. Indeed, 
under data protection rules Halifax  were  required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Ms data rather 
than hold onto it for too long.
However, from what weve seen of Halifaxs sales process for this type of policy, it wouldve 
given Mr and Mrs M the choice to take or turn down  PPI, and only set it up if they actively  
chose it. And the PPIs  cost wouldve been  set out separately to the cost of the mortgage 
itself  rather than as something  that was necessarily included. The PPI wasnt a condition of 
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage and Ive not seen any evidence which shows Halifax  misled them 
into thinking it was. Ive also not seen  any wider problems with Halifaxs sales process from 
the time.  So while I understand Mr and Mrs Ms argument that they thought  they had to have 
PPI, I think  its most likely that Halifax gave them a clear  choice  about  buying it and that they 
chose it at the time  though I can certainly  understand  if they no longer recall doing so after 
so long.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, so it had to check it was right for them.  And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr and Mrs M were both eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of its 
main exclusions  or limitations.  They had only limited sick pay and savings, whereas the PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of those  and it covered them for far longer. Its worth bearing  in 
mind that the mortgage was a very significant,  long-term commitment,  and if Mr and Mrs M 
fell behind on their payments  they couldve lost their home, which  was a serious potential 
risk without proper protection. So it looks like the PPI couldve really  been useful for them in 
protecting their home and giving  some  peace of mind.
Ref: DRN97047312Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs M about PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above,  Mr and Mrs M werent affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them  in case 
something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Mr and Mrs M 
could cancel it at any time without  a penalty.  Overall, I dont think  that better  information  was 
likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9704731