K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  for a loan that Mr B took out in 1998. The PPIs  cost was 
added onto the loan and attracted interest   thats  whats called a single premium policy.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Nationwide disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Having done that, I think  Mr Bs PPI policy was mis-sold here,  and Ill explain why.
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy for Mr B, so it didnt have to check  it was right for 
him. But it did have  to give him information  about  the PPI that was clear, fair, and not 
misleading, so Mr B could  decide  for himself  whether it was right for him.
I dont think Nationwide  gave Mr B clear enough  information about the policys exclusions 
around pre-existing medical conditions. For instance, I cant  see anywhere in the application 
process or in the documents that Mr B signed  where the important exclusions were set out, 
nor does it look like they were prominently drawn  to his attention at the point of sale.
I think this would have  mattered to Mr B, as he said he had a chronic medical  condition  at 
the time of the sale, which would not have been covered. From what  Mr B told us, it 
seriously affected his ability to work,  and it seems  some of the symptoms he described 
wouldve been especially relevant in his line of employment. Mr B said he had to take 
significant time off work for his condition. Later, he needed to have major surgery for it  and 
although that was after the time of the sale, it does have implications about the seriousness 
of the condition in the years leading up to the procedure. 
I completely understand why Nationwide would ideally like to see more substantial evidence  
of Mr Bs medical status  in 1998.  But that was over two decades ago, and I have to be 
reasonable about what evidence I can expect both sides to have. I also appreciate  that Mr B 
didnt initially  mention his medical  condition, though as our adjudicator explained, given its 
effect on his memory  and the many years  that have  passed, its understandable that he may 
not have immediately remembered it was relevant at the specific  time of this sale. I think  our 
adjudicator has made every reasonable effort to get the evidence relevant to this complaint, 
and I now need  to decide it based  on the information at hand.
Ref: DRN99753932After careful consideration, I think this policy was most likely to have been  mis-sold. As 
I explained above, I dont think Nationwide gave Mr B clear enough information about the 
PPIs main exclusions. And if it had done, then given Mr Bs plausible  testimony and his 
circumstances at the time I think its most  likely he would not have bought the policy.  So it 
follows that I think its most likely this PPI policy was mis-sold.
putting things right
Mr B borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been. Mr B 
paid more than he shouldve each month and it cost him more to repay the loan than it would 
have without PPI. Mr B needs to get back the extra he paid.  So, Nationwide should:
Work  out and pay Mr B the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid without PPI.  
Work  out and pay Mr B the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it would have  cost to pay off the loan without  PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amounts Mr B paid, from when he paid them until he 
gets them back. The rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mr B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Nationwide  can take off what  
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide must  give 
Mr B a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. Mr B can claim back  the tax if 
he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. Nationwide Building Society 
should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9975393