K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that Legal & General (Portfolio  Management Services)  Ltd 
(referred to from now on as L&G)  gave him incorrect information  about the pricing of the 
property fund he was invested in, which has caused  him a financial loss. Mr J has also 
complained that L&G caused delays during the transfer of his pension  provisions to 
another provider.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in detail in my provisional  decision dated         
13 January 2020.  A copy of this document  is attached to, and forms part of, this my final 
decision.
In response to my provisional decision rejecting the complaint L&G stated  that it had nothing 
further to add.
Mr J did not agree and responded in an email dated  16 January 2020. Mr J argued that:
He did not receive the fund fact sheets, terms and conditions  or risk warning on the 
Fair Value Pricing (FVP) adjustment that could be applied.
He only received the cancellation notice and endorsement schedules.
It is not treating customers  fairly  to not highlight the risk warning.
Even if the risk of a FVP adjustment being  applied was set out in the terms and 
conditions no investor would have been aware that this could  mean a 15% reduction 
in the value of the investment could be applied some  two months  later.
It appears that the person at L&G did not know that a FVP adjustment  could  be 
applied.
He had planned to switch his funds to cash but was reassured  by the call that there  
was no mechanism  to reduce  the value of the property funds that he held. 
It appears to Mr J that the individual at L&G that he was speaking to did not know  
and did not highlight the possibility that a FVP adjustment could be applied  to the 
property fund.
It was because  of the upcoming referendum  on Membership of the European Union 
that he wanted to switch out of the property fund.
It was L&Gs memo  and the telephone call that he had with the senior manager at 
L&G that caused him to change his mind.
It is not fair that two months after making  the investment his fund was reduced by 
£15,000 in one day.
Mr J asked that I revisit my provisional  decision.
 .
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional  decision it is very disappointing that a recording of the 
telephone conversation between Mr J and the L&G employee is not available. However it 
appears that Mr J telephoned his contact at L&G on his mobile and these  calls are not 
recorded. Mr J has reiterated  his recollection  that he wasnt  told about the possibility  of an 
Ref: DRN94543242FVP adjustment  being  applied when  he spoke to L&G. He says he was reassured by the 
telephone conversation and, as a result, he decided not to move his money.  
At the time of the disputed telephone  call Mr J was worried  about  his significant investment 
in a L&G property  fund and the effect  of the result of the EU referendum could have on its 
value.
Mr J believes  that he was told by the L&G employee  that the property fund was strong and 
L&G had no plans  to impose a penalty on any withdrawals. There  is however no other 
evidence to support  this statement.  The individual at L&G was also contacted to see if he 
could recollect the telephone call with Mr J in 2016  but he was unable to remember anything  
about the call.
I have reconsidered  this point, but I remain of the view that it is unlikely that the senior  
manager at L&G that Mr J spoke to would  have been in a position to provide the 
reassurance Mr J was seeking.  I think it is unlikely he would  be able to say whether 
there were any plans to change the pricing  basis of the fund. I say this because it isnt at 
all clear that this manager had any involvement  in pricing decisions affecting this fund 
and nor is it clear that there were any plans  to change the pricing basis or apply a FVP 
adjustment at the time of the conversation. I think it is quite possible Mr J was told that 
the L&G senior manager was not aware of any plans to change  the pricing of the fund, 
but thats not the same as saying it would not or could not change.
If Mr J had sought and/or received any firm assurance and was relying  on it, I would have 
expected him to ask for it to be confirmed in writing.  If, as it appears, any conversation about 
the fund was less formal  than that, Im not persuaded it was reasonable to place  such  
reliance on it.
I note that before the extra contribution was paid Mr Js pension  policy  was worth 
approximately £200,000 and this was all invested  in one property fund. I therefore find it 
somewhat surprising that Mr J had not received a copy of the policy terms and conditions.  
He had invested a significant amount in the fund already and I think its likely he would have 
wanted to understand the terms  and conditions that applied to his investment. If he had not 
received a copy then I would have expected  that as an IFA he would have asked for a copy.
In my opinion Mr J ought to have  been aware  from the policy terms and conditions that the 
property fund was valued on a monthly basis but that L&G reserved  the right to change the 
price in the event  that the value of the underlying assets increased or decreased  significantly 
during the month. The way that the fund values  were amended would be by a FVP 
adjustment. At the end of the month a new unit price would be calculated  by L&G.
The policy documentation that Mr J should have received did set out that in exceptional 
circumstances L&G could  take steps to protect the fund. If Mr J did not have copy  of a policy 
document or the terms and conditions then, as mentioned above   I consider that as an IFA 
he would  have known  to ask for a copy. 
Mr J says that even if the risk of a FVP adjustment being applied was set out in the terms 
and conditions, no investor would have been  aware  that this could mean a 15% reduction in 
the value of the investment could  be applied some two months later. I understand this was a 
large reduction in value  in a relatively  short space of time,  but I dont agree that no investor  
could have been aware that the value of the fund could fall that much in a short space of 
time, particularly an IFA. Investments can lose significant amounts in short spaces of time 
Ref: DRN94543243and have done so regularly. Part of Mr Js job and training as an IFA would have been to 
understand and/or warn clients about the potential for investments  to go up or down in value, 
sometimes in a short space of time.
I note that in the L&G document  entitled A guide  to how we manage our unit linked funds - 
fund guide  it states:
 If you choose to invest  in property  funds , the asset values would  be set by a reputable  valuer's  
opinion. The valuer will be from a firm of independent  chartered surveyors  and valuations will be 
carried out in line with the Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors'  standard procedures. They will 
usually value the assets in the fund once a month. We may value property assets held within  our 
property fund more  regularly  if there  are large  movements  in the market. We do this to protect  your 
investment  and other investors  in the fund.
I therefore consider  that as an experienced IFA Mr J should have been aware that there was 
a possibility that in times  of exceptional  price movements in the property market the fund 
values could be adjusted  to ensure that those leaving the fund did not benefit at the expense 
of those remaining.
I am afraid that after having reviewed the matter again I have reached the same  conclusion 
as I set out in my provisional decision which is that this complaint cannot be upheld.  This is 
because there is no independent  evidence  that the senior employee at L&G gave Mr J any 
incorrect information or guarantee about the future fund pricing  of the property fund. 
Mr J has made no further comments on the issue of whether L&G caused  any delays in 
arranging the transfer and my findings on that issue remain as I set out in the attached  
provisional decision. I remain of the opinion that L&G was not responsible for a delay in 
arranging the transfer to the new provider.
 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Legal  & General (Portfolio Management  Services)  Ltd 
and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.  
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN94543244COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION DATED 13 JANUARY 2020
complaint
Mr J has complained that Legal & General (L&G) gave him incorrect information  about  the pricing  
of the property fund he was invested in, which  has caused him a financial loss. Mr J has also 
complained that L&G caused delays during the transfer of his pension provisions to another 
provider.
background
Mr J states that he is an independent financial adviser (IFA) and looks after his own investments.  
Mr J had a Portfolio Plus Self Invested Pension with L&G (referred to now on as the L&G plan). 
He was contributing and investing in the L&G plan with the aim of retiring  at age 55. His funds 
were invested  on a platform called  Cofunds.
By 2014 his entire  L&G plan was invested in a Property Fund. In early  December  2015 Mr J paid 
in a single contribution of £50,000. He paid in a further £20,000 in March  2016.  As at 31 March 
2016 the policy was worth  approximately £290,000.
In April 2016  Mr J (then aged 51) says he became concerned, because  some property funds with 
other providers had reduced their values  having moved from an offer to a bid price basis. He says 
he decided it was time to move out of the property fund and to consider investing in other assets 
as he did not want to risk such a reduction so close  to his planned retirement.
In early May 2016 Mr J states  that he phoned a senior staff member  at L&G. He had a further 
£50,000 to invest in his pension plan if he could be reassured the property fund he was investing  
in did not have a mechanism to wipe out large amounts  of its value. Mr J has provided a mobile  
phone number for a senior L&G Sales Manager who he states he contacted to discuss the 
proposed investment.
Mr J states he was assured  the property fund had no swinging pricing mechanism  and it was in 
good shape. Mr J states that at no point was he informed  that L&G could apply a fair value pricing  
(FVP) adjustment. Had he been told, he would not have paid in an extra  £50,000 and states  he 
would have switched  out of the property fund immediately.
On 16 May 2016 L&G sent an email  to IFAs (including  Mr J), headed Property:  Not all funds  are 
priced the same.  The email  was not a consumer  advert and should not have  been seen  by 
anyone who wasnt an investment professional.
The email referred to the unpleasant surprise many investors recently  had, as some other firms 
moved their swinging-priced property funds from an offer to a bid price.  This resulted in a 5% loss 
in value. The email reminded Mr J that L&G did not use a swinging price for its UK Property Fund.
On Thursday 23 June 2016 the UK voted  to leave  the European Union.
On Monday 27 June 2016, L&G decided, given the outflow of investments from the property 
funds, to apply a FVP adjustment  to its property funds and to reduce  the pricing  of the physical 
property holdings  by 5%.
On Wednesday  29 June 2016 Mr J requested his L&G plan be transferred to a new provider 
where it was to be invested in a non-property based fund.
On 6 July 2016 L&G decided due to market  conditions  to increase  the fair value adjustment  by a 
further 5% to 10%. Later that day the adjustment was increased to 15%. This would apply to orders to 
sell received after 10.30am on 5 July 2016.
Ref: DRN94543245The new provider  which  Mr J wanted  to transfer his funds to had submitted the transfer 
documents online, via a system called Options.
On 12 July 2016  a record appeared on the Options system  saying that the existing  policy had not 
been found.  
On 14 July 2016  the new provider called Cofunds and was told that Mr Js policy could  not be 
located.
On 18 July 2016  the new provider wrote to Cofunds asking it for details of the transferring  
arrangement.
On 25 July 2016  L&G received a transfer out request from Cofunds.
On 30 July 2016  Mr J signed the relevant forms. He asked that the transfer be completed quickly.
On 5 August 2016 the receiving provider  signed the form and returned it to Cofunds by post.
On 11 August 2016 Mr J asked the new provider  to send a letter  to L&G requesting the funds  be 
transferred as soon as possible. There is a note on L&Gs  records on the same date saying  have 
received discharge form. Will request transfer from us in 5 working days.
On 15 August 2016 the receiving provider  telephoned  Cofunds.  It was told that Cofunds thinks 
they have everything they need from us now and Legal & General should be processing the 
transfer.
On 18 August 2016 Mr J signed a L&G Transfer  Instruction Form. On the same date L&Gs  
records show  that it received correspondence from Cofunds. It is not clear what  this was.
On 22 August 2016 L&G received the required  declaration confirming that Mr J had received 
advice about his options.
On the same date Mr J complained to the receiving provider about the delay in the transfer. 
According to the receiving scheme it had spoken to L&G who had said the transfer would be with 
it within seven working days (from 17 August 2016).
On 23 August 2016 the receiving provider  called  Cofunds. It was told that on 18 August 2016 
Cofunds had issued a form to Mr J to sign and once it had received the form back  the transfer 
could proceed.
On 25 August 2016 L&G confirmed to the receiving  provider that it had transferred
almost £350,000 on the same  day.
Mr J believes that he has lost out both as a result of the application of a FVP adjustment and as a 
result of the delays in transferring. The unit values  at the receiving providers fund went up by 
about 3% over the period and Mr J considers that he missed  out on that growth.
L&G disagreed with Mr J and argued in its Final Response Letter dated 13 December 2016 that: 
Its Directors decided  to implement  the FVP adjustment  after considering the market  response 
to the EU referendum  and other economic  metrics.
Its guide A guide to how we manage our unit linked funds  did explain  that the asset values of 
its property funds  might be valued more regularly than monthly if there were large movements  
in the markets. Its email of 16 May 2016 related specifically to the L&G UK Property Fund 
Ref: DRN94543246(PAIF) and not the L&G Pension Property Fund in which Mr J was invested. However, L&G 
accepts that FVP adjustments were applied to all property funds.
It has been unable to trace a recording  of the telephone conversation with Mr J. It states that 
its employee was not in a position to know Mr Js circumstances,  or whether investing  further 
sums in the property fund was the right thing to do.
It is not reasonable to have decided to invest a further £50,000  in the fund solely on the basis 
of the email and the subsequent  conversation. Mr J would have been fully aware of the way 
the L&G Pension  Property Fund  operated.
It handled the transfer  within  appropriate  timescales.
As L&G rejected the complaint it was then referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  
The adjudicator considered whether L&G was responsible for the fact that Mr J had invested a 
further £50,000  into the property fund. The adjudicator  thought  that its email in May 2016 was 
misleading.
The email said that the funds price  reflected the performance  of its underlying assets  and not 
pricing changes. In the adjudicators  view, this was misleading because the L&G Boards decision 
reflected pricing changes  in the underlying assets of the fund (property values were  priced 
downwards). 
Nothing in that email  warned investors of any possible  FVP adjustment  or the possibility of it 
being applied in certain market conditions. 
L&G has argued  that this email referred to a different property fund. But having examined the 
notes from the Boards meetings,  it is evident  that a FVP adjustment  was also applied to this 
fund. As such,  the adjudicator considered that the email gave a false sense of security to the 
investor.
The adjudicator concluded  that Mr J had asked L&G whether it was likely  to change the pricing 
basis and that, based on the actions that he took to invest a further £50,000; he would probably  
have been told that there were no such plans. The adjudicator upheld  the complaint as there was 
no call recording to support the arguments that L&G had made.
I note that the adjudicator  spent  a lot of time considering whether L&G had caused any delays during 
the transfer process up to 18 August 2018 and concluded that it had not. He noted that despite the 
missing form the transfer took place within 5 working days. He concluded that it would  be unfair to 
penalise L&G for missing  the 25 August 2018 deadline  in the circumstances. 
I note that in his response to the adjudicators view Mr J did not disagree  with the conclusion about  
the delays that reached by the adjudicator-  namely that L&G were not responsible for any delays.
As L&G disagreed with the adjudicators  findings on the complaint about  the alleged telephone 
call the case has been referred  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J telephoned the senior manager at L&G on his mobile phone and that these  calls are not 
recorded. I note that the senior manager was contacted by L&G to see if he could recall the 
details of the conversation that took place with Mr J in early 2016. Unfortunately the senior 
manager at L&G could not remember the call or what was discussed.
Ref: DRN94543247I agree that it is unlikely that the senior manager at L&G would have been  in a position to advise 
on whether a further investment in the L&G Property Fund was appropriate for  Mr J as he would 
have had no information on his circumstances  and his background.
Given the significance of the information  that Mr J states  he received and the fact that he says he 
was relying on it when  he invested  a further £50,000 I believe  that Mr J should have  asked for the 
new information  that he states  that he received to be confirmed in writing.
I consider that after having made a number of other large contributions into the property fund that 
Mr J would have had a copy of the terms and conditions  of the policy. This would have set out 
how the fund was operated and would have set out that the pricing of the fund would  generally be 
on a monthly  basis. The documentation set out that L&G: 
In specifying the calculation basis for determining the value of a fund for the purpose of 
the scheme policy, due allowance is made for:
oAny reasonable adjustment considered necessary to preserve fairness 
between arrangements and policies which may be linked  to the fund.
As an adviser who had over £250,000 invested  in one specific fund, I consider that Mr J would 
have (or should have) been aware that the fund prices could be adjusted  in exceptional 
circumstances. I believe  that before making  a further investment  in the property fund that Mr J 
would have reviewed the policy  terms and conditions  and this would have said that it was 
possible for L&G to apply a pricing  adjustment if it was required.
L&G warns  investors in the property unit linked fund that the fund is generally valued once a 
month. However, L&G states that it may revalue the property  assets more  than once a month if 
there are large  movements  in the market. This,  it states,  is to protect       Mr Js investment in the 
fund and the investments of others.
L&G has also noted that it is required under the regulators rulebook to impose  a fair price and to 
treat all investors fairly. Giving too much to investors leaving the fund (such as Mr J) is unfair to 
those investors that remain. 
If Mr J had asked the senior manager at L&G,  whether  there were  any plans to change the pricing  
basis of the fund or to apply  a Fair Value  Pricing  adjustment, in my opinion, he would  probably 
have been told that the senior manager was not aware  of any such plans. Mr J could not be given 
a guarantee that the pricing basis could not change in the near future.
I note that Mr J has also complained he was not made aware during  the telephone conversation 
with the senior manager, that there  was a possibility  of a Fair Value Pricing  adjustment  being 
applied in the future. However, this was clearly set out in the policy  terms and conditions that Mr J 
would have received previously when he had invested substantial sums in the same property 
fund. Mr J states that during  the telephone conversation  that he had with the L&G employee he 
had made  it clear that he was concerned about the application of any pricing adjustment  to the 
property fund.
In my opinion  Mr J (an IFA) would have been aware that it would not be possible that the senior L&G 
adviser could tell him what was likely to happen to the unit pricing of the property fund in the future. 
Only once a decision to introduce a FVP had been taken (and there is no suggestion it had been at 
that point) and a public announcement  had been  made by L&G would the senior manager have been 
in a position  to talk about  the application of the FVP adjustment.
I am therefore minded  to conclude that it is unlikely  that Mr J was misled by the senior manager  at 
L&G and I reject  this part of the complaint.
Ref: DRN94543248I note that the adjudicator  spent  a lot of time considering whether L&G had caused any delays during 
the transfer process up to 18 August 2018 and concluded that it had not. He noted that despite the 
missing form the transfer took place within 5 working days. He concluded that it would  be unfair to 
penalise L&G for missing  the 25 August 2018 deadline  in the circumstances.
In his response to the adjudicators view Mr J did not disagree with this conclusion reached by the 
adjudicator that L&G were  not responsible for any delays.
Having reviewed  the issue  of the delays I am minded to come to the same conclusion as the 
adjudicator and for the same  reasons.
my provisional  decision
I am minded  to reject this complaint against Legal & General (Portfolio Management Services) Ltd 
and to make  no award.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Page: 8
full legal business name not found in complaint  section
Ref: DRN9454324