K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them  a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. Although  it was a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up just to 
cover Mrs S for accident and sickness.  And it was Mrs S that spoke  to Santander during the 
sales call. Therefore, for ease, I will mostly just refer to Mrs S in this decision.
background
Ive attached my second provisional  from July 2019, which  forms part of this final decision.  In 
my provisional decision I set out why I was minded to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. I 
invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make  before I 
reached a final decision.  Santander provided  a further response  that I will address below.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id said in my provisional decision  that I considered this to be an advised  sale.  Therefore 
Santander needed to ensure that the policy met Mrs Ss needs. I then went on to say that, as 
Mrs S was in receipt of a pension income, her need  for the cover was reduced.  Therefore 
overall I didnt consider  that the PPI was an appropriate recommendation for Mrs S in her 
circumstances.
In response to my provisional decision Santander has said that a pension is not like for like 
cover with the policy and that the policy would have  paid out in addition to the pension.  I 
agree that her pension was not akin to the PPI cover  its actually better. Whereas the 
policy would have paid out for a limited amount of time,  Mrs S had the security of knowing 
that her pension provided a monthly income  for life. Mrs S didnt have much of a need for the 
policy as shed have  been able to cover the mortgage using  her pension income. I accept 
that the policy would have  paid out in addition  to the pension. But overall I dont think that 
Mrs S had much of a need for it or would have  thought that it provided  good value for money 
in her circumstances.
Ive thought about everything Santander  has said in response to my provisional decision,  but 
it hasnt changed  my mind. It follows that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint  and require Santander UK Plc to pay 
compensation as set out in my provisional decision below.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN96628292COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them  a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up just to cover Mrs S for 
accident and sickness.  And it was Mrs S that spoke to Santander during the sales call. Therefore, for 
ease, I will mostly  just refer to Mrs S in this decision.
background
Mrs S took out the PPI over the phone in January  2008 around the time that the couple had applied 
for additional  borrowing.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. And in the first provisional  decision that I wrote in April 
2019, I also didnt uphold the complaint. In response to my first provisional decision,  Mr and Mrs S 
have provided some  more information, which has made a difference  and which I will address  below.
my provisional  findings
Ive re-considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the 
sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website  and Ive taken this into account in deciding this 
case.
Ive currently decided  to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs S say that the PPI was just included  as part of the package with the mortgage. The sale 
happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt  be surprising  if Mrs Ss recollection of the sale has 
faded. The offer of loan and letter confirming the additional borrowing do not contain any information  
about the PPI, which suggests that PPI was presented as a separate product to the mortgage.  I am 
also mindful that there would have been a separate direct debit mandate for the policy.
The wording in the Customer Profile phone interview form and the Your Paymentcare  Needs and Our 
Recommendations form presents the policy  as something that had been chosen by Mrs S. I also note 
that Mrs S was able to decline a referral  for another insurance product. Looking at the available  
evidence, I think it is more  likely  than not that the PPI was presented as optional. It seems to me that 
Mrs S probably decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt  have to, even  if she no longer remembers 
doing so. 
Santander has said that this was a non-advised  sale, so it didnt need to ensure  that the PPI met Mrs 
Ss needs. As Id said in my first provisional decision, the paperwork provided  by Santander is 
contradictory in places. The Customer  Profile form notes  that You have chosen a non advised service 
for your General  Insurance Needs. But in contrast there is a demands and needs statement that has 
identified that Mrs S has a need for accident and sickness cover but not unemployment cover. And 
this form clearly highlights that the sales adviser  is recommending the policy. And the call script 
provided by Santander is a sample script that Im not persuaded I can rely on as the one that would  
have been used during the sale to Mrs S. Overall, based on the available evidence,  Ive concluded 
that Santander  did advise  Mrs S to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending the PPI to her, it did 
need to ensure that it met her needs.
In response to my first provisional decision, Mrs S has provided evidence that, at the time of the sale, 
she was receiving a pension from a former  employer.  This is information that I hadnt seen before and 
its a shame that it has only belatedly been supplied in support of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. However, 
it does make a difference to the decision  I reached initially.
Ref: DRN96628293In my first provisional decision I had said that I was not persuaded  overall that Santander did all it 
should have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs S, given her and her 
husbands circumstances. So in that sense I was not persuaded that Santander advised  with 
reasonable care and skill. However,  I then went on to say that, in spite of these  shortcomings in the 
sale, the policy was ultimately  suitable for Mrs S. This is where my view has now changed.
It now transpires that Mrs S had a reliable second income in the form of a pension, currently worth 
£21,499 per annum,  payable for life. If Mrs S had been unable to work due to accident or sickness, 
she would still have received her pension income. This means that her need for the cover was 
reduced, so I no longer think that the policy  was a suitable recommendation. On balance  I think  it is 
unlikely that Mrs S would have agreed to take out the policy if there had been a discussion about  her 
pension income. It follows that I currently uphold the complaint.
putting things  right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs S in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken  out PPI. So 
Santander should:
Pay Mr and Mrs S the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs S made a successful claim  under the PPI policy,  Santander can take off what  she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Santander  to take off tax from this interest. Santander must give 
Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.  Santander UK Plc should put things 
right by paying compensation as detailed above.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9662829