K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001 
alongside a mortgage. Mr A says Bank  of Scotland Plc (BoS),  trading as Halifax, mis-sold 
him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr A says that he was told his mortgage application  would  be rejected if he didnt take out 
the PPI. Ive thought about  this, and Ive also looked  at the evidence available  from the time 
of the sale. BoS has provided a copy of Mr As application form which  included  a section for 
PPI. In this section Mr A signed and dated in the box to agree to take out the PPI policy.  This 
signature was separate and additional  to his signature to agree to the mortgage  terms  so I 
think this reflected what he wanted at the time. And Ive not seen anything  on this application 
form which suggests the PPI was a compulsory product, so Mr A couldve left the PPI 
section blank if he didnt  want  to take out the cover. So I think BoS made  it clear  that Mr A 
didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
he cant remember this.
Mr A also says he was pressured into taking out the policy. But Mr A hasnt  told us what 
happened to make him feel pressured, and I havent seen any persuasive  evidence to 
support what hes said, so I cant fairly and reasonably uphold  the complaint on this point. 
Mr A says he wasnt given any advice to take out the policy. BoS says it did advise Mr A. As 
things stand, there isnt enough information to determine  this point. But being  able to do so 
isnt crucial to the outcome because, had BoS recommended the policy, I think  it wouldve  
been a suitable recommendation to have made  for the reasons I set out below. As a result, 
Ive considered the complaint on the same basis as BoS.
As an advised sale BoS had to check that the PPI was right for Mr A  and based on what  
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt  affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Ive also considered what  Mr A has 
said about having family and friends who wouldve been able to help him if needed, but help 
from others cant be guaranteed as their circumstances can also change over time.  And 
although Mr A had some sick pay around  that time, upon a successful claim the PPI 
wouldve paid out for up to 24 months, on top of his sick pay - so he couldve used these 
funds for other expenses. So I still think the policy was suitable for him. 
Mr A says the policy wasnt explained to him and because  he had a learning  difficulty,  he 
wouldnt have understood the paperwork. As the PPI was taken  out during a meeting, its 
likely Mr A would  have  relied on what the BoS sales person told him, rather  than just the 
paperwork. And while the information the sales  person gave him might not have been as 
clear as it shouldve  been,  I dont think  better information about the PPI would have put him 
Ref: DRN90230292off taking it out. I say this because he chose to take out PPI  so it looks  like he wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr A paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mr A back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr A now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9023029