K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Lloyds  Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy. The bank cant confirm  where  or when the 
policy was taken out. It assumes it was in 1998 when the card started, although its records  
dont show PPI being charged  on the account until 2000. The policy gave Mr F protection 
against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where  the evidence is incomplete  Ive made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities  so, on what  I think  is most likely  given  the 
available evidence and what  we know about  how Lloyds sold PPI at the time.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Ive thought carefully  about  what Mr F said - that he was not aware of PPI when 
applying for a credit card.  There  isnt much information  to go on in this case, because  
everything happened so long ago. And I dont  think its surprising or unreasonable  
Lloyds doesnt  have Mr Fs application form any more.  
From what  we know about how Lloyds sold PPI with credit cards  between 1998 and 
2000, I think its likely Lloyds wouldve made Mr F aware he had a choice about  PPI. 
The sample of the application form hes likely  to have used shows he would have 
needed to tick a box to take out PPI. 
I have taken into account Mr Fs comments,  but I also have to consider how long ago 
the sale was and how that might  affect what he recalls. Overall,  without  stronger 
evidence showing the bank didnt make clear  it was optional, I cant  fairly conclude  
Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr F without  giving him a choice,  and him agreeing  to take it. 
Its most  likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr F. This means Lloyds had to make 
sure it was right for him. I think  it was suitable based on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. Mr F was entitled  to six months  full pay and six months half 
pay if he was sick, but the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months for all successful 
accident, sickness  and unemployment claims. Mr F says he had savings worth at least  
three months salary  but the PPI would have allowed him to use these for other  living 
expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for his future needs. Also, I dont 
know that these  would  always have been available  to him. Mr F says he also had a life 
assurance policy but this offers  a different kind of protection  and wouldnt help with 
monthly credit card repayments in the same circumstances as PPI. So, overall, I think 
the PPI wouldve  been useful to Mr F if he was sick or lost his job.
Ref: DRN92937982Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr F about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. However, based  on the policies Lloyds sold during this time, it seems he 
wouldnt have been affected by any of the exclusions  or limitations.  And, given what we 
know about the cost of Lloyds PPI policies over these  years,  the policy  wouldve been  
competitively priced and it was apparently affordable. Mr F was eligible for the policy 
given his circumstances at the time and the policys terms  and conditions.  So I think it 
unlikely Mr F wouldve made a different decision if better  information  had been  provided. 
On balance I think he would still have taken out the policy.
Mr Fs representative  says that Lloyds  should  refund all premiums from April 2002 as Mr F 
was no longer living in the UK after this date. But I disagree. The policy  document  thats 
most likely relevant to this sale doesnt list UK residency as one of its eligibility criteria. It 
states you must be a personal TSB credit card account holder, aged between 18 and 65 and 
gainfully employed for 16 or more hours a week. So I dont know if this change  of 
circumstances meant  he would no longer be covered. But even without reaching a certain 
conclusion on this, Ive seen no evidence that he requested the cancellation of his PPI 
policy, and it didnt  happen. Or that he asked Lloyds whether his changed situation might  
affect it, and was given  an incorrect response. And in my view Lloyds didnt have an ongoing  
obligation to check  the policy remained suitable  for Mr F. He had to decide  this for himself.  
Mr F could  have cancelled the PPI at any stage had he no longer wanted  it.
It follows I dont think Mr F has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9293798