K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited has acted inappropriately 
in charging her for repairs  to the car she hired from it.
background
Mrs B entered into a hire purchase  agreement with VWFS in 2015 for a new car. When the 
agreement ended VWFS wanted Mrs B to make payments  to it in relation to the condition  of 
the car. Initially, it asked  for one sum which it then reduced after Mrs B complained  to it.
Mrs B suggested that VWFS had no proper grounds  for asking for this payment. Further,  she 
indicated that she was upset it had asked  for more  in the first place. The higher sum had 
been charged because of the state  of the paintwork. But Mrs B said she had already 
repaired the paintwork before she returned  the car. She objected  to having to show that she 
had paid for these  repairs.
Moreover, Mrs B thought  she should not be charged  for the remaining repairs,  for the 
damage to the wheel trims and the windscreen.  She said this because  she thought the 
damage was merely  wear and tear. The hire purchase agreement says she does not have  to 
pay for wear  and tear damage. In addition  she pointed  out the business had not shown it 
had made  the repairs so what  loss was it charging  her for?
She thought  VWFS  should  take into account that she had driven the car much less than she 
was entitled to do. She had a set annual mileage allowance under the agreement,  and she 
had not used all of that allowance. Her position  was, this would mean the car was worth  
more than it would have been  if she had used her full allowance.  She thought VWFS ought 
to factor  this in when deciding what,  if anything,  it should ask her to pay. Mrs B was being 
chased for payment. She worried  about what this would do to her credit rating. She told us 
she found the whole business  very stressful.
VWFS pointed  to the agreement it has with Mrs B which says it can charge for damage that 
goes beyond wear  and tear. VWFS referred  to the guidelines which it uses to assess  
whether it should  charge for damage to its cars.  These guidelines are known as the BVRLA 
guidelines. The BVRLA guidelines are industry guidance that set out what  damage goes 
beyond wear and tear. It said the damage  it wants to charge  for is more than wear and tear.
Initially VWFS told Mrs B in its final response letter  the charges were made for the cost of 
rectifying damage. But it also said, it didnt  agree  it had to do the repairs  in order to charge 
for them. Later on, when it came to us, it expanded on this explanation saying the charges 
could also be made to compensate it for the decrease in the residual value of the car due to 
the presence of the damage.
VWFS didnt  think it had to  offset the unused mileage against the repair charge as Mrs B 
invited it to do. Its stance  was it was not contractually obliged to do this and it wasnt going 
to.
Dissatisfied Mrs B came to us.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Bs complaint. She didnt recommend upholding it. In 
summary, she said this because, she was satisfied the damage went  beyond  wear and tear. 
And she concluded Mrs B was obliged to pay for this sort of damage.  Further  she agreed 
Ref: DRN93611012VWFS wasnt obliged  fairly and reasonably to carry out the repairs in order  to charge for 
them. Neither did she think it was fair and reasonable to suggest VWFS offset  any increase 
in value of the car that was due to Mrs B not using her full mileage allowance  against  what  it 
charged for the damage.
VWFS accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mrs B did not. She responded to 
say how was it possible for a business to claim for repairs it did not actually necessarily carry 
out. She thought that means it was essentially taking money  for nothing which was the basis 
of her complaint. If this is so she thought that unfair. She suggested it might be a different 
matter if VWFS could show it had carried out the repairs. In addition  she had found its 
explanation of its justification for its behaviour to be very unclear.
Mrs B wanted to continue  with her complaint. I was asked to take a fresh look at it and come 
to a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the charges
Mrs B had a hire purchase  agreement with VWFS. Mrs B didnt opt to buy the car, as she 
could have done under  the agreement, so the car remained VWFSs property. The 
agreement permits VWFS to charge Mrs B for damage to the car in certain circumstances.  
One of those circumstances is where  the damage  to the car goes beyond fair wear  and tear. 
Mrs B insists  the damage is just wear and tear. VWFS says it is more  than this. Ive taken a 
look at this.
VWFS relies on the BVRLA guidelines. In the circumstances, I think it is reasonable it should  
rely on these. Mrs B doesnt  appear to dispute  this. VWFS says the damage it wants to 
charge Mrs B for goes beyond what can be classed as wear and tear. Looking at the nature,  
extent, and location of the damage  and bearing  in mind the guidelines, I think  it is fair and 
reasonable for VWFS to seek to charge  her for this damage.  But thats not the end of the 
story. Mrs B suggests she might be prepared to pay if the repairs had been done.  But she 
cant tell if they have been done or not. So she is wondering why VWFS is asking her to pay 
for repairs that may not have been  undertaken.
VWFS tells us it doesnt have to do the repairs in order  to be able to charge. Further, it says 
in any event this provision is not just about  the loss it might  make if had to do the repairs.  
Neither is it asking for money for nothing as Mrs B suggests. Rather, it is also accounting  for 
the impact that the damage may have on the residual value of the car.
I dont know if the repairs  were done  or not, but I dont think that is the point, rather it seems 
that the charges VWFS wants to impose are proportionate given the nature of the damage. 
In addition, in the circumstances, I think it is likely that the damage would have an impact  on 
the residual value of the car.
For all of these reasons I think I have no proper  basis  to tell VWFS that it must waive the 
charges. I realise that Mrs B may well find this disappointing because for her the issue  of the 
loss is very much  linked  to the issue of whether or not VWFS carries out the repairs. I think 
that link was made for her because of how VWFS  chose to word its final response letter.  I 
Ref: DRN93611013think it might  have  been helpful  it had given Mrs B a more  detailed explanation of its 
reasoning at that time rather than waiting  until the complaint came to us and giving its full 
reasoning then.
the paintwork  issues
I take on board that Mrs B is upset  that VWFS  initially charged her for damage to the 
paintwork and then changed its mind. Its records show it decided not to charge  for this 
because when it looked at the experts  report again and in particular the photos provided,  
they did not show the damage it was charging for. I can see how this might have undermined 
Mrs Bs confidence in the fairness of the process. It is not ideal that VWFS  at first, chose to 
ask Mrs B to pay for damage it couldnt  subsequently show  was actually there.
That said,  VWFS did withdraw the charges, this is what we would expect it to do. But I do 
find it hard to understand why it asked Mrs B to send it information to confirm  she had paid 
for the paintwork repairs. I say this because it does not seem  to have used this information in 
deciding whether to waive  the charges. Rather from what I have seen it stopped asking her 
to pay these charges  because the photos didnt back up what  it was saying. 
That being  so it seems rather pointless  to ask for the invoices. As far as I can see though  
Mrs B did have that information to hand. This does not seem to be the main point of her 
complaint. For all of these reasons Im not going  to ask VWFS to do anything further here.
mileage allowance
Mrs B says she did not drive the car as much as she was allowed to. As a result she was 
well under the relevant mileage allowance when she returned the car. But it was her choice 
not to use the full mileage allowance. 
I take her point the resale value of the car might be higher  now because she took this 
approach. But the mileage allowance is a totally separate issue  from the question of the 
repair charges. There is no provision for this type of offset in the agreement the parties 
made. That being so I cant  fairly and reasonably ask VWFS to take a mix and match 
approach which it has never agreed  to and take something off the repair  charge in 
recognition of Mrs Bs decision to not use her entire mileage allowance.
credit file
If VWFS intends to keep  on pursuing Mrs B for this debt, then it needs to tell her about  this. 
It is also obliged to give the credit reference agencies  accurate information when it reports  to 
them.
I understand that Mrs B is worried about  her credit file if she does not pay VWFS as it asks. 
But in the circumstances I think what VWFS has said about  this has been appropriate in the 
circumstances.
It follows that Im not going to ask it to compensate Mrs B for this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN93611014Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9361101