K822xcomplaint
Miss B has complained  that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her fee-paying packaged 
bank accounts.
background 
Miss Bs account history is as follows:
Fee-free Under 19s account opened September 2002
Upgraded to a fee-paying Silver account  August 2008
Upgraded to a fee-paying Gold account  June 2011
In response to Miss Bs complaint, Lloyds agreed to uphold the sale of the Silver account  
and made  an offer to refund the Silver account fees in full. But it didnt think  that it had mis-
sold the Gold account.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and she thought  that the Gold  account had 
been mis-sold and asked  Lloyds to put Miss B back in the position she wouldve been in had 
the Gold account not been sold to her, plus pay 8% simple interest  on any amounts it 
refunded Miss B. 
Lloyds ultimately conceded  that it shouldnt have sold the Gold account to Miss B. But rather  
than offer to refund all of the Gold account fees,  it offered to refund Miss B the difference in 
cost between the Silver and Gold account,  as it felt that Miss B wouldve still been able to 
benefit from the Silver account benefits.  
The adjudicator considered Lloydss  partial  offer and concluded that it was fair in the 
circumstances. However  Miss B disagreed with this. She felt that if the Silver  account was 
mis-sold then the Gold account was too and so felt that she should receive a full refund of 
the Gold account fees - rather than just the difference between the Gold  and Silver fees.  So 
the complaint  was passed to me for a final decision.
As its not in dispute that the Silver and Gold accounts were mis-sold, the remaining issue for 
me to consider is whether  Lloyds offer i.e. to pay the difference between what Miss B did 
pay for the Gold account and what she wouldve paid had she kept the Silver account, is 
reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we deal with 
packaged accounts on our website and Ive taken this into account when considering this 
complaint.
Ive started off by thinking about  why exactly the Gold account  was mis-sold. Miss B says 
that it was sold to her in branch and she was told that by agreeing to it, it would work in a 
positive way towards her credit rating.  However, I note that Miss B has given similar reasons 
as to why the Silver account  was sold to her in 2008.
Ref: DRN96668682Based on what I have seen, I have  concerns  about the accuracy of Miss Bs recollections of 
the Gold account and why it was sold to her. For example, l find it unlikely that Miss B was 
given exactly the same (incorrect) information about the Gold  account,  i.e. that it would 
improve her credit score, as she was told about the Silver account. And if shed  been  given 
similar information about the Silver account  then I see no reason why shed feel the need to 
upgrade her account  again. And although Miss B recalls that the Gold  account  was sold to 
her in branch, Lloyds  has provided evidence that suggests it was sold to her over the phone, 
when she called Lloyds  on 1 August 2008.  
Miss B says that she never  used  any of the benefits of either account, yet Lloyds has 
provided evidence  to show that Miss B used the breakdown  cover  on the Silver account on 
21 April 2009 and went on to register three  mobile phones  online on 18 August 2011, 
10 May 2013 and 30 June  2014.
So taking all of the above into account,  Im not persuaded that the Gold  account was mis-
sold for the reasons that Miss B has given and I think she agreed to it because  she was 
attracted to some of the benefits it provided.  However, Lloyds has provided  evidence to say 
that it sold it on an advised basis. This means it shouldve checked  Miss Bs circumstances 
and recommended an account  that was suitable  for her. And I dont think  it did this.
Looking at the Gold account  benefits  at the time,  I agree with the adjudicator that it was not 
necessarily suitable  for the consumer. This is because  the Gold  account provided worldwide 
travel insurance instead of European only cover on the Silver account.  And Im not sure that 
Miss B had a particular  need for worldwide cover. But based on the available evidence, I 
think that Miss B did have  a need  for mobile phone insurance and European  travel  insurance 
and potentially breakdown cover  (as Miss B had previously relied on it in 2009).
So essentially I think that the Gold account  was mis-sold, not for the reasons that Miss B has 
given, but because Lloyds offered cheaper accounts  that provided the benefits that I think  
Miss B had a need for. And this is why Lloyds has only offered to refund  the difference  
between what Miss B paid for the gold account and what  the Silver account wouldve cost  
rather than a full refund of the Gold account fees.
Having considered Lloydss offer I think its reasonable in the circumstances,  as the 
Silver account was the cheapest account  in its range that provided travel insurance and 
mobile phone insurance.  Miss B has said that as the Silver account  was mis-sold then the 
Gold account mustve also been. But I dont think that one must  necessarily  follow the other,  
as they were sold quite  a few years apart under different circumstances. 
So the combination of Lloydss offers would essentially put Miss B in the position  as though 
she had not been sold a packaged account  in 2008 i.e. so only held a fee-free account  and 
was sold a Silver account in 2011.  And for the reasons outlined above,  I think  that the 
redress offered is reasonable in the circumstances.
Finally Miss B has said that she tried to downgrade on more than one occasion, but said she 
was persuaded  into keeping  her account as the benefits outweighed the negatives. Based 
on what Miss B has said, it sounds  like she was persuaded not to downgrade because  of the 
benefits that came with the account.  I appreciate  that with the benefit of hindsight, Miss B 
may now think that keeping the account  was the wrong decision, but it was ultimately  up to 
her to decide if she wanted  to keep the account or not. So I cant reasonably say that Lloyds 
was at fault for Miss Bs account not being downgraded.
Ref: DRN96668683putting matters right
So to put matters right, in addition to the offer already made by Lloyds to refund the 
Silver account fees, I also require Lloyds to:
Refund the difference between what Miss B paid in account fees for the 
Gold account and what she wouldve paid had she been sold a Silver account  
instead; and
Pay 8% simple interest on those fees, from the date they were  paid to the date of 
settlement, less tax.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I uphold  this complaint and require  Lloyds Bank Plc to 
do what I have set out above  to put matters  right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9666868