K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 1999, and 
a further PPI policy taken  out in 2004 to cover additional borrowing on the same mortgage.  
Ms W says that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them  to her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made  it clear that Ms W didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out. Ms W doesnt  dispute that she agreed  to take the PPI and signed the forms on 
each occasion  to do so. Ms W says that she was pressured  and forced to take the 
policies. She says that as the advisers may have been paid commission to sell them  
there was an incentive for them to act inappropriately.  Ms W hasnt explained  how she 
was forced to take the PPI and I think it was clear that it was optional.  The documents 
available dont  suggest that the lending decisions would  have been  reliant  on Ms W 
buying PPI.
BoS recommended  the PPI to Ms W so it had to check that the PPI was right for her and 
based on what  Ive seen of Ms Ws circumstances  at the time of each sale I think  that it 
was. For example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  Ms W had some sick pay from 
her employer,  but the policies wouldve paid out in addition to this and for up to two years 
at a time, which  was longer than her sick pay wouldve lasted. Its likely that Ms W 
wouldve been  entitled to a redundancy package  too, but, again, the PPI wouldve paid 
out for up to two years at a time if she was made redundant,  leaving any redundancy pay 
to cover  other  uninsured expenses.
Ms W says that she had adult  children living with her who contributed  to the household 
expenses and shed  have been able to rely on them  if she couldnt  work. But their 
circumstances couldve changed too, and they may not have been able to contribute  
more than they already were.
Its possible the information BoS gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something  went  wrong.  I also havent seen 
anything to suggest it was unaffordable  for Ms W. So I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover on either occasion. 
Ive thought about everything Ms W has said but these  points  dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything Ms 
W paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Ms W back  some  of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Ref: DRN94282832If it hasnt  already, BoS will make arrangements to pay Ms W now Ive issued  my final 
decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9428283