K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that TICORP Limited sent him marketing material when it didnt have his 
permission to do so.
background 
TICORP says that Mr R asked for a travel insurance  quote in August 2016   and its satisfied 
that he opted out of receiving marketing material at that time or soon after. However,  it says 
it had a system problem  which meant some of its customers  who had opted out were 
receiving letters. As a result Mr R received four marketing letters.
The first three letters were sent in February 2017, July 2017,  and February  2018. TICORPs 
internal notes show that Mr R called after the third letter to complain. A manager called him 
back and assured him that he had been opted  out from receiving further material. TICORP 
says at that time it ensured he was opted out on its sales  system. However, there  was also 
an issue with its marketing system, which it was unaware of. This meant Mr R received  a 
fourth letter, in July 2018. He made  a second complaint and TICORP offered him £100 to 
cover any financial loss he had suffered as a result of the issue  such  as his phone call 
costs to TICORP about this matter.
Mr R remained  unhappy so he referred his complaint to this service.  He explained that hes 
disabled and had to make  a lot of phone calls to get the marketing stopped, which  he found 
stressful. He also said he had reported  the issue to the Information Commissioners  Office 
and the Financial Conduct Authority   but neither  body had responded. Mr R also clarified  
that he first asked for the marketing to be stopped in 2015, after receiving a quote in 2014.  
Mr R suggested that £2,500 would  be appropriate compensation.
Mr Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators, but she didnt think it should be 
upheld. She explained that TICORP couldnt find any evidence a quote had been obtained 
before 2016, or marketing material sent before  2017  and she concluded that £100  fairly 
acknowledged the impact the four letters and complaint calls had on Mr R. Because he 
disagreed his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr R has wider concerns about TICORPs practices  and the potential  impact  on 
other customers. But that is a matter for the Financial Conduct Authority (the regulator); and 
where the issue involves personal data, the Information Commissioners  Office.  Mr R says 
he hasnt received a response from these bodies, but thats not something  I can consider.
Our role is to consider individual complaints against financially regulated-businesses, such  
as TICORP. Its acknowledged that it did something wrong when it sent Mr R the four 
marketing letters. So what I need to decide  is what it should do to put matters right. 
Ref: DRN98055012Mr R says he started receiving marketing material in 2015. However, I accept what TICORP 
says about it having  checked its system  and not finding a quote before 2016. So Im satisfied  
only four marketing letters were sent.  I acknowledge that these four letters  would have been 
frustrating to receive, particularly the fourth  letter after Mr R had already complained and 
been given assurances. Ive also seen that he made  and received a number of calls about 
this matter whilst it was looking  into his second  complaint. 
However, whilst  I dont  doubt receiving the letters would have been frustrating and following 
up the matter would have been  inconvenient, overall  Im satisfied that TICORPs £100 offer 
is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. In my view,  the offer fairly recognises the 
trouble and upset  the four letters can reasonably  be said to have caused Mr R.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr R. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9805501