K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mrs J complains that American  International Group  UK Limited  (AIG) mis-
sold her a personal accident  policy, and also acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing  
with a claim under that policy. They want matters put right.
background
Mrs J had a personal accident  policy with AIG. She had an accident and her hip suffered a 
loss of function as a result. Mrs J later died, but her estate complained that her claim and 
payout had been unduly delayed by AIG, and the assessment of the injury  affected as a 
result. It also thought  that the policy had been mis-sold as Mrs J was only eligible to receive 
a proportion of the benefit as she was aged  75 or older.
The estate  of Mrs J complained to AIG. It said independent experts  were  used to assess 
claims to ensure that it was assessed correctly.  AIG explained that it requested  Mrs Js 
medical records in March 2018  in order to assist its assessment, and it didnt receive  them in 
full for six months. This was outside of its control. AIG noted  that a medical  report  was 
received in November 2018 and two days later the experts assessment was notified to the 
estate (with  an offer of £6,000). 
AIG accepted that it had overlooked the no claims  bonus and when the estate raised the 
point, it promptly increased  the offer to £7,500. The estate then wanted the assessment to 
cover both of Mrs Js legs (as the injury to one hip stopped her from walking).  AIG explained  
that the assessment could only be about  the affected hip, but considered the further points 
made and got another report, which confirmed the loss of function  was 30%. AIG thought 
that this was reasonable, particularly as it offered  to consider an expert  report  from the 
estate if sent one.
AIG also denied mis-selling the policy to Mrs J. It noted that Mrs J was given the terms and 
conditions in writing  in 1998, when  the policy was first taken out, and had a period of free 
cover to enable her to consider the matter. AIG said Mrs J chose to continue with the policy,  
knowing all the terms and conditions, and that it hadnt given her any advice about it and its 
suitability. It confirmed that in 2008 it added an extra free accident death  benefit and in 2009 
informed Mrs J of updates to the terms and conditions (including the age restriction, which 
was highlighted).  AIG didnt think the policy had been mis-sold.  It offered  £150 compensation 
for the initial mistake  about the no claims bonus,  a failure to update on a couple  of occasions 
and the long wait for the medical records.
The estate  of Mrs J complained to us, saying that it felt Mrs J had been almost  100% 
disabled due to her accident  and had paid increased premiums  when  she couldnt ever 
receive a full payout due to her age. The investigators view was that AIG wasnt  at fault. The 
terms and conditions of the policy said that the full benefit would  be paid if the consumer  was 
under 75 and if the loss of use was permanent  and total. In Mrs Js case, the medical 
evidence and the opinion of a consultant  was that there was only a 30% loss of function,  and 
it wasnt unreasonable for AIG to rely on this evidence in the view of the investigator. She 
noted that no medical evidence to counter this had been provided by the estate, despite 
being invited to supply an alternative expert  report.
Ref: DRN91457882The investigator said that £150  compensation for the delay in progressing  the claim was fair 
and reasonable.  She also said that the policy hadnt been mis-sold to Mrs J, had given Mrs J 
a benefit, and that the premiums hadnt  doubled  due to the changes  made  by AIG. The 
investigator said that the terms and benefits  of the policy made it clear what happened once 
the consumer  reached  the age of 75 (originally the age limit was 65), and noted  that as a 
claim had been  made, a refund of premiums wasnt fair or reasonable.
The estate  of Mrs J disagreed. It said that AIG shouldve spoken to those caring for Mrs J 
and check their records, and taken action while she was still alive. The estate was adamant  
that the hip injury  did mean Mrs J was almost completely disabled. The investigator said the 
estate couldve got the care records itself and it was reasonable for AIG to just use the 
medical records. The estate sent care records to this service and evidence  of the increase in 
premiums. The investigator noted  that the records didnt show a total loss of use of the hip 
and the premiums increased as Mrs J increased  her level of cover in 2009.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think that the policy  was mis-sold to Mrs J. As AIG didnt give Mrs J advice, it didnt 
have a responsibility to make sure it was right for her. However, it did have a responsibility  to 
give Mrs J enough information to decide if the policy was right for her. Im satisfied it did. 
AIG clearly set out the terms  and conditions, even when they changed, from the evidence 
available to me. Mrs J benefitted  from the decision both to raise  the age restriction from 65 
to 75 and the general ability to make a claim, regardless  of her age or health.  AIG is entitled 
to apply the terms and conditions  of the policy, including  the reduction of the benefit  due to 
age. 
The estate  has noted that the premiums increased over time and has suggested that in AIG 
doubled up her policy but charged her double the premium. This isnt unusual in any event 
as the policy  was in place  since 1998 and the value of money reduces over time. And as 
Mrs J chose to increase her level of cover, its normal and reasonable for the premium to 
increase accordingly.
The policy makes it clear  that there has to be a total and permanent loss of function of a 
body part to get the full benefit. Its fair and reasonable for AIG to require access  to all the 
medical records and get a medical opinion. The expert has signed a statement of truth 
supporting his view,  which  means  if he wasnt confident in what  he was saying, he was 
required to say so.
Ref: DRN91457883I think theres been a misunderstanding about  what the expert  has said about  Mrs Js hip 
and her ability to move.  This isnt just about walking and I note before the accident  Mrs J had 
mobility issues  from the care records her estate  has provided (she needed hand  held 
assistance to mobilise).  The expert  has explained  that if the hip injury alone was the reason  
why Mrs J couldnt move towards  the end of her life, she wouldnt  have  made the progress 
with her mobility that she made in 2017.  In essence, Mrs J wouldnt have been able to move  
after the operation if the estate is correct, but she improved to the point that by May 2017  
she didnt need  a frame to sit and stand. Her mobility declined after this point. The expert 
made these  observations based on the medical  evidence and his own considerable 
expertise. Given all this evidence, I cant say that AIG was unfair  or unreasonable  in relying 
on the expert opinion,  which isnt outweighed by the care records  made available  to me, that 
the loss of function to the hip was 30%.  The care records dont show  a 100% loss of mobility  
either.
I can see the claim was delayed, but it wasnt  all due to AIG. It chased  the medical records 
and made  a complaint. Until it had the records, it couldnt progress  matters.  And in light of 
the content of the records, I dont see any difference wouldve been made by physically 
assessing Mrs J or interviewing  those  who were not medically qualified. More to the point, 
the expert didnt feel he needed to do so. I agree AIG didnt  update the estate on a few 
occasions and made  a mistake when calculating the initial  offer by overlooking the no claims 
bonus. But an estate  cant suffer trouble  or upset, and Mrs J doesnt appear to have been 
aware of the claim and its delay (and had died by the time the offer was made). I think the 
offer of £150 in the circumstances is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and leave it up to the estate  of Mrs J 
whether to accept  the £150  offer from American  International  Group  UK Limited. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs J to accept  
or reject my decision before 15 November 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9145788