K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about charges made by PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) after hed ended  his
contract with them.
background
Mr B acquired a car using a Hire Purchase agreement with PSA over 37 months, in
June 2016. In February 2019, Mr B decided  to end the contract  by returning the car and as
he was entitled  to do under the terms of the agreement - a process  known as voluntary
termination (VT). PSA say that when it was returned, the car was damaged beyond what
could be considered reasonable wear and tear allowed for in the contract. They asked  Mr B
to pay £951.94  considering the damage. PSA later reduced the request for payment to £494
as some of the damage was due to manufacturing  issues they became aware  of later.
Mr B said the car was in reasonable condition considering its age and mileage and didnt
agree that he was liable  for the charges and complained to PSA. They issued  their final
response in May 2019. They explained  that the terms of the agreement say that Mr B was
required to return the vehicle with no damage  other  than fair wear  and tear. They said theyd
reviewed photos  and a report from their agent  of the vehicle,  together with the condition
report Mr B had completed.  They concluded there was damage to the car. They  explained
why theyd reduced the amount of their claim but said £494 remained  payable.
Mr B was unhappy with PSAs response and referred his complaint to us. One of our
investigators looked into it. He said PSA made Mr B aware that the car should  be returned in
good condition  or he could be charged to cover  the cost of repairs. He considered the
guidelines issued  by the British Vehicle  Rental  and Leasing Association  (BVRLA) which is
the recognised  industry standard. He felt the details included in the report  by PSAs agent
fell outside the BVRLA  guidance, so it was fair for PSA to apply the charges  it had.
PSA agreed with our investigators  findings, but Mr B didnt.  He said (in summary):
Paint flaking at the wing mirrors  is a common  fault on this vehicle
He had had a full replacement and respray of the rear bumper and passenger door 
by an approved body shop  and was advised theyd  been completed to the 
manufacturer approved standard. He said the repairers considered  PSAs claim to be 
exaggerated.
The alloy wheels were  repaired at an approved  garage.
I sent Mr B and PSA my provisional decision on 23 June 2020. I explained why Id reached a 
different conclusion from that of our investigator. I said:
I dont think its disputed  that under the terms and conditions  of the Hire Purchase
agreement, Mr B was responsible for keeping the car in good  condition and would be liable
for refurbishment costs  for any damage  sustained to the car that was considered outside fair
wear and tear.
Ive also seen that PSA have looked to apply the terms and conditions  of the agreement
when assessing  the condition of the car when it was handed back.  The terms and conditions
appear to be in line with the BVRI_A guidelines  (March 2015 to May 2019 version). So Ive
considered both when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN99060162PSA have provided  a report with photographs from their collection agent which  sets out
various items of damage, some of which are listed  as report only so have  attracted  no
charge. Others have been given  a repair action and a cost which PSA have looked to pass
on to Mr B.
Initially PSA wanted  to charge Mr B £951.94  for damage to the car but have reduced this to
£494, removing  charges  relating to the carpets and the central  caps of the alloy wheels  as
these were found to be manufacturing defects. The £494 appears to be made up of:
£120 for dirt in paint on the rear bumper which requires a refinish
£122 for dirt in paint on the left quarter panel  as a result  of a poor repair and needs
a refinish.
£122 for corrosion  /rust on the right front door which requires a refinish
two charges of £65 for damage to the wheels.
Ive carefully looked at the photographs for the items  listed above.
Ive started with the damage PSA has claimed for on the rear bumper and left quarter panel.
PSA have said theres dirt in the paintwork. Ive not been able to identify what theyre
referring to from the photographs provided.  Mr B has told me that the rear bumper and left
quarter panel  were replaced  following  an insurance  incident shortly before he voluntarily
terminated his agreement with PSA. He says he was told the work was done  to the
manufacturers standards. His insurance company have provided me with evidence of the
work done and Ive shared that information with PSA.
While the terms and conditions say dirt that cannot  be cleaned  with steam, wash, wax and
shampoo are considered  to be abnormal wear and tear, I havent seen sufficient evidence to
show that there is such dirt. I dont think its evident  in the photographs.  Taking  that into
account and that Mr B had the repairs carried out by an insurance approved garage, I dont
think its reasonable for PSA to charge Mr B for these  items.
I can see a small  area of damage  to the right door just below the wing mirror. Mr B says hes
been told by a dealer that paint flaking is a known problem with this model of car. But hes
not been able to provide  any supporting evidence of this.
The terms and conditions  of the agreement set out what PSA consider to be abnormal  wear
and tear'. One of the points listed is any scratch which  penetrates the primer coat...is
considered abnormal  wear and tear'.  They also refer to untreated/rusting  chipped areas' as
being abnormal. Looking at the photographs,  there does appear to be damage to the
paintwork underneath the wing mirror  and I can see white primer or bare metal.  But I cant
see from the photograph provided from PSA that there has been  any chipped paint which
has led to the damage.
The report  provided  by the insurer provides a picture of the left door (which  was later
replaced). This shows damage just under the wing mirror very similar to that claimed  for by
PSA on the right door. It seems unlikely to me that such damage would occur on both doors
in the same place  unless  there was some  defect of some sort. This,  coupled with what  Mr
Bs testimony of what a dealer told him about it being a known problem, leads  me to think
there is likely  to be some kind of design fault which has led to the damage.  I dont think  its
the kind of damage  that would occur as a result of neglect or misuse - such as through  a
scratch or chip being left untreated.  And its already been agreed there were other
manufacturing defects  with this vehicle regarding  premature wear on the carpets and alloy
Ref: DRN99060163wheels. So on balance, I dont think  its reasonable  for PSA to call this abnormal wear  and
tear and I dont think they should charge Mr B for it.
The final charges for me to consider relate to the alloy wheels. There  are four items listed in
the report relating  to the alloy wheels. Three are shown  as corrosion /rust' and a fourth as
poor repair'] each attracts a £65 charge for a smart repair'. Neither the report  nor PSAs
letter Mr B make it clear which of the four items  of damage to the alloy wheels  are waived,
and which  remain outstanding. But in order to arrive at a figure  of £494, it seems PSA are
claiming two.
PSA told Mr B in response to his complaint  that they had become aware  of a design fault
with the central  caps of the alloy wheels which causes rust and corrosion'. In view of this,
they said they will remove  the charge of £130 to reflect this'. But three  charges  of £65
(£195) were claimed for corrosion/rust. Given that PSA are now aware of a design  fault
which causes this damage, I think it would be reasonable for them to waive all three charges
relating to corrosion  and rust.
Mr B tells me that he had the alloys  repaired at an approved garage. Ive looked closely  at
the photographs provided by PSA relating  to the poor repair.  I can see some discolouration
on the wheel  which, if it had been repaired well, I wouldnt expect to see. The terms and
conditions say that any substandard repair constitutes abnormal wear and tear.' So I think
its reasonable for PSA to make a charge for this item of damage.
My provisional decision, subject to the further submissions of the parties, is that I uphold  this
complaint in part. PSA Finance UK Limited  should:
Waive the charges  for the rear bumper (£120), left quarter panel (£122), right door 
(£122) and a charge  for the corrosion/rust to the alloy wheels (£65).
Agree a reasonable arrangement with Mr B regarding the remaining £65 outstanding 
for what PSA refer to as a poor  repair' to the alloy wheel if they consider they wish to
charge him for that damage.
Mr B told us he had nothing to add to my provisional, but PSA have failed to respond.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In the absence of any further arguments  or evidence from PSA, and given that Mr B has 
nothing to add, I see no reason  to depart from my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part. PSA Finance  UK Limited  
should:
Waive the charges  for the rear bumper (£120), left quarter panel (£122), right door 
(£122) and a charge  for the corrosion/rust to the alloy wheels (£65).
Agree a reasonable arrangement with Mr B regarding the remaining £65 outstanding 
for what PSA refer to as a poor  repair' to the alloy wheel if they consider they wish to
charge him for that damage.
Ref: DRN99060164Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2020.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9906016