K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED has recorded incorrect 
information on his credit file, which has resulted in a higher mortgage interest rate. He also 
complains that TRANSUNION has manipulated the data it holds on him. 
background
In 2013, Mr C suffered  from identity  theft and two payday loans were  taken out, fraudulently, 
in his name. The payday lender wrote  off the loans  and arranged for Mr Cs credit history 
information to be rectified.  Evidence of this has been  provided. 
In 2019, when mortgaging, Mr C discovered that information about the 2013 payday loans 
had reappeared on his credit file. He complained to TRANSUNION about the incorrect  
information and because this has affected  his ability to obtain a lower interest rate. He also 
accused TRANSUNION of changing  the details  of one of the loans,  to show  it as being taken 
out in 2017 and at his new address. 
TRANSUNION didnt uphold the complaint  as it said the information it records  on credit  files 
comes direct  from the lender and so he needed to take the matter up with the payday lender. 
But it did contact the payday lender who confirmed the information could be removed. It also 
said it didnt manipulate any data as the information Mr C was referring to was a different 
lender (which Ill call PB). 
Our investigator initially didnt think TRANSUNION  had done  anything wrong. But Mr C 
provided information from the payday  lender confirming that it had instructed removal  of 
credit history  information in 2013  and hadnt  supplied any credit information in the last year;  
although it had been contacted by TRANSUNION in 2019 and it confirmed information could 
be removed.
Based on the new information our investigator  upheld the complaint. She asked  
TRANSUNION to pay Mr C £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.   
TRANSUNION has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman;  its no longer able 
to provide any information about  the entries as they have been removed in their entirety.     
Mr C disagrees  £250  fairly  compensates him as he says he has lost more in higher  interest  
payments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  and for broadly the same  reasons.
Although I have only summarised  the background and arguments  above, I would like to 
reassure both parties that have read and considered  everything  in its entirety. 
I would firstly like to address Mr Cs complaint that TRANSUNION has manipulated data on 
his credit file, namely that a payday loan had the date and address  details  changed. I have 
considered this carefully and having done so, Im satisfied that no manipulation has taken 
place. It appears Mr C has confused  one payday loan with his loan with PB.
Ref: DRN97458202I say this because  the screen shot he provided of the payday loans, both show  start dates in 
2013 and default dates  in the same  year.  The entries also show Mr Cs previous address 
details and not his current address. The screen  shot Mr C provided in support of data 
manipulation actually shows the payday  loan sited above the PB loan entry  which does  
have a start date of 2017 and his current address.  Although  Mr C has since said there  was 
no confusion about these loans, his email  to TRANSUNION of 17 June 2019 (which  he 
supplied) clearly accuses it of changing  the name of the loan from the payday lender to PB. 
Im satisfied the information  provided by Mr C shows that no manipulation has taken place.
I turn now to the information about  the payday  loans.  It is the usual process that information 
recorded on a credit file is given to credit reference  agencies by the lenders. So if 
information is incorrect, its for the lender  to correct that. However, Im also aware from other 
cases that old or never previously seen data entries have suddenly appeared on credit files 
when system changes have been  made.  I dont  know if thats  what happened here and we 
may never know; TRANSUNION  has told us that it can no longer provide any information  
about the entries as they have now been  removed. So the next best evidence  I have  is the 
communication from the payday lender that says it hasnt re-added  any information  in 
relation to the payday loans and has only communicated with TRNASUNION in 2019 to 
confirm the entries  can be removed  (as a result  of Mr Cs dispute). On balance, and in light 
of the limited evidence  available,  Im satisfied its more likely  the entries were re-added  by 
TRANSUNION when they shouldnt  have been.  
Mr C says he has been financially impacted by the error as it has resulted in him paying  
more interest on his mortgage than he was otherwise able to get. In support  of this, he has 
provided a screen  shot showing his mortgage  repayments. But this doesnt show  that Mr C 
would have been able to get a lower rate, nor has he provided any persuasive  evidence that 
the higher rate was solely due to the payday  loan entries. In the absence  of such persuasive  
evidence, I dont find Mr C has been caused  a financial loss as a result of this. 
However, I do find this has caused some  distress,  particularly  as the loans concerned  had 
been taken out fraudulently. And it was a matter he thought  had been  dealt  with six years 
ago. Mr C was also put to the trouble  of having to contact both TRANSUNION and the 
payday lender  to get to the bottom of what had happened and there is still no satisfactory 
explanation. In all, I find the investigators  recommendation of £250 to be fair and 
reasonable.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require  
TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL  UK LIMITED to pay Mr C £250 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9745820