K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint.
background
In November 1987 Mrs H took out a store card. Some years later,  in June 1999, PPI was 
added to her account during a phone  call. 
The policy protected Mrs Hs store card monthly  repayments if she couldnt work. The policy  
also provided some other cover as well but Im concentrating in my decision on the PPI part 
of the policy  as this is whats complained about.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Hs complaint.  Mrs H disagreed. She mainly says that she 
never knew she had PPI and she wasnt told about  it
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Based on all the information Ive seen so far, Im not planning to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Ill explain  why.
FICL tells us its records show it sold Mrs H PPI over the phone.  I have no reason to doubt 
that FICLs  electronic record isnt accurate. So, on balance, I find PPI was sold to Mrs H over 
the phone.
FICL hasnt  been  able to provide a call recording or a copy  of the call script used at the time. 
So I dont  know what it said to Mrs H when the policy was sold.  But based on what this 
service knows  about the sales  process, I think its probable that PPI wouldve been  
discussed as that was one of the main purposes  of the call. And given that PPI was added 
on to her account some years after Mrs H had taken out her store card,  I think  Mrs H 
wouldve understood at the time that the policy was optional. On balance,  I think its more  
likely that after hearing about what the policy offered  she felt PPI was of some value to her 
and she wanted  those benefits. So she chose to take it out.  
I dont think FICL advised Mrs H to take out the PPI. This means  FICL didnt have to make 
sure the policy  was suitable for her. But it still had to provide Mrs H with clear information 
about the policy so she could decide  if she wanted  to take it out. 
Mrs H told us she was employed  and in good health.  Ive looked at a policy  document that is 
likely to be similar to the one that wouldve applied when Mrs H took out PPI with her store 
card. According to this, Mrs H was eligible for the cover and it doesnt appear that she 
wouldve been affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  which couldve made it difficult  
for her to make a claim. 
Ref: DRN95651422Mrs H says she wouldve received 6 months  full sick pay followed by 6 months half pay 
from her employer if she was away from work  due to illness.  But the policy  wouldve paid out 
in full for longer  and in addition to Mrs Hs employment benefits.  So it couldve proved 
useful to Mrs H if she had an accident or became  ill  especially if she mightve had extra  
costs as a result of being off work sick. 
And the policy wouldve paid out if she lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. It 
couldve covered  her monthly repayments  on the card until the outstanding balance  was 
cleared if she wasnt able to go back to work. So the policy provided her with significantly 
better cover than she had in place already. 
Ive taken into account that Mrs H also says she couldve relied on her husband for financial 
help. But peoples circumstances can change  over time and PPI is more  dependable  than 
hoping someone  else can help out in the event of money problems.
I dont know if FICL  explained  the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mrs H to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, taking everything into account, I think if 
Mrs H had properly understood the cost and benefit  provided she still wouldve thought the 
policy potentially useful.  Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the PPI was a problem 
for Mrs H  and she took it out when she didnt have  to, so it seems she wanted the cover 
and was happy to pay for it at the time.   
This means  that, even if there were shortcomings in the way FICL sold the policy  to Mrs H, 
I dont find that Mrs H has lost out as a result of anything that FICL did wrong.  So, as things 
stand at the moment, it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.  
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mrs H told us that she has no memory at all of being sold this PPI over the phone. She also 
said that for years she didn't know she had the PPI, and she didn't take out any other PPI 
and wouldnt  have  needed it as she was working.  
FICL hasnt  made any further comment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about everything that Mrs H has told us  including  her comments  
made in response  to my provisional  decision. 
I dont doubt that Mrs H is sure about what shes told us - but it wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect her to be able to remember everything that happened so long ago. So its 
unsurprising if shes forgotten a phone call in 1999. And what  she says about this isn't 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  her complaint.
Ref: DRN95651423I explained in my provisional decision  why I think the policy  offered her useful benefits over 
and above her work benefits. And no job is guaranteed to be secure indefinitely  the policy 
couldve protected her card monthly repayments if she lost her job unexpectedly and was out 
of work. 
It was up to Mrs H to choose if she wanted this cover  knowing what her circumstances 
were at the time. The fact that she might  not have  chosen to take out other PPI doesnt 
mean that FICL mis-sold  her this policy. 
After taking carefully into account  everything thats  been said, I still think its fair not to 
uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained  in my provisional decision. 
I appreciate that what I've said is disappointing for Mrs H. But I hope that setting  things out 
as I've done  helps explain  how Ive reached  my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN9565142