K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about the way Pepper  (UK) Limited (trading as Engage credit) treated him 
when his mortgage was in arrears.  Hes unhappy  the property was sold with a shortfall, 
which hes now being asked to pay.
background
Mr A took this mortgage out in 2007.  Due to changes in his personal circumstances, he 
moved out of the property, and started to let it to tenants in 2010. Engage took over the 
administration of the mortgage in 2015  on behalf of another lender.
Mr A says he had problems with his tenants  paying rent on time, and so arrears  began to 
build on the mortgage account.  As Mr A was letting the property and there was no agreed 
plan in place to clear  the arrears, Engage appointed receivers in July 2017 to manage the 
property on Mr As behalf. The property was then repossessed and sold in February  2018.  
The sale of the property left a shortfall  on the mortgage, which Engage  asked Mr A to pay.
Mr A complained to Engage. He was unhappy that Engage hadnt agreed  to his proposals  to 
clear the arrears and avoid repossession  of the property. He was also unhappy with the sale 
price that Engage agreed for the property,  as its left him with a shortfall of around  £39,000  
to pay.
Engage didnt uphold the complaint.  They  said they gave Mr A notice that the receivers  
would be appointed, and as they didnt receive any response, they appointed the receivers  in 
July 2017. Engage said before placing the house on the market, they obtained a valuation  
from an estate agent and a surveyor, who confirmed the best price  to obtain a sale was 
£149,950. The house was sold for £153,050 which was above the recommended  asking 
price. Engage said Mr As proposals  had been  considered but declined, and the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage allowed them to appoint receivers.
Mr A brought his complaint to us. He was unhappy overall with how Engage  had handled 
things, and didnt  feel hed been  given  a fair opportunity  to clear the arrears and avoid 
repossession. He also raised concerns  about  the sale of the mortgage and the valuations 
done at the time he bought the property initially. Mr A doesnt feel its right that he bought the 
property in 2007 for £177,000, and it can now only be worth £149,050  so he feels  strongly 
that one of these  valuations  was wrong.   As a result, he doesnt feel he should  be liable for 
the shortfall.
Our investigator looked into things, and explained that under  this complaint we could only 
consider the actions of Engage when they were  administering the mortgage. Any concerns 
about the sale would need  to be directed to the lender that sold the mortgage. After looking 
at what had happened, our investigator said he felt Engage had acted fairly when Mr As 
mortgage was in arrears.  Mr A disagreed,  so the complaints been passed to me to issue  a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN98394382Mr As mortgage was taken out as a residential mortgage initially in 2007. And its only due 
to a change in circumstances that led him to move out of the property and let it to tenants. 
Mr A says he was given consent from the lender at the time to do this. However,  Engage 
have said Mr As mortgage remains a residential  mortgage, and theyd not given consent  for 
Mr A to let the property.  As a result, they said he was in breach of the terms and conditions 
of his mortgage.
Theres no dispute about whether or not Mr A was letting  the property to tenants  it seems  
he was honest  about that from the start. But looking at the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage, Im satisfied that by letting the property out to tenants and not living  there himself, 
he was in breach  of the mortgage  terms hed agreed to.
Mr A has raised several reasons why he feels Engage have treated him unfairly. Whilst Ive 
listened carefully to all of Mr As concerns, I wont address each point individually.  Ive 
looked at everything  thats happened whilst Mr As mortgage has been with Engage and in 
arrears, and have considered the overall fairness of Engages treatment of Mr A  with his 
specific concerns in mind. Having  considered  everything thats happened,  Im satisfied 
Engage treated Mr A fairly, Ill explain why.
The instruction of receivers
Mr As mortgage was in arrears for the majority the time Engage were administering  it. I 
appreciate Mr A had difficulties with his tenants paying him on time, and can understand this 
left him in a difficult position in regard to his monthly mortgage payments. Arrangements to 
pay a little bit more than the contractual monthly payment (CMP)  were  often agreed with 
Engage, and Mr A would also make ad hoc manual payments towards the arrears every so 
often. As a result, the arrears remained at a manageable level for some time, although Mr A 
could not afford to clear them fully. 
However towards the end of 2016,  Mr A was struggling to make  his full monthly  payments, 
let alone contribute to the arrears that remained  on the mortgage. I can see from the contact  
notes that Engage made several  attempts to contact Mr A about this, and eventually sent a 
field agent to the property  as they hadnt been  able to speak to Mr A. Mr A then made some 
lump sum payments towards  the arrears  but still not enough to clear  them.
In February 2017  Engage sent a letter to Mr A notifying him of their intention to appoint 
receivers, and asking  him to call to discuss the account. Mr A did call after this and agreed 
an arrangement to pay the CMP plus £200  towards the arrears. However, this wasnt  
maintained and so, following further  attempts to contact Mr A, Engage  sent another letter in 
June 2017 about their intention to instruct receivers. Engage then instructed the receivers  in 
July 2017 as they hadnt been  able to make contact  with Mr A about a way forward to clear 
the arrears.
Generally, taking steps to instruct receivers should  be a last resort when attempting  to clear 
arrears on a mortgage. But Im satisfied  here that Mr A was not demonstrating he could 
maintain the CMP  as well as make consistent  contributions to clear  the arrears.  Engage  had 
made several attempts  to contact Mr A and they did agree to arrangements when  Mr A 
proposed them. But when the arrangements were not met and Engage had not heard from 
Mr A, I dont think  it was unreasonable for them  to take further steps  to recover  the arrears. 
Mr As situation was clearly not sustainable.  His tenants were paying less rent than the 
monthly mortgage payments were costing him, and he was having  difficulties with them  
Ref: DRN98394383paying him on time. He wasnt able to make  consistent payments to the mortgage  the 
balance of which was growing as the arrears were building up. Im satisfied that, although 
this was a residential  mortgage, the terms and conditions  allowed Engage  to appoint 
receivers if the property  was not being  used for residential purposes. And overall, I think 
Engage were acting  fairly in appointing the receivers when they did. 
Repossession of the property
After the receivers were in place  Mr A did then make further  proposals  to clear the arrears 
and take back  the management of his property. Engage didnt accept these proposals, and I 
dont think this was unfair.  The proposals  were not vastly different to the ones Mr A had 
made in the past, and had not been  able to stick to. The tenants  had been evicted from the 
property under the management of the receivers, and there didnt seem to be any other 
changes to Mr As circumstances that meant  hed now be able to pay more towards the 
mortgage than he had been. Engage asked for the full arrears and fees balance (around 
£9,000) to be paid before they could agree to hand  the property back  and I dont think  this 
was unreasonable.
Mr A did then later propose to pay the arrears  and fees balance  in order  to take the property 
back. But by this point Engage had taken possession and secured a sale on the property, 
and so they told Mr A hed need  to pay the full mortgage balance to stop the sale from going  
ahead. I think  Mr A had ample opportunity to pay the arrears and fees balance earlier in 
order to prevent repossession  but its unfortunate he wasnt  able to do so. 
I dont think Engage took possession and marketed the property when  they did unfairly   it 
was not in Mr As best interests  for them to delay  things,  allowing the balance  owed on the 
mortgage to grow. Engage kept Mr A informed about what  they were  doing, and made him 
aware of his options if he wanted to avoid  repossession. Its unfortunate that Mr A was 
unable to clear the arrears on the mortgage,  and I do empathise with his situation at the 
time. But I dont think it was unfair for Engage to take the action they did.
The sale of the property
Mr A is unhappy with the sale price of the property. I can understand this, given hes been 
left with an outstanding debt to pay. He doesnt think its right that the house  could  have 
depreciated in value  by so much during the time he owned it, and so thinks  either the original 
valuation, or the one Engage obtained,  was wrong.  As the investigator explained, we cant  
consider the original valuation and sale price agreed by the original lender under the scope 
of this complaint.  But I have considered  the actions Engage took to sell the property.
When a property is being sold under possession, wed expect  the business to obtain at least 
two valuations for the property before putting it up for sale. I can see that Engage  did this, 
the estate agent  said the recommended asking price should be £149,050, and the surveyor  
valued the property at £145,000. Engage sold the house  for £153,050  which was above 
what it had been  valued at. Whilst I appreciate Mr A is unhappy  with the valuations done, Im 
satisfied Engage relied fairly on the information it was given by both the estate agent and 
surveyor  as Id expect them to do. It is unfortunate that the value  of the property  when it 
was sold in 2018 was lower than what Mr A originally paid for it  but that doesnt mean the 
business have  acted unfairly.
Fees and charges
Ref: DRN98394384Mr A has also complained about  the fees and charges that Engage  added  to the mortgage 
balance. He hasnt  explained specifically which charges he disagrees with, or why he thinks 
theyve been applied unfairly.  Engage did apply fees and charges to Mr As mortgage, as the 
terms and conditions allow them to do. A significant proportion of these charges were as a 
result of Engage  instructing receivers to manage  the property, along with fees for field agent 
visits and arrears fees. Given that I dont think Engage were  acting  unfairly when instructing 
receivers, or administering the account in the way that they did  I think  its fair that the costs 
they incurred when doing this were passed onto Mr A, in line with the mortgage  terms. 
Overall Im satisfied that Engage did take account of Mr As difficult circumstances,  and 
attempted to work with him to bring  the mortgage  up to date before taking further action to 
recover the arrears. I understand why Mr A is disappointed that he stills owes  Engage  
money even after the house has been sold  but I dont think  Engage have  been  unfair  in 
asking him to pay this. Mr A will need to work with Engage to agree a way for this shortfall to 
be paid.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9839438