K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains about the advice he was given by a financial  adviser  - Mr R - in 2009. He 
says this advice  was to switch  his personal  pension into a SIPP  and then invest  in the 
shares of an unlisted  company. That company has since gone into liquidation and Mr T 
believes it was unsuitable to recommend he invest his money in that way. Mr T believes that 
Mr R was representing Positive Solutions  (Financial Services) Limited (PSL) now 
Quilter Financial Planning  Solutions Limited  (Quilter), at the time when he gave this advice 
and it is therefore  responsible for that advice. 
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 13 January 2020. A copy is attached  and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I explained why I believed  this complaint would fall 
within my jurisdiction. I also set out why I believed the complaint should  be upheld.  
There were two typographical errors  in the provisional decision that I would  like to correct. 
On page 12 of the provisional decision was the following paragraph:
I also need to decide whether Mr R relied  on any representation PSL made.  Having 
considered Parker Js comments in Martin,  if Mr T proceeded  throughout on the footing that 
in giving advice  Mr R was acting in every respect  as the agent of PSL with authority from 
PSL so to act, then this suggests  I should  conclude that Mr T relied on PSLs  
representation.
This should have  read, I also need  to decide  whether  Mr T relied on any representation PSL 
made.
And on page 13, the paragraph:  
PSL placed  Mr R in a position which would, in the outside world,  generally be regarded  as 
having authority  to carry out the acts Mr R complains about.  
Should have read:
PSL placed  Mr R in a position which would, in the outside world,  generally be regarded  as 
having authority  to carry out the acts Mr T complains about.  
Mr T accepted the provisional decision.
Quilter said that it did not accept my provisional decision. I have read and considered its 
response in full but, in summary,  it said as follows:
There is a clear  mistake in my findings. This is that the adviser  was able to advise on 
investments authorised  by the FSA - but it has seen nothing to suggest that the 
investment here was authorised and regulated by the FSA.  The shares were 
unregulated, unquoted and unlisted  and the rules  applying to investments within 
FSMA 2000 do not apply. This means  that the investment does not fall within  my 
jurisdiction. 
Mr R did not have  PSLs  permission  at the time to advise on this type of unregulated 
investment.
Ref: DRN92917092I have not given sufficient weight to a previous decision issued by this service.
PSL did not hold any agency  in respect  of the SIPP  or the investment and therefore  
the adviser was acting  outside his authority. 
Mr T has never been a client of PSL/Quilter. PSL/Quilter has no record of Mr T and 
he has not produced  any evidence that he understood he was a client  of PSL/Quilter. 
He is not a customer of PSL/Quilter  and therefore is not an eligible complainant.
Mr R advised Mr T without PSLs knowledge  at the time and was operating on a 
frolic of his own. It did not believe it was responsible for this complaint or one the 
ombudsman service  could  consider.
It requested any decision on the case be suspended awaiting the outcome of another  
similar complaint made to this service.   
I noted Quilters reference to another decision issued  by this service.  Although  Quilter  did not 
set out why it thought this decision was relevant to Mr Ts case,  I noted  that this decision 
considered the time limits for making a complaint. Therefore I considered  that issue  and set 
out my view in a letter of 4 June 2020. I thought the complaint had been made in time. I have 
not received a response from Quilter  to that letter.
my findings
Firstly I would like to apologise to Mr T for the time it has taken to reach this point.
jurisdiction
As discussed in my letter of 4 June 2020, Quilter referred to a decision which  considered the 
time limits in which to make a complaint. 
To reiterate,  the relevant time limits are:
DISP 2.8:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the
Financial Ombudsman  Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint  to the respondent or to the Ombudsman
within that period  and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the
complaint having  been  received.
In terms of the six year limit, the event  complained  of is the advice Mr T says he was
given to switch  his pension to a SIPP to invest in unlisted shares. This occurred in 2009.  As
Mr T did not complain to Quilter  until 2016, this time limit has expired.
Ref: DRN92917093So I have  considered the three year time limit rules  in DISP as set out above.  As Mr T 
complained on 15 January  2016, he would need  to have been reasonably aware  (or ought  to 
have been) before 15 January 2013 of the cause for complaint to be out of time.
Bearing in mind that Quilter has not set out why it, despite requests, it believes Mr T is out of 
time to complain,  to consider if Mr T had, or ought reasonably  to have had an awareness of 
a cause for complaint before 15 January 2013,  I requested the regular pension statements 
from the SIPP provider.  It is the statements before 15 January 2013 that are relevant to the 
three year rules, for the reasons discussed  in my letter  of 4 June 2020.
All the pension statements/valuations up to those issued in 2014 record  the value  of Mr
Ts investment as the same as originally invested. In other words, the valuation of his
investment had not decreased and he had not suffered  any losses  which might have put
him on notice of cause  for complaint. It was only in 2014 that the valuation of the holding
was reduced.  I would also say that I have  not seen any other evidence that Mr T
was, or should have  reasonably been  aware,  he had cause for complaint before 15 January  
2013.
Therefore Mr T has complained in time.
In brief,  in my provisional decision  I set out my findings that:
Mr Ts complaint is about an act or omission in relation  to carrying  on regulated  
activities, which Mr R carried  out for Mr T. 
The advice  Mr R gave  fell within  the express  (or actual) authority conferred  by PSL
PSL represented to Mr T that Mr R had authority to conduct  business of the same type 
as the business  he did conduct. And Mr T relied on those representations. Apparent 
authority also therefore operated  and PSL is responsible for the acts Mr T complains 
about.
In addition,  PSL is vicariously  liable for the investment advice  Mr R gave to Mr T. 
Although Mr R was not an employee  of PSL,  he was an approved person with 
responsibility for carrying on PSL business of advising its customers  and arranging  the 
investments recommended. As such he carried on activities  as an integral part of PSLs  
business and had a sufficiently close relationship to PSL for vicarious  liability to arise.  
Mr Ts advice  was so closely connected to PSLs  business activities that PSL is liable  for 
it.
PSL is also liable  to Mr T under section 150 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000.
So the acts subject to complaint were the acts of the authorised  firm, (PSL)  
Mr Ts complaint therefore falls within my jurisdiction.
Mr Rs advice was unsuitable for Mr T.
Mr T acted on the advice and suffered  loss as a result of it.
Ref: DRN92917094It is fair and reasonable for PSL to compensate  Mr T for that loss.
Quilter has previously said that I should wait to decide this complaint until after its judicial  review  
challenge to a decision on a similar case  has been  resolved. Those  proceedings are now at an 
end. In any event  each case turns on its own particular  facts and I am required to consider the 
particular facts of this case.  
I would also note that Quilter has been given sufficient time to make  whatever submissions it 
wanted to make with respect to this complaint and so I am satisfied that it has had a fair 
opportunity to put its case.  
regulated activity
Quilter says that the investment  complained  of here (Lightstep shares) was unregulated and 
unlisted and therefore the rules about investments  under FSMA 2000 do not apply. 
What I said in the provisional decision  was that regulated activities took place. The switch of 
the personal pension to the SIPP was a regulated activity. Rights  under a SIPP  are specified 
investments as per article 81 of the Regulated  Activities Order 2001 (RAO).  A personal  
pension is also a specified investment.  Advice  to switch a personal  pension to a SIPP  is 
regulated investment advice as per article  53 of the RAO. And the share purchase was 
intrinsically linked to the pension switch to the SIPP, as discussed in the attached provisional 
decision.
Shares are a specified investment  Article  76 of the RAO. Advice to buy such  a specified 
investment or arrange the purchase  of a specified  investment is a regulated activity. 
Consequently the activities undertaken by Mr R are regulated activities that fall squarely 
within my jurisdiction.  
actual authority
I discussed in the provisional decision my view that Mr R did have PSLs express authority to 
arrange the SIPP for Mr T. However, on reflection I believe that Mr R may not have had such  
authority because he did not abide  by PSLs prescribed  process in carrying out the regulated  
activity  such as routing  such applications through PSL.  
Having said that, as I set out in the provisional decision, this was not the only basis  for my 
conclusion that the acts subject to complaint were the acts of PSL. There  were several 
bases on which I could  draw that conclusion.  
 
apparent authority
Quilter has said the question is not whether  it gave  Mr R authority to transact a general  class 
of acts. The question  is whether PSL gave Mr R authority in relation  to this transaction.
I agree  that the ultimate question is whether there  was apparent  authority in relation to this 
transaction. But in addressing that, I believe I should consider whether PSL placed Mr R in a 
position which would objectively carry PSLs authority  for Mr R to conduct  business of a type 
he did in fact conduct.
Ref: DRN92917095I note that the case law does not say that apparent  authority  operates  only when a principal  
has represented that an agent has authority to carry out a specific act. Apparent  authority 
also operates where a principal has represented that its agent has its authority to carry out a 
more general class of acts. 
For example, Diplock LJ in Freeman & Lockyer referred to a representation  that the agent has 
authority to enter  on behalf of the principal into a contract, of a kind within  the scope of the 
apparent authority. And in Armagas , Lord Keith said that in the commonly encountered case  
ostensible authority is general in character  arising  when the agent is placed  in a position  
generally regarded  as carrying, authority to enter into transactions  of the kind in question . 
In Hely-Hutchinson, Lord Denning said that people who see a managing director acting as a 
managing director,  are entitled to assume  that he has the usual authority of a managing  
director.  I consider that, the usual authority of a managing director  includes a wide variety  of 
acts. 
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  decision I am satisfied that PSL represented to 
Mr T that Mr R had its authority  to carry out the acts which  an independent financial adviser  
would usually have  authority to do  including giving investment advice on behalf of PSL. 
That Mr R may not have had actual authority to give the advice he gave is not determinative. 
Mr R had PSLs apparent authority to act on its behalf in advising Mr T to switch/surrender  
existing investments (in this case a pension)  so that an investment could be made  in 
Lightstep shares,  because he had PSLs more general apparent authority to act on its behalf 
in giving him that kind of investment advice.
PSLs representations as to the authority of Mr R
The points made by Quilter in other  cases are largely  framed  by its view that representations 
must be specific rather than general. I do not agree with that view.  
For example, Quilter says in other  cases that procuring the advisers registration with the 
FSA is not a representation to Mr T. The rules  require such registration just as they require, 
status disclosure, and that Jacobs J found in Anderson v Sense that a status disclosure 
could never  be a representation  and the same  conclusion must apply to the register.  
However, the judges finding was that on the particular facts of that case, the status 
disclosure, was not a representation  of any kind to the effect that [the agent] was running 
the [Ponzi]  scheme  with the authority  of Sense  or as the agent of the Defendant. Financial 
advisers are not usually  authorised to run schemes  and that is the context in which the 
finding was made. 
Descriptions of an individuals status contained  in business stationery can, as the courts 
have found, be relevant  representations creating apparent authority. This was the finding in 
Martin v Britannia  Life, by Jonathan  Parker  J on apparent authority based on the contents  of 
a business card. 
Obtaining approval  from the Regulator  for Mr R to advise PSLs customers  about 
investments was part of the conduct  by which  PSL held him out to the world in general as 
authorised to do that. 
PSL has said if this amounts  to a representation it would make PSL liable for anything  said 
or done by Mr R relating to anything which might  broadly amount to financial advice. PSL 
has separately said this is, an absurd proposition. But that is not what I said or implied  and 
Ref: DRN92917096the cases of Martin v Britannia  and Anderson v Sense show  how such  matters  can be 
applied (and limited) in practice.  
I do not say in this case there was a holding  out that everything Mr R might do was 
authorised. But, to the extent that he gave  advice to PSLs customers  such  as Mr T about 
their investments, this was the type of business he was held out as carrying on for it.  
It remains my finding that PSL did represent to Mr T through its conduct that Mr R had its 
apparent authority to act on its behalf in carrying on the activities  complained  about.
reliance
PSL has not in its response disputed my finding on reliance. And my view is unchanged. 
This was a straightforward matter of a client  dealing  with their existing PSL adviser  because  
he was a PSL adviser  Mr T has made comment to that effect. He said he accepted it was a 
PSL adviser who was recommending changes that he justified. There is no evidence to 
show that Mr T knew or should  have known that Mr R was acting in any capacity other than 
a PSL adviser.  Mr T proceeded on the basis that Mr R was acting in every respect as the 
agent of PSL with authority from PSL so to act. As I discussed in the attached provisional 
decision, the SIPP application  documentation  (for the SIPP)  strongly  suggests  that Mr R was 
operating as a PSL adviser in respect of the pension switch  and he had dealt with Mr T on 
this basis.
should PSL bear the loss caused by the pension switch and investment in Lightstep 
shares?
 
My assessment as to whether PSL should  bear this loss was not intended to be read as part 
of the test for apparent  authority. It is a point the courts consider as a check that they have  
reached the right conclusion. I regard the test for apparent  authority  as being satisfied on the 
facts in this complaint. The reference to the justice of the case was by way of such  a cross 
check and was included  as the courts often  include  such  an explanation and to be helpful to 
the parties.
My views on this point  are unchanged   though  I should make it clear that my comment  
should be read as relating to the carrying on of the controlled function  in this case, i.e. to the 
circumstances of this complaint and Mr Ts losses from the advice he complains about - not 
all possible  losses in any possible circumstance.
Ref: DRN92917097vicarious liability
Quilter does not agree that it is vicariously  liable for the acts Mr T complains about. I 
considered this matter  in my provisional decision and said that the tests laid down  by the 
Supreme Court in Cox and Mohamud  were  applicable in this case. Since my provisional  
decision was issued,  vicarious liability has been  considered by the Court in WM Morrisons  
Supermarkets plc v Various Claimants  [2020],  and Barclays Bank plc v Various Claimants 
[2020]. However, I have  not reviewed this matter  again in light of these new authorities 
because my decision is that PSL are liable for the acts of Mr R here by virtue  of apparent 
authority. 
statutory responsibility under section 150 FSMA
In my provisional decision I set out that section  150 FSMA provided an alternative route by 
which Quilter is responsible. As with vicarious  liability I have not reviewed this issue again as 
my decision  is that PSL are liable for Mr Rs acts by virtue of apparent  authority. 
suitability of this complaint for determination  by an ombudsman
When Mr T referred  his complaint to the ombudsman  service, there wasnt  specifically a 
provision under the DISP Rules (in particular  the dismissal provisions under DISP 3.3.4A 
(R)) that allowed an ombudsman to dismiss the complaint on the basis  that it would be better 
dealt with by a court. 
In any event I acknowledge  that Quilter  has said separately that it believes that it would be 
more suitable  for the subject matter of this complaint to be dealt with by a court. But I do not 
agree.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service routinely  deals  with disputes about whether a 
respondent firm is responsible for the acts a consumer has complained about. Some  of 
those disputes  are more  complex than others, and Quilter is right to say that this particular 
complaint concerns a developing area of law. But I see no reason  why that prevents me from 
considering the matter.
Overall, I am satisfied that I can resolve  this complaint justly, fairly, and within my 
jurisdiction. 
my findings as to the merits of the complaint 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has made any further  submissions on the merits of the complaint or the way I 
said things should  be put right. My view remains as set out in the attached  provisional 
decision.  
how to put things right
I set out in the attached  provisional decision why it was appropriate and fair for PSL/Quilter 
to pay compensation  in this case.  And I also set out how compensation should be 
calculated. But, to confirm:
Ref: DRN92917098I think if this unsuitable  advice had not been  given then Mr T would have  kept his existing  
pension. But its unlikely  to be possible  for Quilter to reinstate Mr T into his previous pension  
scheme. Bearing that in mind, what is set out below is in my view a fair way of compensating 
Mr T for the unsuitable  advice. 
The redress  calculation is set out on the basis that, as Mr T says, Lightstep is in liquidation 
or has been wound up. 
In summary,  Quilter should:
1.Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Ts previous pension plan, as at the date of my 
Final Decision, if it had not been transferred to the SIPP.  
2. Obtain the transfer value, as at the date of my Final Decision, of Mr Ts SIPP, including 
any outstanding  charges  and allowing for any sum received from Lightstep.  
3. And then pay an amount into Mr Ts SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to the 
amount calculated in (1). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief and 
the effect of charges.
In addition, Quilter should:
4.Pay any future fees owed by Mr T to the SIPP, for the next five years (this will only be 
necessary if Mr Ts shares still exist and cannot  be encashed).
5.Pay Mr T £500 for the trouble and upset  caused.
I have set out each  point  in further detail below.
1.Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mr Ts previous pension plan if it had not been  
transferred to the SIPP. That should  be the value at the date of my Final Decision.
Quilter should ask Mr Ts former pension provider to calculate  the notional  transfer  value that 
would have applied  as at the date of my Final Decision had he not transferred his pension 
but instead remained invested.  
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation then the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total Return  Index  should  be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of 
return that could  have been  achieved  if suitable funds had been chosen.
Quilter should assume that any contributions or withdrawals that have been made would still 
have been made, and on the same dates.
2.Obtain the transfer value  as at the date of my Final Decision of Mr Ts SIPP,  
including any outstanding charges and allowing for any sum received from Lightstep. 
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued to take 
charges from the SIPP and there  wasnt an adequate cash balance to meet them, it might  be 
a negative figure. The figure should include any sum returned from Lightstep or from the sale 
of Lightstep shares.
Ref: DRN92917099This could  be complicated where  an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily  sold 
on the open market),  as its value cant be determined. That may well be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, Quilter should agree an amount with the SIPP  provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP  plus any costs,  and take ownership  
of the investment(s).
If Quilter  is unable  to buy the investment(s), it should assume a nil value  for the purposes  of 
calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations  should include 
anything Quilter has paid into the SIPP.
In return for this, Quilter  may ask Mr T to provide an undertaking  to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive  from the investment. That undertaking should allow 
for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Quilter will need to meet  any costs 
in drawing up the undertaking. If Quilter asks Mr T to provide an undertaking,  payment  of the 
compensation awarded may be dependent upon  provision  of that undertaking.
3.Pay an amount into Mr Ts SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal the 
amount calculated in (1). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief 
and the effect  of charges.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP, Quilter should  pay it as a cash 
sum to Mr T. But had it been  possible to pay into the SIPP,  it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore,  the total amount  should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ts marginal rate of tax in retirement. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been  taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have  
been taxed according to his likely  income tax rate in retirement  presumed  to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
4.Pay any future fees owed to the SIPP for the next five years.
Had Quilter given suitable advice I dont think there would be a SIPP.  Its not fair that Mr T 
continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed.  This might be the case  if 
Lightstep still exists and the shares  cannot  be sold. 
In that situation,  ideally,  Quilter should take over the shares to allow  the SIPP to be closed. 
This is the fairest way of putting Mr T back in the position he would have been in. But it is 
possible that the ownership of the shares  cant be transferred. 
If they cant be transferred, to provide  certainty to all parties, I think  its fair that Quilter pays  
Mr T an upfront lump  sum equivalent  to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated  using  the 
previous years fees), or undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years.  
This should provide a reasonable period for things to be worked out so the SIPP can be 
closed. 
In return for the compensation set out above, Quilter may ask Mr T to provide an undertaking 
to give it the net amount of any payment he may receive from the shares in that five year 
period, as well as any other payment  he may receive from any party as a result  of the 
investment. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount he may receive. Quilter will need to meet  any costs  in drawing up this undertaking. If 
Ref: DRN929170910it asks Mr T to provide  an undertaking,  payment  of the compensation awarded by this 
decision may be dependent  upon  provision of that undertaking. 
If, after five years, Quilter  wants  to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for 
any future payments  under the shares, it must agree to pay any further future SIPP  fees. 
In addition, Quilter is entitled  to take,  if it wishes, an assignment from Mr T of any claim Mr T 
may have  against  any third parties in relation to this pension switch  and share  investment.  If 
Quilter chooses to take an assignment  of rights, it must be affected before payment of 
compensation is made. Quilter must first provide a draft of the assignment to Mr T for his 
consideration and agreement. 
5.Pay Mr T £500 for the trouble  and upset caused.
I believe Mr T has been caused significant upset  by the events this complaint relates to, and 
the apparent loss of pension benefits.  I think that a payment  of £500 is fair to compensate  for 
that upset.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr T 
within 28 days of the date PSL receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 
28 days, that it takes Quilter to pay Mr T this compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr T how much  has been  taken off. Quilter should give Mr T a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in this final decision and the attached  provisional  decision, this 
complaint does fall within  my jurisdiction.
My decision  is that I uphold the complaint  and order Quilter  Financial  Planning Solutions 
Limited to calculate  and pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 January 2021.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN929170911copy provisional decision 
summary of complaint
Mr T complains about the advice he was given by Mr R in 2009. He says this advice was to switch his 
personal pension into a SIPP  and then invest in the shares of an unlisted  company. That company 
has since gone into liquidation and Mr T believes it was unsuitable to recommend he invest  his money  
in that way. Mr T believes  that Mr R was representing Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Limited  
(PSL) when  he gave this advice and it is therefore responsible for that advice. 
   
background
As discussed, in 2009 Mr T switched  his pension to a SIPP  and then invested in shares in a company 
called Lightstep Ltd. At the time Mr R traded  as Real Wealth Management (RWM). 
Mr T complained to PSL that the advice to do this had been unsuitable. PSL said that it had no 
responsibility for any advice Mr T had been given. It said that Mr R was free to enter into contracts  
and agencies  outside of the contract he held with PSL.  It said it had no record of the advice Mr T says 
he had been given or any record  of the switch  and investment at all. It therefore said that, in its view, 
Mr R had not carried out the switch or given advice  as a representative of PSL.
Mr T referred  his complaint to this service.  One of our investigators considered  the complaint  but did 
not believe it would fall within our jurisdiction.  She said that PSLs  terms of its agreement with Mr R 
stated that any applications had to be submitted through it for approval. As the investigator did not 
think Mr R did this, PSL was not responsible and the complaint would not fall within our jurisdiction. 
Mr T did not agree  and so the complaint  has been passed to me for review.
 
my findings
We cant consider  all complaints brought to this service.  Before we can consider  something,  we need 
to check,  by reference  to the Financial Conduct Authoritys DISP Rules and the legislation  from which  
those rules are derived,  whether the complaint is one we have  the power  to look at. In this case, PSL 
says that we dont have  the power to look at this complaint, on the basis that it relates to acts PSL 
arent responsible  for. PSL says Mr R did not submit  the transfer and investment business through  it 
and so it did not authorise those  transactions.  
DISP Rule 2.3.1R says we can consider a complaint  under  the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to 
an act or omission by a firm in carrying  onregulated  activitiesor any ancillary activities, including  
advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them. 
So there are two points to consider in order to decide whether this complaint is one I can look at:
Were the acts about which Mr T complains done in the carrying on of a regulated activity? 
Were those acts the acts of the authorised firm, (PSL)?  
the regulatory background
I have taken into account the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA), Financial  Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO), and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook section of the FSA Handbook (COBS).
Ref: DRN929170912regulated activities
An activity is a regulated activity if it is an activity of a specified kind that is carried  on by way of 
business and relates to an investment of a specified kind, unless otherwise specified (section 22, 
FSMA).
Regulated activities  are specified in Part II of the RAO and include advising on the merits of buying or 
selling a particular  investment which  is a security or a relevant investment (article 53 RAO),  and 
making arrangements for another  person to buy or sell or subscribe for a security or relevant 
investment (article 25 RAO).  
the general  prohibition
Section 19 of FSMA says that a person may not carry on a regulated activity in the UK, or purport to 
do so, unless they are either an authorised  person or an exempt person. 
This is known as the general prohibition.
At the time of the events complained about,  PSL was an authorised person (also referred  to as a 
firm in regulators rules).  That means it could  carry  out regulated activities without being in breach  of 
the general  prohibition.
Mr R was neither an authorised person nor exempt from authorisation.  RWM was not a separate  legal  
entity  it was just a trading name he used. That means that if Mr R had carried  out a regulated 
activity on his own behalf,  whether in his own name or his trading name, by way of business, he 
would have been in breach of the general  prohibition.  
the approved  persons  regime
The approved persons regime  is set out in Part V of FSMA. Its aim is to protect  consumers by 
ensuring that only fit and proper individuals may lawfully carry  out certain  functions within the 
financial services industry.
At the relevant time, section 59(1) of FSMA said:
(1)  An authorised person (A) must take reasonable care to ensure  that no person performs  
a controlled function under  an arrangement entered into by A in relation to the carrying on by 
A of a regulated activity,  unless the Authority approves the performance by that person of the 
controlled function  to which the arrangement relates.
PSL was an authorised person. The act of advising  on investments was a controlled function. 
PSL arranged for Mr R to be was registered on the FSA register as CF30 Customer  from 2007 to 
2011.  
The approved persons regime  does not depend on an individuals  employment  status. Employees  can 
be approved  persons,  as can non-employees like Mr R.  
breach of statutory duty
At the relevant time, section 150(1) of FSMA said:
A contravention by an authorised person of a rule is actionable at the suit of a private person  
who suffers loss as a result  of the contravention, subject  to the defences and other incidents 
applying to actions for breach of statutory duty. 
Ref: DRN929170913Rights of action under section 150(1) of FSMA were only available in relation to contravention of 
specific rules made by the FSA under FSMA. 
One such  rule in place at the time of the events Mr T complains  about was COBS 9.2.1(1)R, which  
said:
A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation,  is suitable 
for its client.
Mr T was a private person  under section 150(1) of FSMA and a private customer under COB  5.3.5R. 
Broadly, those  terms covered all natural persons   subject  to some exceptions. I am satisfied that no 
exceptions applied to Mr T  he was not a firm, and he was not carrying out any regulated activities by 
way of business. He was simply an ordinary  consumer.
That means that if Mr T suffered a loss as a result of a rule breached by PSL, he would  have a right of 
action against PSL for breach of statutory duty.  He would  have no such  right against Mr R, because  
he was not a firm.
were the acts complained of done  in carrying out a regulated activity?
Regulated activities  are specified in Part II of the FSMA 2000 (Regulated  Activities)  Order 2001 (the 
RAO) and include  advising  on the merits of buying or selling a particular investment  which is a 
security or a relevant investment (article  53 RAO), and making arrangements for another  person  to 
buy or sell or subscribe for a security or relevant investment (article 25 RAO).   
It does not seem to me disputed that Mr R gave advice to Mr T to switch his pension and then invest  
in the shares.  But in any event I am satisfied that the evidence indicates  that Mr R arranged and 
advised on the pension  switch to the SIPP  and the share investment. That is Mr Ts recollection, and 
the documents I have seen  indicate that Mr R was corresponding on Mr T's behalf with the 
transferring scheme and the new SIPP provider. The documents also refer to the share purchase.  
The fact that there does  not appear  to be any recommendations report  or fact find being carried  out 
does not mean that Mr R did not provide advice to Mr T or arrange the switch  and subsequent  
investment. The evidence strongly indicates he did. 
The SIPP, Mr T's existing pension and the shares were securities or relevant  investments. So a 
regulated activity took place (giving advice on or arranging the switch and investment).  I therefore 
need to consider whether  those activities were  the acts of PSL
were those  acts the acts of the authorised firm, (PSL)?  
M R is recorded on the Financial Services Register as representing PSL from November 2007 to 
March 2012.  
When considering if the acts complained  about are those of PSL I have taken note of the following  
documents: 
A Yorsipp  SIPP  application form dated 6 November 2009. This recorded the transferring  
scheme as Mr T's personal pension  with Clerical  Medical. The Financial Adviser Details on 
that form record Mr R was acting for Positive Solutions, using  a thinkpositive email 
address. The application also recorded that an investment was to be made  in Lightstep 
unquoted shares. The Confirmation  on the application was signed by Mr R whose position  
was recorded as Partner.  The Introducing  Firm  was stated to be Positive Solutions,  FSA 
reference number  184591.  
An instruction from Mr T to appoint  Professional Financial Services as his financial advisers.  
This instruction is held by Clerical Medical.  
Ref: DRN929170914An email from Mr R dated 9 November 2009  which  appears to be to Yorsipp. This says it 
attaches application  and pension transfer documentation for Mr T. It instructs all 
correspondence be sent to Mr Rs personal  address. The email is signed Mr R, Partner,  20-
4-7 Solutions LLP.
A letter from Clerical Medical confirming  that a payment of about £20,000 was made to 
Yorsipp on 18 November 2009. 
A letter from Yorsipp to Mr R of Real Wealth Management. This confirmed receipt  of Mr Ts 
pension transfer value from Clerical Medical. 
Confirmation  from Yorsipp that no fees were paid to Mr R or PSL.  It also confirmed that any 
letters were  issued  to Mr R at his personal  address,  not PSLs.
Mr T has said: 
At all times  in my discussions with Mr R he made it clear that he was an appointed representative of 
Positive Solutions and provided me with his business card and initial  disclosure  document  and 
assured me that I had the backing of a large financial  service company  in Positive Solutions with any 
transaction.
Bearing in mind  the evidence it is clear that Mr R arranged the switch of Mr Ts pension to the SIPP. I 
also believe  it is likely  that Mr R advised Mr T to invest in the shares, as Mr T has said. I think it is 
likely that Mr R did so on the basis he was representing  PSL. That is what Mr T has said and it is 
recorded on the SIPP application that Mr R, representing  PSL, was the financial adviser involved. My 
understanding is that Real  Wealth  Management  was a trading style of PSL. 
what did PSL authorise Mr R to do?
Agency is a relationship  between  two parties where  they agree  that one will act on behalf of the other 
so as to affect its relations with third parties.  The one on whose behalf  acts are to be done is called 
the principal. The one who is to act is called the agent. In other words, the principal authorises the 
agent to act on its behalf.   
The creation of that authority can take a number of forms.  And it is usual for the authority to be 
limited in nature.
The law recognises different forms of agency. 
In this case there is a written  agency  agreement which  gives express  or actual  authority to Mr R.
It is the case that an agent  also has implied authority to do what is necessary  for, or ordinarily  
incidental to, the effective execution of his express authority.
actual authority
Paragraph 2.1 of the agency  agreement between PSL and Mr R said:
The company hereby  appoints  the Registered Individual  as its Registered Individual  for the 
purpose only of introducing Applications  by Clients for the new Contracts, for submission to 
the Institutions specified by the Registered Individual and approved by the Company.
Contracts is defined as:
The Contracts  for the products entered into or to be entered into, by the client, with the 
Institutions.
Ref: DRN929170915And Institution is defined as: 
Any insurance  or assurance company, life office, unit trust manager, fund manager, 
stockbroker, building  society, bank, finance house or other financial  institution.
Taken in isolation paragraph 2.1 seems to say the agent is only appointed to introduce applications  
for new contracts for PSL approved products.  
However, the agency  agreement is a contract and, as always, the whole contract has to be 
considered in order  to interpret its meaning.  Other  relevant or potentially  relevant clauses include:
Paragraph 2.4:
The relationship between the Company and the Registered Individual  shall be strictly that of 
principal and Registered Individual and not in any way that of employer and employee.  The 
Company shall be responsible for acts, omissions and representations of the Registered 
Individual in the course of carrying out the business of the Agency hereby created, or in the 
course of performance  of duties hereby  contracted,  but only to the extent that it would be 
responsible at common law or by virtue of any statutory enactment  or regulation, or by virtue 
of the Rules of any organisation (including  FSA) of which the Company is member  for the 
time being.  In particular, the Company shall not be bound by acts of the Registered  Individual 
which exceed  the authority granted under the provision  of the Agreement or by fraudulent  
acts of the Registered Individual  or the Registered Individuals staff.
Paragraph 3.1:
Required a Registered Individual to be registered with the FSA. 
Paragraph 4.3:
Required the Registered Individual to conduct  business on PSL terms of business - which  the 
Registered Individual must supply to every client. 
Paragraph 10.1:
Required the Registered Individual to conduct  himself in adherence to the FSA rules.
Paragraph 10.4:
Prohibited the Registered Individual from procuring  persons to enter into agreements 
otherwise than through PSL agency.
 
Paragraph 10.7:
Any act or omission of the Registered Individual  shall be treated  as an act or omission of the 
Company.  It is therefore  imperative that the Registered Individual adheres to the strict rules 
laid down by the FSA and the Companys procedures manuals.
Paragraph 14.:
The Registered  Individual agreed to indemnify PSL if it incurred any claims or liability in 
respect of the Registered  Individuals acts or omissions. 
So amongst other things,  its the case that the agent is appointed to do business with clients in 
accordance with PSLs terms of business  and the registered individual is required to carry on the 
business in accordance with the FSAs rules and PSLs Compliance procedures.  
Ref: DRN929170916As mentioned  above, at the time of the events complained about in this case, as required by 
paragraph 3.1 of the Agency  agreement Mr R was registered on the FSA register.  It shows that he 
was approved  to perform  the controlled  function CF30  Customer with PSL from November  2007 to 
March 2012. 
The PSL Compliance manual recorded that PSL was authorised to advise on investments (amongst 
other things).
It is therefore  clear to me, taking all the above into account, that, subject to conditions ,  
Mr R was appointed to advise on investments on behalf of PSL and not just to introduce applications  
for new policies.
Registered individuals such as Mr R were appointed as, and held out by PSL, as independent 
financial advisers able to advise on investments as authorised and regulated by the FSA.  
As discussed, advising  a person in their capacity as an investor  or potential  investor on the merits of 
their buying or selling an investment covered by the FSMA  2000 is a regulated  activity under Article 
53 of the Regulated Activities Order 2000.
Agreeing to carry on certain  regulated  activities including  advising on investments  is itself a regulated 
activity (under  Article  64).
And arranging deals in investments is a regulated activity under Article 25.
Carrying on such regulated activities by way of business is a criminal offence  unless the person doing  
so is authorised (or exempt  but that is not relevant  here). PSL was authorised by the FSA to carry 
on all of those activities at the time of the disputed  advice.  And it was subject to the FSAs  rules when  
carrying on those activities.
Without going  into too much  detail giving compliant  investment  advice involves  getting  to know a 
client and reviewing  their financial position, their objectives and attitude to risk and then giving advice 
that is suitable to those  circumstances.  In broad  terms this process  is set out in COBS 9.2 and the 
PSL Compliance Manual.  
When PSL agrees  to give investment advice  (which it gives through its registered  individuals)  it 
cannot know  at the outset what advice it will give.  First  PSL (through its registered  individual) must 
assess the clients current  financial  position,  objectives, attitude to risk and so on.  When it has done 
that, suitable investment advice from PSL (given through its registered  individual) might, depending 
on the circumstances discovered,  be:
1.Invest money that is not currently invested in a new plan approved  by PSL.
2.Sell an existing  investment and buy a new plan approved by PSL because it is in the clients  
best interest to sell and to buy.
3.Do not sell an existing investment to buy a new plan approved by PSL because  it is not in the 
clients interest to sell and to buy.  
4.Do not buy a particular approved PSL investment the client is interested in because  it    is not 
suitable for the client (because it is too high risk or not currently affordable for example)  and 
so not in the clients  best interest to buy.
Each one of these possible scenarios involves regulated investment advice by PSL (given  through  the 
registered individual) and, as I have said, PSL does not know which  of those or other possible 
scenarios will play out at the start of the advice  process. And three of those scenarios involve more 
than introducing new applications for new plans.  And the second and third might involve advising on 
the merits of selling plans PSL has not approved.
Ref: DRN929170917If a PSL registered individual was only authorised by PSL to introduce applications  for new plans 
possible scenarios 2, 3 and 4 would seem  to involve  the registered individual acting unlawfully.  So 
this possible restricted interpretation of the authority given by PSL to its registered  individual cant be 
right.  
In my view it must be the case that the registered individuals appointment is wider  than only 
introducing applications for new approved contracts.   In my view this is either:
the meaning of clause 2.1 when read with clause  2.4, and the rest of the agreement, and/or
it is the actual or implied authority from all the processes set out in PSL own requirements on 
its registered individuals as result of the FSA conduct of business rules it is subject to.
In saying  all that, I do not say that the appointment of the registered individual is unconditional.   I only 
say at this point that the authority goes wider  than only introducing applications  for new approved 
contracts.  In my view the registered individuals authority does  include giving  advice on the merits of 
selling existing investments in some  circumstances.
So it is my view, in this case, that PSLs authority  to Mr R did potentially include advice  on the merits 
of selling  existing  investments as well as the introduction of applications for new contracts. 
did the agents express  authority cover the advice in this case?
As discussed, PSL placed requirements  on its registered individuals when  conducting investment 
business. It said:
The Company hereby  appoints  the Registered  Individual  as its Registered  Individual for the purpose 
only of introducing Applications  by Clients for new Contracts, for submission to Institutions specified  
by the Registered Individual and approved by the Company.
That means that applications must relate to investments  PSL had approved. As I understand it PSL 
has confirmed that Yorsipp  whose SIPP Mr T transferred to - was an approved SIPP  provider. In 
other words that was a SIPP  provider that its registered individuals could use. However, the company 
shares were not an approved investment.  
So Mr R did have express authority from PSL to advise  on, and arrange, the Yorsipp  SIPP. So Mr Rs 
actions in that respect would fall within my jurisdiction. 
But I have noted that Lightstep shares were not approved  investments or institutions. 
In the applicable authority of Martin v Britannia Life Limited [1999]  the judge  took a broad approach. 
The appointed  representative advised  on a package of transactions including a mortgage. The judge 
held that the concept of investment advice will include all financial advice given to a prospective client 
with a view to or in connection with the purchase, sale or surrender of an investment  including advice  
as to any associated or ancillary transaction. 
So in Martin v Britannia Life a firm was held to be responsible for advice  that extended beyond  the 
products the appointed  representative  was authorised to advise upon.  That was on the basis that 
there was an activity that was part of the overall transaction that the adviser was authorised to advise 
on. 
As discussed, Mr R gave advice as to, and arranged, the Yorsipp SIPP   a plan which  he could give 
advice on, or arrange, under  his agreement with PSL.  PSL is therefore liable  for that advice  and the 
arrangement of the SIPP.  
The advice as to the SIPP  and the arrangement of it was intrinsically linked to the purchase of the 
Lightstep shares investment in the sense that the latter could not proceed without the former.
Ref: DRN929170918I have referred to Martin v Britannia Life [1999] Limited and TenetConnect  v Financial  Ombudsman 
Service [2018]. Such set out that if the non-authorised activity is very  closely connected to or 
inextricably linked to the activity which the principal authorised and permitted then the non-
authorised activity can be considered  to be part of the overall transaction  that the principal permitted.  
The SIPP was clearly linked  to the advice to invest in the shares, they were  part of the same 
transaction. The advice to set up the SIPP was not given  on a standalone basis but formed  part of a 
process encompassing both the switch  to the SIPP  and the investment in the shares. They  were part 
of the same transaction or piece of advice.   
It follows that the advice to invest in the shares falls within my jurisdiction as it was a linked 
transaction of the advice  to switch to the SIPP and part of the same piece  of advice. 
apparent authority
Even if I am wrong  that Mr R had express authority to give advice  about the SIPP and investment, 
there is also the matter of apparent (or ostensible) authority. 
In an agency relationship,  a principal may limit the actual authority of his agent. But if the agent acts 
outside of that actual  authority, a principal may still be liable to third parties for the agents acts if 
those acts were within the agents apparent  authority. This is the case even if the agent was acting 
fraudulently and in furtherance of his own interest  provided the agent is acting within his apparent 
authority. 
This type of authority was described  by Diplock  LJ in Freeman  & Lockyer v Buckhurst Properties 
(Mangal) Ltd [1964] 2 QB 480:
An "apparent" or "ostensible" authorityis a legal relationship between  the principal and the 
contractor created by a representation, made by the principal  to the contractor, intended to be 
and in fact acted  upon  by the contractor,  that the agent has authority to enter on behalf of the 
principal into a contract of a kind within the scope of the "apparent"  authority, so as to render 
the principal  liable  to perform any obligations imposed upon him by such contract.  To the 
relationship so created  the agent is a stranger. He need  not be (although he generally  is) 
aware of the existence of the representation but he must not purport to make the agreement 
as principal himself. The representation, when acted upon by the contractor by entering into a 
contract with the agent, operates as an estoppel, preventing the principal from asserting that 
he is not bound by the contract. It is irrelevant whether the agent had actual authority to enter 
into the contract.
In ordinary business dealings the contractor at the time of entering into the contract  can in the 
nature of things hardly ever rely on the "actual" authority of the agent.  His information  as to 
the authority must be derived  either  from the principal  or from the agent  or from both, for they 
alone know what the agent's  actual authority is. All that the contractor  can know is what  they 
tell him, which  may or may not be true. In the ultimate analysis he relies either upon the 
representation of the principal, that is, apparent  authority, or upon  the representation of the 
agent, that is, warranty of authority...
Although Diplock LJ referred to contractors, the law on apparent  authority applies to any third party 
dealing with the agents of a principal  including a consumer such  as Mr T.
what kinds of representation are capable of giving rise to apparent authority?
Apparent authority cannot  arise  on the basis of representations made  by the agent  alone. For 
apparent authority to operate, there must be a representation by the principal that the agent has its 
authority to act. As Diplock LJ said in Freeman, 
Ref: DRN929170919The representation  which  creates "apparent" authority may take a variety  of forms of which  
the commonest is representation by conduct,  that is, by permitting the agent to act in some 
way in the conduct of the principal's business with other persons. By so doing the principal 
represents to anyone who becomes aware  that the agent is so acting  that the agent  has 
authority to enter on behalf of the principal into contracts with other persons of the kind which 
an agent so acting in the conduct of his principal's  business has usually "actual" authority to 
enter into.
In Martin v Britannia Life Ltd [1999], Parker J quoted the relevant principle as stated in Article 74 in 
Bowstead and Reynolds  on Agency 16th edition:
Where  a person,  by words  or conduct,  represents or permits it to be represented that another  
person has authority to act on his behalf  he is bound by the acts of that other person with 
respect to anyone  dealing with him as an agent on the faith of any such  representation, to the 
same extent as if such other person had the authority that he was represented to have,  even 
though he had no such actual authority. 
In the more recent case of Anderson v Sense Network [2018], Jacobs J endorsed Parker Js 
approach:
As far as apparent  authority  is concerned,  it is clear  from the decision in Martin  (in particular  
paragraph 5.3.3) that, in order to establish apparent authority, it is necessary  for the claimants 
to establish a representation  made by Sense  [the alleged principal],  which was intended  to be 
acted on and which was in fact acted on by the claimants, that MFSS  [the alleged agent] was 
authorised by Sense  to give advice  in connection with the scheme
I also agree with Sense that there  is nothing in the "status" disclosure  i.e. the compulsory 
wording relating to the status of MFSS and Sense  appearing at the foot of the stationery and 
elsewhere  which can be read as containing any relevant representation as to MFSS's 
authority to do what they were doing  in this case: i.e. running the scheme  and advising in 
relation to it. The "status" disclosure did no more than identify the regulatory status of MFSS 
and Sense and the relationship between them. I did not consider that the Claimants had 
provided any persuasive reason as to how the statements on which they relied  relating to 
"status disclosure"  could  lead to the conclusion  that MFSS was authorised to provide advice 
on the scheme that was being promoted. In my view, a case of ostensible authority requires  
much more than an assertion that Sense conferred  a "badge of respectability" on MFSS. As 
Martin shows, it requires a representation  that there was authority to give advice of the type 
that was giventhe  relevant question is whether the firm has knowingly or even  unwittingly 
led a customer to believe  that an appointed representative or other agent is authorised to 
conduct business on its behalf  of a type that he is not in fact authorised to conduct.  
Nor is there any analogy with the facts or conclusions  in Martin. That case was not concerned 
with any representation  alleged to arise from "status" disclosure. In Martin, the representation 
by the principal that the agent was a financial adviser acting for an insurance company was 
regarded as a sufficient representation that the adviser could advise on matters (the mortgage 
in that case) which were ancillary  to insurance products.  In the present case, there is nothing  
in the "status disclosure" which contains any representation that MFSS  or its financial 
advisers could operate or advise in connection  with a deposit  scheme  that MFSS  was 
running.
The representation may be general  in character. In Armagas Ltd v Mundogas SA [1985], Lord Keith 
said:
In the commonly encountered case, the ostensible authority is general in character, arising 
when the principal  has placed  the agent in a position which in the outside world is generally 
regarded as carrying authority to enter into transactions of the kind in question. Ostensible  
general authority may also arise where the agent has had a course of dealing with a particular  
Ref: DRN929170920contractor and the principal  has acquiesced in this course of dealing  and honoured 
transactions arising out of it.
must the third party  rely on the representation?
The principals representation that its agent  has its authority to act on its behalf will only fix the 
principal with liability  to the third party (here Mr T) if the third party  relied on that representation.
In Anderson, Jacobs J summarised the approach to be taken  as to whether or not there is sufficient 
evidence of reliance on the representation  as follows:
a relevant  ingredient of a case based on apparent authority is reliance  on the faith of the 
representation alleged: see Bowstead  and Reynolds on Agency  21st edition, paragraph [8-
010] and [8-024]; Martin  paragraph 5.3.3. In Martin, Jonathan  Parker J. held that the relevant 
representation in that case (namely that the adviser  was authorised to give financial advice 
concerning a remortgage of the property) was acted on by the plaintiffs in that each of them 
proceeded throughout on the footing that in giving  advice [the adviser]  was acting in every 
respect as the agent of [the alleged principal] with authority from [the alleged principal]  so to 
act.
On the particular facts of that case, Jacobs J placed weight on the fact the majority of the claimants 
had never  heard of the defendant, Sense  Network, and that those who had heard of it made  their 
decision to invest in the relevant scheme before they saw the stationery which they later said 
contained the representation on which they relied.
As the case law makes  clear, whether or not a claimant has relied on a representation is dependent 
on the circumstances of that individual case. 
In respect of apparent authority I have considered  whether, on the facts of this individual case:
PSL made a representation to Mr T that Mr R had PSLs authority to act on its behalf in 
carrying out the activities he now complains about, and
Mr T relied on that representation in entering into the transactions he now complains about.
Having considered  the law in this area, including Lord Keiths comments  in Armagas , so far as 
representations are concerned I need  to decide  whether PSL placed Mr R in a position which  would 
objectively generally  be regarded as carrying its authority to enter into transactions  such  as the 
pension switch and investment in the shares. Put another way, did PSL knowingly   or even  
unwittingly  lead Mr T to believe that Mr R was authorised to conduct  business on its behalf of a type 
(namely, carrying out the pension switch  and arranging  the investment) that PSL argues  he was not in 
fact authorised to conduct?
I also need  to decide whether Mr R relied  on any representation PSL made. Having  considered  
Parker Js comments  in Martin, if Mr T proceeded throughout on the footing  that in giving advice  Mr R 
was acting  in every  respect as the agent  of PSL with authority  from PSL so to act, then this suggests  I 
should conclude  that Mr T relied on PSLs representation.
did PSL represent to Mr T that Mr R had the relevant authority?
As I have discussed, I am persuaded that Mr R did give advice to switch Mr Ts pension and 
investment advice on behalf  of PSL.
The evidence  is that Mr T received a terms of business agreement in respect of the disputed advice. It 
is my view that in principle an agent of PSL was authorised to:
advise on the setting up of investment such as the shares
Ref: DRN929170921advise on the switch of the pension to the SIPP.  
None of these activities were in themselves novel or exceptional or unexpected for an IFA.  These are 
activities that fall within the class of activities that IFAs are usually authorised to do.  Any restrictions  
on the authority to give such  advice (such as set out by PSL) would not have been visible to Mr T.  So 
for example  he would not know that an adviser should only recommend approved investments, should  
obtain clearance from PSL before giving certain types of advice and should present the advice  in 
certain ways.
PSL placed  Mr R in a position which  would,  in the outside world, generally be regarded as having  
authority to carry out the acts Mr R complains about.  
PSL authorised  Mr R to give pensions and investment advice on its behalf. 
PSL arranged for Mr R to appear  on the FSA register in respect of PSL.   And Mr R was approved to 
carry on the controlled function CF30 at the time of the disputed  advice.
PSL held itself out as an independent financial adviser  that gave advice and offered products from the 
whole of the market after assessing a clients needs.  No information was provided to clients or 
potential clients about the agent being authorised  in relation to approved products only.  
It was in PSLs interest for the general  public, including Mr T, to understand that it was taking 
responsibility for the advice given by its financial advisers. I am satisfied that PSL intended Mr T to act 
on its representation that Mr R was its financial adviser.
I further consider  that the provision of financial advice was a key part of PSLs  business. It said in its 
terms of business that its partners would  give impartial, independent financial advice. I do not see 
how PSL could have carried out its business activities at all if the general public had not treated  
registered individuals like Mr R as having  authority to give investment advice on behalf of PSL.
did Mr T  rely on PSLs representation?  
Mr T has said clearly that he understood Mr R to be acting as PSLs adviser when he gave the advice 
about the pension  switch and share investment.  As discussed, in my view it is highly  likely  that Mr R 
did represent  to Mr T that he was giving  advice and providing his services  as an adviser of PSL. 
There is no persuasive  evidence to show that Mr T knew or should have known that Mr R was acting 
in any capacity other than a PSL adviser.
In my view,  on balance, the evidence does  indicate  that Mr T proceeded  on the basis that Mr R was 
acting in every respect as the agent of PSL with authority  from PSL so to act.
should PSL to be required  to bear  any losses  caused by Mr R?
The courts have taken into account whether it is just to require a principal  to bear a loss caused by 
the wrongdoing  of his agent. I have considered  whether  it is just to hold PSL responsible  for any 
detriment Mr T has suffered as result of the advice he received from Mr R. I think it is just to hold PSL 
responsible for the consequences of its putting Mr R in the position where Mr T could  suffer  loss as a 
result of his actions.  In  particular, I note:
Ref: DRN929170922PSL was in a position  to monitor Mr Rs behaviour.  
PSL did not tell Mr T it had put any of the limits  on his authority that it says are relevant here.
PSLs agency agreement acknowledges  that it will be held responsible for the wrongs  of its 
agents and includes  and requires the agent to provide it with an indemnity it respect of any 
losses etc it suffers as result of such wrongs.
So overall I consider that it is just for PSL to be required to bear any losses caused by any wrong  
doing done by Mr R whilst  carrying on a controlled function assigned to him by PSL.
vicarious liability
It is also appropriate  for me to consider  whether  PSL is vicariously liable for the actions of Mr R  
independently of whether  apparent authority  also operated such  as to fix PSL with liability  for the 
actions of its agents. 
what is vicarious liability?
Vicarious liability is a common law principle of strict,  no-fault liability for wrongs  committed by another 
person. 
Not all relationships are capable of giving rise to vicarious liability. The classic example  of a 
relationship which can give rise to vicarious  liability  is the employment relationship, but Mr R was not 
an employee  of PSL. However, the employment  relationship  is not the only relationship capable of 
giving rise to vicarious liability.
Broadly, there is a two stage  test to decide whether vicarious liability can apply:
Stage one is to ask whether there is a sufficient relationship between  the wrongdoer and the 
principal (Cox v Ministry  of Justice  [2016]).
Stage two is to ask whether the wrongdoing itself was sufficiently connected  to the 
wrongdoers duties on behalf of the principal for it to be just for the principal to be held liable 
(Mohamud  v WM Morrison Supermarkets plc [2016]).
There is some uncertainty  in the law as to how widely  the test in Cox should  be applied. I note that in 
Frederick v PSL [2018]  the Court of Appeal explicitly  declined to decide whether the test in Cox 
applied to PSLs relationship  with another of its registered individuals. 
If it were  the case that vicarious liability  could  never have anything  to do with principals and agents 
then I consider it likely that the Court of Appeal would have  simply said so. But in any event, the 
relationship between  Mr R and PSL was not just an agency relationship. Mr R was registered with the 
FSA as an approved person able to carry out regulated  activities  on PSLs behalf, and this complaint 
is about  the regulated activities  of advising on and arranging deals in investments.  I consider that it 
would be wrong for me to simply ignore or set aside the regulatory background in reaching  my 
decision.  
I am not aware of any case  law concerning the exact set of circumstances that Mr T complains about. 
But that does not prevent  me from applying the law as I understand  it to be. In Cox, Lord Reed said:
the words used by judges are not to be treated as if they were the words of a statute. Where 
a case concerns circumstances which have not previously been the subject of an authoritative  
judicial decision, it may be valuable to stand back and consider whether the imposition  of 
vicarious liability would be fair, just and reasonable.
Had Mr T referred this matter to a court  instead of to the ombudsman service, I consider that the court 
is likely  to have chosen to apply the approach  suggested by Lord Reed. I will therefore  do the same.
Ref: DRN929170923the stage one test
It is now accepted that a variety of relationships, not just those of employer  and employee, may be 
capable of giving rise to vicarious liability. In Cox, Lord Reed said:
The result [of the approach  adopted by Lord Phillips  in Various Claimants v Catholic Child 
Welfare Society [2012] UKSC 56; [2013] 2 AC 1]  is that a relationship other than one of 
employment is in principle  capable of giving  rise to vicarious liability  where harm is wrongfully 
done by an individual who carries on activities as an integral part of the business activities 
carried on by a defendant and for its benefit (rather than his activities being entirely 
attributable to the conduct  of a recognisably  independent business of his own or of a third 
party), and where the commission of the wrongful act is a risk created by the defendant by 
assigning those activities to the individual in question.
I am satisfied  that giving advice to Mr T to switch his pension and then invest  in the shares was 
carrying on activities as an integral part of the business activities carried on by PSL. I say that 
because:
At the time, PSLs stated  purpose was to help our clients, understand, protect and increase 
their assets.  I consider that the provision of, and subsequent implementation  of, investment  
advice is an integral  part of fulfilling that purpose. 
PSLs business model was that it gave  financial advice itself, through  its Partners. As set out 
in its partnership code , those Partners promised to give impartial, independent financial 
advice.  
PSLs status as an authorised firm meant that it was not in breach  of the general prohibition  
when it gave investment  advice  to members of the public.  So, when its Partners gave 
investment advice on behalf of PSL, carrying out PSLs  business  activities, those Partners 
were not in breach of the general prohibition  either.
Mr R was a PSL Partner.  PSL had given  him permission to carry out the controlled function of 
CF 30 Customer on behalf of PSL. PSL had therefore engaged  Mr R to carry  out activities 
that were an integral part of its business.
I note that the FCA has issued guidance as to when it considers a person to be carrying on a 
business in their own right - set out in PERG 2.3.5 to 2.3.11. Although  the guidance  was published  
some time after the events  Mr T complains about, the relevant parts of the legislation (in respect of 
permissions to give regulated  financial  advice)  have not changed  substantively. I therefore consider  it 
appropriate for me to take into account the guidance in PERG, which says:
In practice,  a person is only likely to fall outside the general prohibition on the grounds that 
he is not carrying on his own business if he is an employee or performing a role very similar to 
an employee .
PSL clearly intended Mr R to fall outside the general  prohibition when acting on PSLs  behalf in giving  
and implementing investment advice.  As Ive said, I consider that the only way in which Mr R could 
have fallen outside the general prohibition would  be on the basis that he was carrying  on PSLs 
business rather  than his own.  In my view,  the guidance therefore  provides support for the contention 
that Mr Rs relationships with PSL were very similar to employment relationships.  
Further, in allowing  Mr R to give investment advice on its behalf, PSL was creating the risk that he 
might make errors  or act negligently in doing  so. PSL assigned to Mr R the customer facing task of 
giving regulated financial  advice to PSLs customers, and it is always possible  for that task to be 
carried out negligently.
Ref: DRN929170924PSL had arranged for Mr R to be approved  by the FSA to perform various  controlled functions  in 
relation to regulated  activities  carried on by PSL.  Those controlled functions  which  included the 
giving of regulated investment advice  were activities assigned to Mr R by PSL as part of PSLs 
business. 
the stage two test
The stage two test asks whether the wrongdoers action is so closely connected with the business  
activities of his principal as to make  it just to hold the principal liable.
As Lord Dyson said in Mohamud,  the test requires a court  to, make an evaluative judgment in each 
case having regard to all the circumstances  and having regard to the assistance provided by previous 
decisions on the facts  of other cases. That is not a precise test, but the courts  have recognised the 
inevitability of imprecision given, the infinite  range of circumstances where  the issue of vicarious  
liability arises .
In the particular circumstances  of this complaint, I consider that it is just for PSL to be held 
responsible for the actions  Mr T complains  about.  I note:
Mr R was giving pension and investment advice, completing paperwork and making 
arrangements to put that advice into practice. I consider these  activities are closely connected  
to the business activities of PSL,  a firm which provided  financial advice and arranged  
investment transactions  for its customers.
If PSL is not vicariously liable here, then Mr Ts ability  to obtain compensation  would  depend  
on whether the PSL Partner he dealt with was an employee of PSL.  In Cox, the court 
suggested it would have been unreasonable  and unfair for the claimants ability to receive 
compensation for the injury she suffered while  working in a prison kitchen to depend on 
whether the worker who injured her was an employee or a prisoner. I consider that argument  
has even more relevance here  at least Mrs Cox is likely to have either  known  or had the 
ability to find out who was an employee and who was a prisoner. But Mr T had no way of 
knowing Mr Rs employment status (I am aware  that Mr Rs agency contract said he had to 
make his status as a registered individual clear  but even if he had done that, the term 
Registered Individual did not imply  anything about his employment status).
The agency contracts say PSL will not be responsible if Mr R acts outside his authority. But 
the contract also says that any act or omission  of the registered individual will be treated  as 
an act of PSL. In my view, those two terms conflict. I do not consider it would be fair for PSL 
to be entitled to rely on one but ignore the other.
PSL received  no benefit from the acts Mr T complains about, and in particular it did not 
receive any commission. But as Lord Toulson explained in Mohamud , vicarious  liability  can 
apply even  where an employee  has abused his position in a way that cannot  possibly have 
been of benefit to his employer  such as carrying out a private  fraud or assaulting  a 
customer. In Frederick, PSL was found not to be vicariously liable  despite having  received 
commission. The commission  issue is not determinative.
I acknowledge that the conclusions  I have  reached are different to the conclusions reached by the 
court in Frederick . In that case, PSL was found not to be vicariously liable for the conduct of a named 
Mr Warren. I have not seen  the whole of Mr Warrens agency contract with PSL, but from the sections 
quoted in the judgment  the terms in his contract appear to be identical to the terms in Mr Rs contract.
However, the facts  in Frederick are so different  to the facts here that I do not consider that the same 
outcome is inevitable  in this complaint. In particular, I note:   
In Frederick, the claimants were  approached  by a Mr Qureshi  who was not a registered 
individual of PSL. Mr Qureshi induced  them to invest in a property scheme, which  he was 
Ref: DRN929170925running jointly  with Mr Warren. The claimants, had no personal dealings with [Mr] Warren  
and did not meet him or receive any written communications from himthere was no 
semblance of an advice process. Here, Mr T had personal dealings with Mr R, PSLs  
registered individual.  He met with Mr R who provided him with advice. Mr R carried  out 
business activities of a type that had been specifically assigned to him by PSL,  and which  he 
could only (lawfully)  perform  on behalf of PSL.
 
Mr Warren submitted dishonest and fraudulent  mortgage  applications for loans on behalf of 
the claimants. Mr T has made no such allegation of fraud. He only complains  about  the 
suitability of the advice. Their allegation is one of negligence and/or breach of statutory duty. 
He does  not say as such  that Mr R was dishonest. There is therefore no need  for me to 
consider whether PSL would have been vicariously liable for any dishonest acts by Mr R.
Mr Warren was only able to submit the mortgage applications  in the way he did because  he 
was an agent of PSL.  But the claimants in Frederick did not say they had suffer[ed] any loss 
through the actual re-mortgaging or their receipt of monies from [the lender]. Instead, they 
suffered losses only when they handed the money over to Mr Warren  (or to the company of 
which Mr Warren and Mr Qureshi were directors).  In contrast, Mr T says he suffered losses as 
a direct result of the advice given to him by Mr R, in his capacity as a PSL financial adviser, to 
switch his pension and invest in Shares Fund. 
what if the tests in Cox and Mohamud  are not applicable to this complaint?
I recognise that a court might take the view that the specific tests set out in Cox and Mohamud are not 
applicable to Mr R, PSL,  and the specific acts Mr T complains about.  The applicability of those tests to 
agency relationships is unclear, as is their applicability to some or all of the reliance-based  torts, 
possibly including negligent mis-statement. 
Even if those  specific tests  are not applied, I still consider that it would be appropriate for a court to 
consider whether PSL is vicariously liable for the actions of Mr R. The earlier cases, including  
Armagas and the Christian Brothers  case [2012], make clear that justice is the courts  overriding 
concern in such matters.  Where the claimant and the defendant are both innocent parties, the court 
will consider whether the circumstances under which  the wrongdoer committed his wrong  were  such 
as to make it just for the defendant  to bear the loss.
Bearing in mind  the regulatory position, I consider that in the particular circumstances of this case it is 
just to require PSL to bear any loss caused by negligent investment advice provided by Mr R.
From a public  policy point  of view, one of the purposes of FSMA was to make provisions for the 
protection of consumers. The approved person regime was one of the ways in which  both FSMA and 
the FSA gave  effect  to that protection. Mr R was a PSL approved person. In view of section 59(1) of 
FSMA, I consider  that when Mr R carried  out the regulated activity  of a pension  switch, advising on 
investments, and arranging deals in investments,  those activities  were the activities of PSL.  PSL is 
clearly responsible for its own activities. 
I see no support  in FSMA  or anywhere  else  for the belief that PSLs  responsibility for its approved 
persons was dependent  on the precise nature of its contracts  with those people (agency/non-agency). 
Similarly, I do not see anything to suggest PSLs responsibility depends  on whether  the approved 
persons conduct is classified in terms of one type of tort (reliance-based) or another. I would  be 
surprised if a court were  to take the view that such distinctions were relevant to the outcome of this 
complaint.
I therefore  consider  that PSL is vicariously liable  for the acts Mr T complains about  regardless  of 
whether Mr R carried out those acts with apparent authority on behalf of PSL (however, as I have 
said, I consider  that Mr R did in fact act with PSLs apparent  authority when they carried out the acts 
complained of.) 
Ref: DRN929170926statutory responsibility  under  section 150 of FSMA
For the reasons  Ive given above, I am satisfied that when Mr R gave the advice complained of, and 
when Mr R arranged the associated pension  switch  and deals in investments,  he was acting in his 
capacity as a PSL approved  person for the purpose of carrying on PSLs  regulated business. He was 
not carrying  on a business  of his own.
That means PSL is subject to the Conduct of Business (COBS) suitability rules in respect of Mr Rs 
advice. If Mr Rs advice was not suitable, then (subject to the recognised  defences) PSL is 
responsible in damages to Mr T under the statutory  cause of action provided  by section 150 of FSMA.  
I therefore  consider  that section 150 of FSMA provides  an alternative route by which PSL is 
responsible for the acts complained of.
In summary and having considered all of the circumstances  here, as well as the legal authorities, I am 
provisionally satisfied that: 
Mr R had express authority to give advice as to, and arrange,  the SIPP.  The SIPP and the 
share investment were  part of one overall transaction and therefore  PSL is responsible  for the 
advice given about that transaction.  The complaint would therefore fall within  my jurisdiction 
and I can consider the merits of it. 
In addition  or in the alternative - PSL represented  to Mr T that Mr R had PSLs  authority 
both to advise on the pension  switch and the investment in the shares.
In addition  or in the alternative  PSL is vicariously  liable for the acts Mr T complains about. 
PSL also has statutory responsibility under section 150 of FSMA for the acts complained 
about.
I am therefore satisfied that PSL is responsible  for the acts Mr T complains about. 
my provisional  findings  on merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr T was a company  director  of a business involved in the installation and maintenance  of air-
conditioning systems.  He says he earned abut £30,000  a year. He has confirmed that the only 
investment he had at the time the advice was given was the Clerical Medical pension.  
So Mr T didnt have  any investments of an aggressive  or high risk nature. In fact it seems he had no 
experience of risk based  investments at all apart from his pension. He confirms  that his only 
investment since 2009 was a further lump sum into his pension. 
My understanding is that the Lightstep shares were unlisted smaller company shares. Investing  in 
them would be high risk and the investor faced the real possibility of losing all their money. 
Mr Ts circumstances  do not indicate that he was prepared to lose all his money in the pension 
scheme or that he could afford to do so. They also do not indicate that he was suited to the risks this 
investment presented. The Clerical Medical plan was his only pension and he invested most  of the 
money in the shares.
Mr Ts investment experience is and was very limited and does not suggest that he was an 
experienced investor  who could appreciate all the risks of what he was doing  or would not be reliant 
on the adviser to give him suitable advice and consider his best interests.  I have not seen that the 
adviser gave  Mr T detailed advice about  the shares and in particular the risks of investing  in them. 
Ref: DRN929170927The value of Mr Ts pension funds was modest at about £20,000.  The material  issue is that the 
majority of that money was designated for investing in the shares. That put most  of his pension 
savings at risk of total loss (which is what appears to have happened).  
As discussed Mr R knew  that Mr T was to invest his pension funds in the Lightstep shares. He 
seemingly obtained very little detail about Mr T or his financial situation.  
       
Clearly, the evidence indicates that Mr T was not the sophisticated  type of investor  for which such  an 
investment in unlisted  single company shares would  be suitable;  the risks of the investment are far 
higher than were  suitable  for him and they were of a nature that was not appropriate for him.  In any 
event far too much of the pension money was invested  in the shares  there was little, if any, 
diversification.
Bearing all this background  in mind, I do not believe there is any persuasive evidence  that it was 
appropriate for Mr T to take the risks of switching and investing in the shares, which put his retirement  
income and benefits at great risk. 
calculating compensation
I think  if this unsuitable advice had not been given  then Mr T would have kept his existing pension.  
But its unlikely to be possible for PSL to reinstate Mr T into his previous pension  scheme. Bearing 
that in mind what is set out below is in my view a fair way of compensating  Mr T for the unsuitable 
advice. 
The redress  calculation  is set out on the basis that, as Mr T says, Lightstep  is in liquidation or has 
been wound up. If this is not the case then the parties should let me know.  It would be helpful  if Mr T 
could clarify the current status  of his holding.  
In summary, PSL should:
1.Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mr Ts previous pension plan, as at the date of my Final 
Decision, if it had not been transferred to the SIPP.  
2. Obtain the transfer  value, as at the date of my Final Decision, of Mr Ts SIPP,  including any 
outstanding charges. 
3. And then pay an amount into Mr Ts SIPP so that the transfer value is increased  to the amount 
calculated in (1). This payment should take account of any available tax relief  and the effect of 
charges.
In addition, PSL should:
4.Pay any future fees owed by Mr T to the SIPP, for the next five years (this will only be necessary  if 
Mr Ts shares  still exist and cannot be encashed).
5.Pay Mr T £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
I have set out each point in further detail below.
6.Obtain  the notional transfer  value  of Mr Ts previous pension plan if it had not been 
transferred to the SIPP. That should be the value at the date of my Final  Decision.
PSL should  ask Mr Ts former pension  provider  to calculate the notional transfer value that would  
have applied  as at the date of my Final Decision  had he not transferred his pension but instead 
remained invested. 
Ref: DRN929170928If there  are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income 
Total Return  Index should be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have 
been achieved if suitable  funds  had been  chosen.
PSL should  assume that any contributions or withdrawals that have been made would  still have been  
made, and on the same dates.
7.Obtain  the transfer value as at the date of my Final Decision of Mr Ts SIPP, including any 
outstanding charges. 
This should be confirmed by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued  to take charges from the 
SIPP and there wasnt an adequate  cash balance  to meet them,  it might be a negative figure.
8.Pay an amount into Mr Ts SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal  the amount  
calculated in (1). This payment should take account of any available tax relief  and the effect of 
charges.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP, PSL should pay it as a cash  sum to Mr T. 
But had it been possible  to pay into the SIPP, it would have provided a taxable income.  Therefore the 
total amount should be reduced  to notionally  allow  for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr Ts marginal rate of tax in retirement. 
9.Pay any future fees owed  to the SIPP for the next five years.
Had PSL given suitable  advice I dont think there would be a SIPP. Its not fair that Mr T continues to 
pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed. This might be the case  if the Lightstep still exist and the 
shares cannot be sold. 
Ideally, PSL should take over the shares to allow the SIPP to be closed.  This is the fairest way of 
putting Mr T back in the position he would have been in. But it is possible that the ownership  of the 
shares cant be transferred. 
If they cant be transferred,  to provide certainty to all parties, I think  its fair that PSL pays  Mr T an 
upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using  the previous years 
fees), or undertakes  to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years. This should  provide a 
reasonable period for things  to be worked  out so the SIPP can be closed. 
In return  for the compensation  set out above, PSL may ask Mr T to provide an undertaking to give it 
the net amount  of any payment he may receive from the shares in that five year period, as well as any 
other payment he may receive  from any party as a result  of the investment. That undertaking  should  
allow for the effect of any tax and charges  on the amount he may receive.  PSL will need to meet any 
costs in drawing  up this undertaking. If it asks Mr T to provide an undertaking, payment of the 
compensation awarded by this decision may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking. 
Ref: DRN929170929If, after five years, PSL wants to keep the SIPP  open,  and to maintain an undertaking  for any future  
payments under the shares, it must agree  to pay any further future  SIPP fees.  
In addition, PSL is entitled to take,  if it wishes, an assignment from Mr T of any claim Mr T may have 
against any third parties in relation to this pension switch and share investment. If PSL chooses to 
take an assignment of rights, it must be affected before payment of compensation is made. PSL must 
first provide a draft of the assignment to Mr T for his consideration and agreement. 
10.Pay Mr T £500 for the trouble and upset  caused.
I believe Mr T has been caused significant upset by the events this complaint relates to, and the 
apparent loss of pension benefits. I think that a payment of £500 is fair to compensate for that upset.
The compensation  resulting  from the loss assessment must where  possible be paid to Mr T within  28 
days of the date PSL receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision (should it remain the 
same as this provisional  decision). Further interest must be added  to the compensation amount at the 
rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time,  in 
excess of 28 days, that it takes PSL to pay Mr T this compensation.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  in this decision, I do believe Mr Ts complaint against PSL would  fall within my 
jurisdiction. I also believe it should be upheld  and compensation  calculated as set out above.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9291709