K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that Santander UK Plc will not refund any of the commission  
it received from their PPI premiums for the policy that they took out in 2005 to cover  their 
mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about commission.  Thats  
because a colleague of mine has already decided that we are unable to consider  Mr and 
Mrs Ds complaint about the mis-sale  of the PPI in a decision on 4 December 2018.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds commission complaint. Ill explain why below.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came  into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need  
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would  still need  to be covered by the Consumer  Credit  
Act on this date.
On 31 October 2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began  and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act.
As Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage was taken out after 31 October 2004,  it was a regulated 
mortgage. And so it wasnt under the scope of the Consumer  Credit Act and the FCAs 
relevant rules and guidance dont apply. So Santander doesnt need  to refund any of the 
commission Mr and Mrs D paid for the PPI they had with their mortgage.
Ref: DRN94925652my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9492565