K821x#15complaint
Mrs B has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI)  handling of a claim she made 
under her buildings  insurance policy.
background
In May 2020, I issued  a provisional  decision.  I said: 
In September 2018,  Mrs B contacted  UKI to make  a claim for a leak which  had occurred in
her bathroom, under  the buildings part of her policy. UKI arranged for a surveyor to visit the
property, but subsequently declined  the claim. It said the cause of the claim was not as a
result of a leak from a pipe, but as a result  of the grouting around the tiling failing over time.
Mrs B wasnt  satisfied  with this. She said her husband had a serious  medical condition and
needed access to a bathroom.  She instructed her own plumber (who Ill call company P) to
carry out the repairs. After  she paid the plumber, she sent the invoices to UKI.
After considering the new evidence provided by Mrs B, UKI agreed the claim shouldnt  have
been declined.  However, it didnt cover  the full amount Mrs B had paid. It paid £6,129.85,
less her excess of £350. UKI said Mrs B could  have mitigated her costs by using a less
costly plumber. UKI also expressed some concern that some  of the works Mrs B had carried
out would  not be covered, as these  were betterment.
Mrs B explained time for completing these repairs was of the essence. Her husband  is
disabled and had no alternative access to bathroom or toilet facilities.  As a result,  they
needed the repairs carried out as soon as possible. She felt, as the claim had been declined,
she had no option  but to appoint her own plumber to carry out the works. When she received
these invoices, she sent them to UKI and asked it to reimburse her the outstanding amount
shed paid.
UKI acknowledged its handling  of Mrs Bs claim wasnt at the standard she should have
expected and paid a total of £350 in recognition of the poor customer service.  It declined to
make any further payments to settle the claim. Mrs B referred her concerns to this service,
saying to put things right she was looking for the claim to be paid in full, which  included the
cosmetic repair  she had carried out afterwards
Our investigator carried out a further review  of all invoices  relating to this claim.  He
concluded in total Mrs B had spent £11,549.60 on the bathroom  repairs.
He said UKI were entitled to decline the claim for the second of company Ps invoices  (for
rerouting the pipes) in line with the policy  terms, which said it didnt provide cover  for pipes.
He said there wasnt enough information to assess which of the costs detailed on Ps third
and fourth  invoice were  directly related to the rerouting of the pipe. He recommended  UKI
reassess and provide  further clarify on what it was prepared to pay with these two invoices.
Our investigator felt it was fair UKI make the deduction for £5.29 for parts which appeared to
already have been purchased. However,  he felt UKI should reimburse Mrs B for the
remaining material costs.
When considering  the points  about plastering and redecoration, UKI said Mrs B had
provided two estimates and invoices, showing a difference of £1,000 for the same works.
Ref: DRN99242592UKI provided  given  their own indication as to how much it would have cost their contractor to
carry out the work. As a result, our investigator  recommended UKI pay Mrs B the cost of the
lower invoice, in recognition of the fact she could have paid significantly less for these works.  
He also agreed  with UKI that there appeared to be a duplicate  invoice from the company that
carried out the works (who Ill call company  M) for works already carried out by company  P,
for a total of £680. He said further  clarification was needed.
Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators  findings, remaining of the view that she had been
left with no choice  but to arrange for the repairs to be carried  out, given her husband had no
alternative access to a toilet. She said that UKI should pay for all her costs, as the payments
she made were as a direct result of them wrongly  declining her claim.
UKI said it would  be happy  to consider  the costs as noted. But as both sides  didnt agree,
this case has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  However, in doing so, Ive focused on
what I consider to be the most relevant issue at the heart of this dispute.
Its acknowledged the claim ought  to have been accepted  by UKI when Mrs B first contacted
it. UKI has made  a payment for the trouble  and upset  experienced as a result  of its poor
handling of this matter, which is in line with what I would have awarded had no payment
been made. As neither  side has provided  any further  comments  on this, my decision focuses
on how the claim should be settled.
Ive considered the terms and conditions that apply to Mrs Bs policy.  Like our investigator,  I
agree UKI should pay the first invoice from company P, where  it took steps to identify the
source of the leak. Both sides agree this is covered by the policy.
However, there is a dispute about  whether UKI should pay company Ps second invoice.
This invoice  was to fix the leaking pipe and reroute pipework.  UKI states  its entitled  to rely
on the below  exclusion.
"Trace and Access
We will also pay up to £10,000 to remove and replace any part of the building to:
 Find the source of any water or oil escaping from tanks, pipes, appliances or
fixed heating systems that is causing damage  to the buildings.
We dont cover:
 Tanks,  pipes,  appliances  or heating systems  themselves"
I consider these terms to be sufficiently  clear, in setting out Mrs Bs policy  doesnt  provider
cover for the repair to the leaking pipe, or it being  rerouted.  As a result, Im not intending to
direct UKI pay the second invoice from company P.
For invoices 3 and 4, the investigator recommended UKI provide a breakdown  of which
works would be covered  under Mrs Bs policy. Its now done so.
UKI has told us that it will pay for most of the works set out under invoice 3. There are two
areas it says are betterment,  so shouldnt be covered. Its listed  these  as:
Ref: DRN99242593supply and fit new tile board to shower  walls,  screw new water  proof tile board to
existing brick  work walls
In its file, UKI has suggested that the tile boards were supplied  as an alternative to drying
and plastering  the walls. Mrs B says this was the most appropriate course  of action given  the
urgent need for her disabled  husband to have a functioning bathroom.  However,  to date UKI
hasnt explained  why it considers this course of action as betterment, or why this part of the
claim wouldnt be covered by Mrs Bs policy terms. As a result,  and based  on the information
I have, Im inclined to direct UKI to meet the cost of invoice 3 in full.
UKI has confirmed it will cover invoice 4 in its entirely as everything  listed on this invoice 
was
covered under Mrs Bs policy. I think this is a fair and reasonable resolution in respect of this
invoice.
Ill turn now to the tiling that was carried out. Part of the tiling was detailed  in the fourth
invoice from company P. Mrs B has provided  a second invoice for tiling from company M.
UKI has questioned  why there are two invoices for tiling in the bathroom.
Mrs B has explained two sets of tiling were carried out. The first was by company  P as part
of the overall repairs carried out to the bathroom. (she says the tiling was carried  out to the
window wall and the wall abutting the kitchen). Company M provided an invoice  for £680 for
the tiling of the other two walls in the bathroom as Mrs B says she recognised this was less
urgent.
It could be argued that the tiling carried out by company M isnt part of the claim as these
tiles werent damaged by the leak. However, our usual view is that where there has been a
loss of match, as occurred here, wed say an insurer should make  a 50% contribution
towards the undamaged matching tiles. I see no reason to depart  from this approach  here.
UKI has confirmed that its willing to make a 50% contribution towards tiling invoice from
company M, totalling  £340. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances.
Ill turn now to the invoices for plastering  and painting. Again, Ive considered both the policy
terms and the information  provided.
The terms state:
We wont  pay more  than the amount it would have  cost us to repair  or rebuild the
damaged part using our own suppliers.
UKI have  provided  a breakdown of how much it would have cost for its own suppliers to
carry out the plastering. It says that Mrs Bs costs were more  than £900 than the estimate
from its own supplier, which were given as £456.02.
Mrs B provided copies of two quotes for plastering.  One was for £380 and the other was for
£1,380. Mrs B said she chose the second  quote  because she had more  confidence in the
contractor.
However, this is a significant  difference in quotes for what appears  to be the same  work. Im
also mindful Mrs B, at this time, had been told her claim had been declined. Mrs B had
already expressed  concern about  the impact  of paying for these  works  on her financial
situation. So, I would have thought she might have queried the difference in quotes,
Ref: DRN99242594potentially looking for a quote  in the middle, in order to mitigate her costs.
Our investigator recommended UKI pay Mrs B £380 for the plastering, as this is what  she
could have paid to have the work  carried out. However, in line with the policy  terms, I think
UKI should pay Mrs B what  it would  have cost it to carry out the work, which its said was
£456.02.
Mrs B has provided a number of ad-hoc  purchases  that needed to be made in order for the
works to be carried out. UKI has only disputed one of the invoices, for £5.29. It says this
invoice was for duplicate washers and it was clear  on an earlier invoice that washers had
been purchased.  The total of these invoices, less the £5.29  was £683.89 and UKI has
accepted all these  costs. I think the payment  it made in respect of these invoices was a fair
resolution to this part of the claim,  and Im not intending to direct  UKI to do anything
differently.
In order to settle the claim so far, UKI has paid Mrs B £5,779.85. In order  to settle the claim,
Im intending  to direct UKI to pay:
Company P invoice  1 in its entirety
Company P invoice  3 in its entirety
Company P invoice  4 in its entirety
£456.02 towards plastering  costs
£683.89 towards the ad-hoc purchases
£340 towards the second set of tiling in the bathroom
If, when totalled  up, these  costs come to more  than the £5,779.85 UKI has already paid
Mrs B, it should pay her the difference.
Mrs B has told us that in order to pay for the works,  she had to use her credit  card,  and
paying for these  works has had a significant  impact on her overall  financial  situation.  If Mrs B
provides her statements to UKI, it should  also repay any interest incurred as a direct  result of
the above costs  Im intending to direct  it to refund.
UKI firstly confirmed it had paid £6,129.85  to settle the claim, less Mrs Bs excess. It also 
said it considered  Mrs B could have  had the walls dried and re-plastered, rather  than having 
wallboards fitted which changed  the structure of the property. It considered  this betterment, 
and didnt agree it should  cover this cost as part of the claim.
Mrs B reiterated shed had to make a number of decisions in a short space  of time. She said 
no works were undertaken with betterment  in mind, her only intention  was getting her home  
back into a state  where her disabled husband  could use the bathroom. She also said the 
lower quote for plastering Id referred to in my provisional decision was simply for plastering  
in the bathroom, whereas the other  quote (and a third which  weve not seen) was for the 
bathroom and kitchen. She said the quote from company M for the plastering in both rooms 
was the cheapest shed  had, so moved  forward with this.
Finally, Mrs B confirmed shed repaid her credit  card bill from her savings, so wasnt  able to 
show the interest shed  incurred  on her credit card.
Ref: DRN99242595my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill turn to UKIs comments about betterment first. UKI is of the view that the fitting of the 
wallboards is betterment, but hasnt provided  any substantive  evidence  as to why it has 
taken this view.  And, having reconsidered  everything both sides have said, I remain  
persuaded by Mrs Bs account of what happened  in that she needed to make  quick   
decisions and was guided  by who she considered to be the expert in that moment. 
It might well be that UKIs contractor would  have taken a different approach.  However, I dont 
consider UKI has provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate the approach taken by 
company P was betterment. And it hasnt provided  any wider  explanation as to why it 
shouldnt pay any other part of company Ps third invoice.  So for the reasons I outlined in my 
provisional decision, I remain of the view that UKI should settle invoices 1, 3 and 4 from 
company P.
Ill turn now to the comments  Mrs B made about  the difference  in plastering invoices. While 
Im mindful of her challenging situation  at the time, the invoices she provided and referred to 
still show a considerable difference in cost. Mrs B has said the cheapest  invoice (for £380) 
was only for works to be completed in her bathroom,  whereas the £1,380 invoice from 
company M was for the plastering work that needed to be carried out in both the kitchen and 
bathroom. 
This is a significant difference  in cost and while I appreciate Mrs B says that she sought  a 
third quote  which  was higher than the one she went with, its still significantly  more than the 
amount Mrs B was quoted for just the bathroom.  And having weighed  up what Mrs B has 
told me against what shes entitled  to under her policy terms, I still think the fairest  outcome 
here is for UKI to pay her what it would  have cost it to carry out these works. So it should 
pay £456.02 for the plastering.
As neither side have  provided any further comments in response to the rest of my 
conclusions, I dont  see any reason to depart from these. Im intending to direct UKI to pay:    
Company P invoice  1 in its entirety
Company P invoice  3 in its entirety
Company P invoice  4 in its entirety
£456.02 towards plastering  costs
£683.89 towards the ad-hoc purchases
£340 towards the second set of tiling in the bathroom
If, when totalled  up, these  costs come to more  than the £6,129.85, less Mrs Bs excess, UKI 
has already paid Mrs B, it should pay her the difference.
Mrs B says shes  repaid  her credit card by releasing  her savings. Im mindful of what shes 
told us before about paying for these works has had a significant  impact on her overall 
financial situation. If Mrs B can demonstrate the interest she would have earned had she not 
had to repay her savings,  UKI should  refund any interest lost as a direct result  of the above 
costs Im directing it to refund.
Ref: DRN99242596my final decision
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint against  UK Insurance Limited, and I require it to settle Mrs Bs 
claim as Ive outlined  above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2020.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9924259