K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Hitachi  Capital (UK) Plc didnt notify him when his interest  free period for 
his loan was coming  to an end.
background
In June 2017 Mr J took out a loan with Hitachi.  The terms  stated that repayments were  to be 
deferred for 12 months. However, if the loan was repaid  within 12 months no interest  would be 
payable. There would  only be an administration fee of £29.00. Mr J says that he didnt receive  
any reminder from Hitachi and so missed paying  off the debt before interest  became changeable.
Hitachi says it sent him a welcome letter on 28 July 2017 which informed him that the full 
interest would  be payable if he didnt settle  the total amount due within 12 months. It also 
says that it sent him a reminder on 16 June 2018  to let him know that his interest free period 
was coming to an end. Mr J contacted Hitachi in early August 2018  and said he hadnt been 
given the information about the payment date and he paid the sum outstanding, but he 
refused to pay the interest. 
His complaint was rejected by Hitachi and so he brought  the matter  to this service.  It was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt  recommended it be upheld.  She reviewed 
the business records and saw that the welcome and reminder letters  had been issued to the 
correct address and so she didnt believe Hitachi had done anything wrong. Mr J didnt  agree  
and said that he hadnt received the letters  and the staff at Hitachi  had been rude to him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Js frustration at having  to pay the full interest,  but I do not believe I can 
uphold his complaint. He signed contract which recorded that if he were  to avoid interest he 
would have to pay the full amount due within  12 months  so even if he didnt get the welcome  
letter or the reminder he was informed of the date by which payment was due. 
I have considered Hitachis records and I am satisfied that it issued the letters  to the correct  
address and I cannot hold it responsible if Mr J didnt receive them.  Quite simply I cannot say 
that Hitachi has done anything wrong and therefore  I am unable  to uphold  Mr Js complaint. 
I appreciate Mr J feels that Hitachi staff were  rude to him, but I have seen  nothing  that would  
allow me to conclude that I can uphold that element of his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9202178