K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase  agreement with 
Advantage Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory quality. He wants  Advantage to pay for the 
repairs, or allow him to reject the car at no further  cost to him. The complaint is brought on 
his behalf by his wife, who Ill refer to as Mrs P.
background
Mr P obtained a second hand car in December 2015, financed  through a hire purchase 
agreement with Advantage Finance.
In November 2016 the glow plugs  needed  replacing  and the garage  told him there was a 
problem with the steering rack,  although this doesnt  seem to have been  fixed or replaced.
In March 2017, following the car breaking down, Mr P complained to the supplying garage. It 
offered to look at the car, but wouldnt agree to pay for a repair.  Mr P took his complaint to 
Advantage Finance. It said it couldnt uphold  the complaint unless Mr P could provide 
evidence that the fault which had caused  the breakdown was present when the car was 
supplied. 
In August  2017  Mr P arranged for the cars engine to be replaced  with a second  hand 
engine.
But he complains that the car still isnt driving  properly.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He couldnt 
conclude that the oil leak  which seems to have been the cause of the breakdown  was 
present, or developing, when the car was supplied. He also thought the options  Advantage 
Finance had given  him for ending the agreement were fair.
Mrs P disagreed. She said the car had started leaking oil again.  She wants to be able to 
return the car, but its not in good  working  order and she cant afford  to pay for any more 
repairs. She and her husband have been  left with a car that doesnt  work, that they still have 
to pay for. She explained why, in her particular circumstances,  she struggles without use of a 
car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement.  As such,  this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. Advantage  Finance  is the supplier of goods  
under this agreement  and is responsible  for a complaint about their quality.
Ref: DRN94063082The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of goods is satisfactory.  As such,  in order to uphold this complaint I would have 
to be persuaded  that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
In deciding whether  a car is of satisfactory  quality, some of the factors  to consider are its age 
when it was supplied,  how much mileage the car covered  since it was supplied  and how long 
after supply the fault materialised. 
The car in this case was around seven years old when it was supplied in December 2015  
and its mileage was around  93,000 miles. The fault with the glow plug module and steering 
rack occurred around 11 months later. As this was more than six months after the car was 
supplied, it would be for Mr P to evidence that the faults were present when the car was 
supplied. I havent  seen evidence, such as an independent report, to show  that these faults 
were present, or developing,  when  the car was supplied. Its normal  to expect some repairs  
due to wear and tear, particularly in a second hand car. I think  its likely that these faults  
were due to wear and tear and as such Advantage Finance isnt responsible  for the cost of 
the required repairs.
In February 2017  the car broke down on the motorway  when Mrs P was driving  and with her 
children in the car. This clearly wouldve been a frightening and stressful experience for her. 
After consulting three garages, it seems  that the break down was caused by an oil leak.  Im 
sorry to disappoint  Mr and Mrs P but I agree  with our adjudicator. This happened over a year 
after the car had been supplied and had been driven around 16,000 miles. I wouldnt expect 
a car that wasnt fit for purpose or of unsatisfactory quality to be able to be driven  that far 
and for that period of time. And an oil leak wasnt identified as a fault when the car was 
presented for an MOT in April 2016  or when it was inspected  in November 2016. So I dont 
conclude the oil leak was present when  the car was supplied.
In August  2017,  Mr and Mrs P arranged for the cars engine to be replaced with a second 
hand engine  that they supplied. Because I dont find that the fault was present when the car 
was supplied, I dont  find that theres  any obligation on Advantage Finance to reimburse 
Mr P for the costs hes incurred.
Unfortunately, Mrs P is still reporting  problems with the car. But, now that a replacement 
engine has been  fitted, its very unlikely that any current  faults can be evidenced  to be 
present when the car was supplied.
I do sympathise with the position in which Mr and Mrs P find themselves. But their particular 
circumstances, unfortunately, dont  make a difference to my conclusion. As outlined above, 
I have to take into consideration the relevant  law and that is what Ive done here.
After Mr P referred  his complaint to this service, Advantage  Finance said it would freeze all 
charges on the account and to remove the charges it had applied of £123. Advantage 
Finance has given Mr P three options  for ending his agreement. All of these options  require  
Mr P to make further payments, but I find the options its given  are fair in the circumstances.
I would remind Advantage Finance of its obligation  to treat Mr P fairly  if he is experiencing 
financial difficulties.
Ref: DRN94063083my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9406308