K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about his property insurer Fairmead Insurance Limited in relation to a 
claim he made after his home  was damaged  by a fire which  occurred nearby. Mr P has also 
complained about a loss assessing company he appointed to assist him with the claim  that 
complaint is being  considered separately. The complaint thats the subject  of this decision is 
against Fairmead as the property insurer.
background
A fire occurred in a neighbouring property to Mr Ps residence in November 2017. The roof 
of his home was burnt with much  of the rest of the property suffering  residual  damage.  Mr P 
called Fairmead and was told hed receive contact from a loss adjuster. Mr P has said he 
received a lot of calls in the aftermath of the fire but didnt believe Fairmeads loss adjuster 
had made  contact. Three days later, feeling  let down and unsure  of what to do, he 
responded to an approach made to him by a loss assessor and appointed  the loss assessor  
to act on his behalf.
Mr P initially  stayed in a hotel. Fairmead  agreed he could stay in a let property. However,  
when some initial properties were found  by Mr P, the rental  agreement  wasnt secured in 
time and the properties were let to someone  else. It was 20 February  2018  before Mr P 
moved into a let property.
In the meantime the loss assessor for Mr P and the loss adjuster for Fairmead had been 
negotiating the claim.  Temporary roof repairs were agreed by Fairmead  in December 2017. 
In January 2018, Mr P had advised  that contractors, working on the roofs of his neighbours 
properties also damaged in the fire, would be able to reinstate his roof too. Fairmead was 
initially reluctant to agree this but then revised its position. The loss assessor was told that 
Fairmead would  appoint these contractors to complete the work or it would pay Mr P cash so 
he could appoint contractors himself. 
Ultimately the claim was settled in cash,  based  on a schedule drawn up by Fairmeads  
appointed surveyor,  with contractors put forward by the loss assessor  completing  the roof 
reinstatement work,  and Fairmead paying  for that upon completion. The roof work was 
drawing to a close around September 2018 but Mr P wasnt happy with what  had been done,  
or how long it had taken.  Fairmead agreed  to come out and assess  the work. This occurred 
in October 2018.  It accepted that structural work  to a purlin in the loft had been missed  from 
its schedule but it was satisfied it was reasonable to pay for the work that had been  done.
Mr P wasnt  satisfied and, via a surveyor, he drew  up a schedule of outstanding work he felt 
was needed to reinstate his property. He said some work was necessary due to the fire, with 
some having  become  necessary due to ineffective  temporary repairs, plus delays both with the 
temporary and permanent repairs. Fairmead reviewed his scope, which totalled £31,495.81  
excluding VAT and agreed  that it had liability for some of the work  detailed, totalling £16,560.40.  
The work Fairmead denied liability for included stripping the roof and replacing  valley  gutters, 
which Mr P said hadnt been  replaced  on a like-for-like basis, and decorating some rooms.  
Fairmead also said it had no liability for replacing carpets as Mr P had a buildings only policy 
(carpets being a contents item). Regarding Mr Ps request for a replacement  boiler, Fairmead  
said there was no evidence this was damaged due to the fire, and if it had suffered due to the 
property being  empty, the loss assessor  should have taken action  to protect it. But it 
accepted it hadnt always provided  a good  service  to Mr P and offered £250 compensation.
Ref: DRN98828172Fairmead paid £16,560.40 to Mr P. He used this to keep funding  his alternative 
accommodation and didnt resume the reinstatement  of the property.  When  he complained 
to us, he asked  for Fairmead to pay at least  half, if not all, of the outstanding repair  costs  
(including VAT and an uplift  to account for increased  costs),  and to reimburse  his surveyors 
fee and alternative  accommodation costs. 
Our investigator felt Fairmead should reimburse  some additional council tax costs and pay 
some further  compensation. But he wasnt minded to find Fairmead  was liable for other  costs  
claimed by Mr P.
Mr P was unhappy. His complaint was passed  to me to review. I felt Fairmead had failed 
Mr P  but not to the extent or full value of the costs Mr P said it had and asked for. In reply 
to my provisional findings; Fairmead  said it accepted my decision,  Mr P made a number of 
points. Ive summarised Mr Ps points  here,  he didnt provide any further evidence  to support 
his position:
In the early stages  of the claim he did not receive call backs  as promised by Fairmead, 
this caused him to appoint the loss assessor.
Fairmead, via its loss adjuster did refuse  to appoint  the roofing contractor which had 
been working on other nearby  properties   if it hadnt his home  would have been 
watertight by March  2018.
He wasnt offered cash to appoint  his own roofing contractor.
It was absurd to suggest he should have  used the settlement paid by Fairmead  in 
February 2019 to do work  hed then have lost the evidence  of the poor work  to the roof.
His evidence already provided is sufficient to show  Fairmead  should pay for this work, 
and if its felt this is not the case, I should appoint  an expert to consider the report.
Repairing and/or replacing carpeting, loose floorboards, the boiler and cork tiles should 
all be paid for by Fairmead. 
Fairmead should pay all his accommodation costs incurred since  December 2018.
His bank may charge  him for proof of the payment  he made for his surveyors report.
The issues surrounding this claim have had a massive impact on him, including  the loss 
of his job.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I said provisionally:
outstanding reinstatement  work
I think Fairmead is liable for some  of the further  work Mr P has asked for payment for. Ive 
broken this down  by category below,  and Ive then made some comments on Mr Ps 
requests for uplifted/updated  costs  and VAT to be paid by Fairmead.
Carpets  Mr P has asked  for replacement carpets.  Im not going to require Fairmead  to 
cover these costs. This was a buildings only policy so Fairmead was never liable for content 
items. As such  it isnt clear if the carpets were damaged beyond repair by the fire or not  
but I think its fairly likely  they would  have been  and Ive not seen any expert  evidence  from 
immediately after the loss which shows they would likely  have cleaned.  So if they were also 
Ref: DRN98828173damaged due to delay  and/or poor work, that didnt change the position  Mr P was in 
following the fire  needing to replace the fire damaged carpets.  
Floorboards  Mr P has asked for costs associated with re-fixing  floorboards in several 
rooms. He says theyve loosened due to damp. Im not persuaded this is the case, and I 
havent seen any evidence of that. I see Mr P has owned the house a long time and loose  
floorboards are a common issue in many older  homes. Im not satisfied I can say Fairmead  
is reasonably liable for this damage, so Im not going to make it pay for resolving it.
External roof repairs  Ive not seen that Fairmead authorised  valley gutters to be replaced,  
although I accept  it had agreed to consider these. And whilst it clearly set out what work it 
had liability  for and then paid for this work direct to the contractor, I havent  seen  that it had 
any control over that work, or the contractor. So it seems to me that was just a payment 
arrangement, rather than it assuming liability for the work completed.  On that basis Im not 
persuaded Fairmead has any liability  for stripping the roof, replacing the valley  gutters and 
reinstating the roof.
Fairmead has agreed to cover the cost of cleaning and treating the internal roof timbers  and 
external fascias.  Mr P says in order to do this, the roof needs  to be stripped. Ive not seen 
any expert evidence  which says this is likely required for that work to be done. 
Regarding the fascia work, Fairmead hasnt  allowed any costs  for scaffolding or for removing  the 
guttering and fascias to allow that work to be done, or for reinstating the fascias. I dont think the 
work could  be done in situ from a ladder. Mr Ps total expected  costs  for all of this work is 
£1,372.80. I dont think Fairmead should  pay this whole sum as the scaffolding will be used for 
the re-roofing  work as well as the fascia reinstatement, and theres  a minor cost associated  with 
disposing of the old gutter. I intend to require Fairmead to pay £1,000, which  I think  is a fair sum. 
Kitchen  Mr P feels his kitchen needs  redecorating. I havent seen anything  that makes  me 
think Fairmead is liable for this. The report completed by its loss adjuster just after the fire 
didnt note any damage to the kitchen. If it became damaged due to the property being 
empty for an extended period, Im not persuaded that was Fairmeads  fault either. I dont 
intend to make Fairmead pay anything to Mr P in respect of repairs to the kitchen.
Hall/stairs/landing (h/s/l) and bedroom 3  Mr P wants £1,017.86 for redecorating the h/s/l 
and £837.10 for redecorating bedroom 3 (not including  sums for the carpet and floorboards).  
Fairmead says these rooms werent damaged by the fire. Ive considered Fairmeads loss 
adjusters report from November 2017. This says:
Internally, there is some  water  damage  from extinguishment  however  this is predominantly 
to decorative finishes. Redecoration and localised plaster repair will be required to the 3 
bedrooms, bathroom, stairs and landing. Downstairs  the open  plan living/dining  room  will 
require redecoration.
Fairmead has later said that whilst its loss adjuster included all these items in its report, the 
adjuster wasnt convinced that work  was really  necessary, or all of it anyway, on account of 
the fire. The loss adjuster said the property was dilapidated  but in case there was felt to be 
some liability  the above  rooms  were listed so settlement could  be negotiated. Im not 
convinced by this explanation given  so long after the fact. Not when the report  makes no 
reference to this reasoning or gives any hint of any limitations that might need to be 
considered later once  settlement is being reviewed.  Im going to require Fairmead  to settle  
Mr Ps costs for reinstating the h/s/l and bedroom 3  £1,854.96. 
Ref: DRN98828174Bathroom  Mr P wants £197.80 for removing and re-fixing loose cork tiles, cleaning  cork 
tiles and reinstating a wooden  shelf. Fairmead  said there was no fire damage to these  items.  
I understand Fairmeads view regarding the loose tiles  Ive not seen these were  loose due 
to the fire. But it was accepted that, due to the fire, the bathroom,  including woodwork like 
skirting, needed redecorating. I think it stands to reason the cork tiles would need cleaning  to 
resolve smoke residue  and the shelf would  need  reinstating. I intend to make  Fairmead pay 
Mr P £121.80, being the total asked  for this work.  
Boiler  Mr P says it needs  replacing.  Fairmead  says it isnt liable for this. I havent  seen any 
expert report on the boiler to show why it needs  replacing. It was situated  in a cupboard 
remote from the fire and seemingly protected somewhat from the worst  of the smoke and 
soot. If it was damaged  because the property  was empty for a time; Im not persuaded 
Fairmead is liable for the temporary repairs  that were effected in late 2017 or in respect  of 
the propertys  reinstatement being  delayed during 2018. Im not going to say Fairmead 
should make  a payment to Mr P for replacing  the boiler.
Uplift on costs and VAT  My findings above show that Fairmead, in my view,  unfairly  
refused to pay some costs. In line with our usual approach Im going to require Fairmead to 
pay interest* on the sums  Ive awarded  from 25 February 2019, the date the larger 
settlement was paid,  until settlement of my award is made.  This accounts for any increase in 
the cost of that work. But Im not going  to make Fairmead pay an uplift  on the settlement 
amount it paid  Mr P chose not to complete that work, so if it will now cost him more  to do 
so that is not Fairmeads fault.
In respect of VAT this service doesnt  usually require an insurer  to pay this until its incurred 
by its policyholder. I see no reason to make Fairmead  pay this upfront here. But it will have 
to make an additional payment in respect of VAT once  Mr P does the work and shows  it VAT 
has been incurred.  And that applies to all of the work Fairmead is liable for; that which it 
accepted and settled for, as well as that Ive now said it should pay for.
Alternative accommodation costs
Fairmead has paid for rent through to December 2018. It says it wont pay any more 
because by this time the works  were  held up because of a dispute that had arisen between 
Mr P and the loss assessor regarding the roof repairs. Whilst I understand that, Fairmead did 
agree that there was some  further work for it to pay for  for example it hadnt spotted during  
its assessment of damage that a roof purlin needed some structural support. This and other  
items caused Fairmead to pay Mr P £16,560.40 on 25 February 2019. So Mr P couldnt 
reasonably have had the further work done  before then, regardless of any dispute with the 
loss assessor. By February 2019 Mr P was no longer using the loss assessor and I think its 
fair to say that once he had the money  it would likely have been  four weeks  before that work  
could have begun. I think its fair to say it would  have  taken  around  four weeks for the home  
to then be made habitable  as far as the work Fairmead was liable  for was concerned. 
So Im going to require Fairmead  to reimburse  Mr Ps accommodation costs;  rent and any 
duplicated costs  such as for council tax and utilities, from the date its last payment covered 
until (for rent this was December 2018, but its unclear when other  costs  were paid until) until 
25 April 2019. For any costs incurred  before  25 February 2019, Fairmead will have to apply 
interest* to each  sum from the date it was incurred  until reimbursement is made.  Fairmead 
then paid Mr P for building work  and he used  this to fund his accommodation   so I wont  
make Fairmead pay interest  beyond this date.
Ref: DRN98828175As I said,  Mr P didnt use the money  Fairmead paid him to do repairs  as he felt it wasnt  
enough. So he used  the money to fund his alternative accommodation whilst pursuing his 
complaints made in an attempt to obtain further settlement sums. I appreciate it was a 
difficult position for Mr P to be in. But the sum Fairmead paid was substantial  and would 
have been sufficient to complete all the roof work with plenty left over to use to make  the 
property habitable.  The complaints about  liability for outstanding  costs  could then have  been  
debated without  the need for alternative accommodation to be paid for. So Im not going to 
require Fairmead to pay Mr Ps accommodation costs beyond  25 April 2019. 
Surveyors costs
Following Mr P raising concerns about  the work in October 2019 he had a surveyor  report on 
what was outstanding. He says this cost £242. I havent seen proof of this cost.  Fairmeads  
further settlement  paid in February 2019 was based  on the scope drawn up by Mr Ps 
surveyor. I think Fairmead should fairly reimburse Mr Ps outlay, once  proof of it is shown,  
plus interest* from the date Mr P incurred  the cost until settlement is made.
Delay and compensation
I think this has been a stressful time for Mr P. Im not persuaded that Fairmead failed Mr P in 
the initial stages  of the claim though   I think it called  him as promised and was clear  with 
him about its role. If Mr P was then unclear such that this caused  him to appoint  a loss 
assessor, I cant  reasonably blame  Fairmead for that decision. 
Fairmead was entitled to consider its liability. And Im satisfied that it acted appropriately in 
the meantime;  agreeing  to consider costs for temporary protection  work  to the roof, whilst 
reminding the loss assessor that protection work was needed  with or without its consent. 
Once Fairmead accepted the claim it told the loss assessor the same day and approved  the 
costs the loss assessor had put forward for temporary works. I couldnt  reasonably  expect 
Fairmead to have done more than that. 
Fairmead also told the loss assessor  that it was happy to appoint  the roof contractor working 
on the neighbouring properties, or pay Mr P cash.  Im not persuaded that Fairmead  acted 
unfairly in regard to arranging  or authorising this key work. 
In October  2018 Fairmead did pay for the work even though Mr P had said he had concerns 
about it. Whilst its clear that further payment was due from Fairmead, Fairmeads surveyor 
wasnt persuaded that there were grounds  for it to withhold payment from the contractor. 
I can understand Fairmeads position  on this. But I also see why Mr P felt frustrated and let 
down. Especially given  that some  of the work found  necessary at that stage shouldve  been 
spotted by Fairmead  earlier on in the claim and been included in the initial repair  scopes.
I know Mr P feels Fairmead is responsible for the first two let properties he found  not being  
secured for him. Im not persuaded this is the case. I can see that Fairmead  was still 
considering liability  when the first property was found, and it initially wasnt  minded to agree  
the second one as it wasnt comparable  to Mr Ps home. It changed its mind in that respect 
but by then the property had been let to someone  else. Fairmead though accepts  it should  
have found a property for Mr P sooner, and I agree he was left to stay in a hotel for longer 
than he should  have been.
Ref: DRN98828176I note the loss assessor was in control of the repairs. But I see that Fairmeads  loss adjuster 
didnt always respond in a timely manner, which likely didnt help the progress of the claim. 
And whilst Fairmead required the input  of a surveyor, one wasnt appointed until 
March 2018. Ive seen no good  reason  for this delay.
Having reviewed everything I think total compensation of £500 is fairly and reasonably due. 
I understand Fairmead offered  £250 in its final response issued in August 2018  but its not 
clear if think this was paid to Mr P. I intend, therefore, to make  it pay a total of £500 
compensation  but if any part of this has been  paid already, it wont  have to be paid again.
I understand that this is a very difficult position  for Mr P to be in. However,  and whilst,  Ive 
considered his points made in reply to my provisional findings, I dont think  hes said 
anything really new, and he hasnt provided any further evidence to support his position.  So 
whilst in my background  above, Ive noted his points made in reply, Im not going  to provide 
further comment on the issues which Ive already set out my view on, as copied in my 
provisional findings above.
I understand that Mr P thinks he couldnt have  repaired  his roof. But I disagree. This was a 
tricky position for him to navigate through, and I understand he felt the damage to the roof 
was significant  and it would be a significant  cost to repair  but remaining in alternative  
accommodation presented a significant cost too. And Mr P had a report on the roof damage 
completed in December 2018, and this is the report he is still seeking to rely on at this time. 
So he had gathered evidence regarding the state of the roof. And whilst spending the funds 
Fairmead had paid for the internal repairs on the roof instead would have left Mr P with no or 
little funds to complete  the rest of the work   his loss would have been capped at that point.  
Fairmead made errors  in this claim, but I remain of the view it isnt responsible for Mr Ps 
costs incurred in respect  of living elsewhere  after the end of April 2019.
Im satisfied that, if Mr P shows  Fairmead  he paid £242 to his surveyor  for completing the 
report, Fairmead should reimburse him this cost, plus interest*. I think it would be unlikely for 
Mr Ps bank  to charge  him for providing this information and, in any event, Mr P should be 
able to get proof from his surveyor. That said, if the surveyor wont assist  and Mr P can show  
Fairmead that in obtaining the proof from his bank, hes been charged,  Id expect Fairmead  
to reimburse him this sum.  
Im sorry  Mr P lost his job. But I havent  seen this was on account of Fairmeads failures 
during the claim.
Ref: DRN98828177my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Fairmead  Insurance Limited to pay Mr P:
£1,000 for external  roof repairs.
£1,854.96 for reinstatement of the h/s/l and bedroom 3.
£121.80 to clean the cork tiles and reinstate a shelf  in the bathroom.
An amount equivalent to interest* on the total of the above three amounts, applied  from 
the 25 February 2019 until settlement  is made.
An amount equivalent to VAT for the work subject of the February 2019 settlement, along  
with that Ive awarded here, subject to proof  from Mr P that he is due to pay VAT in 
respect of that work.
An amount to reimburse Mr Ps outlay for rent and any duplicated costs incurred as a 
result of living in alternative  accommodation from the date any previous payments were 
made until,  up to 25 April 2019.
An amount equivalent to interest* on any of those accommodation costs incurred before 
25 February  2019, applied from the date they were incurred  and until settlement is made.
The cost he incurred  for appointing a surveyor, subject to proof of that cost being  shown, 
plus interest* from the date the cost was incurred until settlement is made. And if its 
necessary for Mr P to obtain this from the bank  and he shows  that hes incurred a charge 
for doing so, reimburse the bank  charge.
A total of £500 compensation (if any part has been paid,  only that outstanding will now 
need to be paid). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Fairmead  
Insurance Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr P, 
it should  tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9882817