K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Coventry Building Society didnt tell him he could take out a new 
mortgage product  without  a credit check.  He asks that it refunds interest.
background
Mr G received a letter from Coventry  in 2015 saying his fixed rate product would end soon. 
The letter said an application for a new product was subject to its lending criteria. Mr G says 
another lender had damaged his credit  file. He says he was worried that if Coventry did a 
credit check  his application would be declined and hed lose his home.
Hes since found out that Coventry wouldnt have carried out a credit check. He says if hed 
known this hed have taken out a better mortgage product. Mr G says hes paid more  than 
£5,100 of additional interest as a result.  He says Coventry has benefitted from its letter being 
unclear. Mr G says this has compounded his health  problems.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said the letter 
Coventry sent in 2015 said a product transfer was subject to its lending  criteria. It didnt 
mention a credit check. The letter also said Mr G could discuss  his options on the phone 
without obligation.  Mr G could have contacted Coventry and asked whether a credit check  
would be needed.  Our investigator said Coventry did what it was required to do.
Our investigator said Mr G had contacted Coventry in mid 2016  about a payment holiday.  He 
said he knew his fixed rate had ended and he needed to sort out a new product, but wanted  
to wait and see how interest rates were  affected  by political events. Coventry  confirmed the 
payment holiday  wouldnt  stop him taking out a new interest rate. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said Coventry didnt make it clear that as an existing customer  he 
wouldnt be subject to a credit check. He said jargon used  such as transfer   wasnt  
explained. He said this would involve going from his current mortgage to a new mortgage 
and all communications said this was subject to approvals and credit checks. He said calling 
Coventry and asking questions might  raise suspicions that there was a problem.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Coventry wrote to Mr G in April 2015 to say that his fixed rate product was coming to an end. 
It gave him information about what to do if he wanted to take out a new product.  
Coventrys letter set out the options,  including that Mr G could transfer to a product  available  
to existing members. It described this as a quick and easy  process.  The letter  said this was 
subject to lending  criteria. It didnt mention a credit  check. I think its clear that Coventry 
didnt intend the letter to provide Mr G with all possible information about  his options. The 
letter suggested Mr G contact his financial advisor or Coventry about the options available.   
Ref: DRN97413222I appreciate its frustrating when jargon is used. But I think  if Mr G needed more information 
about what was involved in a product transfer,  he could have contacted Coventry  and asked 
it to explain. If he didnt want to speak to Coventry, he could have contacted a financial 
advisor. 
I dont think Coventry misled Mr G or treated  him unfairly. I dont think, in the circumstances, 
its fair and reasonable to require Coventry to refund any interest to Mr G. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9741322