K822xcomplaint
Ms Ws complaint is about how The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has used  the 
compensation due for some mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policies to reduce 
the debt from which  she was discharged when her Protected Trust came to an end.
background
Ms W took out two loans  prior to 2004 and with each loan she took out a PPI policy  to 
protect her repayments.
Ms W entered into a Protected Trust Deed in April 2004 as she was unable to repay  all her 
debts when they fell due.  This is an alternative in Scotland to bankruptcy  (called 
sequestration in Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and their 
creditors, which is administered by a trustee.
When Ms W entered into the Protected Trust Deed, RBS had a claim within the Protected 
Trust and after the Trust ended there remained  an outstanding unpaid amount that Ms W 
owed to RBS of £9,662.91. RBS didnt chase for this unpaid  amount but it confirmed  it 
closed the accounts as a result of the end of the Trust Deed. 
In 2017 Ms W complained  to RBS about  the mis-sale of a number of PPI policies. In 2018 
RBS wrote to Ms W to tell her that it was prepared to uphold  her complaint about  the mis-
sold PPI and in relation  to the two loans ending 5485 and 7483 it was offering compensation 
of £1,920.15 (after  tax) for both loans. 
In its offer letters RBS indicated the compensation reflected a refund of the PPI premiums 
and the extra interest that Ms W had paid to date, together  with simple interest to 
compensate her for the time shed been out of pocket.
Ms W signed and returned acceptance  forms for the offers  from RBS for the PPI policies on 
1 August 2018.
RBS used the compensation to offset against  the amount that remained unpaid after the end 
of the Protected  Trust. But Ms W doesnt  think the PPI compensation she was offered should 
be used by RBS in this way. She says as her Trust Deed was discharged around ten years 
before this she did not think  the reference  in the offer and acceptance forms applied to her 
as a result. Ms W said research she carried out indicated other people, also complaining 
about compensation set-off, were  being  treated differently. So she felt there were 
inconsistencies in the approach of RBS and her case should be decided in line with an 
outstanding court case being taken against  RBS.
Our adjudicator said that he thought it was fair to set-off the compensation against  the sums  
that remained unpaid  to RBS. He said that Ms W had borrowed money from RBS which  
wouldnt ever be repaid by her. So it wouldnt be fair to ask RBS to repay  the compensation 
to Ms W directly  when she didnt have to repay  RBS her debts.
Ms W wasnt happy with the adjudicators view and asked that the matter  be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
Ref: DRN96515072my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
can I consider this complaint?
It was suggested  by RBS at one point that as Ms W accepted its offer in full and final 
settlement when she returned  the signed acceptance  form, that this service should not 
consider this case. We have to consider this approach  in the light of the facts  of each case.
Ms W did sign an acceptance which included  wording  to say the compensation would be 
used against any debt if she was or had been  subject to a Protected Trust Deed. But it 
went on to refer to the compensation being set against any arrears  on her accounts.  As the 
Protected Trust had ended Ms W may have believed she did not have an account with 
RBS any longer, so she thought this clause  did not apply. So the wording may have perhaps 
not been as clear as it could have been.
RBS has accepted its correspondence wasnt as clear as it could be and offered an amount 
for any and upset this may have caused  across all Ms Ws complaints. This has been 
addressed in a separate complaint decision so I shall make no further  comment on it in this 
decision.
However RBS still maintained it was using the compensation  to set against  the money Ms W 
never repaid to the bank.
Overall I think  Ms W is entitled to an answer and I think it is fair she should receive 
consideration of her complaint. So I am not dismissing this complaint on the basis  she 
accepted the offer made  in full and final settlement. 
can the compensation be used to set off against unpaid debts Ms W had with RBS?
When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R 
of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good  industry  
practice at the relevant time.
As RBS has upheld Ms Ws PPI mis-sale complaint, in this decision Im only looking at 
whether what its done to put things right is fair and reasonable. I havent considered how the 
PPI policies came to be mis-sold. And Ms W hasnt raised any concerns about the amount of 
compensation offered, so Im also not considering this. The basis of Ms Ws complaint is that 
RBS has set-off the amount  of compensation to reduce the loan amounts that havent  been 
fully repaid, rather than paying the compensation directly to her. 
Ref: DRN96515073So in this decision I need to decide whether  its fair and reasonable for RBS to use Ms Ws 
PPI compensation  offer to reduce  the amount left unpaid which  she wasnt required  to pay 
back (and was written off by RBS) after her Protected Trust Deed ended.
In recent  years  there  have been a number of cases looking  at what  happens to PPI 
compensation after a Trust Deed has been  discharged. 
In Donnelly  v The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC [2019] CSIH 56, The Inner House of the 
Court of Session  considered whether RBS could  offset PPI compensation against the 
amount that hadnt been repaid by the consumer when the Protected Trust Deed came  to an 
end. The terms of the Trust Deed in this case meant  RBS had, in effect, agreed that the debt 
would be extinguished  and it couldnt later revive the debt to offset  the PPI compensation.
So I accept  that, on the assumption  that the relevant terms of the Trust Deed in Donnelly  are 
essentially the same as those in the case before me, then RBS could not, in court, 
successfully argue for set-off.  
In this complaint  I am aware  of and have taken  into account the relevant law. But whilst this 
service must take note of the relevant  law and what the courts  say, ultimately  I must apply 
an over-arching test of what is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Ms Ws 
complaint. Having done this, I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce 
the money Ms W borrowed and didnt  repay.
The fact that Ms Ws Protected  Trust had come to an end and she was discharged from the 
unpaid amounts some years before this offer of PPI compensation was made doesnt, in my 
opinion, make a difference to what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances here. I dont 
think it would  be fair to require RBS to repay  the PPI compensation directly to Ms W when 
she doesnt now need to pay back to RBS the full amount which  she borrowed for her own 
use when she took out these loans.
So it follows  from what Ive said that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation its 
offered, to set-off against the amount which was never repaid to RBS following  the closure of 
Ms Ws Protected  Trust.
If Ms W accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties. If she doesnt accept it she 
is free to pursue her issues through the legal system.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
I think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use Ms Ws compensation due for the 
mis-sold PPI to reduce the amount  she owed  and which wasnt repaid when her Protected  
Trust came  to an end. 
Ref: DRN96515074Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9651507