K821x#15complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the way Union Reiseversicherung  AG (URV)  has handled a claim
made on his travel insurance policy.
Any references to URV include  its claim handlers  and costs  containment  agents.
background
I issued a provisional decision this complaint in August  2020,  which  is copied  below:
Mr M had the benefit  of an annual travel insurance policy, underwritten  by URV, which he 
took out in September  2016 (the policy).
In May 2017, whilst abroad in the USA,  Mr M received medical attention in hospital and was 
diagnosed with bronchitis.  He was prescribed medication. 
After returning  from the USA, Mr M received an invoice  from the healthcare provider for the 
treatment he received in the sum of $2,279.13  to treat this. 
Mr M made a claim on the policy  in October  2017  for those costs to be covered. Mr M didnt 
hear back from URV so chased it in early  March 2018 to find out what was happening as 
hed started to receive debt collection letters on behalf of the healthcare provider.  
URV didnt  pay the full amount of the invoiced amount. It only paid $381.60, leaving 
$1,897.53 outstanding (the outstanding  amount).
Mr M is unhappy  that hes being  personally chased for the outstanding amount by debt 
collectors, on behalf of the healthcare provider and that URV has allowed the issue  to drag 
on so long without  being resolved.
Its URVs position that the amounts  Mr M has been charged for the medical care he 
received are excessive. It says it has made  a reasonable payment for the treatment Mr M 
received and hasnt  made any further attempts  to pay  or negotiate - the outstanding  
amount. However,  URV does accept  that Mr Ms claim wasnt actioned  until March  2018, 
after he raised concerns  about receiving debt collection letters  on behalf of the healthcare 
provider. It apologised  and offered  £150 in compensation. It also accepts that it may not 
have done enough to reassure Mr M that he wont be responsible for the outstanding  amount 
and that hes protected  from any harm in relation to the invoice under the contract  of 
insurance between  him and URV.  
Our investigator upheld  Mr Ms complaint. She didnt think URV  had acted  fairly  or 
reasonably by paying part of the invoice - particularly  as it hadnt attempted to enter 
negotiations with the healthcare provider with a view to agree a mutually acceptable amount 
for the care Mr M received whilst in the USA. She recommended URV pay the outstanding 
amount to the healthcare  provider in full and pay Mr M £750  for the distress  and 
inconvenience it caused him. 
URV didnt  agree. It said it was willing to increase the amount of compensation from £150 to 
£200. But it didnt  think it should pay the outstanding  amount. It said it was free to make a 
commercial decision about  whether to pay or contest the outstanding  amount and our 
Service shouldnt interfere  with the approach its taken. 
Ref: DRN93723932Mr Ms complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Having done so, I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
As a matter  of general legal principle, URV is bound to indemnify Mr M against losses 
covered by the policy as and when the amount of his loss (here  the amount of Mr Ms liability 
to the healthcare provider) has been ascertained.  That may be by agreement, by court 
judgment or by arbitration. So URV  has a commercial interest in being able to take over the 
defence and settlement of such claims in Mr Ms name.  
And the policy terms allow for URV  to take over and deal with in your name  the 
defence/settlement of any claim made under  the policy.
But that isnt an unqualified right and URV still need to act fairly and reasonably  when 
exercising that term. 
Further, legally, in situations where URVs interests  conflict with Mr Ms, URV has a 
responsibility to act in good faith when  it takes over the defence or settlement of a claim - 
having regard  to Mr Ms interests  as well as its own commercial interests. URV isnt entitled 
to act arbitrarily in the way it goes about  declining to pay the full amount of the invoices and 
contesting the outstanding amount. In deciding whether  - and how - to defend  possible  legal  
action against  Mr M, URV is required to base its decisions on the circumstances of Mr Ms 
individual case.
The applicable  regulations lead to a similar conclusion. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses (Principles), which URV must  follow, including:
Principle 6 - A firm must  pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat
them fairly.
Principle 8 - A firm must  manage  conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and
its customers and between a customer and another client.
The relevant  regulations  also include ICOBS  8.1.1R which says an insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate
information on its progress;
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory Guide,  published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities  of Providers and
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance
Ref: DRN93723933on what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules require providers and 
distributors of financial services in certain  circumstances  to treat customers  fairly. 
The RPPD  explains that firms should  consider the impact of their actions, or inactions, on 
the customer throughout the life-cycle of the service  being provided.
Ive also taken into account what I consider having  been good industry practice  at the time
of the claim. This was for underwriters of travel insurance - and their agents - to engage
diligently with healthcare providers to try to resolve disputes over medical  bills by actively
seeking a compromise  or adjudication of their bills. That includes actively engaging  in 
negotiation.
Ill now explain what this all means  for Mr Ms complaint.
The amount  paid by URV:
URV has accepted  ultimate liability for Mr Ms treatment and sums properly due under the 
policy. It hasnt said Mr M shouldnt  have  been charged for certain treatment  or shouldnt  
be paid at all. It has simply  said that the amounts charged are inflated and unreasonably 
excessive. 
URV has sought to rely on the Congressional  guidelines (the guidelines)  to support the 
amounts it has paid to the healthcare provider for the medical care Mr M received  in May 
2017. It says the amounts charged  by the healthcare provider are around ten times more 
than the rates set out in the guidelines  for the medical care Mr M received.
The guidelines  are issued annually by the USA government and URV says they set out the 
suggested rates of payment for medical  procedures and treatment. I understand that these  
rates apply to certain USA residents that qualify for Medicare. URV says it uses the 
guidelines as a benchmark when  deciding whether the amounts charged are reasonable. It 
says it then pays a certain percentage above this, which its disclosed to our Service.  
On 15 June 2019, our investigator asked URV to provide our Service with the guidelines 
showing the costs  rates in place as at May 2017, when Mr M was treated. It replied the next 
day saying that the guidelines are available by searching the public domain. 
The guidelines  are very extensive and technical.  Theyre not easy to navigate  and Ive been 
unable to compare  them to the costs  charged by the healthcare provider in this particular 
case. URV  has more  recently given us a table which shows the procedural code which 
relates to the visit the emergency room  and payment rates. However, this table isnt cross-
referenced to the guidelines or verifiable against  any other costs information.  
So Im not currently satisfied that the items charged  for on the invoice are equivalent to those 
drawn by URV from the guidelines or correspond to figures  for the particular state of the US 
where Mr M was treated. Nor, have  I been shown anything to convince me that the 
guidelines establish a valid benchmark  for the fair market value of services provided  outside 
the US Medicare/Medicaid systems  to which  they relate. So, Im not persuaded the invoices 
are unreasonably excessive or out of line with what might reasonably be charged .
In any event, even  if the guidelines do support  URVs decision to not pay the outstanding
amount, Im not satisfied its acted fairly and reasonably in the way in which  its taken over 
the handling of Mr Ms claim.
Ref: DRN93723934URVs handling of Mr Ms claim:
As explained, the policy does permit URV to take over,  and deal with, the defence/ 
settlement of any claim made under the policy in Mr Ms name  but it has to do so having due 
regard to the law and applicable regulations, including the regulatory Principles and rules I 
have set out above. 
URV has a duty to deal with claims promptly and fairly, and its required by the Principles to 
act with due skill, care and diligence, paying  due regard to Mr Ms interests and treating him 
fairly. And it must also manage fairly any conflicts of interest between itself and its customers 
and as between  its customers. Im not currently persuaded  its done  that here. 
URV accepts it unnecessarily delayed making payment towards the invoice because  it had 
initially overlooked  the claim. 
URV also took the unilateral decision to only pay part of the invoice.  It didnt discuss its 
approach with Mr M before doing so. However, it did tell Mr M in its final response letter 
dated 20 February 2019 that negotiation of bills is essential. Its also subsequently told us 
on 30 January 2020, after our investigator  issued her view, that debt collectors  instructed by 
healthcare providers deliberately target  its policyholders  in lieu of negotiating a reasonable 
settlement sum with us.  
However, previously when our investigator requested evidence of the negotiations URV had 
with the healthcare provider on 10 April 2019, URV wasnt  able to provide anything  and it 
confirmed on 17 April 2019  that it doesnt negotiate with hospitals.
Whilst nobody could  suggest that negotiation will lead to a reasonable settlement being 
achieved in every  case, in many cases it may do so; and Ive seen nothing  to suggest that it 
couldnt have  been productive  in this case.  
I would normally expect  to see an insurer explain  and justify  its position by reference to the 
particular items in dispute, take on board any response it receives,  and advance  arguments 
addressed to the particular issues in dispute to try to persuade the healthcare  provider to 
accept the sum being offered, or reach a mutually acceptable compromise. Im satisfied 
thats good industry practice and it didnt  happen here. URV has simply stated  and paid - a 
sum it says is reasonable, and then declined  to engage further with the healthcare  provider 
over the outstanding balance in order to bring  about a prompt conclusion of the dispute.
So, URVs decision not to negotiate in this case is not based  on any detailed representations 
to the healthcare provider or consideration of the specific  features of Mr Ms claim, but is a 
reflection of a general policy. It means that Mr M is made vulnerable to being pursued  by 
debt collectors and that the matter is unlikely  to be resolved until he is either sued over the 
outstanding amount or the healthcare  provider stops  pursuing  him for the outstanding 
amount and writes it off as a bad debt.  
Ive taken into account what URV has said on 23 August 2019 when responding to our 
investigators view including: your  expectation to see negotiation may be driven  by your 
experience of seeing other cases with different cost containment models and processes  to 
ours, ones based on negotiation and settlement which other insurers  accept lead to 
unnecessarily high settlements but reduce or remove any complaints. We pay a reasonable 
margin of profit over the benchmark costs  rates and our position once the reasonable 
Ref: DRN93723935position has been arrived at any negotiation would automatically lead to insurers paying  
unreasonable charges  drives up the entire market unnecessarily, causing significant  
customer detriment across  the entire market and will further compound the problem
That might be URVs  opinion  about how the market  works, but it still needs to act fairly 
towards each of its insureds customers according  to circumstances of their claim.  
It also has a duty to fairly manage any conflicts between its own interests and those of
Mr M. I dont think its had due regard to Mr Ms interests here; its unreasonably put its own 
and/or others  wider  commercial interests in the efficient operation of the market for the 
supposed benefit of other  consumers above  his interests as someone who has paid for 
travel cover and made a proper claim under it. 
I also think its pertinent that a consumer who purchases travel  insurance which  covers  
medical treatment does not expect to be exposed, without a very good reason, to continuing 
action from debt collectors and threats of litigation years after visiting  an overseas hospital  
when theyve acted  in accordance with the terms of the policy  and also paid the relevant 
excess, as was the case here.  
The amount  in dispute is almost $1,900; its not a particularly substantial  sum, and URV has 
only agreed to pay less than 17% of the total amount  the health provider charged  Mr M. I 
dont think its fair to continue to embroil  Mr M in a protracted dispute over a comparatively 
small amount when considering the continuing worry, trouble and upset this is causing  him. 
When making this finding Ive taken into account everything URV has said including  settling 
any cases in full would set a precedent with healthcare providers and prejudice URVs ability 
to protect  itself from excessive charges.
However, Im satisfied URV doesnt have the right to disregard the interest of its customer  
when it decides  whether  to partially  settle or defend  a given case; for the reasons Ive 
explained it still must act fairly and reasonably when doing so. And when doing so, Im 
satisfied it should  be thinking about the individual issues of each specific case according to 
their own facts and also having regard to the interests of the policyholder  as well as its own. 
Ive explained  why I dont think URV has done that here. 
URV has also said its position to pay a reasonable margin  of profit over the rates  contained 
in the guidelines is supported by a growing body of USA caselaw and that its 
reference-based pricing model is being adopted  by an increasing  number of insurers  in the 
USA who are adopting this method to put the brakes on hyper-inflated medical changes 
there. 
On 29 September  2019 our investigator requested details  of the case law URV  is seeking to 
rely on. But she received no reply to that point. However, I have  taken on board what URV  
says about that, but Ive placed  more weight on the law, relevant industry  rules  and 
regulations, and good industry practice applicable to insurers  who conduct  their business in 
the UK when  deciding  this particular complaint. I also think theres  a distinction between 
Mr Ms policy  which wasnt  a medical  insurance  policy akin to the type of policies that can 
be taken out in the USA to cover medical care and treatment for people  who reside there - 
its a travel insurance policy.
Ive also considered what URV says about previous opinions issued by our Service  not 
upholding certain complaints  about the way in which its sought to costs contain the amounts 
Ref: DRN93723936its policyholders  were charged whilst  abroad  for medical treatment. But Ive considered the 
merits of this complaint  on an its own circumstances when considering whether URV acted 
fairly and reasonably. 
Putting things right
DISP 3.7.1R says that where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant  the 
ombudsmans determination may include a direction to the respondent, which  in this case  is 
URV.  
DISP 3.7.11R also provides  that a direction may require  the respondent, here URV, to take 
such steps in relation  to the complainant as the ombudsman considers just and appropriate 
whether or not a court  could order those  steps to be taken.
I accept that, because the healthcare  providers  bill hasnt been  agreed or adjudicated on, 
there isnt an ascertained  legal liability on Mr M to pay the outstanding amount to the 
healthcare provider so URVs duty to indemnify him by paying the outstanding amount hasnt 
been triggered. But in this particular  case,  and for the reasons Ive set out above, Im 
persuaded its fair and reasonable for URV  to do so in order  to bring Mr Ms continuing 
inconvenience and worry to an end.
 
When making this finding, Ive taken into account that it may be possible for URV to 
negotiate a reduction in the amounts charged by the healthcare  provider and agree a figure  
less than the outstanding  amount.  However, its had over two years to do so, and hasnt. So, 
in the circumstances of this particular case,  Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for URV  to 
settle the outstanding  amount without further  delay.
URV has recently acknowledged  that it may not have properly reassured Mr M or recognised 
the impact this has all had on him. Its also accepted  that it delayed making partial  payment 
of the invoice. Ive considered the affect  this all had on Mr M in light of my provisional 
findings that URV hasnt acted fairly or reasonably by the approach its taken when  looking 
to settle the invoice.
Im currently  satisfied URV has put Mr M to a significant amount of unnecessary  distress, 
inconvenience and worry by:
URVs failure to take any action  regarding the invoice for around  five months after 
Mr M had made his claim,  resulting in him receiving debt collection letters;  
Mr Ms time spent communicating with URV and the debt collectors instructed by the 
healthcare provider about the continuing  outstanding  amount;  and
how long this process has taken and there being  no end date in sight  for it being 
resolved.
Mr M says hes been prescribed anti-depressant medication brought on by the situation hes 
found himself in. Im sorry to hear that Mr M has been through a difficult  time. I havent  seen  
any medical evidence  which  supports  that it is what URV did wrong in this case  thats the 
sole, or primary, reason behind a deterioration  in his mental health but I think its fair to 
assume that it is likely  to be a contributary factor. 
All in all, Im proposing  that compensation in the sum £750  fairly reflects  what hes been  
through as a result of what  URV did wrong.
Ref: DRN93723937summary:
Within 28 days from the date on which we tell it that Mr M accepts our final decision I intend 
to direct URV to:
A. pay the outstanding amount to the healthcare  provider - together with any interest
    due  on the outstanding amount and any collection fees Mr M is liable for; and
B.  pay  Mr M £750  as compensation  for distress  and inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted me to consider.
URV replied  disagreeing with my provisional  decision. It raised  several points in reply  
including points it has previously put forward which Id considered  when making my 
provisional decision. It also says:
It accepts  Mr Ms complaint features  a long time period and a toll on the 
complainants mental health and that it should  recognise the long delays that it says 
its at fault for. But it says its not appropriate  for me to determine  or direct whether 
the outstanding amount should be paid.
Mr M has failed  to cooperate with URV   and this hasnt been considered in my 
provisional decision. It says Mr M spoke  directly to the cost containment manager in 
February 2019, during which reassurances were given  and he was subsequently 
sent a declaration to sign which would have enabled URV to stop the debt collectors  
writing to him (the declaration). It says Mr M didnt  return the form and the whole 
cause for complaint  couldve been  dealt with had he done so. 
Mr M didnt inform  URV that his health  had been  affected in any way nor did he let 
them know that the debt collectors were continuing  to chase him for payment. 
It acknowledged it didnt provide  enough information about  the guidelines by simply 
providing us a link. It says the rates it uses apply to every state of the USA, and on 
the rare occasions it deals  with invoices from the parts  of the USA that dont typically 
attract tourists, there is little or no price  adjustment to be made  as it is the medical 
facilities in tourist areas that apply unreasonable mark  ups to medical costs. 
URV offered to provide  more specific technical guidance that the payment its already made 
to the healthcare provider in this particular case  is fair and reasonable, with profit built in. I 
requested to see this.
Mr M agreed  with the outcome I was proposing  to reach. But he was unhappy that I was 
proposing to find that, because the healthcare providers invoice hadnt yet been  agreed or 
adjudicated on, there  wasnt an ascertained legal liability  on him to pay the outstanding 
amount to the healthcare  provider. And as such URVs duty to indemnify him by paying the 
outstanding amount hasnt been  triggered.  Mr M said the duty to indemnify  him by paying the 
outstanding amount had been  triggered  as hed complied with the policy  terms before being  
treated and subsequently.
Ref: DRN93723938Other developments:
In response to my provisional decision,  URV also put forward  an offer to bring  Mr Ms 
complaint to an end. It didnt think it should  settle the outstanding amount. However, it 
offered to provide certain assurances in writing  to Mr M and appoint  and pay for - a lawyer  
on his behalf to deal with any further communications he received from the debt collectors.  
As part of this offer, it also said it would increase the level of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience to £1,200  to apologise  tangibly  for the last 18 months of delay.
Mr M was willing to accept £1,200 in compensation but also wanted URV to settle  the 
outstanding amount. So, he didnt  accept the terms on which the offer was being  made.
We then asked URV to confirm whether  its position was that £1,200 fairly reflected the 
distress and inconvenience Mr M experienced. It confirmed that the offer was made to 
recognise any future inconvenience Mr M may experience if the outstanding amount isnt 
settled and he continues  to receive correspondence (from the debt collectors).  And that the 
distress and inconvenience Mr M has experienced to date is reflected adequately by the 
amount I provisionally directed it to pay in my provisional decision (£750).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
That includes the additional comments received from both parties  and the offer made by 
URV to settle the complaint. Having done  so, I uphold Mr Ms complaint  for the reasons  set 
out in my provisional  decision together with the reasons explained below:
I accept that the costs  containment  agents  emailed Mr M on 20 February 2019 and 
that email attached  the declaration. Mr M said he couldnt  recall receiving the 
declaration as it was so long ago, but he says he may not have  returned  it because 
the covering email  only said it may stop the debt collectors writing  to him. I also note 
that URV  had been in receipt of Mr Ms claim for around 18 months by that stage and 
he was still being chased for payment for the outstanding amount. Further,  hed 
already contacted our Service to raise a complaint  about the way URV had been 
handling his claim,  the outstanding  balance  not being paid and being  chased for 
payment. So, I can understand why, by the time hed received the declaration, he 
didnt return it. And I dont think it would be reasonable for this to be held against 
Mr M in these  particular circumstances.
In addition to correspondence from the debt collectors chasing Mr M for payment in 
February 2018 and January 2019, Mr M has provided copies of emails hes received  
from the debt collectors asking for updates in December 2019,  March 2020 and July 
2020. Given that our investigator first recommended in July 2019 that the complaint 
should be upheld  and URV  should  pay the outstanding balance, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable of Mr M not to forward those emails from the debt collectors  to URV.
Ive considered the further spreadsheet URV has sent us setting out payment rates  
for common healthcare  procedure codes which URV  says is compiled by an 
independent organisation.  URV  says this shows the Medicare base rate and the 
amount URV pays (which is a certain percentage above the Medicare rate) for the 
procedure code  Mr M was invoiced for by the healthcare provider. URV also says it 
Ref: DRN93723939shows the mean and median cost of the procedure as well as the minimum and 
maximum cost.  The maximum cost is around  $915,  more than URV paid. URV has 
said it believes this data is calculated  by reference to data provided by hospitals 
across the USA. But this doesnt persuade me that the base rate establishes  a valid 
benchmark for the fair market value of services provided outside the US 
Medicare/Medicaid systems to which they relate.  So Im not convinced  the invoice  is 
unreasonably excessive or out of line with what might be charged for non-American  
residents who dont have Medicare. 
URV also says the American Hospital Association publishes an annual report  on 
underpayment by Medicare and has referred  me to a report from 2020 saying that 
the base rate in the guidelines covers 87% of the cost incurred  by the hospital 
providing the treatment. So, by paying a certain percentage above that figure, URV 
says the healthcare provider still received a profit from the amount of the invoice  
URV paid. However, this report doesnt show what percentage of costs  were covered 
by the base rate in 2017 - when Mr M was treated. Further, Mr M isnt a USA citizen 
entitled to Medicare and I understand this report  relates to those patients whose 
medical costs have been covered  by Medicare. But in this case, the issue  isnt what  
losses the average hospital makes  when it treats a patient on Medicare, nor how 
much URV considers to be an appropriate profit margin, but how much a facility of 
the quality and location where  Mr M received treatment could be expected to charge 
privately funded/insured patients  for his treatment. Im not persuaded this report  
sheds any light on that issue. So, whilst  Ive taken it into account, Ive placed less 
weight on its contents.
URV has also told us it has evidence of invoices received  from medical facilities  in 
the USA which it has paid in full. And on the rare occasions it deals with medical  bills 
from areas in the USA that arent typical tourist destinations, there is little or no price  
adjustment to be made. I havent  asked  to see that evidence because  even  if URV  is 
able to illustrate this; I dont think its relevant  to Mr Ms individual  complaint. In my 
experience its not uncommon for medical  facilities to charge varying amounts for the 
same procedure  depending on a range of factors including  where theyre located. 
Although URV may have received invoices from other medical  facilities in different 
American States for certain procedures  the cost of which  fell within  the percentage 
uplift of the base rate URV pays   that doesnt persuade me that 17% of the amount  
of the invoice is likely to represent the reasonable charge for the services  provided to 
Mr M.
As explained in my provisional decision,  I would normally expect to see an insurer 
explain and justify  its position by reference to the items  in dispute when first 
responding to the amount charged  by a medical provider. And then consider any 
response it receives, before advancing arguments addressing the issues in dispute  to 
try to persuade  the medical provider to accept the sum being  offered - or reach  a 
mutually acceptable compromise. Had URV  promptly taken these steps after first 
receiving the invoice it couldve put the data it sought to rely on, and overcharging 
arguments, to the healthcare provider  so that the charging issues  couldve been 
drawn out, with a view to potentially  reaching  a settlement. But it didnt do that. URV  
simply stated   and paid - a sum it says was reasonable, and then declined to 
engage further with the healthcare  provider over the outstanding balance  to bring 
about a prompt  conclusion of the dispute. For reasons, already set out in my 
provisional decision, I dont think that it acted fairly  and reasonably  in this case  by 
doing so. 
Ref: DRN937239310I know Mr M is unhappy that I said in my provisional  decision  that because  the healthcare 
providers invoice hadnt been  agreed  or adjudicated on, there  wasnt  yet an ascertained  
legal liability  on Mr M to pay the outstanding amount to the healthcare provider. And that 
meant URVs duty to indemnify him by paying  the outstanding amount hadnt been triggered. 
But Im satisfied that is the present  legal  position when considering  the outstanding amount.
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons set out above and in my provisional  decision.
I dont think the offer URV  has recently made  to Mr M after receiving my provisional decision 
fairly puts him back  in the position, he wouldve been had URV fairly and reasonably handled  
the claim he made on the policy.  For the reasons already explained,  I dont think  its fair for 
Mr M to continue  to be chased  for payment of the outstanding amount and experience  the 
continued distress and inconvenience  this will cause. 
I remain satisfied that what  I was intending to direct URV to do in my provisional decision is 
fair and reasonable in order to put things right for Mr M. 
putting things right
Within 28 days from the date on which we tell it that Mr M accepts our final decision I direct 
URV to:
A. pay the outstanding amount to the healthcare  provider - together with any interest
    due  on the outstanding amount and any collection fees Mr M is liable for; and
B.  pay  Mr M £750  as compensation  for distress  and inconvenience.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct  Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right by 
doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9372393