K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC made a mistake when it provided a redemption figure 
for his business overdraft  borrowing.
background
Mr M had business borrowing with Lloyds secured by a legal charge over a property he 
owned with his wife. He told Lloyds  that he was selling that property. But that he wanted an 
unsecured business overdraft  of £7,500  after that for one of his three businesses. Lloyds 
agreed to this. When his solicitors asked Lloyds for a figure  to release its charge it included 
£32,200 to reduce the overdraft on that business  account. This left an overdrawn balance of 
£7,689.90  and there  were credit amounts of over £200 left on his other accounts due to the 
way the transfer  amounts were rounded. Mr M expected there to be no borrowing. The rest 
of the net sale proceeds were split with his wife. He wants Lloyds to pay the amount of half 
of the remaining overdraft which he says he has now lost in the settlement  with his wife. 
Lloyds paid him £200 for the inconvenience.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
-The combined overdraft limits on his business  accounts had been £65,000. Mr M 
wanted to retain a facility of £7,500 on one of those accounts  - a reduction of £32,500 
from the existing  facility of £40,000.
-The relationship  manager at Lloyds  had written to him to say that he would look to 
get this approval  and for a facility  of £7,500 to continue. He then confirmed this had 
been agreed.
-On 8 May 2018 the relationship manager said in an email  If you can let me know 
when the overdrafts have been  paid off/reduced then I will cancel/reduce limits from 
our side and request  the discharge of the property.
-On 15 June 2018 the property was sold and both an overdrawn balance and limit 
remained on one of the accounts as set out above.
-He thought that the relationship manager  had made a distinction  between this limit 
reduction and the overdrafts that were going to be fully paid off.
-Mr M may have recourse through the legal process relating to his divorce settlement.
Mr M did not agree. He said that there were two separate transactions  involved. There  was 
to be no new facility  until the existing overdrafts had been redeemed.  Lloyds did not send 
him a facility letter for the reduced  overdraft until 15 June 2018.  That new overdraft 
borrowing was wrongly offset against the old borrowing. Lloyds had no authority to draw  this. 
He did not think  it was reasonable to expect  him to pursue  this with his wife. The loss was 
due to Lloyds  negligence.  So he wanted  it to pay half of the borrowing and all interest and 
charges on that element together with compensation. He said that he had taken legal advice 
about this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M acknowledges in his response  to the adjudicator that the terms of the legal charge 
made him and his wife jointly and severally  liable for the borrowing  in the event that the 
security was realised.  And Im afraid that Lloyds was not party  to any agreement  Mr M had 
with his wife about how this liability would  be discharged. Lloyds agreement was to provide 
Ref: DRN96862562direct borrowing to Mr M. And he asked it to continue to provide an element of unsecured 
borrowing. This was provided on the same account  though the overdraft limit was reduced 
as he had asked.
The particular issue here was that the borrowing was on overdraft. So there could  be no 
fixed redemption statement  in the way there would have been  with a loan. The overdraft 
was fluctuating. And Lloyds had told Mr Ms solicitor by email on the day of completion that:
just to confirm that we will need £57,100 this morning to repay/reduce all overdrafts to 
enable us to discharge our 2nd charge
I understand that Mr M wanted  all the overdraft  borrowing to be reduced that day. And still to 
have access to an overdraft limit. I dont think Lloyds made any commitment  that all the 
borrowing would be cleared that day. And Im not convinced that Mr Ms instructions about 
this were sufficiently clear such that I can find it made a mistake.  Lloyds told him what  it 
required to release the charge. He paid this and the charge was released. The other 
borrowing has not been repaid and I consider he remains responsible  for all this as he had 
the benefit of it.
It is not appropriate for me to say how else Mr M might seek  to address or recover  the 
money he thinks he is due. But I dont consider there is a reasonable basis  to require  Lloyds 
to pay him the money he claims or provide  him with any further compensation.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9686256