K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) wont  provide a refund 
for items damaged during a house  move. He brings  his complaint under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA). 
background
In July 2018 Mr H paid a third party  supplier  (that Ill call M) over £5,000 to remove,  store  
and deliver goods from the UK to a destination  overseas.  When the shipment arrived, a few 
months later, several items were damaged. M acknowledged some  damage had occurred 
but didnt accept responsibility. It said this was accidental and Mr H was offered insurance  
for that but chose not to take it. M offered to pay Mr H £150 as a goodwill gesture but Mr H 
didnt think that was fair. He paid M with a credit card so he contacted Barclaycard, the card 
provider, and asked  for a refund under section 75 of the CCA. Barclaycard looked into the 
complaint, found  no breach of contract or misrepresentation on Ms part and told Mr H it 
wasnt liable to provide a refund or do anything further. 
Mr H brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators considered the 
evidence. He recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He thought  the damage that Mr 
H complained about  probably wouldnt have occurred if M had provided services with 
reasonable skill and care (as required to under the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015 (CRA)). He 
was satisfied there was a breach of contract and Barclaycard hadnt treated Mr H fairly. As 
the damaged  items were  several years old when the damage occurred, he said Barclaycard 
should refund about £2,500 - approximately half the amount Mr H claimed for replacing  a 
bedframe, two mattresses and a sofa.
Barclaycard disagreed and said, in summary:- 
M wasnt  negligent;
any damage was accidental and Mr H had to opportunity to take out insurance to 
cover that but decided  not to;
theres no evidence  of misrepresentation or breach of contract; 
even if M was liable, that liability is limited under the contract terms to about  the 
same amount that M had offered to pay Mr H already;  and 
Barclaycard shouldnt have to do anything  further. 
Mr H felt Barclaycard was being  unreasonable and he should have a full refund. 
The matter  was referred to me for a decision and I requested some further evidence from 
both parties. After I provided an informal view (broadly in line with my provisional  findings 
below) Barclaycard  offered to pay Mr H £1,000 to resolve the matter. Mr H didnt think  that 
was enough, in light of everything  that happened. I issued a provisional decision on 25 
November 2020  and Ive summarised my provisional findings below.
my provisional decision
Theres no dispute that Mr H entered into a contract  with M to pack, move, store, transport 
and unpack household goods and he paid for this service using his Barclaycard. He says 
several items were  damaged during this process because M failed to take proper care, in 
breach of the terms of the removal contract.  He also considers M misrepresented itself as an 
international remover.  Mr H brings  this complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
Ref: DRN98844292because he paid M using a credit  card and section 75 of the CCA gives a consumer an 
equal right to claim against the supplier (M) or the lender (Barclaycard) if there has been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier,  in certain circumstances.
Its not my role to apply  section 75 - only a court  can do that. Instead, Im looking at 
Barclaycards response to Mr Hs complaint. To be able to uphold  the complaint, I would 
have to be satisfied  that there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by M - and 
Barclaycards response doesnt  represent  a fair and reasonable remedy.  
misrepresentation
Its clear that Mr H was disappointed with the service he received from M. He feels this was 
so poor that it was untruthful  of M to hold itself out as a provider of professional international 
removal services   meaning M made a misrepresentation in this respect. Ive considered 
what Mr H says carefully. Im satisfied that M seems to have been undertaking international 
removal work for several  years. I can see its a member of the professional bodies that Id 
expect for this particular  industry. And Im not persuaded  that theres enough  evidence  to 
reasonably conclude that M made  a misrepresentation.
the contract
According to the paperwork  Ive seen,  Mr H sent M details of the items to be removed and 
stored and a price  was agreed after some further  negotiation. The total cost of the move  and 
storage was over £5,000. Mr H told us he has no recollection of seeing any terms and 
conditions of contract.  Looking at the correspondence  between Mr H and M at the relevant 
time, I accept Ms standard  terms and conditions were probably incorporated. And Im 
satisfied that M was obliged to provide services with reasonable  skill and care under the 
removal agreement and the CRA.  
damage
Mr H says a sofa, two mattresses and a bedframe  were damaged when his goods arrived  at 
the destination. I note he found some other items  were scratched and marked as well. He 
didnt pursue that with M or Barclaycard so Im going  to limit what  Im looking at here 
accordingly. 
From photographs Mr H supplied, I can see a headboard which  seems  to be detached from 
the bedframe, two mattresses which look dirty and split in places and a sofa which  appears  
damaged at one end with torn fabric. The removers  inventory doesnt record that this 
damage was present  on collection. M seems  to accept the items were damaged on arrival. 
And I think its fair to conclude the damage probably  occurred during packing,  transportation  
and/or storage by M or its agents. Aside  from stating that the damage was accidental,  M 
hasnt explained  what happened.  On balance, in the absence of any reasonable explanation 
as to how this damage occurred, I am minded to find it was probably due to a lack of 
reasonable skill and care on Ms part - meaning there was a breach of contract. 
redress 
For the reasons  Ive given I think its more likely than not there  was a breach of contract  
here. Im satisfied some of Mr Hs goods were damaged as a result and I think it is fair that 
Barclaycard should  provide a refund. 
Ref: DRN98844293Barclaycard says Ms liability is limited  under the contract terms so, even if there was a 
breach, it shouldnt have to pay more than M offered.  I accept Ms standard terms were  likely 
incorporated and, if the relevant limit applies,  M would only have to pay about £160 for the 
damaged items in question. I think that would also mean Ms liability  would  be limited to 
about £2,500, even  if all of Mr Hs goods had been  damaged. I dont apply the law but I am 
obliged to take relevant law into account  when I make my decision. Im satisfied this includes 
the CRA  here and, amongst other  things,  this provides (under section  57) that any limitation 
which prevents a consumer from recovering the price paid is unreasonable.  And I am not 
persuaded that it would  be fair to find that liability is limited in the way that Barclaycard 
suggests, in these particular circumstances. 
I consider Mr H should be entitled to recover the reasonable cost of repair or fair market 
value for the relevant  damaged items. Working out how much this is not a scientific 
exercise. And, whilst  I appreciate it must  have  been  frustrating for Mr H to find his goods  
were damaged, Im satisfied he was nevertheless required to mitigate  his losses.  I also think  
it would  have been reasonable for him to obtain and keep relevant paperwork in this 
situation.  
From the evidence Ive got, I find it difficult to see why the headboard couldnt be re-attached 
to the bedframe  and I think this looks like a relatively straight forward repair. Mr H says a 
local tradesman told him the cost would be uneconomical but he doesnt  have  any 
documentary evidence  of that unfortunately. On the evidence I have, I find it hard to see why 
the bedframe couldnt be repaired economically  especially as I understand (from Mr H) it 
originally cost more than £8,000. On balance, I cant fairly  find Barclaycard should refund  the 
cost of a complete replacement bedframe. Based on the time its likely  to take a local 
tradesman to carry  out the work  and the cost of materials, I think  the reasonable cost of 
repair would be unlikely  to exceed  €200.  And Im minded to find Barclaycard should  pay Mr 
H €200.
Mr H told us he paid over £4,000 for two new complete replacement beds and he provided a 
statement showing he made  this payment  to a bed company  in the UK around the relevant 
time. I accept Mr H bought the beds but he didnt keep any other paperwork  such as order 
forms or receipts - so I cant see how much each mattress cost.  I understand from Mr H, that 
the damaged  mattresses were expensive when  he got them about six years ago, but its 
difficult for me work out if the replacements he purchased are of an equivalent standard. 
Mr H referred  me to website  that he says sells mattresses similar to the ones that were 
damaged. I had a look at that but Im not persuaded it takes  matters  much further  in that 
the website displays a wide range of mattresses  of varying quality and cost which  doesnt  tell 
me much (if anything) about the likely cost of replacements here. 
On balance, Im not persuaded  that £4,000 for two complete new beds represents fair 
market value for the damaged mattresses.  I think an average mattress would probably cost 
about £500. I find it reasonable to take into account the use Mr H had of these items. And I 
think it is reasonable to apply  a 50% reduction, to reflect their age and the average life of a 
mattress. Im minded  to conclude that Barclaycard should pay Mr H £250  for each damaged  
mattress. 
From the photographs Mr H supplied, I accept the sofa looks damaged  beyond  reasonable 
repair. Mr H told us he bought a second hand replacement locally for €1,100 and he 
provided a bank statement in support. I acknowledge this shows cash went  out of his 
account around the relevant time. Mr H didnt keep any other paperwork  such  as a receipt  
or a copy  of the sofa advertisement  which means I have very limited information  about the 
Ref: DRN98844294replacement. I dont  know how old it was, what it was made of or what  it cost originally, for 
example. And, based on the information  I have, I cant safely find the price Mr H paid for a 
replacement represents  fair market  value. 
Mr H told us he purchased the three piece suite that included  the damaged sofa for over 
£9,000. He hasnt said he needs to replace all three parts to match - and I would not, in any 
event, be inclined to find that was fair in these circumstances. Taking  into account the 
original cost of the suite, and the fact the sofa was about 20 years old when  it was damaged,  
Im minded  to find it reasonable that Barclaycard provide a refund of £400  for the damaged  
sofa. 
The parties were each sent a copy of my provisional  decision and allowed  some time to 
consider it (and provide further comments or evidence if they wanted  to) before I made my 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have now responded. Barclaycard accepts my provisional findings but Mr H 
doesnt. In summary,  Mr H is unhappy with the way that I worked out how much  should be 
refunded. He says the least he would accept is half the cost of replacements  - and the 
mattresses cost about £1,000 each when they were purchased,  the bedframe was damaged  
beyond repair and he paid €1,000  for the replacement sofa. 
I realise Mr H is disappointed and I want to assure him that Ive considered everything that 
he said and sent to us carefully. As I explained in my provisional decision,  working  out 
whats fair and reasonable in this sort of situation is not scientific exercise. I understand Mr H 
feels he should receive a bigger refund but I dont  think that would be fair in the 
circumstances here,  for the reasons Ive set out. Having weighed all pthe available evidence, 
I think my provisional conclusions represent a fair outcome overall and I am not persuaded 
that there  are sufficient  fair and reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional decision.  
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as 
Barclaycard) to provide  the following refunds:- 
1.£500 for replacement  mattresses (£250 per mattress);
2.€ 200 for the estimated  cost of a local repair for the damaged bedframe; and
3.£400 for a replacement sofa.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9884429