K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral)  handled 
his claim under his motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr T made a claim against  his motor insurance  policy following an accident. Admiral 
appointed its approved  repairer to repair the vehicle. When  Mr T collected the vehicle from 
the approved  repairer, he noticed poor repairs and new damage. Mr T complained to 
Admiral who agreed that its approved repairer had caused further problems. As the cost to 
repair the damage was more than the value of the car, Admiral bought Mr Ts vehicle from 
him. Admiral also paid some money towards  the cost of calls hed made, petrol the garage  
used, the cost of a full service and compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
Mr T remained unhappy because Admiral had not paid for upgrades  and a service he had 
done to his vehicle. The upgrades were an upgraded radio and a suspension upgrade.  Mr T 
also remained unhappy that Admiral only paid £7,095  for his vehicle when it was insured for 
£7,500.
Admiral said the radio wasnt covered under the insurance policy,  as it was a non-standard 
part. It also considered  the cost of a service and the suspension upgrade, to be maintenance 
costs and not things it would  cover. Admiral  said that it used industry recognised valuation  
guides to establish the value of the vehicle at the time of loss, so it said the valuation  was 
fair.
Mr T brought  his complaint to us for investigation. Our investigator said Admirals valuation  
of the vehicle was reasonable as it was in line with online  valuation  guides. She also said 
that Admiral didnt need to pay for the non-standard radio, the suspension  upgrade or pay 
more for a service, as Admiral had offered £200 towards this. 
Mr T disagreed and asked  for an ombudsmans decision. He doesnt think hes been put 
back into the position he was in if Admiral  had completed a reasonable repair to his vehicle. 
He also feels the compensation paid so far is insufficient.
Our investigator also looked into an additional complaint point regarding Mr Ts no claims 
discount. Mr T thought  it was excessive for Admiral to reduce  his no claims discount  from 
eight years to three. Our investigator  said that Admiral reduced the number of years  on his 
discount in line with its terms and conditions. Admiral has since agreed to increase Mr Ts no 
claims discount to six years, and Mr T hasnt asked  me to address this.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 July 2019 and my findings are below.  
my provisional decision
Both parties  accept that Admirals agents  caused damage to Mr Ts vehicle. The issue  I 
need to decide here is whether Admiral put Mr T back  into the position he would have been 
in, had it repaired the vehicle according to the policy terms. Mr Ts main  concerns are about; 
what Admiral paid him for the vehicle, the cost of the upgraded radio, the cost of a 
suspension upgrade, the cost of recent full service and the level of compensation offered.
Mr T has said Admiral  should pay him £7,500 because this was the vehicles value when he 
bought the policy and the amount the vehicle  was insured for. However, I think its 
Ref: DRN92380002reasonable for Admiral to pay Mr T the retail market  value of his vehicle at the time of loss. 
This will allow Mr T to buy a vehicle of similar  value and condition, and would be a 
reasonable way to put Mr T back into the position he would have been in. Ive reviewed the 
online valuations guides myself and Im satisfied Admirals offer of £7,095  is reasonable and 
does reflect what hed have to pay for an identical vehicle with the same  mileage at the time 
his was damaged.  So, I dont  think Admiral  needs to increase this.
Mr T has explained  that it wasnt a new radio  fitted  to the vehicle, but accessories added  to 
the standard radio to upgrade its performance. Whilst Admiral  asked Mr T to remove the 
accessories prior to collection, Mr T has said he was unable  to do this as parts were 
permanently fixed to the car and Admiral has now collected it.
Admiral said the cost of the radio is not covered under the policy,  as it is a non-standard 
part. I dont think Admiral  should be relying on policy terms here, as its no longer assessing  
the vehicle due to an insured event - its now trying to put Mr T back in the position he would 
have been in, had its approved repairer  repaired  the vehicle  properly. Mr Ts vehicle would 
have been returned to him with the radio accessories included and he would be benefiting 
from his upgraded  radio. So, as Mr T paid £149  for these  and will have to do so again,  I think 
Admiral should pay Mr T this amount.
Similarly, Mr T paid for a suspension upgrade a few months prior to the accident. For similar 
reasons to the radio upgrade, I think Mr T has also lost the use of and the value of this 
upgrade due to Admirals  failed repairs. And hell have to pay to have it done on the new car 
he buys. He paid £140.80 for the upgrade,  so hell again have to pay this to have it done  on 
the new car he buys. So I think  Admiral should  pay him £140 to cover the cost of having  it 
done on his new car.
Mr T also said he had his vehicle serviced for around £500  shortly before the accident and 
feels Admiral should  cover the cost of this. He said he always  pays for a full service when he 
buys a used vehicle.  Admiral has paid Mr T £200 towards the cost of having  his new vehicle 
serviced as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr T hasnt  sent me evidence to show the cost of the service he had done.  Ive also 
considered that a full service may not always be required for a used vehicle, as the vehicle 
and its parts could be in a good condition or the seller/dealer  may have recently  serviced the 
vehicle before the sale. For these reasons, I think Admirals contribution is reasonable and 
wont be asking Admiral  to pay more towards the cost of the service.
With regards to the total compensation,  Admiral has paid Mr T £800 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its errors. And I agree this whole episode  has been very 
inconvenient for Mr T, especially as it seems he was without a vehicle for a short period. 
Both parties  accept that he had to call Admiral on many occasions to obtain information, and 
that he would need to source and buy a new vehicle. I think losing your vehicle in this 
manner would have  been distressing for Mr T. However, after carefully considering  the 
impact all issues had on Mr T, I think the compensation offered by Admiral  reflects  the 
distress and inconvenience caused and is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Mr T responded and accepted my findings. And Admiral let us know  it had received the 
provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
Ref: DRN92380003my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and in the absence  of 
any new evidence, Ive decided to uphold this complaint  for the reasons set in my provisional 
decision. 
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance  Company Ltd to do the 
following:
Pay Mr T £149 to cover the cost of upgrading the non-standard radio.
Pay Mr T £140 to cover the cost of a suspension  upgrade.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Jamie Sutherland  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9238000