K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains about how Greenlight  Credit  Ltd dealt with his account after he took a log 
book loan. He says it has overcharged him, taken payments without his authority and 
refused to return his log book. 
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
9 January 2020. My provisional decision is attached below and forms part of my final 
decision. 
Mr T hasnt  responded to the provisional  decision. 
Greenlight didnt  accept my provisional decision,  in response it explained that it didnt think 
the lending should have  been investigated  for affordability. It pointed out that the original  
complaint it received from this service explained:  
About 4 years ago Mr T finished paying  the loan. They insist he hadnt,  and the account  was 
put in dispute. Whilst  in dispute, they removed money from his account without permission 
twice and refused  to return it. They  subsequently held his log book meaning he was unable 
to sell the car. He was evicted around  the same time in April 14 and paid his loan in full to 
obtain his car back to sell it to achieve  a deposit for a home.  He is now homeless with his 
asset seized without cause and money stolen.
As Mr T hadnt  expressed any dissatisfaction with how the loan was approved, Greenlight 
said it wasnt fair to this to be investigated.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.  
Neither side has presented any additional  arguments in relation to my reasons for upholding 
the complaint.,  so the only thing left for me to consider  is if its reasonable to look at whether 
the loan was affordable to Mr T as part of this complaint. 
This service has an inquisitorial remit and can look at what we feel a business should have 
looked at when dealing with a complaint.  This means were required to do more than just 
look at a complaint  as its written or explained to us. We must think  about  what lies at the 
heart of a complaint and look at the whole picture.  
So, when looking at Mr Ts complaint Ive looked at the crux of the matter.  This includes the 
way charges were  applied  and the total amount Greenlight had asked Mr T to repay to settle 
the debt. To respond to these  issues,  Im required to look at what  charges have been  
applied, whether theyve been  done so fairly and how much Mr T should reasonably be 
asked to repay. 
When reviewing the complaint to answer  these  questions  it was evident that Mr T fell behind 
in payments quite  quickly after taking the loan. This is an indicator that the lending  may not 
have been affordable. And as Mr T has also been  complaining about how difficult  its been  to 
Ref: DRN98084052repay what Greenlight is now asking him to, I think that this is something Greenlight should  
have considered before providing this service with its response to the complaint. And 
something which I think I needed to investigate before I could issue  a decision on Mr Ts 
complaint. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I dont think the checks Greenlight  carried  out were 
proportionate and had they been I dont think it would have lent to Mr T.  I also dont think  
Greenlight treated  Mr T with due consideration and forbearance as its required to do with 
any consumer in financial difficulties, and its handling had caused  Mr T substantial distress  
and inconvenience.  So, I think the complaint should  be upheld for the same  reasons I set out 
in my provisional decision and should  be settled in line with my previous recommendations.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Greenlight Credit  Ltd should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr T has paid towards the loan
pay Mr T 8% simple interest  on the above from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*
remove any record of this loan from Mr Ts credit file
return Mr Ts log book  
pay Mr T £600 for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
*if Greenlight  Credit  Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr T a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Chris Bick
ombudsman 
provisional decision
background
Mr T took out a log book  loan for £1,000  with Greenlight in June 2013.  Contractual  payments 
of £152 were to be paid by the 28th of each month over a period of 12 months. The total to 
be paid back,  inclusive of administration charges and interest was £1,819.
Mr T made the first few payments in full and on time. But this changed in October  2013 when 
Greenlight made several attempts to take payment from Mr Ts bank account which were 
declined. From that point  on Mr Ts account was regularly in arrears and a number of 
Ref: DRN98084053additional fees and charges were applied to the account, including a number of charges for 
instructing repossession  agents. 
Mr T has told us he was evicted from his property in April 2014  and left with nowhere  to live. 
He contacted Greenlight on 1 May 2014  to make  a payment to settle the account in full. He 
says he asked how much was required to do this and made a payment of £635.70  with his 
debit card. After  making the payment  he was told he would need to make three further 
payments. He says that Greenlight took this payment under false pretences and he wanted  
to pay off the balance so he could  sell the car which  he then wasnt  able to do - as 
Greenlight still had his log book.
Mr T also said he didnt think  the charges that had been applied  to the account were done so 
fairly and that the fees applied were excessive. Particularly he said that hed paid a fee for 
Greenlight instructing  a repossession  agent  in January 2014 when no agent had been 
assigned and that hed been charged  for text messages which hadnt been sent.  
Mr T also said he made an additional payment of £224.41 towards the account on 
23 June 2014.  Greenlight originally said it hadnt  received this payment, but has since  
confirmed it was received  and has now been  applied to the account balance.  
Mr T sent Greenlight letters of complaint on 30 August,  10 October and 23 December 2014. 
But he didnt  receive a response. Mr T first got in touch with our service  in April 2018.  
Greenlight explained it hadnt  responded to Mr T because it never received his letters  of 
complaint. It said they were incorrectly addressed  to the wrong post code. 
Greenlight said the charges were fairly applied and it didnt think Mr T had been misled  into 
paying off the arrears  in May 2014.  So it didnt think it had treated Mr T unfairly. It said there 
was still an outstanding balance on the account which Mr T was required to pay.  But it also 
said that it had since changed its charging  structure  and offered to reduce all charges 
applied by 50%. 
Mr T didnt  accept this offer. So our investigator reviewed the complaint and determined 
some of the charges applied to the account  were  excessive  given  Mr Ts circumstances at 
the time.  Greenlight  agreed to write  off the outstanding balance  of the account which  totalled  
£1,110. Meaning  that £840 of additional charges had still been applied  to the account and 
paid by Mr T. The investigator concluded  this was fair given that Mr T was late making or 
missed a number of payments and there would have been  some costs involved for 
Greenlights administration  in this respect. 
Mr T didnt  accept the offer. He said Greenlight  hadnt text him when it said it had, so it was 
unfair for any of the charges for texting him to be applied. He also said that hed already 
made Greenlight aware that he wasnt living at his previous address and it should have 
known not to send letters there. So he said the charges for sending him letters were also 
applied unfairly.   
Because Mr T didnt  accept the assessment the case has been passed  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN98084054my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so I think  the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ive explained  why in more detail below.
Mr T fell behind  with his payments towards the loan within a few months  of it starting.  Given  
how quickly Mr T fell behind  with his payments it raises concerns  about  whether the loan 
was ever affordable.   
Before offering borrowing lenders need  to consider  whether repayments to a loan are 
affordable and sustainable.  At the time Mr T took this loan out the then regulator, the Office 
of Fair Tradings (OFT) set out clear  guidance on the factors  a lender had to consider  in its 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG). 
ILG 4.10 explains:
the extent  and scope  of any assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance, 
should be dependent upon- and proportionate to- a number of factors - which may include  
some or all of the following as appropriate:
 the type of credit product
 the amount of credit  to be provided and the associated
cost and risk to the borrower
 the borrower's financial  situation at the time the credit
is sought
 the borrower's credit  history  including any indications of the borrower 
experiencing- or having experienced  financial  difficulty
So Ive thought about the checks Greenlight  completed before  offering Mr T the loan. 
did Greenlight complete  proportionate checks?
Greenlight recorded Mr Ts income  as £1,500 a month and his expenditure as £800  a month, 
which would have left him with around  £700  disposable  income.  
Greenlight has said it verified Mr Ts income using a copy of his student loan and 
maintenance payment schedule. This showed between February and July 2013  Mr T was 
due to receive around £9,300 in student  loans and grants. I havent seen anything to explain 
why Mr T required a loan of £1,000 when Greenlight had recorded he had £700 of 
disposable income per month.  
Greenlight says it asked Mr T to verify his expenditure over the phone.  But it didnt think  it 
needed to complete any further checks due to the size and nature of the loan. 
Although the student loan payments to Mr T werent made every month, taking an average 
of the payments shows hes received  around  £1,550 per month.  
I can also see from the student loan schedule Greenlight checked that Mr T was due to 
receive two payments totalling just over £3,100  in July 2013. But I havent  seen  anything  that 
Greenlight checked explained  what would  happen  from then on or that Mr T was guaranteed 
to receive any additional  student  loan payments after that. The student  loan would  only be 
provided while Mr T was studying and he would need to apply and be reassessed for 
Ref: DRN98084055eligibility for the loan and grant each year. So I dont think  that Greenlight should  have 
assumed Mr T would have received any further  student loan payments not declared on the 
schedule.  And I think Greenlight should have done more  to verify what Mr Ts future income 
was likely to be.
Greenlight hasnt been  able to provide a copy of the call recording where Mr T provided his 
expenditure details so Im unable to say for certain what  was declared during the application. 
The income that Greenlight had verified was to be made up of student loans and grants,  the 
purpose of which  was to cover day to day expenditure  while  Mr T was studying. So I think  
Greenlight needed to take further steps  to understand what  Mr Ts expenditure was and it 
couldnt rely solely on his declaration of his costs. 
I think Greenlight should have completed further checks  before agreeing to lend. So Ive 
thought about what Greenlight  would have seen had it done so. 
was the loan affordable?
Because I think Greenlight needed to do more  to establish what Mr Ts actual income  and 
expenditure was Ive looked at what it would have  seen  had it checked  Mr Ts bank 
statements prior to providing the loan.
Mr Ts May 2013 bank  statement shows that he started the month with less than £800  in his 
account. So he didnt  have sufficient funds to cover his declared monthly expenditure. The 
only regular bill I can see Mr T paid that month  was his phone  bill of around £30. I cant  see 
that there  were any payments made towards Mr Ts rent or other essential bills like utilities; 
indicating that when Greenlight  provided  the loan, he was at least  a month behind on these 
payments.  
Mr Ts bank  statements between February  and April 2013 show that his rent was £675  a 
month. I can see he missed the payment in March 2013 and had to make a double  payment 
towards this in April 2013. I can also see Mr T made payments towards  gas/electricity bills of 
around £180 each in February and March  2013, although no payment was made  in 
April 2013. As well as this, I can see what seems to be a quarterly  payment  towards  water  
bills of £86.21,  a payment of over £650  towards Mr Ts car insurance, payments towards 
Mr Ts phone bill of between  £25 and £30 each month and monthly payments of around £20 
to a debt collection  agent. 
I think Mr Ts true monthly expenditure on bills and rent was likely to be in excess  of £900 
without taking account of his other essential  expenditure  such  as food and travel  costs. So 
Im satisfied had Greenlight completed proportionate checks it would have  determined  Mr Ts 
actual monthly expenditure to have been in excess of £1,000. 
Taking into account Mr Ts actual expenditure with his declared income  the loan does seem 
affordable. But as I said above  I dont think it was sufficient to rely on the maintenance grant  
as income when payments were scheduled to stop shortly after Mr T took the loan from 
Greenlight. I can see Greenlight  recorded that as well as being a student Mr T also did some 
freelance work. But the only additional income  I can see on his bank statement is a payment 
of £600 In March  2013. So I dont think it would have been  reasonable to conclude that Mr T 
could rely on any other income to keep up with payments. 
As Mr T was already a month behind on most of his bills I think it was reasonably 
foreseeable that the student  loan payment he received in July 2013 would have been spent 
Ref: DRN98084056on paying off his arrears,  making his July and August payments towards those bills and 
normal day to day living expenses. So I think it should have been  clear that Mr T was 
already in financial difficulty and he would struggle to make payments towards his Greenlight 
loan shortly after it started.  This  is what transpired  in this case. 
I dont see how Mr T could afford  to keep  up with the contractual payments to Greenlight 
when he had been regularly missing payments like rent previously. So I think  it was 
reasonably foreseeable that Mr T would struggle to pay Greenlight back. So I dont think the 
loan was sustainable or should have been  provided. 
Because Mr T has had use of the capital I think its fair for him to pay that back (as he has 
already) but as the loan shouldnt have been provided I dont think  its reasonable for 
Greenlight to apply any interest  or charges to the loan. So it should  refund all the interest  
and charges which Mr T has paid so far. It should also pay him interest on this amount at 8% 
simple per year from the date Mr T made each payment until the date its refunded.  
As Mr T should never have had the loan I also think Greenlight should  remove  any reference 
to it from his credit file. 
Greenlights overall handling of Mr Ts account  
I agree  with the investigators conclusion that the level of fees and charges applied to the 
account was excessive but as Ive already concluded Greenlight should refund these, Im not 
going to address this further. But I have  thought  about how it has dealt with Mr Ts account 
overall and whether it treated him fairly.
Mr Ts financial difficulties
After April 2014 the rules  that lenders needed  to follow  changed to the Consumer Credit 
sourcebook (CONC). But both ILG and CONC set similar responsibilities on lenders to treat 
borrowers in default  or arrears difficulties with forbearance.
I think the frequency of Mr T missing payments should have been a clear indicator that he 
wasnt able to keep  up with repayments. I can also see that Greenlight regularly attempted  to 
take payments  from Mr Ts card despite the original request being declined by Mr Ts bank. 
Although the arrears  letters  Greenlight  send ask consumers  to get in contact if theyre 
experiencing financial difficulties, I cant see that Greenlight made any real attempts to 
understand why Mr T was regularly making late or missing payments. And it continued  to 
apply charges despite him being  in clear financial difficulty. I dont think  this was reasonable 
and the frequency and level of charges being applied  would have  caused  Mr T considerable 
concern. 
May 2014 call
Ive listened to the call in May 2014  and can understand why Mr T was confused. Hed asked 
how much  was required to pay all of it off now  and the adviser  explained £635.70. But the 
advisor was talking about the arrears that had built up, rather  than the total to settle the 
account in full. So I dont think the advisor  provided  Mr T the information he asked  for and 
should have been clearer about what was outstanding. But I dont think the advisor was 
Ref: DRN98084057intending to mislead Mr T during the call. And as soon as the payment had been taken the 
advisor explained what the next payment would be and when.
I do think the call handler should have handled Mr Ts concerns in the call better. He was 
raising some legitimate  concerns  about  how his account had been managed  and the fees 
that had been applied.  The advisor  said he would provide a breakdown of the charges 
applied. But Mr T was raising a complaint at that point and was very clear  that he thought the 
charges had been applied  unfairly  and wanted  to dispute them. I think this should have been 
treated as a formal  complaint at that point.  But the advisor told Mr T he would need to 
complain in writing I dont think this was reasonable and was an unnecessary barrier to Mr T 
having his complaint investigated. 
The advisor did agree to send Mr T a copy of his account statement. I can see Mr T chased 
this on 11 June 2014 and several times  between  then and 20 August 2014. It seems  
Greenlight did make a number of attempts to provide this to Mr T by email but not in formats 
he could open.  I appreciate this must  have  been frustrating for Mr T but I dont have copies 
of what was sent so I cant say for sure whether  this was caused by mistakes  Greenlight 
made. 
returning Mr Ts log book
Mr T has said he was intending to sell his car to cover the deposit for a new home as he was 
evicted from his property  in April 2014. And because Greenlight refused to return his log 
book he was unable  to do so. He says this ultimately  led to him becoming  homeless.  
I dont think theres enough evidence for me to conclude Mr T was made homeless as a 
direct result of Greenlights  actions.  I think Mr T was already  in some financial difficulty, 
including missing rent payments before taking the loan and I havent seen anything to 
confirm he had a definitive offer to buy the car, or for what  price. And even if he had received 
such an offer theres no way for me to know that this would have alleviated  his financial 
issues sufficiently for him to afford  the costs of securing  somewhere new to live. 
But I do think that, given  his financial circumstances at the time, had Mr T been in 
possession of his log book he would have sold the car and this would  have alleviated  his 
financial difficulties to a degree. If it werent for Mr T being provided the unaffordable loan in 
the first place he would  have been able to sell the car and not being able to do so 
contributed to his already very difficult circumstances. 
Mr T has said he made Greenlight aware  of his housing situation in previous phone  calls. I 
dont have recordings of all the calls; so I cant know for certain what  was said.  But during 
the call in May 2014 Mr T told Greenlight hed recently  moved out of his house. He didnt 
explain he was homeless or that he required money for a deposit. Nor can I see it was 
discussed in his email exchanges with Greenlight in June 2014 when Mr T said hed been 
moving house.
I can see Mr Ts complaint letters to Greenlight  dated 30 August, 10 October and 
23 December 2014 all explained that he was homeless. But the post code Mr T had included 
when addressing the letters was incorrect. So I think Greenlights explanation they were 
never received is most likely correct. 
Ref: DRN98084058However, I can see an email Mr T sent Greenlight in August 2014  also explained he didnt 
have anywhere  to live.  I have no reason  to think this wasnt received so I think this should  
have put Greenlight  on notice  that Mr T was in severe financial difficulties and vulnerable.  So 
it should have  been thinking  about its responsibilities as a lender and whether it needed to 
do anything different when dealing with his account.   I cant  see it made any change or 
asked Mr T for any further information - but it did continue to apply charges and interest  to 
the outstanding balance.  I dont  think this was reasonable in the circumstances  and would 
have contributed to an already stressful situation  for Mr T. 
updating Mr Ts details
Mr T has said he let Greenlight know during a phone call prior to May 2014 that he had a 
new telephone  number and it hadnt  updated  his details. He also says its unfair that letters 
were sent to him after he made Greenlight  aware  that his address  had changed. 
The first time I can say for sure that Mr T told Greenlight this was in the May 2014 call. He 
told the advisor that hed moved  out and would need correspondence by email. He also 
confirmed with the advisor that his telephone number had changed.
After that call I can see Greenlight continued  to send letters to Mr T at his old address, 
continued to attempt to contact him on his previous mobile number and apply charges to the 
account each  time it did so. I think it made  a mistake  in not confirming and updating Mr Ts 
new details and it was unreasonable to charge him when it was using the incorrect  contact 
details. 
missing payment
It wasnt until this service  got involved that Greenlight located  Mr Ts missing  payment  that 
was made  in June  2014. I think it could have done more  to locate the payment  sooner. 
Mr T had told Greenlight about  the payment in his email of 20 August 2014, after he received  
his Greenlight statement  and could see it hadnt been applied.   He provided a copy  of his 
receipt showing the payment was made in his follow up letter, which was incorrectly 
addressed so not received.  
So I think had Greenlight done more to investigate this or explained to Mr T that it needed a 
copy of the receipt  he would have been aware  that his complaint letter  hadnt  been received 
and could have  provided an additional copy. And Greenlight would have located the 
payment much sooner than it did. I can see because this payment wasnt  credited to his 
account as it should  have  been, Greenlight  instructed  a repossession  agent  shortly after.  
And a number of charges were  applied to the account as a result. Which would have been 
distressing for Mr T. 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  Greenlight caused Mr T
Our website  contains  detailed  examples of distress and inconvenience  awards  we might 
make and the reasons why might  make them. These  are set out in different categories and 
levels  to show the range of awards  we make. Ive carefully considered  whether Greenlight  
should make  an additional  payment to Mr T with reference to these distress and 
inconvenience awards and categories. 
Ref: DRN98084059Taking all of the above into account, I think that Greenlights actions caused  Mr T substantial 
distress, inconvenience, anxiety  and suffering. Our website sets out a compensation range 
of between £500 and £2,000 where  a consumer has suffered substantial  distress and 
inconvenience. Bearing in mind all of the circumstances,  I think an award at the lower  range 
of this scale is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances  of this case. So having  carefully  
considered everything, given the particular circumstances of Mr Ts complaint, Im intending 
to award Mr T £600 for the distress and inconvenience that Greenlights actions in acting 
unfairly and unreasonably  towards  him caused.
my provisional decision
Im minded  to uphold  this complaint. To put things right Greenlight Credit  Ltd should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr T has paid towards the loan
pay Mr T 8% simple interest  on the above from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*
remove any record of this loan from Mr Ts credit file
return Mr Ts log book  
pay Mr T £600 for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
*if Greenlight  Credit  Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr T a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9808405