K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains when  using her Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  card at an ATM  
an amount significantly  less than shed requested was dispensed. 
background
Mrs M brought her complaint to us as she was unhappy with Nationwides refusal to refund 
what she said was a shortfall of £290  from the withdrawal of £300 she made on 16 
November 2017.  Mrs M used the card on her Nationwide account at the ATM of another  
bank who, for ease of reference, Ill call S. Mrs M says she requested  to withdraw  £300  but 
only received £10 from the machine.
Nationwide told Mrs M that theyd spoken  to S who confirmed that the ATM  in question had 
been thoroughly  checked  and no discrepancy was found in relation to her transaction.  So 
they thought it was correct for them to refuse  to refund £290  of the £300 debited from her 
account for the withdrawal.
During his enquiries  our investigator was given  new information by S. S told him that on 22 
November 2017  - which was the next time this ATM  was balanced  it was £380 over.  S said 
around this time several other claims were received from banks  in relation to cash  not being 
dispensed to their customers. S said the amounts involved were £40, £40 and £20. Mrs Ms 
claim was received after those claims so didnt entirely correspond as, after meeting the 
earlier claims, there was £280 left, not the £290 Mr M said was missing.  S couldnt say why 
theyd earlier  told Nationwide that everything  balanced.
The investigator thought the new information from S supported what Mrs M said.  He thought  
there was a good case for upholding Mrs Ms complaint and asked Nationwide to credit  her 
account with £290.
Nationwide asked for the contact details for S and told us theyd asked S to review  their 
position but hadnt received a reply. Nationwide said until they had the reply and clarification 
from S they didnt think they should  reimburse the funds. And Nationwide  suggested this 
service contact S and arrange for the funds to be returned to the customer  as it may provide 
a speedier resolution.  The case has now come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant know what happened at the ATM  on 16 November 2017. Where facts  have  been  in 
dispute and I cant know exactly  whats happened, Ive decided  whats  more likely  to have 
happened, at the time, on a balance of probabilities. It appears to me, based on their final 
suggestion to contact S for a refund,  Nationwide  now accept Mrs Ms not received the full 
amount of the cash requested on 16 November  2017. But thats not clear  from their letter. So 
for the avoidance  of any doubt Ive made  my decision  on balance  of probabilities.
I understand why Nationwide initially refused the refund requested by Mrs M. Based on the 
information they received from S there was no discrepancy. But we now know  differently 
from S. There  was a significant  discrepancy and the remaining money  held by S - £280 - is 
just £10 short of that claimed  by Mrs M. Nationwides own complaint notes reflect that Mrs M 
Ref: DRN90282042reported the discrepancy on the day to S and phoned Nationwide  the next day. The ATM 
was balanced  some six days after the withdrawal.  The ATM was subject to four claims for 
cash not being dispensed so was clearly not working correctly. And, as the adjudicators 
highlighted, its possible one of the other  claims might have been overstated.  So from all the 
available evidence I think its more  likely  than not that Mrs M only received the £10 she says 
from the machine.  It follows  that she should now receive a refund  of the £290 that was 
missing from the withdrawal but taken from her Nationwide account.
I agree  with our investigator that it wouldnt  be appropriate for us to ask S to pay Mrs M 
directly. As hes explained Mrs Ms a customer of Nationwide and its for Nationwide  to 
resolve this matter, given  that it allowed her account  to be debited.  So I require Nationwide  
to refund Mrs M the £290. Given the amount of time which has passed since the new 
information came to light I would hope  that payment can be made by Nationwide without 
delay.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this compliant. Nationwide  Building  Society  should  pay to 
Mrs M £290.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9028204