K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained about CIS General  Insurance  Limiteds handling of his car insurance 
policies.  
Reference to CIS includes their agents.
background
Mr R said that CIS didnt apply his No Claims Bonus (NCB)  discount  to one of his policies for 
a number of years. He said that meant he paid more for his premiums over the years  than he 
would have had the NCB  been applied. He complained.
Mr R had three CIS policies which Ill refer to by number. CIS said that when Mr R took out 
policy 3, policy 2 was already active  and was benefitting from the NCB. They  said that as 
NCB can only be applied  to one policy at a time,  it wasnt  possible to apply it to policy 3 as 
well. CIS said that policy 2 ended in November  2009, but Mr R didnt ask them to apply the 
NCB to policy 3 until 2013. But as NCB  is lost if its not used within three years,  when Mr R 
asked for it to be applied  to policy 3 in 2013  it couldnt  be as it had expired.
Mr R said he believes CIS made a mistake and that policy  2 shouldnt have been ended  in 
November 2009.  He said that policy, which had the benefit of the NCB, should have 
continued and policy 3 should have  been ended, which would have meant his NCB would 
have continued  to be applied at every  renewal.
CIS didnt  uphold Mr Rs complaint so he brought it to our service.  One of our adjudicators 
looked into the complaint. She felt that CIS hadnt done anything  wrong. As Mr R didnt 
agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr R, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all of Mr Rs points carefully.  But, in this decision, I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide  if CIS have  dealt with Mr R in a fair and 
reasonable way.
From the available evidence it would appear  Mr R had a total of three car insurance  policies 
with CIS:
Policy 1  started 9 September  2002, ended  9 September 2006
Policy 2  started 9 November 2006,  ended  9 November 2009
Policy 3  started 6 May 2009,  ended 6 May 2018
When Mr R took out policy 1 he already had some NCB years which  he had collected 
previously and was able to use. During policy 1 he further accumulated a number of NCB 
years. When  policy 1 ended and Mr R took out policy 2, he was able to use his previous 
NCB. But while policy 2 was active Mr R took out policy 3. So he had two live overlapping 
policies at the same time. And his NCB  was already being  used  for policy  2. As is insurance 
industry practice he wasnt able to use his already accumulated NCB for more then one 
Ref: DRN93129702policy, nor was he able to split his NCB  years between the two policies. So policy 3 started 
without any NCB. Although policy 3, which renewed for almost a decade,  accumulated NCB 
years in its own right.
Around six months after policy 3 started, policy 2 ended  in November 2009. So, as long as 
he wasn't using  it on another policy, Mr R would have been able to use his NCB  
accumulated during  policy 2 for policy 3 from the 2010 policy  3 renewal. I understand Mr R 
said he asked CIS to do that, but the documentary records I have seen from CIS show  that 
he first asked  CIS to do that sometime in 2013. But by that time, as three years had passed 
from policy 2 ending,  Mr Rs accumulated NCB for policy  2 had expired and couldnt be 
used. Its usual practice in the insurance industry  that NCB expires if not used within  a 
certain period  of time,  in this case within three  years.  And theres no record  of Mr R having 
asked CIS before 2013 to use his NCB  for policy 3. So I dont think  CIS treated Mr R unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.  
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9312970