K820x#14Complaint
Mr K and Mrs Z bring this complaint on behalf of their company, ARK Promotions Limited 
(ARK), for which they are both directors. They say Lloyds Bank PLC failed to do enough to 
retrieve a payment ARK was tricked into making  by a scammer. They want  Lloyds to refund  
the payment.
Background
ARK holds a business account with Lloyds and use an account  platform  called Lloydslink. An 
employee of ARK has secure access to the platform to make payments on ARKs behalf.
In early 2018 the employee responsible for making  payments received an email from who 
they thought was Mr K. The email asked them to make  a payment to a third-party  company.  
The employee actioned  the request and sent Lloyds the payment instruction around  11.30 in 
the morning.
Mr K became aware  of the payment  shortly  afterwards. He contacted the employee and told 
them he hadnt  sent the email and it was fake. The employee rang Lloyds to ask for the 
payment to be stopped. Lloyds said the payment  had already be made, but it would contact  
the payees bank to see whether the funds could be retrieved.
The employee and Mr K rang Lloyds numerous  times for updates.  They wanted to make 
sure the payees  bank  had been  contacted, so something could  be done to stop the funds 
being spent. Lloyds indicated in an email  it sent later that afternoon that it contacted  the 
payees bank  quickly after the loss was reported.
Lloyds were contacted  by the payees bank to say the funds  had been  spent,  so they 
couldnt be returned to ARK. Mr K and Mrs Z believe Lloyds didnt contact the payees  bank  
quickly enough. They say if Lloyds contacted the payees bank earlier,  its possible the funds 
could have been retrieved. Lloyds rejected the complaint. It says it did all it could.
Mr K and Mrs Z brought the complaint to our service. An investigator considered the 
complaint and decided not to uphold it. They found  Lloyds  had done  what  it could to retrieve 
the payment.  But the funds were spent  quickly once they were  received into the payees 
account.
Mr K and Mrs Z asked for a final decision by an ombudsman, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr K and Mrs Z will be disappointed,  but I have decided not to uphold  this 
complaint. Ill explain  why:
Ref: DRN98096042-Under the Payment  Services Regulations  2017 (PSRs), ARK consented to the 
payment. This is the case even if though an ARK employee was tricked  into giving 
the payment instruction to Lloyds. So, at least under  the regulations, Lloyds arent 
liable for ARKs loss.
-But I must consider  more than just the PSRs to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. 
I must also consider  relevant law and regulations;  regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes  of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time the fraud  took place.
-Lloyds are under a general duty to act on its customers  mandate.  But this is not an 
absolute rule. Lloyds  also has responsibilities  to monitor accounts to counter risks to 
customers, including preventing frauds and scams. Lloyds should  also,  as a matter of 
good industry practice, look out for unusual transactions which  could indicate  scams 
or fraud. And, in some circumstances, Lloyds should  take additional steps before 
acting on a customers instruction.
-I dont find there  was anything particularly unusual about the payment Lloyds was 
asked to make. ARK is an active business,  and its not unusual  for a business to set 
up new payees and pay sizeable sums  on occasion. After all, businesses  need 
flexibility to transact  quickly and reliably.  Indeed,  this is the purpose  of the platform 
ARK used.
-Lloyds ought  to act quickly  when notified  of a payment  a customer  was tricked into 
making  known as an authorised push payment.  UK Finances Best Practice 
Standards says firms  should act immediately  to notify a payees bank once checks  
have been carried  out. Although Lloyds said it acted  quickly in an email to ARK,  it 
only contacted  the payees bank four hours  after the loss was reported.  
-Lloyds hasnt provided a persuasive  reason on why it took so long to contact the 
payees bank.  So, I find it ought  to have  reported the loss sooner. But even if Lloyds  
had contacted the payees bank when it should  have, Im not persuaded the funds 
couldve been retrieved. 
-The payees bank  wouldve also needed time to perform checks and act after 
receiving the notification from Lloyds. Looking at the evidence  I have, which  indicates 
when the funds left the payees account, its unlikely the payees bank would have 
had enough time to stop the funds from being spent.
-Mr K has referred to an article  detailing a compensation scheme Lloyds set up in 
relation to a specific  fraud ring. But this scheme does not relate  to ARK and the fraud  
which was committed against  it.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  for the reasons Ive given above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs Z to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2021.
Liam King
Ref: DRN98096043Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9809604