K821x#15complaint
Miss P is unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled  a water damage claim under 
her home insurance policy.
background
Miss P made a claim to AXA in May 2018 after her flat was damaged  following a leak 
from the flat above. AXA accepted the claim. It arranged for the property to be stripped 
out and dried.
AXA's contractor  took down  the ceiling in Miss P's hall in order to dry out the beams. 
Miss P said she'd raised various safety  concerns with AXA which  it ignored. She said her 
flat was left in a filthy condition  from the debris and dust. She also said the following day 
debris from the void above  the ceiling fell on her causing concussion.  She wanted  AXA to 
move her to other accommodation.  AXA said it would arrange  for sheets to cover the void 
in the ceiling which would stop any more material from falling down.
A day or so later Miss P contacted AXA again. She said she was suffering with severe  
mental health problems due to the stress of the claim. She asked it to put her claim on 
hold until she could  better cope with the situation.  AXA agreed.
The following  month Miss P had further discussions with AXA about the claim. AXA paid 
Miss P a cash  settlement to carry out repairs based  on the estimate from her contractor. It 
also paid £4,740 for Miss P to stay elsewhere,  £399 for the cleaning  which  it accepted it 
should have arranged after the original  strip-out, together  with agreed  costs for electricity, 
furniture removal  and storage.
AXA also accepted that it should  have agreed to move Miss P into temporary 
accommodation after the hall ceiling was taken down and paid her £1,150  compensation 
for this and other  service  failings.
Miss P thought AXA should also pay for her lost earnings. She said because she wasn't  
moved to alternate  accommodation, she hadn't been  able to work for at least  three 
months. AXA didn't agree  to this. AXA appointed  solicitors to act on its behalf  in 
recovering the claim cost from the builder  who'd  been working on her neighbour's 
property. The claim against  the builder also included  Miss P's loss of earnings. Miss P 
was also unhappy that AXA decided not to pursue the recovery  as it said it couldn't  show  
that the builder had been negligent.
Miss P brought her complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why 
I was minded to uphold her complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out 
below:
It's clear to me that Miss P has been  through an extremely stressful  time which  has 
affected her mental well-being.  What I need to decide is whether the compensation of 
£1,150 offered by AXA was fair and reasonable to compensate Miss P for poor claims 
handling on its part, whether AXA should also pay Miss P's loss of earnings and lastly 
whether it was reasonable of AXA not to pursue the third party  for recovery of Miss P's 
uninsured losses.
Ref: DRN96588002Miss P was covered for alternative accommodation  under the terms of her home insurance. 
This is provided where someone's home can't be lived in due to damage which is covered 
by their policy  of insurance.  Miss P says she told AXA her home wouldn't  be safe to live in 
when the hall ceiling  was removed. That was because  there  would no longer be a legal fire 
separation between Miss P's flat and the flat above  and there  would no longer be a safe 
means of exit from the flat. Understandably since Miss P is a professional  in construction, 
this caused her great concern.  In addition she was injured by a piece of debris falling on 
her head. She was also concerned about  damage to her health from the material  in the 
ceiling void.
As AXA didn't  take proper account  of that, it's right that it should compensate Miss P for the 
distress that this caused. That distress was considerable. Miss P has shown she had a 
complete mental breakdown just after the ceiling was removed and she was then signed off 
work for three months with an acute stress reaction.  To its credit when AXA realised the 
severity of Miss P's condition, it tried hard to make things better by making a cash 
settlement offer which  included  alternative accommodation and offering  her access  to a free 
and confidential  support line manned  by professional  counsellors.
But I also have to bear in mind  the fact that the water damage itself was a traumatic 
experience for Miss P. At the same time there  were  problems with the neighbour in the flat 
above which was also very stressful for Miss P but outside AXA's  control.
Taking into account the extreme  impact on Miss P of the failings on the part of AXA and 
the far-reaching effect  on her professional  life of not being able to work for three months, 
I think  a total award of £5,000 is more appropriate for the trouble and upset  she suffered 
less the amount already paid by AXA in respect of compensation.
AXA hasn't paid for Miss P's loss of earnings as part of the claim. I don't think that's fair 
because this is something that resulted  from its poor handling of the claim for which  it 
should compensate  Miss P. So, subject to Miss P providing  the necessary proof  of her 
three month loss of earnings, I think AXA should pay for them less any benefits Miss P 
claimed during  that period.
Insurers are not obliged to recover their claim costs from a third party although of course 
they often do so particularly when there's  a good chance of recovery. If they do seek  to 
recover those costs,  they often as a goodwill gesture seek  to recover their customer's 
uninsured losses  such as the policy  excess and any other out of pocket expenses.  But 
again they're not obliged  to do so. So I don't think AXA treated Miss P unfairly in this case  
by saying that it wouldn't pursue recovery from the third party any further especially since 
it had been advised that the likelihood of it being successful was low.
Miss P has complained  that AXA failed to make reasonable adjustments for her with regard 
to alternative accommodation.  In other  words, she thinks it has failed in its duty to make 
reasonable adjustments under the Equality  Act 2010. I've taken that Act into account when 
deciding this complaint - given that it's relevant law - but it's not for me to make findings  of 
law about whether the Act has been breached;  that's  a matter for the courts.  Ultimately I've 
decided this complaint on the basis of what's  fair and reasonable. And I've explained why, 
taking the Act into account, I think AXA fell down in its handling of the claim and what it's fair 
and reasonable to expect it to do to put matters right.
Ref: DRN96588003Miss P provided evidence  of her loss of income and asked  for interest  to be added  to the 
compensation for loss of earnings since two years had passed since the period when she 
wasnt able to work.
AXA agreed to increase  the compensation to £5,000. It accepted that it was liable to pay 
something in respect of lost earnings  but asked that I stipulate what  evidence  should be 
provided in support of this part of the complaint. It also agreed to pay interest  on the 
compensation for loss of earnings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties have agreed  with my provisional findings, I see no reason  to change them and 
they now form part of this final decision.
AXA hasnt yet had a chance  to review the evidence  provided by Miss P in response to my 
provisional decision regarding her loss of earnings. Its only right that it does  this before this 
service makes any comment  on it. As such, I dont think  its appropriate for me to make any 
findings regarding  how much Miss Ps loss of earnings amounts to or what evidence should 
be required  from Miss P regarding her loss. I hope that the parties will show a degree of 
pragmatism in order to reach agreement on this. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Miss P:
a further  £3,850 for the trouble and upset it caused her; 
compensation equivalent to her net lost earnings for the three month  period she was 
unable to work (subject to receiving satisfactory  evidence of this and less any benefits 
claimed by Miss P over the same  period). Interest should be paid on this amount at the 
rate of 8% simple per annum* from 13 September 2018 (being the last day of Miss Ps 
sick leave) to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due 
to Miss P, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Miss P a certificate  showing this if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9658800