K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr and Mrs C say Coventry Building  Society  (CBS)  mis-sold  them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think CBS made it clear that Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this as the information in their mortgage application set out the 
options Mr and Mrs C had regarding  the PPI, which included  that it didnt have to be 
taken.
CBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for them. So it was up to them to decide  whether  this meant the policy  met their needs or 
not. But CBS still had to make  sure they got the information they needed to make this 
decision for themselves.
Its possible the information CBS gave Mr and Mrs C about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But they chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like Mr C (as the person insured)  was affected  by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, 
the PPI cover  so it would have been useful for them if something went wrong.  Ive 
thought about, for example, Mr Cs entitlement  to enhanced sick pay but the policy  
benefits were considerable and would have paid out for up to 12 months per claim.  It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means CBS doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But CBS has said it will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because: 
CBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because CBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, CBS offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  thats  fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
CBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. CBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs C any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
Ref: DRN94369822CBS should pay back to Mr and Mrs C the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. CBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs C 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs C can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Coventry  Building Society  does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Coventry Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium,  if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 March  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9436982