K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that he received unsuitable advice  from Pacific IFA Limited to transfer his 
existing pension benefits to a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP). Mr Ps SIPP was 
subsequently used to invest in Harlequin  Property.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint, and my provisional findings, in the provisional 
decision I issued in June  2019 (copy attached).  I explained why I didnt think the complaint 
should succeed.
Mr Ps representative responded disagreeing with my provisional decision. In summary, the 
representative said:
It noted that I concluded  that Mr Ps attitude  to risk seemed at odds with his previous 
investment history and the pension transferred into the SIPP  was his total pension 
provision at the time.
These conclusions  make it plain there were significant suitability failings  by Pacific 
when considered alongside  COBS  9. 
So its extremely surprising that my ultimate conclusion  was inconsistent with this. So 
the only fair and reasonable  outcome for this complaint is for it to be upheld and Mr P 
compensated accordingly. Anything to the contrary  would, prima facie, be perverse 
and irrational.
I have noted  the involvement of unregulated persons, and this is a significant  factor  
that should consistently be borne in mind. The FCA issued an alert in 2016 relating  to 
advisers accepting  business  from unauthorised introducers. One particular  area of 
concern highlighted in the alert was that some introducers will present the referral to 
an authorised firm with a completed  fact find, attitude to risk questionnaire, 
application/transfer forms along  with a clear investment desire by the customer 
[representatives emphasis].
Ive suggested  Mr P was already committed to making the investment. The FCA alert 
however makes it clear that advisers cannot  evade liability on this basis, as advisers 
have a duty to consider a customers overall financial situation to ensure the client 
receives suitable advice and to prevent a customer from making unsuitable 
investment decisions  (see Martin v Britannia  Life Ltd [2000]  EWHC 852 (Ch) for 
example).
The investment  couldnt have gone ahead without the SIPP transfer,  meaning  that 
Pacifics advice constituted a novus actus interventiens  whereby,  had suitable  advice 
been given, it could have prevented Mr Ps loss. 
Notwithstanding the above, Pacific didnt provide proper, unequivocal and 
independent advice to Mr P not to invest in Harlequin when it should have.
Mr P says he was not intending for there to be any risk, and he considered 
Harlequins sales literature portrayed good returns for little risk. This was his only 
pension and he wouldnt risk losing it on a whim.
Mr P says he had no savings or shares at the time. He had a residential property, as 
well as two buy-to-let  properties he co-owned with his father.  He thinks  these were  
worth around £160,000  each  with a mortgage  of £140,000. So he is by no stretch of 
the imagination  a sophisticated investor. He was a director  of various companies at 
the time,  but the other  assets Ive referred to were not his but the companies. 
Ref: DRN91250822Mr P wanted a SIPP in the UK in order to utilise buy-to-lets to generate income for 
his pension. He certainly didnt want to make a speculative investment. But Pacific  
told him he could only use a SIPP to purchase  property  abroad and not in the UK.
The representative would also like to point  out that theres  a significant difference  
between dealing with buy-to-let properties,  with which Mr P was familiar,  as opposed 
to unregulated, speculative overseas investments.
Its been suggested that Mr P would have invested, even  if suitable  advice had been 
given. But Mr P confirmed he wouldnt have invested had he been  told not to invest. 
And its a reasonable conclusion he would have respected  and followed suitable 
advice.
In any event, Harlequin was an unregulated collective investment scheme and Mr P 
wasnt a sophisticated  investor.  So the investment  was inherently unsuitable for him 
by virtue of Section  238 of the Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000.  
Pacific confirmed it had received the provisional decision, but made no further comment.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In accordance with my duty under section 228 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000, I must  determine  this complaint by reference to what  is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case . When considering what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  Im required to take into account  relevant 
considerations which include: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance and 
standards; and codes  of practice.  Im also required to take into account,  where  appropriate, 
what I consider to have  been good  industry practice at the time.
Ive noted the points  made by Mr Ps representative about the alert issued by the FCA in 
2016. This was published because the FCA had become aware  of an increase in cases 
where it thought  the introducer  had an undue influence  on how authorised  firms were 
carrying out their business. The FCA said it had specific  concerns where the advice involved 
the movement  of pension pots to unregulated, high risk and illiquid products. The FCA said 
many firms it had visited didnt  have adequate  input  or control over the advice given to 
customers, and identified a number of areas  of concern it had identified. 
But while Ive considered the FCA alert, I dont  think it changes the outcome of this 
complaint. Pacific didnt  simply  accept  the introduction  from the third party  at face value. It 
undertook its own factfinding exercise  and explored  Mr Ps attitude  to risk. It seems there 
was at least one face-to-face meeting between Pacifics adviser and Mr P, during which  his 
circumstances and needs were discussed.  Further, there was nothing  in the alert that said 
regulated firms should never accept new customers from an unregulated introducer.
In my provisional decision I noted  that Pacific shouldnt have limited its advice only to the 
SIPP and should  have advised Mr P on the suitability of the Harlequin investment. Pacific  
now accepts that it should  have done  this. But I dont agree this means  the complaint should  
automatically be upheld.  Instead, I must consider the evidence  as a whole  to determine if the 
investment was nevertheless suitable  for Mr P.
I noted in my provisional decision  that Mr Ps attitude to risk, as recorded by Pacific, seemed 
on the face of it to be at odds with his previous  investment  history.  But it doesnt  necessarily 
Ref: DRN91250823follow that the assessment Pacific undertook at the time was incorrect. An individuals 
opinion can change over time, and an investor can elect to take a higher  degree of risk than 
they have done in the past.  
Ive also considered that Mr Ps attitude  to risk was assessed twice, about  five months apart,  
and each time this indicated  he was prepared to take a high degree  of risk. Further, Mr Ps 
attitude to risk was also clearly set out in the suitability letter,  which included the answers he 
had given in the questionnaire. Mr P doesnt seem to have raised  any objection to being 
classed as an adventurous investor.  Im therefore  unable to agree with Mr Ps assertion he 
was looking for an investment without risk, and overall  I dont think  Pacific mis-categorised 
Mr Ps attitude to risk.   
Mr P has disagreed with information about his personal circumstances I referred to in the 
provisional decision. He says he held two buy-to-let properties with his father, and also that 
other assets referred  to belonged to the companies of which he was a director and not 
himself. 
But the details  I included were taken from the information Mr P provided Pacific in 2009. This 
was recorded  in Pacifics  client questionnaire, which Mr P signed  to confirm it was correct. 
The aim of the questionnaire was to obtain details of Mr Ps personal circumstances, so its 
not clear why he would  have  included  assets which didnt belong  to him. The information 
Mr P gave was also repeated in the suitability  letter, and he doesnt appear  to have 
questioned this. 
Mr P says he wanted a SIPP in the UK because he intended to use it to invest  in buy-to-let 
properties, but was told by Pacific  that he could  only invest in overseas properties. Ive not 
seen evidence to support  this, and in fact the available evidence gives a different picture. 
As I understand it, Mr P was referred to Pacific  by an agent of Harlequin. So it seems that 
the concept of using  his pension fund as a means  of making  this investment was introduced 
to Mr P by this third party. This seems to have been the plan from the outset, before any 
involvement by Pacific.  Mr P was referred to Pacific  to facilitate the transfer.  Ive not seen  
evidence he was thinking about using  the SIPP to buy properties in the UK, or that he 
discussed this with Pacific.  
But even if Mr P had wanted  to use the SIPP as a means of investing  in buy-to-let 
properties, this wouldnt have been possible. The rules governing SIPP  dont permit 
investing in residential property. The Harlequin  investment is allowed because this was 
viewed as a commercial property investment. Mr P comments however do appear to suggest  
he was open to the idea of using his pension  as a means of investing in property. 
I note Mr P says he wouldnt have considered losing his only pension on a whim, and I 
understand this point.  But the evidence suggests he gave  careful  consideration to his 
pension position  and the value of his accrued benefits. For instance,  it was recorded that he 
thought his former employers pension scheme to be an insignificant part of his overall 
pension benefits.  As I noted in my provisional  decision, the annual pension at Mr Ps 
preferred retirement  age was estimated to be about  the same as the net monthly income he 
was receiving at the time. So I think such an opinion of his existing pension benefits was 
understandable. 
It also appears that Mr P didnt find many of the benefits provided  by the pension scheme 
were important for him. It seems that he preferred instead to have the pension  fund invested 
Ref: DRN91250824so as to give the potential  of increasing  his pension and assist his preference for early  
retirement. And he seems  to have had sufficient capacity, in light of his other  assets, of 
being able to take a risk with pension  to try and improve his retirement provision. I think  this 
would have played a significant  part in Mr Ps decision to transfer into the SIPP  so as to 
invest in Harlequin.  
Mr P says Harlequins sales literature portrayed good returns for little risk. But while  this may 
be correct, Pacifics SIPP transfer letter drew attention to a number of risks involved in the 
investment. These included not only general  investment risks, but also those specific  to 
investing in off-plan commercial overseas property. So I think  this would have reasonably 
countered any positive views within the sales literature. In the circumstances, I dont think  
Mr P was misled as to the types  of risks that would be involved from investing in Harlequin.  
Ive noted the point  about rules that relate  to promoting UCIS to retail  investors  within 
Section 238 of the Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000. But while  these place certain 
restrictions on recommending such investments, they dont specify that UCIS can never  be 
recommended. For instance, UCIS can be promoted  to high net worth  individuals  and/or 
sophisticated investors.  
Mr P was recorded as holding net assets  in excess of £250,000. As such, he could  be 
classed as a high net worth individual. Also, although he hadnt invested in overseas off-plan 
properties in the past,  he had invested in UK buy-to-let properties. So he had at least some  
experience of this type of investment, and could be considered  a sophisticated investor  for 
the purposes of investing in Harlequin. 
In addition, the rules  permitted the promotion  of UCIS where a business  had taken  
reasonable steps to ensure the investment was suitable. Given Mr Ps recorded attitude to 
risk, his financial  status and his views  of his pension,  I think  Pacific could reasonably have 
considered he was a suitable individual to whom the Harlequin investment could be 
promoted. 
Ive noted the comments  made by Mr Ps representative in relation to Martin  v Britannia Life. 
But its not clear to me what  point is being made here. I dont think  theres  anything  within  the 
ruling in that case  which conflicts  with my findings on Mr Ps complaint about  Pacific.  
I accept that Pacific didnt  advise Mr P about the suitability of the Harlequin investment and 
didnt make any recommendation  in relation to investing in Harlequin, as it should have done 
at the time. However, for the reasons Ive explained, I think  the investment was in any event 
suitable for Mr P, in light of his circumstances and requirements at the time. So I dont think  it 
would be fair and reasonable to uphold the complaint. 
But while my primary  finding in this case is that the investment was suitable  for Mr P, I think  
that in any event if the investment had been  unsuitable (and Pacific had advised him not to 
invest), Mr P would more  likely than not gone  ahead anyway. For the reasons Ive set out 
above, I think Mr P would have been  prepared to accept the risks as they were perceived at 
the time,  so as to try and improve his retirement  provision.  He seems to have had the 
capacity to take a significant risk with his pension fund, and it appears  he was prepared  to 
do so to achieve a higher pension at this preferred retirement age. 
Ref: DRN91250825my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint and I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN91250826COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr P complains that he received unsuitable advice  from Pacific  IFA Limited  to transfer his existing 
pension benefits  to a self-invested personal  pension  (SIPP). Mr Ps SIPP was subsequently used to 
invest in Harlequin Property.
background
Mr P met with Pacific in 2009. He was in his early thirties and self-employed, and recorded  as being  
single with one dependent  child.  He held two properties valued at £545,000, business interest of 
about £500,000 and other assets of £150,000. He wished to retire at age 55, and had preserved 
pension benefits  in a former employers scheme with a transfer value just under  £25,000. This was for 
a period of service between April 1999 and November  2005.  
Mr P was advised  to transfer his pension  into a SIPP. The suitability letter Pacific issued said that 
Mr P considered the benefits  were an insignificant  part of his overall pension  benefits, although  he 
had no other  pension  funds.  Pacific said that Mr P had been shown  to be an adventurous, or even 
speculative, investor on the attitude to risk questionnaire  hed completed.  Pacific said it hadnt given 
any advice on Mr Ps chosen investment strategy, as he wanted advice on where to place his pension 
fund to facilitate  the purchase of an overseas  commercial  property.  
The pension  fund in the SIPP  was subsequently used to invest in a hotel development in the West 
Indies through  Harlequin Property.  
Mr P complained to Pacific  through  his representative in March 2016.  The representative said:
There was no assessment of the suitability  of the Harlequin investment for Mr P.
There was no assessment of the risks of the Harlequin  investment.
If the advice was suitable, which it didnt think it was, the fund was anyway over-exposed to 
this type of investment.
The benefits of the ceding scheme havent been replaced. 
Pacific didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr P had been referred by a business  which was an agent  
of Harlequin. Mr P told Pacific he wanted to set up a SIPP for his intended  investment.  He wasnt 
looking for advice on whether or not to set up a SIPP,  as hed already made  that decision, nor on the 
suitability of his chosen  investment. Mr P made an informed choice to proceed on the basis that 
limited focused advice  was being given. 
Pacific said it recommended a SIPP that would  permit the Harlequin investment. He was made  aware  
of the risks of transferring from a final salary pension  scheme, as well as the risks involved in the 
Harlequin investment.   
Mr P remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators  investigated Mr Ps complaint, and thought  it should  be upheld. She said 
Pacific ought  to have taken  into account the intended Harlequin investment when making its 
recommendations for the SIPP, and should have known this was unsuitable for Mr P. 
Pacific disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. Its representative made  a number of points:
Pacific doesnt take issue  with the principle that when  considering the suitability of a transfer 
into a SIPP, it should also take account of the suitability of the intended investment.  But it 
doesnt agree with the adjudicators conclusions  about the suitability of the Harlequin  
investment, nor on what Mr P would  have  done had he been advised  the pension transfer 
was not suitable. 
Ref: DRN91250827Mr P had been referred to Pacific by a former financial  adviser, who was still authorised at the 
time of the referral. The adviser had also introduced  the Harlequin  investment to Mr P before 
Pacifics involvement. Mr P signed the Harlequin contract in May 2009.
Its not clear why the adjudicator referred to Mr Ps pensionable salary  under  the final salary  
scheme. This was his salary when  he left his employer in 2005,  not the pension hed receive 
on retirement. 
The adjudicator had referred to some parts of the suitability letter, but omitted to mention a 
section in which Pacific noted that Mr P felt the benefits  from his former employer were an 
insignificant part of his overall pension benefits.  Mr P was relatively young,  and had 22 years  
before his intended retirement in which to make  further contributions.  
The adjudicator thinks that Mr P shouldnt have  been  recorded as having such an 
adventurous attitude to risk. But this was assessed using  two questionnaires,  and Mr P 
confirmed the recorded  answers were correct by signing them.  Mr P identified himself as a 
high risk investor. The suitability letter also noted how he had been assessed. 
While  Mr P had little in the way of traditional  investments, he had two properties worth over 
£500,000, business interests worth £500,000 and other assets of £150,000. Its clear  he 
placed most of his wealth  in his business and properties. His investment in Harlequin would 
be consistent with this  he regarded it as a business opportunity. 
The adjudicator said Mr P hadnt invested in overseas  property before, and so shouldnt have 
been recorded  as a high risk investor. But this is illogical  its never been the case that a 
customers attitude to risk is limited to the risks they have taken with their previous 
investments. 
Pacific doesnt agree  with the adjudicators view that Mr P wouldnt have gone ahead  with the 
transfer if hed been advised against this. This ignores the fact that Mr P had already entered  
into a contract with Harlequin, and wasnt  relying  on any advice from Pacific at that point.  
Also,  the adjudicator hasnt taken into account Mr Ps stated motivation. His projected pension 
from the company  scheme at this preferred retirement age was only £3,700 a year. The only 
way he could  grow this significantly was to take a higher  risk with his pension. In relation to 
his overall wealth,  he had significant capacity for loss with his small  pension. 
In relation the redress the adjudicator  proposed,  Pacific doesnt understand the reference to 
future loss. Mr P is able to terminate the Harlequin  contract  immediately, and so can avoid 
any future loss. 
It also questioned how Mr Ps future tax position  should  be taken into account  for any 
compensation payable to him. 
The complaint has now been referred to me for consideration.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I note Pacific says Mr P was referred by a former financial  adviser, who was an agent of Harlequin. 
But Pacific  was engaged to act as Mr Ps financial adviser in relation  to his pension, and specifically 
concerning the transfer of his existing benefits to a SIPP  for the purpose of investing in Harlequin.  
Pacific therefore had a duty to ensure its advice was suitable.  
Pacific clearly knew about Mr Ps intention to invest in Harlequin. But in its suitability letter Pacific said 
that while  it recommended that Mr P should transfer his pension into a SIPP, it wasnt making any 
recommendation about  how the SIPP should be invested. This is because Mr P was using his 
pension to purchase the Harlequin Property. 
I dont think it was correct for Pacific to limit its advice  in this way, as it had a duty to consider  how the 
pension would  be invested when considering  the suitability of the transfer. In saying this Im mindful 
that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has issued alerts in respect of advising on pension  
transfers with a view to investing pension  monies  into unregulated products through a SIPP. One was 
published on 18 January 2013 and a further one published on 28 April 2014. These alerts didnt make 
Ref: DRN91250828any changes to the regulations. They simply  re-stated the principles that already applied,  and which  
were in place in 2009  when  the advice was given.
The regulator  made  its position  clear  when it said the following in the alert issued in 2013:
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires  consideration of the other 
investments held by the customer  or, when  advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for 
investment in other products (such as SIPPs  and other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of 
the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected  underlying investments  in unregulated 
schemes. It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a customer  seeks advice on a 
pension transfer in implementing  a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must  
take account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating.
   
But having said that, Im not convinced Mr Ps complaint should be upheld in light of the particular  
circumstances of this case. Ill explain why.
Pacific undertook an assessment of Mr Ps attitude  to risk. This was by way of a questionnaire which 
was part of a confidential financial review form completed in June 2009. According to the answers 
Mr P gave to a number of questions, he was assessed to have a moderately adventurous attitude to 
risk.
A further assessment was carried out in November  2009. This was included in a pension transfer 
questionnaire. Among  the responses Mr P gave, he confirmed he was prepared to accept above 
average volatility, aiming for higher gains. He also confirmed he was a high risk or adventurous 
investor, which was the highest category available.  This was explained  as follows:
I am an adventurous even speculative  investor who requires exposure to extreme markets or direct 
equity investment for a range of investment periods. I accept  that I may experience  dramatic 
fluctuations in the value  of my pension funds.
Pacifics suitability  letter  set out the responses Mr P had given  to the questions hed been asked,  and 
said that hed indicated he was an adventurous, even speculative, investor. Mr P should let Pacific 
know if any of the statements were inaccurate or incomplete. 
On the face of it, Mr Ps attitude to risk seems at odds with his previous investment history.  While the 
details arent  complete, he doesnt seem to have been involved in any high risk investments 
previously. Also, the pension benefits transferred into the SIPP  were Mr Ps total pension  provision at 
that time
But the transfer value was relatively low in relation to his current circumstances. Mr P seems  to have 
significant financial assets, including a property  in addition to his home. The transfer value 
represented less than 3% of his recorded wealth. I also note that the projected pension  from the 
company scheme at Mr Ps preferred retirement age was £3,700 a year.  This was just over his net 
monthly income at the time of the advice. Mr P was recorded as viewing the company  pension as 
being an insignificant  part of his overall  pension benefits.   
The suitability letter, while  not making  any recommendation about  whether  Mr P should invest in 
Harlequin, did nonetheless include a number  of risk warnings. As well as general risks such as unit 
prices falling as well as rising, the letter set out a number of risks involved in off-plan overseas 
property. It said these  included, but werent  limited to:
Currency/exchange risk
Liquidity risk
Regulatory risk
Political risk
Delivery risk
Diversification risk
Ref: DRN91250829The letter also said:
The property you intend  to purchase  is being sold at a higher price than the value of the transfers in 
the recommended  SIPP. This means that you will have to make additional contributions, which rely on 
having sufficient employment income, in order to complete the purchase on the completion date or 
rely on being  able to borrow against the value of the assets  in the SIPP  to meet the final payments. It 
is important that you understand that this carries a significant  risk as the ability to borrow will be 
affected by several factors,  including the market valuation of the property at completion, market 
conditions for lending and the ability  to prove revenue stream to repay any borrowing. In the worst 
case scenario  it could  leave you personally  liable to complete the purchase with funds  outside the 
SIPP. 
So to summarise, while  Pacific should have advised Mr P about  his proposed investment  as well as 
the SIPP,  it may have been entitled think that investing in Harlequin Property was suitable  for him. 
Although it was undoubtedly  a high risk investment,  Mr P had confirmed on two occasions, about five 
months apart, that he was prepared  to take a high risk approach to his pension.  Further,  although he 
was looking to retire early, this was still around 20 years away. So he had the time,  and the financial 
means, to increase his retirement provision. 
But even if Pacific  had advised Mr P not to invest, I think its likely  he would have gone ahead  
anyway. The suitability letter included a number  of risk warnings, and also explained that the 
investment was suitable  for Mr Ps attitude to risk, which was described as adventurous.  Further, Mr P 
seems to have regarded  his preserved pension  as insignificant. So I think its plausible he would  have 
been willing to take a high degree of risk with this part of his capital, in the hope of getting good 
returns. 
I appreciate that Mr P has lost a significant proportion of the pension fund transferred into the SIPP. I 
also understand that theres an ongoing investigation by the Serious Fraud  Office into certain  
individuals associated with Harlequin.  But I must consider  this complaint on the basis of what was 
known in 2009, when  the advice  was given. While it was clear this was a high risk investment, the 
subsequent actions of those associated with Harlequin couldnt have been anticipated.  
my provisional  decision
I do not uphold the complaint and I make no award.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9125082