K821x#15Complaint
Ms W says Elevate  Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny)  irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
This complaint is about one running  account credit  facility  and twenty-six  high-cost short  
term credit  instalment loans that Sunny provided  to Ms W between  June  2014  and June  
2018. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Ws complaint and thought that she shouldnt  have been provided 
with instalment loans  2, 9 and 12 to 26. Sunny disagreed. So the complaint was passed to 
me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Ms W could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Ms W, I think  that Sunny should  
reasonably have seen that Ms W was unlikely to have been able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner  when it provided Ms W with loans  2, 9 and 12 to 26. 
Ref: DRN93012882I say this because  Sunny initially transitioned  Ms W from a facility  which  its own product 
literature said shouldnt  be used  for extended periods to an instalment loan which had the 
same effect.   
Ms W then went on to exhibit a borrowing pattern of taking out further loans not too long 
after repaying previous  ones.  Sunny  continued  lending to Ms W even when this pattern was 
repeated and in circumstances where  it ought  reasonably to have realised  that any further  
loans were more likely than not unsustainable  for her. 
Ms W had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt have provided  her with. 
So I think that she lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms W paid on instalment loans 2, 9 and 12 to 23;
remove all interest and charges applied from the outset to instalment loans 24 to 26. 
The payments  Ms W made  should be deducted  from the new starting  balances.  If the 
payments made were enough to have  cleared the amounts lent any extra should be 
treated as overpayments and refunded  to Ms W. If outstanding balances  remain after 
all adjustments have been made, Sunny can deduct  these from what it now needs to 
pay Ms W;  
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges and 
overpayments (if they were any) from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement;
any adverse information about instalment loans 2 and 9 should be removed  from      
Ms Ws credit file all reference to instalment loans 12 to 26 should  be removed from 
Ms Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Ws complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Ms W compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9301288