K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains on behalf of Mr B about  unfair charges applied  by PSA Finance UK Limited 
(PSA) at the end of Mr Bs Hire Purchase  Agreement.  Also about  PSAs  conduct when 
dealing with Mr Bs complaint. Mr B would like some of the charges dropped.
background
Mr B says he felt that when he returned  his car it was in good condition given its age. He 
disputes a charge of £150 for a missing  parcel shelf since he says he returned  it by post. He 
also refutes the charge for the vehicle bumper  blemish (£75) since he says no body work 
repairs or damage occurred during the two years he had the vehicle. He added that his 
contract stated that minor marks and imperfections  that can be buffed  out are deemed to be 
fair wear and tear. Finally  he refuted the scuffs to the alloy wheels  (3 x £65) referring to 
Clause 18 of his contract  which he says makes no reference to alloy wheel conditions.
He said he felt PSA wanted a used car to be returned in perfect  condition  which  was 
unreasonable. He did offer to pay one £65 charge for scuff marks on one alloy wheel even 
though he didnt feel he was liable for this
PSA said that under  the terms of Mr Bs agreement  Mr B had to return the vehicle with no 
damage outside of fair wear and tear. It said looking at the photos,  and the condition  report  
on the vehicle,  it felt the damage was clearly  evidenced. It said it sent letters prior to the end 
of Mr Bs contract  to remind him of his responsibility to return  the car in a good  condition so 
felt Mr B had adequate  opportunity to make sure any necessary repairs were carried  out. 
However in an attempt to reach an amicable solution and, as a gesture of goodwill, it offered 
to reduce the overall charges by 25%.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He found that, with reference  to the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  (BVRLA) Fair Wear and Tear Guidelines  which  sets 
out industry standard on what constitutes fair wear  tear, the charges PSA applied were fair.
In terms of the missing  parcel shelf our investigator  felt that as it was missing  at the point of 
return PSA were entitled to charge for it.
Finally he felt that PSAs gesture of goodwill to reduce  the overall charge by 25% was fair. 
PSA accepted this view but Mr B didnt
He said the Hire Purchase Agreement he signed with PSA didnt specify the vehicle would 
be immediately sold at the end of the contract  , under Clause 18 , there were no 
specifications for accessing fair wear and tear or reference to the BVRLA and , no reference  
to alloy wheels or specification for what is acceptable wear and tear.
Mr B said that our service  and PSA rely on BVRLA  guidelines but he, as the customer, had 
not been aware of this. He also said that he was unaware that printed  cards and mirrors  are 
used to inspect  vehicle panels   had he known this he would have inspected the vehicle this 
way himself before he handed it over.
He felt that if his agreement with PSA ended when the vehicle was returned  he had no 
opportunity to make good any repairs. He felt the agreement lacked clarity  and the process 
lacked transparency.
Ref: DRN97758802Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view.  He acknowledged Mr B 
felt certain aspects werent  included in terms and conditions of his agreement  with PSA. But 
he highlighted the relevant terms stating  that Mr B was liable for any loss or damage to the 
vehicle (6.1), had to keep the vehicle in good  condition, and under 18.8 the vehicle would  be 
deemed to be in good condition if it is undamaged  and has no abnormal wear  and tear as 
defined by a list given in that particular clause.
He confirmed that our service relies on Engineers reports  and the Industry Fair Wear and 
Tear Standard issued by the BVRLA.  He understood Mr B felt he should have been made 
aware of the reference to BVRLA guidelines and the way charges are assessed  but felt the 
relevant clauses in the contract  made clear what Mr Bs responsibilities were. He felt the 
reports conducted and evidence provided showed the vehicle hadnt been returned  in a 
good condition  and therefore PSA were  entitled to charge  for this.
Mr B didnt accept this view and asked for a Final Decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B feels  strongly about this so I realise  he is going  to be disappointed  as Ive reached  the 
same conclusion as our investigator.
Mr B has made several points about the charges PSA applied  when he returned the vehicle. 
That is the contract he signed doesnt specify BVRLA guidelines will be used, he wasnt 
made aware  how damage would be assessed and finally he doesnt feel some of the 
charges are fair  particularly charges for scuff marks  to the alloy wheels since alloy wheels 
are not mentioned in the list in the contract  about abnormal wear and tear.
I have looked  at the contract Mr B signed. I think this makes it clear  that the onus is on him 
to return the vehicle in a good condition. In order to assess  if this is the case  PSA would 
have to have some basis for doing  so. It uses BVRLA guidelines which  are widely  accepted 
and used in the motor  industry.
I dont think the fact BVRLA isnt specifically mentioned in the contract is reason for Mr B to 
say these charges  shouldnt  apply. Had Mr B called PSA and asked how it assesses fair 
wear and tear I think PSA would have told him it uses BVRLA guidelines-  I cant  see there 
would have been any reason for it not to do so.
Mr B has also made the point he didnt know damage was assessed using print cards  and 
mirrors. But again I dont  imagine PSA would have had any problem telling Mr B that if he 
had asked.
I dont think the fact that BVRLA isnt mentioned in the contract or the detail  of how damage  
is assessed isnt mentioned  is relevant.  I dont  feel its practical  to go into such  a level of 
detail. What I do think is relevant is that the contract  makes it clear that Mr B was 
responsible for returning the vehicle  in good  condition. And I think the contract  goes into 
sufficient detail under section  18 as to what might be considered as outside  of fair wear and 
tear.
Ref: DRN97758803In terms of the charges themselves. Mr B disputes  charges for scuffing to the alloy wheels, 
damage to the vehicle  bumper and the missing parcel shelf.
I dont agree that Mr B cant be charged  for damage to the alloy wheels just because alloy 
wheels arent specifically mentioned under section 18. PSA has said that alloy wheels are 
covered under section 18.8 which states  any size dent in chrome/bright  metal/inserts  
constitute abnormal wear.  I think its reasonable to say that alloy wheels come under that 
definition as I would say they can be classified  as bright metal.
The scuffs  on the alloy wheels are more than 50mm so in that basis  I think  PSA were 
entitled to charge for these since BVRLA Guidelines say that scuffs  up to 50mm are 
acceptable ,so clearly those over 50 mm arent.
In terms of the damage to the bumper.  From the photographic evidence  I have seen I agree  
with our investigators view that there is some form of repair/  rippled finish  that stands out. 
BVRLA Guidelines  state that obvious evidence of poor repair which  includes a rippled finish 
isnt acceptable.  So again I do believe PSA were entitled to charge for this.
The final item Mr B disputes  is the charge for the missing parcel shelf. I have some 
sympathy with Mr B  he says he posted this item back. He has given us a postal receipt  
although that doesnt specify  what was posted  I am inclined to believe what he has told us.
Unfortunately the parcel shelf was missing when  the car was inspected. PSA says it 
immediately sold the car back the manufacturer so it incurred the loss of the missing parcel 
shelf. Mr B says the inspector  told him to send  it back. Unfortunately that isnt noted on the 
report the inspector  made so I cant confirm if that is what  Mr B was told to do.
Mr B has said if his agreement ended when he returned the car he had no opportunity  to 
make good  any repairs  and that would have included putting the parcel shelf back. He has 
also noted his contract  doesnt specify PSA immediately sells vehicles back to the 
manufacturer  he thinks it should do so.
I think the contract needs to make clear  what needs to be done before vehicles are returned  
- which it does. I dont think it needs to specify what PSA does with vehicles when returned. 
By then the vehicles  are no longer the customers property
I appreciate if the vehicle  is returned  directly after an inspection there is no opportunity to 
make good  any repairs  at that point. But I think the main point is that the contract clearly 
states Mr B needed to return the car in good condition. So he would have been aware of that 
before he gave the vehicle back and could have made arrangements  himself to make  good 
any damage. I also think he would have had ample time to put the parcel shelf back  into the 
car but didnt  do so. Its unfortunate  that Mr B didnt put the parcel  shelf  back  into the car 
when he had the opportunity to do so. But given it wasnt there when  he returned the vehicle 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for PSA to charge for it.
Mr B has also said he isnt happy  with how his complaint has been  dealt with. But I dont feel 
I have any evidence to show  that PSA has done  anything wrong. I felt it responded to Mr Bs 
correspondence within reasonable timescales.  And it has reduced the overall  charge for 
damages by 25% which it didnt have to do. We have  checked that this reduction is still 
applicable given  Mr B didnt accept it at the time. PSA has confirmed that it is.
Ref: DRN97758804my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9775880