K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading  as First Direct) sent him paper statements 
after hed asked  for the paperless option.
 
background
Mr K said hed told First Direct he didnt want his bank statements sent to him through the 
post. He tells us it ignored his request and that this situation has been  going on for a year.  
And it didnt  call him back when it said it would.
First Direct  said Mr K hadnt logged onto his online banking  facility for approximately  12 
months since March 2018. So it generated the statement so he could see his account status. 
It said it was important for Mr K to log onto its website to check his transactions.  During the 
course of its investigation into his complaint  it said it would phone  him back. It tried to call 
him and left two voicemail messages.
Our investigator said she didnt think First Direct had done anything wrong. She thought  itd 
acted reasonably to protect Mr Ks account.  And she could see First Direct had tried to 
contact him to explain this.
Mr K said he didnt  think this was a fair outcome.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for very similar reasons. And theres very little I can add.
I can see Mr K hadnt logged into his account  for some time. To protect the security of his 
account First Direct wanted  to make him aware of the status of his account  so he could raise 
any issues with it. So it sent him a paper  statement. It will do that again  if he hasnt logged 
on for some time. I cant say thats unreasonable or unfair. 
I know Mr K will be disappointed with my decision but for the reasons Ive given I dont think 
First Direct  has done anything wrong.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9421294