K822xcomplaint
Mr A is unhappy with what American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) has offered 
to pay following his complaint about  the commission it got when it sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 5 July 2019.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explained why I thought  
that Amex had offered fair compensation for the commission it got from the PPI.  
Both parties  have confirmed they received my provisional decision. 
Amex confirmed that it had nothing further to add.
Mr A didnt have anything further  to add but wanted to make  sure that Amex will update the 
8% simple  interest compensation  up until I issue my final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything else to consider in regards to what  I set out in my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them findings. 
I now confirm those  findings. Amex has offered fair compensation for the commission it got 
from the PPI.  If this hasnt been  paid, Amex should recalculate the compensation bringing it 
up to date.
Mr As has concerns about  when the 8% simple interest compensation is calculated up until. 
This part of Amexs offer is compensation that is awarded to Mr A to compensate him for 
being out of pocket. 
When Mr A paid more to the account than he needed to  he has paid out of his pocket 
money that he wouldnt have done. So he needs  to be compensated for this. Amex has 
added additional  interest  at 8% simple a year  to compensate Mr A for this time hes been  
out of pocket of that money. Amex  worked out and offered £56.40  (before tax) in May 2018. 
If Mr A received  that amount in May 2018  when Amex offered it, Amex doesnt need  to do 
anything further.  This is because Mr A is no longer out of pocket as he received the money 
that he had been deprived of, with 8% simple interest as additional compensation. 
But, if Mr A didnt accept Amexs offer in May 2018 which  I believe is the case, he hasnt 
received the compensation, and is therefore still out of pocket. So Amex  will need to ensure 
that its offer is brought up to date. 
If this is the case,  Amex  needs to recalculate Mr As offer of compensation bringing it up to 
date. 
Ref: DRN91510612I hope this clarifies matters for Mr A.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and within my provisional decision,  American  Express 
Services Europe Limited has offered fair compensation for the commission  it got from the 
PPI.  
If Mr A hasnt  received  the compensation, American Express  Services Europe Limited 
should recalculate Mr As offer to ensure  it is brought up to date.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN91510613Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr A is unhappy  with what American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) has offered  to pay 
following his complaint  about the commission it got when  it sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
In 2001, Mr A bought a PPI policy alongside his credit card. The policy was cancelled in 2005.
In 2013, Mr A complained  to Amex that the policy was mis-sold. Amex  wrote to Mr A in June 2013 
explaining that it didnt  think the policy  had been mis-sold.  
In November 2017, Amex wrote to Mr A explaining that he could be owed  some compensation in 
relation to the level of commission and profit share it received on his PPI policy. This was because  the 
financial regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had issued new rules and guidance about  
how businesses should handle PPI complaints following a Supreme Court  case.
Mr A wanted  this looked into and asked Amex to look at the level of commission and profit  share it 
received on his PPI policy. 
Amex wrote out to Mr A three times advising  him that it was still looking into his complaint.
In its final letter in January  2018, Amex  advised  Mr A that it hadnt finished  looking at his complaint 
but he could refer his complaint to our service if he wanted to. 
Unhappy that matters  hadnt  been resolved, Mr A referred his complaint to our service.
Mr A initially brought the complaint to our service only in relation  to the commission and profit  share  
Amex received. But while  the complaint  was with our service Mr A confirmed that he wanted the sale 
of the policy investigated  also. This was because he didnt believe the letter he received in 2013 had 
any referral  rights informing him that he could bring  the complaint to our service.
In May 2018,  Amex wrote  to Mr A explaining  that it had reviewed  his complaint about  the commission 
it received on his PPI policy. Amex explained it got a high level of commission and profit share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - that it should have told Mr A about. Because  it didnt tell Mr A, it says 
that this created an unfair relationship. To put things right, Amex offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium.  
Amex worked out that it owed Mr A £99.32 in compensation.
Mr A was unhappy  with the amount of compensation offered. Mr A says that Amex in its response 
about commission didnt  disclose the level of commission it received.  Mr A felt that this was unfair and 
allowed Amex to pluck  an amount from thin air and make its offer on assumptions due to it not 
having complete records. Mr A also considered the period in which  the compensation was calculated 
for was too short. Mr A says he was paying premiums for over ten years  and so its offer of £99.32 
was incorrect.  
Mr A also wanted the sale of his PPI reinvestigated.
Ref: DRN91510614Amex said that its offer of compensation to Mr A for the commission and profit  share it received was 
fair.
Amex also explained it didnt think we could  look at the sale of the PPI policy as it wasnt referred to 
us within the time limits that apply. Mr A had complained  in 2013 about  the sale of the PPI policy  and 
Amex had issued its response. Its response set out that Mr A had six months in which  to refer his 
complaint to our service.  As he didnt, Amex said it didnt think we should look at the complaint about  
the sale of the PPI. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  at the complaint.  They agreed that we couldnt  look at the mis-sale 
aspect of Mr As complaint as it wasnt brought in time. They also considered  Amexs  offer of 
compensation for the commission was fair.
As Mr A remained  unhappy the case was passed for an ombudsman to consider.
An ombudsman looked  into whether we could  consider a complaint about  the sale of Mr As PPI and 
issued a decision. They concluded Mr As complaint about how his policy was sold was referred to us 
too late  and they werent persuaded the failure to comply  with the time limits was because  of 
exceptional circumstances. 
To be clear,  this means I cant look at the sale of Mr As PPI policy. The only outstanding issue that I 
can consider  within this decision is whether  Amexs offer of compensation  for the level of commission 
and profit share it received is fair. 
my provisional  findings
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
what has Amex offered?
Amex has offered to pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr A. And this is because: 
Amex got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Mr A about  that. Because Amex didnt tell Mr A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Amex  has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium.
This is what the rules set by the FCA suggest Amex should pay in cases  like this  and I think this is 
fair in Mr As case.
Mr As main  concerns are that he thinks his offer is low given the duration he held his card and policy. 
Mr A also thinks  because Amex doesnt have complete records it has made  unfair assumptions about  
the commission  it received.
I think  the misunderstanding stems from Amexs  letter to Mr A.  I agree that Amexs letter  isnt the 
clearest  and only tells Mr A the amount that it will be paying him for the refund of commission over 
50% on his premiums. It doesnt go into much more  detail, such  as to explain the levels of 
commission it received  so what  percentage  Mr A is getting back that is over 50%. And it doesnt tell 
Mr A the duration he held the policy. So I can see why Mr A queried  his offer.
Ref: DRN91510615The letter also states:
However, due to the passage  of time since you purchased your PPI policy, we do not have 
complete records  showing precisely  how much commission we received from your Policy. We 
have therefore used all available  information, to make  an assumption of the level of 
anticipated commission we could  have  expected to earn during the Redress  Period.
Having read this, I can see why Mr A is concerned and thinks Amex  in not having complete records 
may have made  unfair assumptions about the commission it received.
But I do think  there  is a misunderstanding as to what Amex  is actually trying to explain.  Amex state  
that they dont have  complete records  showing  precisely how much commission  it received from Mr 
As policy itself.  But what Amex does know is how much commission and profit share it received from 
its customers who held PPI policies,  overall.  And its used that information, together with the 
statement data it held for Mr A, to work out what the commission and profit  share was likely to have 
been in Mr As case. 
Having considered  this, I think it is a fair way for Amex to try and work out what the level of 
commission and profit share was likely to have been in Mr As case  in light of it not having  individual 
records on each of its consumers.  Although  I can see that its explanation  may have caused 
confusion.
Mr As card and PPI policy duration
Mr As feels that his card and policy ran for over ten years so thinks he should be entitled to more  
compensation than Amex  has offered.
Amex has provided  information to show that Mr As applied for his card and PPI in December 2000. 
Mr As PPI policy subsequently  started in January 2001. And Mr A didnt start using the card until 
March 2001. The PPI was cancelled in April 2005. 
So Mr A paid PPI premiums between March 2001 and April 2005.
Having now reviewed  what  Amex has offered,  I would  like to assure Mr A that it has been worked out 
correctly. Ill explain why.
The cost of the PPI was added to a credit card.  So Amex needed to re-work  the credit  card account  
and offer to pay back to Mr A the difference between what he owed and what he would have  owed if 
the commission  and profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. And if Mr A paid 
off his credit card at some  point, Amex should also pay Mr A simple interest (the rate is 8% simple per 
year) to compensate Mr A for the time hes been out of pocket.
Ive looked at what  Amex  has done. Amex  has provided  a breakdown to show how it has calculated 
Mr As compensation.
Having looked at it I can see that it has full data about Mr As credit card account from January 2001 
onwards. So it knows exactly what Mr A was charged in PPI premiums.  And because  it knows what 
Mr A was charged, and it knows the level of commission  it likely  received,  it can refund  to Mr A any 
PPI charges caused by the commission and profit  share that was over 50% of the PPI premium.  It can 
also look to see what effect Mr A being charged more had. And it has refunded to him any additional 
credit card interest  he was charged because of it.
The main reason that Mr As compensation is low is actually due to the levels  of commission  and 
profit share  Amex received. 
Ref: DRN91510616Up until 1 August 2001 Amex received 68.10% commission and profit share. So this means that on 
any premium  that was charged up until that point, Amex needed to refund  the amount that was over 
50%. So that would be 18.10%.
From August  2001 onwards, the level of commission  and profit share Amex received  was below 50%. 
This means  Amex didnt need to refund any commission and profit share  to Mr A from August 2001 
onward. But Mr As credit card balance was higher because of the commission and profit  share  that 
had been charged previously. So from this point onwards Amex only needed to refund any additional  
premiums and interest charged  because  his credit card balance was higher  than it would have been.  
So Amex has refunded to Mr A the level of unfair commission and profit  share it received for March, 
April, May,  June and July 2001. And as explained above it also looked at the effect this had on his 
card after July 2001  when  the level of commission and profit share it received was below  50%. 
Amex has worked  out that Mr A paid an extra  £22.66 in premiums  and an extra  £31.54 in card 
interest. Its included these  amounts in its refund.  And finally, when Mr A paid more to the account 
than he needed to Amex  has added additional  interest  the rate is 8% simple a year  to compensate 
Mr A for the time hes been out of pocket. For this Amex has offered £56.40  (before tax). Based on 
what Ive seen, I think thats  right.
Altogether, Amex  has offered Mr A £99.32.  In all the circumstances  I think  what Amex has offered is 
fair and is what Id expect Amex to do in cases like this.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, I am of the provisional decision  that American Express Services Europe 
Limited has offered  fair compensation for the commission it got from the PPI.  
I invite both parties to provide me with anything further they wish for me to consider.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9151061