K820x#14complaint
Ms and Mr J complain  that West Bromwich  Building  Society mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI). 
background
I issued my provisional decision on Ms and Mr Js complaint in April 2019.  I said I was 
minded to uphold  their complaint because  I thought  it wouldve been  more difficult for them  
to make a successful claim under the policy  because Mr J was self-employed. I asked West 
Bromwich Building Society  and Ms and Mr J to let me have anything  else they wanted me to 
consider before I issued a final decision.
West Bromwich  Building Society  responded  and said that as Mr J was removed from the 
mortgage in 2005, we should cap the compensation payable to this time.
Ms and Mr Js complaint comes  back  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
I uphold Ms and Mr Js complaint mainly  for the same reasons as set out in my provisional 
decision. I have  repeated  these reasons here.
West Bromwich  Building Society  no longer has a copy of the terms and conditions  of the 
policy from the time of sale.  But, it has provided  a copy  of the certificate  of insurance from 
around that time. Its also sent in a specimen copy of the PPI application it says Ms and Mr J 
wouldve had to complete to take out PPI. 
Mr J was self employed at the time of sale.  Looking at the certificate of insurance,  I think  it 
likely that it wouldve been more difficult for him to make an unemployment  claim (as a self-
employed person)  than it wouldve been  for an employee.
Thats because it seems  Mr J likely wouldnt have been able to make a successful 
unemployment claim unless he could show insolvency for which  you must provide evidence 
of notification to the Inland Revenue of cessation of trading and of submission of closing 
accounts.  
I think this was a significant limitation  because for self-employed people to be able to make a 
successful claim  for unemployment, they had to demonstrate  that their business  was 
insolvent and that they had reported this to the Inland  Revenue. This effectively meant a self-
employed person  would have to wait until their business failed before making a claim. I think  
this is an onerous term.
So, I think the policy terms  put Mr J at a disadvantage compared to the position he wouldve 
been in as an employed person making  a claim.
Ref: DRN99820952I dont know whether West Bromwich Building Society recommended that Ms and Mr J took 
out the policy. But even if it didnt, West Bromwich  Building Society still had to draw to Ms 
and Mr Js attention  the main features  of the policy, so that they could make an informed 
choice about how the terms and conditions  couldve  affected Mr J, in Mr Js circumstances.  
I cant see that West Bromwich Building  Society did enough to make this clear  to them. Ive 
looked at the PPI application form. It asked the applicant  to say whether they were self-
employed, but I cant see that it went on to explain the limitations applying to claims for 
unemployment if a person  was self-employed. Information was provided in the certificate of 
insurance about this, but probably this wouldve been  issued  after Ms and Mr J agreed to 
take out the policy. I cant know whether  they wouldve been made aware  of the limitations at 
the time of sale. I think Mr J wouldve considered unemployment cover  an important part of 
the protection he thought  he was buying.  I say this, taking into account that Ms J had 
benefits through work, so they opted  to take out cover in Mr Js name only. 
I think its likely that Ms and Mr J wouldnt  have bought the policy if they had understood the 
limitations on cover. So, I think Ms and Mr J have lost out. 
Ive considered the point that West Bromwich  have raised about  capping the PPI to the date 
when Mr J was removed  from the mortgage. However,  where as here,  it seems  unlikely  that 
Ms and Mr J wouldve bought the cover if they had been given clearer  information  at the 
outset, I think  it fair to order that all of the premiums  are returned. 
putting things right
I order West Bromwich  Building Society to do the following.
West Bromwich  Building Society  should  put Ms and Mr J in the position theyd be in now if 
they hadnt taken out PPI. I understand the policy has already been cancelled, so West 
Bromwich Building Society  should:
Pay Ms and Mr J the amount they paid each  month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Ms and Mr J made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  West Bromwich Building 
Society can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
If West Bromwich  Building Society has already repaid any commission amount to Ms 
and Mr J that relates to this PPI sale, that sum can be deducted by West Bromwich 
Building Society from the redress  shown above.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires West Bromwich Building Society  to take off tax from this 
interest. West Bromwich Building  Society must give Ms and Mr J a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN99820953my decision
I uphold Ms and Mr Js complaint and to require West Bromwich Building  Society  to take the 
steps Ive set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9982095