K821x#15complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the way that her claim for subsidence damage had been dealt with by 
Legal & General Insurance Limited  (L&G).  She is represented by her son in law, Mr O.
background
In September  2016 Mrs C reported a claim to L&G when she discovered cracks in her back  
bedroom wall and a drop in the drainpipe. L&G appointed loss adjusters and a survey was 
done of the drains. This identified that repairs were needed. Mr O, who is a builder, insisted 
that a trial pit be dug before repairs were undertaken. This was duly done and the drains 
repaired in January 2017. L&G then instructed  its contractors to carry out superstructure 
(above ground)  repairs.  These were started  but stopped by Mr O because he was concerned 
that the cause  of the cracking hadnt  been  addressed,
L&G carried  out a further inspection by an engineer  who initially said further superstructure  
repairs would be undertaken but no underpinning was required. After  considering  further 
representations from Mr O it was agreed  that a system of stabilisers, or piles would be put in 
place, The work to install these was in May 2017  and the number of piles increased by 
agreement as the work progressed. When the piles were installed the electrics shorted out 
and a cable was damaged. Then  the drainage pipe from the back was removed and Mrs C 
had to collect waste water in buckets. Then while further repairs  were  continuing,  further 
issues arose over the standard  of workmanship and damage caused  by the contractors, 
drain grids were damaged. Mr O was also concerned about the stability of the brickwork 
where the ground had been excavated below it. 
Those contractors were taken off the job, and further contractors were appointed. But those 
contractors refilled a trench with garden  waste and damaged flag stones. L&G agreed that 
those contractors would be removed and the issues put right. Correspondence continued 
during 2017  over  the repairs to be carried out before superstructure repairs could start  
these were 1 repair of the rear gullies 2 relaying  of the paving flags and replacement  where 
necessary 3 repair of the brickwork at the pile location 4 repair of the electric cable.
But Mr O continued to dispute the work needed  and advised that the work couldnt go ahead 
without a full structural survey taking place. L&G said it was prepared to carry out the repairs 
but thought the piles put in place gave adequate stabilisation to the property. If Mrs C wanted 
to go ahead with a further survey/engineers  report she could do so but she would have to fund 
it herself. L&G would only consider refunding  the cost if it agreed  to carry out further  work  as a 
result of that report.  It offered  £450  compensation for the difficulties caused  to Mrs C.
Mrs C referred  a complaint to this service in April 2018. After review by our investigator she 
asked L&G to pay for the further engineers report.  It agreed  to do this. But Mr O had some 
trouble in arranging this. I believe  Mr O has had meetings  with an engineer as a result but as 
of the date of this decision no report is yet to hand. 
Our investigator proposed that L&G increase compensation  to £1,000.  It wasnt prepared to 
do that, pointing  out that it had been  willing and able to do all the repairs since  May 2017 but 
Mr O wouldnt  allow it to do so. It didnt think the piling scheme was in any way insufficient. 
Ref: DRN98391462Mr O said that the compensation proposed was insufficient  he pointed out the number  of 
defects with the work and the difficulties  caused to Mrs C, who is elderly and she has had to 
put up with a damaged garden for a long time. He has produced a list of the issues  that need 
to be resolved. Our investigator explained that we cant consider the issues  that have arisen  
since Mrs C made her complaint and that once the engineers report  was available any 
further issues would have to form the basis of a new complaint.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
scope of this decision
As our investigator has advised, the engineers  report  is essential  to move matters  forward. 
And I cant emphasise enough that the only way this matter will progress if for that report to be 
done. But we cant hold open complaints indefinitely. And the issues  Mrs C has asked us to 
look are compensation  for the way the claim has been handled  and Mr Os view that there  
should be a further report to progress  matters. And our investigator has agreed with L&G that 
it will pay for that. Its up to Mr O to show the report to L&G as and when it becomes available. 
I can consider how the work has been carried out to date and the difficulties caused to Mrs C 
by the poor workmanship. But I cant consider matters that havent been  put to L&G.  I have 
to bear in mind  that L&G has said it has always been prepared  to carry out the repairs.  So a 
lot will depend in the conclusions of the engineer e.g. if he agrees  with Mr Os view that 
could affect any future  compensation award.   
So I will consider in this decision the compensation award and whether the proposed way forward 
to resolve this matter  is adequate. I cant consider the delay since  April 2018 in this decision.
engineers report
As of the date Mrs C referred her complaint to us, L&G had said it would  consider  any 
engineers report  but wasnt  prepared to fund this. Normally we would say thats a 
reasonable position to take.  If the consumer disagrees with the insurer  who has appointed 
experts to decide the appropriate repairs and design  any stabilisation scheme, challenging 
that doesnt fall within  the scope of the policy. But here it appears  that L&G argued that 
underpinning was unnecessary. It agreed  to a stabilisation scheme of piles after 
representations by Mr O. So because of the fact that Mr O is raising some objections to the 
scheme; having accepted in some part his expertise  before I think it should have agreed to 
fund the further  report. Had it done so, it could have agreed on the scope of the report. 
As it is, L&G has consented to Mr Os choice of engineer but hasnt  said if it will agree to be 
bound by any recommendations.  I think  if it disputes any such  report thats  likely to lead to a 
further complaint,  which is what our investigator  warned L&G about. As matters  stand L&G 
agreed to pay for the report after our investigator  considered the matter, so that will form part 
of my decision.
Ref: DRN98391463further repairs
Mr O has produced a list of matters which he thinks need to be dealt with. I should point out 
that all repairs are on hold and have been pending the engineers  report. Some of them  L&G 
will deal with once repairs restart. But matters  relating to subsidence/movement of the 
buildings or any inadequacies with the piling can only be dealt with once the engineers 
report is to hand.  I appreciate that Mr O has some expertise but hes not a structural  
engineer. I cant find that repairs are necessary  without the report unless L&G has already 
agreed to them. These  are:
External rear elevation defect with substructure   L&G has agreed to carry out repairs  to 
the brickwork.  Whether  further piles are needed  are a matter for the engineer to decide 
and L&G to agree  on.
Garden gate  Mr O says this has subsided, at present  L&G will repair  it. But if more 
extensive work  is needed  the engineer needs  to say so in his report.
Pile installation  and connection. Any problems with this will have to be looked at in the 
engineers report; currently  L&G hasnt agreed that any further work is necessary to the piling.
For the following  matters  whether  this is further  movement and part of the original claim can 
only be decided after the engineers report. The engineer should  be asked to comment on 
them and advise  whether they should  be covered:
Rear elevation  and first floor west side and roof connection.
Potential movement of ground  around  bay window. 
Potential movement of ground  around  the Ground  Floor  Front / Side Elevation.
Movement to roof above Bay Window (Front).
Movement to roof above Front Door.
Subsidence / Movement  to support wall (Front).
Subsidence / Movement  Paving  Area (Front).
Potential pressure on Bay Window - (Front  top right).
Roof Movement - (Front  Elevation right).
Internal floor / window  sill movement Bay Window (Front).
First Floor Extension  Room Internal  Defects.
Ref: DRN98391464L&G has agreed to repair the other matters such as the drains,  electric  cables, brickwork 
and cracking. If any cracking has appeared since L&G last inspected,  that will have to be 
reviewed in the engineers report.  And if he finds they are related to the subsidence claim I 
would expect L&G to consider them. But I cant anticipate what the engineer will find, nor am 
I prepared to make findings  about  any crack  repairs without the expert evidence.  In respect 
of other  repairs, there was a dispute  over the flag stones and whether it was appropriate to 
just renew the damaged ones. But I note that L&G has agreed  to take up and relay  all the 
flag stones. It may have to replace all of them if it cant match them. I think  thats reasonable. 
Also L&G has agreed  it will deal with the electric  cable  and any drainage repairs required 
following the piling. But again that will have to wait until Mrs C is able to agree that the 
repairs can continue,  once the engineers report is to hand.
compensation
L&G has offered  £450  for the trouble and upset  caused to Mrs C for its handling  of the claim.  
Our investigator has proposed that this be increased  to £1000.  I cant, for reasons already 
stated award compensation for the fact that Mrs Cs home remains  unrepaired over eighteen  
months after she complained to this service. Mr O believes Mrs C should receive more 
compensation, in particular  for time spent on dealing with her claim/complaint. On the other 
hand L&Gs  position is that although  it agrees that there were some  issues of poor 
workmanship. it has always been  clear  about the reasons for the subsidence  and its 
proposed work for remedying it. It asserts that it has been ready to continue  repairs but Mr O 
has prevented it from continuing. It has said its prepared to pay for the engineers report,  but 
doesnt think it necessary.
L&G identified the cause of the subsidence  as leaking drains and arranged  for those to be 
repaired. It didnt  do any further monitoring and its not clear why. Mr O wasnt satisfied with 
this but even after an inspection L&Gs engineer said that underpinning  wasnt  necessary. It 
then changed  its mind and agreed to the installation of piles.  An insurer  will rarely  underpin  
or stabilise  a property  unless its satisfied that further movement  is likely.  So whilst L&Gs 
engineer may have  thought it right not to underpin,  the fact that he changed  his view did 
delay the claim further. 
And the builders who did the installation of the piles caused problems like cutting off the 
electricity and damaging  a cable. They removed Mrs Cs wastepipe  and the replacement  of 
this unfortunately  took some time due to the contractors changing. They also damaged the 
drain grids and later workmen damaged a number  of paving slabs. Mr O also observed the 
contractors filling in a trench with waste  materials.  And where the piles were installed part of 
the brickwork above them is coming  away. It had agreed to repair this but it is nevertheless a 
concern to Mrs C while her property is unrepaired.  
All of these issues L&G agreed  werent  acceptable, and no less than five different 
contractors were used. An insurer may change a contractor once but the number of times 
they were changed  here does indicate  to me that there were serious issues  over 
supervision. This cant be dismissed as Mr O being  awkward. I also bear in mind  that 
Mrs C is elderly  and has had to rely on Mr O to supervise matters for her.
Ref: DRN98391465I also think L&G could have been  more co-operative over the need  for another  engineer to 
review the matter independently. I have set out above why I think  it right that it did agree to 
fund that report  after Mrs C referred her complaint to this service. But I do think  the proposed  
award of compensation of £1,000 (an increase from the £450 offered) is fair and reasonable 
and takes into account the issues over poor workmanship and handling  of the claim.
Mr O has also referred  to the fact that we do, occasionally, award compensation for the time 
spent on a complaint.  The bulk of that work has been done by Mr O and I have no power to 
award compensation to him. I wont award  compensation for time spent on this case.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Legal  & General Insurance Limited to:
pay the cost of Mrs Cs engineer to report on the causes  of subsidence and the efficacy 
of the piling system  installed.
pay Mrs C £1,000  compensation (to include the £450 already offered).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019. 
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9839146