K821x#15complaint
Mr R says FCL Consumer Finance Ltd, trading as Smart-Pig.com (Smart-Pig), 
irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about five short-term loans  Smart-Pig provided  to Mr R between 
May 2017 and April 2018. Mr Rs borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount
1 24/05/2017 25/09/2017 1 £250.00
2 24/11/2017 12/12/2017 1 £250.00
3 16/12/2017 08/01/2018 1 £250.00
4 19/01/2018 11/03/2018 1 £250.00
5 21/04/2018 outstanding 1 £250.00
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Rs complaint and he thought loans three,  four and five 
shouldnt have been given. He also concluded that he couldnt  agree that Mr R had been 
mis-informed about the cost of the loans before applying for them.  
Smart-Pig disagreed and raised several  points with which our adjudicator didn't agree. As 
the complaint  remains unresolved, it has been  passed to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Smart-Pig needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN91937932But certain factors might  point to the fact that Smart-Pig  should fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Smart-Pig was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Neither party has made any comments about loans  one and two not being upheld. And 
because there doesnt  appear to be an outstanding dispute about  these loans,  I wont  be 
making a finding  on these  loans in this decision.  But I have thought about these loans in the 
overall context of Mr Rs lending relationship. 
Nor will I be making a finding on the Mr R being mis-informed about the cost of the loans as 
again, neither  party  has made any comment in response to the adjudicator.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Loan three was taken  four days after loan two was repaid and the repayment was significant 
in relation to Mr Rs income. These  types  of loans are only intended  for short-term use 
because of the costs  implicit in taking them out  away from mainstream credit facilities. And 
the fact that Mr R had repaid his loan and returned for more borrowing in such  a short  period 
of time, without any significant break  in lending,  should have raised the question  of how Mr R 
was managing his money and whether he was having problems with the sustainability  of the 
repayments. 
Ref: DRN91937933Smart-Pig hasnt shown us that it carried out a credit  check for loan three.  It says this was 
because it had only recently carried out a check for loan two. But bearing in mind  what Ive 
said above, I think Smart-Pig should have increased its checks and fully reviewed Mr Rs 
finances. If it had, it would have seen that Mr R had been borrowing from other short-term 
lenders and two loans  were outstanding that would need financing at a cost of nearly £200 
per month. And, like the adjudicator said, Mr R was very active in betting on-line and making 
regular and significant payments from his bank account. And while I appreciate  Smart-Pigs  
comments that it is not for a business to tell a consumer how they manage their discretionary 
spend, such a spending pattern could lead to losses that Mr R might need  to finance, outside 
of mainstream credit  facilities, and which could  have incurred further indebtedness.
So clearly,  there was some indication  that Mr R was struggling with his finances  and loan 
repayments were already,  or were  becoming,  unsustainable. Smart-Pig should have looked 
at all of this in light of Mr Rs financial circumstances. He was a student receiving a student 
loan, living  at home with an allowance from his parents. So his income was limited.  
By loan four, I think Smart-Pig ought  to have realised from the information it gathered  that 
Mr R was having problems managing  his money. I say this because having reviewed the 
credit report  carried out for loan four, the difference in Mr Rs credit worthiness from loan two 
to loan four is significant. During the time between the two credit  reports  the indebtedness 
indicators showed  that Mr Rs outstanding debts had increased  nearly  five times from £221 
to £1,028 and the amounts owed on loans/installment credit had increased  nearly  four 
times  from £220 to £844. His financial data report showed the number of accounts Mr R 
had had increased by four to 13 and his active accounts had increased by three to eight. 
Three months later, the credit report in advance of loan five, shows  that Mr Rs 
indebtedness indicators  had significantly increased  again. The total balances figure then 
stood at £4,179,  a four-fold increase, and the balance on loans/installment credit amount 
was £2,311. The number of accounts he had had increased to 23 and the number of active 
accounts stood  at ten. 
Taking all of this into account,  I dont  think Smart-Pig should have carried  on lending  to Mr R 
from loan three onwards.  
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans three, four and five and 
Smart-Pig should put things right.
putting things right  what Smart-Pig needs to do
Its unclear whether there  is an outstanding balance due on loan five  Smart-Pig hasnt 
confirmed this. And if there is, the outstanding balance due on Mr Rs loan may have been 
transferred to a third party.  If this is the case,  Smart-Pig should buy the loan back  if it can. If 
Smart-Pig cant  buy the loan back than it needs  to work with the third party  to make sure the 
following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr R towards  interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr R which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr R originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
Ref: DRN91937934C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  outstanding loans, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr R as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results  in Mr R having made overpayments then you should  refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would  have  arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
Smart-Pig should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus 
then the surplus  should be paid to Mr R. However  if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Smart-Pig should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr R. 
E) Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation to loans  three 
to five.
                                                                                                                                 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Smart-Pig to take off tax from this interest.  Smart-Pig  must  give 
Mr R a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
FCL Consumer Finance  Ltd should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9193793