K820x#14Complaint
Mrs and Mr M complained about a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy  they were  sold 
with their joint-mortgage. They say HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as Midland Bank, mis-sold 
this policy  to them because they didnt need it.
Ill refer mainly to HSBC to keep things  simple.
Background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mrs and Mr M its unlikely 
to be upheld. They disagreed and asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Because this sale was such a long time ago, theres  not much to go on. However, Id like to 
place on record that I certainly dont  doubt  Mrs and Mr M genuinely and honestly feel now 
that the PPI was mis-sold  to them.  But I see HSBC  says the policy  has long since been  
closed, having  been opened in 1997 and closed again shortly after. Not many records  from 
the sale still exist and given the length  of time involved this isnt particularly unusual. 
However, there doesnt seem to be real any dispute that insurance protection was indeed 
discussed at some point  when  Mrs and Mr M were getting their mortgage set up. And 
HSBC still has some of the original  notes which reveal what  was recommended  to Mrs and 
Mr M by way of various financial  products and insurances.  That said,  we have no signed  
paperwork available of them specifically agreeing to follow the mortgage advisers 
recommendation, although my experience of these sales is that consent was usually 
obtained by way of a separate  signature from the joint-mortgage holders, if they wanted to 
set up a PPI policy. 
On balance, I think consent would have been  obtained during this meeting.
A main point of complaint  is that the PPI wasnt something Mrs and Mr M needed. Whilst I 
understand the issue being raised by them, I dont think  this type of cover being  
recommended during  the meeting was wrong.  
I say this because  they appear to have been  eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the main exclusions  we sometimes see in these policies and Ive seen nothing that 
suggests it wasnt affordable for them. Their mortgage was also secured against their home 
and so the consequences of them not being able to keep up payments could have been 
serious. On the other hand, in the event of a successful claim,  the cover  was payable for up 
to 12 months at £200 per month. This would have  been in addition to any other means they 
had in place at the time. 
Ref: DRN99501112Mrs and Mr M implied they didnt need  the cover  because they also had sickness protection 
with their jobs. Ive thought very carefully about  this, but it doesnt  necessarily make the PPI 
unsuitable Im afraid, for the reasons  Ive set out above. Essentially, I cant  say why they 
decided to buy this policy, but I dont think it being  recommended to them  was 
unreasonable. I think the policy was a suitable  product  for their consideration.
 
HSBC also had a duty to provide information  that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously, I cant confirm  after 23 years  whether HSBC  did everything right; but having 
discussed the cover I think Mrs and Mr M would  have  been given the supporting literature 
explaining all the policy rules. 
I have also given thought to another  point of their complaint,  a medical  condition  Mrs M 
suffered from. I wouldnt want to imply this wasnt an important issue  for her, but I dont 
think the condition  potentially not being covered by the PPI policy  would have caused her 
and Mr M to have acted differently. Theres no evidence presented that the condition would 
be likely  to result in significant time off work or unemployment. I therefore dont think this 
affects anything.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr M but this sale was a long time ago. I think there is 
enough evidence  they engaged in discussions about this sale and would  have probably  
gone through a number of steps to get the policy. I simply dont have enough evidence 
supporting the allegation  that the policy was mis-sold to them.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Ms complaint.  I dont  direct  HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 October  2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9950111