K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds  handling of a claim under his travel  
insurance policy when  he suffered  a medical  emergency abroad. 
Mr B also complains about Aviva Insurance  Limiteds refusal to accept a claim under the 
personal accident section of his policy. 
All references to Aviva  Insurance  Limited  include the agents it has appointed to handle  
claims. 
Background
The background to Mr Bs complaint  is known  to both parties, so I dont intend to repeat  all 
the details here. Ive instead set out a brief summary of what happened in this sad case.  
Mr B is insured under a group business  travel insurance policy provided by Aviva. 
Mr B was abroad when,  unfortunately, he became seriously ill. Mr B was admitted to hospital 
but needed intensive care treatment so Aviva  arranged for him to be evacuated to the 
Canary Islands two days later. Mr B was admitted  to hospital there and Aviva  arranged 
accommodation for Mr Bs brother,  who had accompanied him from the original destination.  
Two weeks later, Aviva arranged for Mr Bs mother (Mrs T) to fly to the Canary Islands to 
replace Mr Bs brother  as an accompanying relative  for Mr B. During this time,  Mr B had 
been discharged and re-admitted to hospital.  
A few days  after Mrs T arrived, Mr B was discharged  from hospital  again. However, following 
another hospital admittance, Mr Bs treating doctors  advised he should be repatriated  to the 
UK. 
Nearly a month after Aviva was first notified  of the claim, Mr B was repatriated  to the UK and 
was admitted to hospital on his return.  
Mrs T brought a complaint  to our service on Mr Bs behalf about various aspects of how the 
claim had been  handled  by Aviva. 
Our investigator didnt  think Aviva  had acted unfairly  or unreasonably in the circumstances, 
so she said Aviva didnt  need to pay any compensation to Mr B. Mr B didnt accept our 
investigators opinion  so the complaint has been  passed to me to make a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mr B that Ive read and considered everything both he and Mrs T have sent 
to us. But I wont be addressing each and every complaint point which has been raised  nor 
am I obliged  to. Instead, Ill be addressing  what I think  are the key issues  in turn. 
Im very sorry to hear about  what happened to Mr B. Its clear  he has been through  a 
serious, life-changing experience. Suffering  from such an illness  while far from home  and 
Ref: DRN97180222the consequences that have ensued  was extremely unfortunate. I have no doubt that Mr B 
and his family will have  experienced a great deal of fear, distress and upset as a result.  
In making an independent and impartial decision, Ive considered how I think  Aviva handled 
matters after it was first notified  that Mr B had been taken ill. The question  for me to decide 
is whether I think Aviva  dealt with this claim in a fair and reasonable way, in line with its 
obligations under  Mr Bs policy.  
Mr Bs policy  has a wide range of benefits.  But Avivas responsibilities and obligations 
towards Mr B and his accompanying relatives  dont extend as far as Mrs T has suggested in 
many of her lengthy submissions. 
Having reviewed the detailed evidence provided  by both parties, overall,  I think Aviva 
handled Mr Bs claim as it should have. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I wont  be asking  
Aviva to do anything further.  
The medical treatment  Mr B received in the Canary Islands
Under the terms and conditions  of Mr Bs policy, Aviva is responsible  for paying for Mr Bs 
medical expenses  abroad.  The policy says:
Our service will provide  advice on, and where  appropriate, arrange  all medical  
treatment, travel and accommodation
Id expect Avivas decisions in arranging medical care to be based  on an assessment of the 
available medical  evidence including the advice of Mr Bs treating doctors, with Mr Bs best 
interests in mind. 
The medical evidence  Ive seen shows Mr B needed to be urgently sent to a hospital  in 
another country with an available intensive  care bed, and to be assessed by an infectologist.  
Avivas choice of hospitals to evacuate  Mr B to were limited  because of Mr Bs location.  
Aviva considered a number of options before making the decision to evacuate  Mr B to the 
Canary Islands. This destination was chosen over the only other  realistic  option available  
because the standard of care was significantly higher in the Canary Islands. Avivas  chief 
medical officers notes record the hospital  Mr B was sent to as an acknowledged  Centre  of 
excellence with both ITU and Infectious  diseases departments .
Im satisfied Aviva acted promptly in evacuating  Mr B to an appropriate hospital with an 
intensive care bed available as soon  as it was made aware  that this was necessary. Based 
on the evidence  Ive seen, I think Avivas decision  about where to send Mr B was 
reasonable.
The standards of hospitals abroad may often not be the same as in the UK and this is 
something which is outside of an insurers control. It wouldnt be possible  or reasonable  
to expect an insurer to ensure  that any hospital they send a patient to has standards equal 
to, or above, those  of the NHS as Mrs T has suggested. 
If particular concerns are raised about  the standard of care a policyholder is receiving in a 
hospital, then I think it would be reasonable for an insurer to look into these issues and 
consider whether any alternative is available. However, Ive seen no indication that either 
Ref: DRN97180223Mr Bs brother  or Mrs T raised concerns about  the standard  of care Mr B was receiving while 
he was abroad,  so I cant fairly say Aviva  should  have taken any action at the time.  
While Aviva may have arranged for Mr B to be transferred to the hospital in the Canary 
Islands, it isnt responsible for any actions or inactions of the hospital. 
It clear Mr B has serious concerns about  the treatment and tests  he received in the Canary 
Islands, but these are issues  which Mr B would need to raise  with the hospital directly. 
The accommodation upgrade for Mr Bs relatives  
The terms and conditions  of Mr Bs policy say in the event of a medical  emergency  Aviva will 
cover:
reasonable and necessary additional  costs of transport and accommodation incurred 
in respect of the Insured  Person or any three relatives or one friend who has to travel  
to remain with or escort the Insured  Person  home.
So, the policy covers  transport and accommodation  costs for an accompanying relative  or 
friend. 
Aviva doesnt have to pay the daily living expenses of the policyholders  accompanying 
relatives, or otherwise fund their stay while they are abroad. These  costs  are the 
accompanying relatives own responsibility.  I dont think its unreasonable  for the 
accompanying relative to have to pay for their own food and drinks, as these are daily living 
expenses which would  have to be borne by the relative regardless.  
Having read Avivas claims notes, I think both Mr Bs brother and Mrs T had extremely high 
expectations of what level of assistance Aviva  was responsible for providing  to them.  
Aviva upgraded Mr Bs brother, first to half board  and then to all-inclusive. While Aviva may 
have chosen to do this as a gesture of goodwill, I dont think  it was obliged  to pay for either 
option under  the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy. Aviva also upgraded Mrs T from 
breakfast only to half-board and I dont think it needed to do this under the terms and 
conditions of the policy either. 
Mr B himself  was entitled to both accommodation and sustenance  expenses  as a result of 
being admitted  as an in-patient.  Aviva arranged this for Mr B during the periods he was 
discharged from hospital. 
Avivas problems paying the hotel 
Mrs T was locked  out of her room at her hotel because the hotel hadnt received payment  
from Aviva. 
Ive reviewed Avivas claims notes in detail,  but Ive seen no evidence  this happened 
because Aviva hadnt included a claim number  in its correspondence as Mrs T has 
suggested. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I think Aviva  was doing all it could to arrange payment.  It made  the 
hotel aware it was unable to pay via the link it had been sent and Aviva  was calling and 
Ref: DRN97180224emailing the hotel in an attempt to progress the matter. Aviva had asked the hotel to send it 
this link in a different  format early on the morning  Mrs T was locked out of her room.  
Aviva urgently chased the hotel for this information within 10 minutes of Mrs T informing it of 
the issue. The payment was made  and Mrs T was back in her room just over an hour after 
telling Aviva about the problem. 
I have no doubt  this was a very distressing experience for Mrs T, but I cant fairly  say Aviva 
could have done anything more in the circumstances. 
The assistance provided to Mrs T
The situation  Mrs T found herself in while assisting her son in the Canary Islands was, 
understandably, extremely difficult. Language barriers can often pose a problem in the 
unfortunate event  that someone falls ill abroad. 
Mr Bs insurance policy says Avivas emergency  medical assistance  team  has experienced 
multi-lingual staff who will assist with enquiries  and speak to doctors and hospital  staff. I 
think Aviva  provided a reasonable level of assistance in this regard to Mr B and his family 
when dealing with the claim. 
Under the policy, Aviva is also responsible for:
Making arrangements  for the outward and return journeys for the next of kin or other 
nominated person to visit a sick or injured Insured Person
Aviva did this for Mr Bs brother and, later, for Mrs T. Aviva also arranged for a medical 
escort when  it was necessary. If Mrs T didnt  feel she could bear the weight  of being Mr Bs 
accompanying relative and if she herself required personal support or assistance  in the 
Canary Islands then it was up to her and Mr Bs family and/or friends  not Aviva - to arrange  
for this. 
I understand Mr Bs case was an extreme one but assigning a specific interpreter to help 
Mrs T or arranging for an Aviva representative to visit the family in these circumstances are 
not things which Id reasonably expect an insurer to do. 
Mr Bs repatriation  to the UK
Mrs Ts preference was for Mr B to be flown back to a specific airport and admitted to a 
specific hospital on his return to the UK. 
I think it would be fair for an insurer to note such preferences  and I can see Aviva did  but 
ultimately its Avivas decision about  how it repatriates a policyholder. Id expect Aviva  to 
make this decision taking  into account  the available medical evidence,  as well as factors 
such as flight availability.
Avivas file shows it was regularly liaising with the hospital in the Canary  Islands and 
reviewing Mr Bs medical reports when arranging  a repatriation plan. 
Aviva said the receiving airport was changed in order to accommodate  Mr B on a business  
class flight, and that a flight to Mrs Ts preferred airport in business  class would have 
required at least one layover. I understand Mrs T feels  a business class flight was not 
Ref: DRN97180225beneficial to Mr B when he then had a longer road transfer in the UK, and a flight  would have 
been available to her preferred receiving airport the following day. 
Given what had happened to Mr B, I dont  think  it was unreasonable for Aviva to arrange  a 
business class  flight for his comfort. In fact, I may well have considered it unreasonable if 
Aviva had flown Mr B in economy as Mrs T is suggesting.  
The medical reports from Mr Bs treating doctors  in the Canary Islands clearly state Mr B 
could be treated as an outpatient in his home country. Aviva  also spoke to the treating 
doctor, who confirmed Mr B could go home on his return  to the UK and didnt  need  to be 
readmitted to hospital.  
Therefore, Aviva didnt  arrange for a hospital  admission.  I dont think this was unfair  or 
unreasonable - the medical information Aviva was relying upon  didnt indicate that a UK 
hospital admission  was medically necessary  at the time. 
However, Aviva doesnt appear to have communicated  this to Mr B, Mrs T or indeed  to the 
medical escort and I think Aviva should  have  been  much clearer about  what  the plans were 
when Mr B landed in the UK. 
The medical escort contacted Aviva during the repatriation to say he thought Mr B required a 
hospital admission.  Mr B was then taken on a long drive to a hospital, where he was 
admitted. I understand Mrs T doesnt  feel the receiving hospital was appropriate for Mr B and 
has questioned  why he wasnt taken to a different  hospital en-route with specific expertise in 
tropical diseases. 
When Aviva  became aware  there  were  concerns  about Mr Bs health and accommodation 
arrangements in the UK, it arranged for him to be admitted to a hospital  near the home 
address it had been given  for him. I havent  seen any medical information suggesting Mr B 
required admission to a specialist hospital, or that the hospital  where  Mr B was admitted 
didnt have the appropriate  expertise to receive  him. So, I dont think Aviva acted 
unreasonably in making the arrangements it did. 
If the UK hospital  thought  Mr B required specialist treatment then it would have been up to 
that hospital to arrange  a transfer.  Avivas responsibility ended  once Mr B was repatriated.  
Hospital benefit
I understand Aviva originally made  an error with its calculations and didnt pay Mr B the 
correct amount, as it didnt take into account that he was in hospital over certain  bank 
holidays. It would have been  helpful  if Aviva had calculated the benefit correctly  from the 
outset. 
However, Aviva has now clarified Mr B has been  paid a hospital benefit payment for dates 
starting on 18 March and ending on 22 April. I think this is correct. 
Mr Bs policy  says he is entitled to a hospital  payment in the event that he is admitted as an 
inpatient outside the United Kingdom. Mr B is not entitled to any hospital benefit for a UK 
hospital admittance, even if that was a continuation of a hospital stay abroad.  
Ongoing treatment costs
Ref: DRN97180226The terms and conditions  of Mr Bs policy provide for Aviva to pay for the following;
..the reasonable and necessary cost of Hospital in-patient medical charges, incurred 
within six months immediately following the date of the Insured Persons Repatriation  
to the United Kingdom
I dont think its fair or reasonable  to consider wheelchair hire costs, taxi fares or other 
transport costs as in-patient medical  charges, so I dont think  these are covered  under the 
terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy. 
Avivas communications  with the UK hospital
If Mr Bs family required translated documents while abroad then Id expect Aviva to have 
provided these. Aviva  was arranging  for Mr Bs medical reports  to be translated internally as 
the reports were being received. But Avivas responsibilities  to provide a translation service  
under this policy only apply when a consumer is travelling  it doesnt apply when a 
consumer is in the UK.
If translated  medical  documents  which were crucial to Mr Bs treatment were required, then 
Id expect the UK hospital to have  requested  these  directly  from the relevant medical 
facilities abroad. Aviva was under  no obligation to provide a translation service to the UK 
hospital. 
Id expect Aviva to provide any documents requested by Mr Bs family to them within  a 
reasonable period of time.  I understand Mrs T is unhappy with the length of time Aviva took 
to send her certain  documents  and I think it may have been helpful  if Aviva had arranged to 
send these more  promptly.  
The personal accident claim
Mr B has also made a claim under the personal accident section of his group insurance 
policy. 
I understand Mr B has been registered as disabled and will never be able to return  to his 
normal occupation. I dont  in anyway underestimate how Mr Bs life has been  affected by 
what happened, or how difficult  this must  be for him and his family to come  to terms with. 
However, in order for a benefit to be payable  under  the personal accident section of Mr Bs 
policy, Mr Bs disablement needs to have resulted from an accident. An accident is defined 
in the policy  as a sudden,  violent,  external  and identifiable event. 
Mr Bs current health condition appears to have resulted from the illness he contracted 
abroad rather than a result of a violent or external event. So I dont think Mr B has satisfied 
the criteria in order to benefit from a payment under this section of his policy. 
Summary
In conclusion, I think Aviva made  some  errors  when  dealing with Mr Bs case. In particular, I 
think Aviva  should have communicated much more clearly and effectively about its intention  
not to take Mr B to a hospital on his return to the UK.
Ref: DRN97180227I also think Aviva made a mistake when calculating what hospital benefit Mr B was entitled  to 
initially, and I understand Aviva  delayed in sending Mrs T certain information shed asked 
for. 
But, overall, I think Aviva handled Mr Bs claim in the way Id have expected it to. And, at 
times, Aviva provided a higher level of assistance  and benefit to Mr B and his family than I 
think it needed to. 
I know this wont be the news Mr B was hoping for, and I wish him well for the future. But I 
wont be asking Aviva to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.  
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9718022