K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains about a with-profits endowment policy administered by the Royal London 
Mutual Insurance Society  Limited (Royal London).Mr C complains about the maturity value 
he received for his policy and in particular the final bonus awarded  at maturity. 
Mr C says Royal London did not apply smoothing  to his policy and it has not been consistent  
in the way it has awarded bonuses over the last few years. Mr C says he contacted Royal 
London in 2012, 2013 and 2016 and was given predicted maturity  values  of more than 
£60,000 whereas  he only received about £50,000 on maturity.
Mr C also says Royal London should not have  penalised  policyholders  for changes  to 
regulations and the impact of the referendum on leaving the European Union.
Overall Mr C says Royal London did not act fairly in the way it decided the amount of final 
bonus that should be paid.
Mr C also complains about  the number of days it took Royal London to pay the maturity  
value. 
Mr C also complains about  Royal London  failing to locate recordings of telephone calls he 
made.
background 
Mr C had a with-profits endowment policy. He says he contacted  the Royal London  in 2012, 
2013 and 2016 and asked  for a maturity value. Mr C says Royal London  gave him values of 
around £63,000, £64,000 and £64,000  respectively. Mr Cs policy matured in 2016. He 
received around  £50,000.
Mr C complained to Royal  London about the amount he received.  Mr C said he had been 
tracking the value  of the fund and the amount he received was less than anticipated. Mr C 
also said this was a closed fund in run down where minimal bonuses  had been declared 
since 2000 so all the value should have been  in the final distribution and final bonus. 
Royal London didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint. It gave the breakdown of the maturity value 
including the final bonus. It said that it had checked  the amount again and it was correct.  
Royal London pointed  out that the maturity value  fell within  the range projected by Royal 
London in a letter to Mr C in 2011.  
Royal London said the main reason for the fall in final bonuses  was the estate distribution for 
the fund Mr C was invested in. It said the current pay out was lower than the pay out last 
year but still materially above the underlying asset share or fair value of the plan. Royal  
London said when  it set the level of bonuses it tried to be fair to customers now and in the 
future.
Royal London also explained that the amount of pay out had fallen because of the impact of 
new regulations  know as Solvency II. It said the effect of the new regulations  was in broad 
terms that Royal London needed to hold more capital for the liabilities in the fund and the 
impact of this had been more significant than expected. Royal London said it had to reduce  
the pay outs for with-profits  policyholders  claiming now to ensure all remaining policyholders 
were treated  fairly.
Ref: DRN94832532Royal London said it had highlighted  in the annual  update booklet that it may have to reduce 
pay outs if Royal London could not reduce  the risk the fund was exposed to. Royal  London 
said it hadnt been able to reduce the risk and the referendum on leaving the European 
Union had had a further negative impact on the fund.
Mr C disagreed with Royal London and referred  his complaint to our service. Mr C also 
complained about the time it took Royal London to pay him the proceeds of his policy.
Our investigator asked  for further information  from Royal London in respect of the telephone 
calls Mr C had referred to. Mr C said he had contacted Royal  London in 2012, 2013 and 
2016. 
Royal London said it was unable to locate the calls from 2012 and 2016. But it did have a 
letter from October 2013 following a phone call from Mr C. That letter  set out maturity  value 
illustrations of between  £52,600 and £58,100.  It also said 
These figures are only examples and are not guaranteed - they are not minimum or 
maximum amounts. What you get back depends on how your investments grow.  You could 
get back more  or less than this. 
Royal London reiterated that maturity  values were not guaranteed. It said that the 
percentage value  for final bonus at the time Mr Cs policy matured was 85.18. The 
percentage value  was higher in January  2016 and January 2015. 
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She took into account that the maturity value was broadly in line with what had been  
projected in the 2013 letter from Royal London.
The investigator noted what Mr C had said about the decision made  by Royal  London to 
award the level of final bonus it had. She felt that was a matter of commercial  judgment on 
the part of Royal London. The investigator  explained  that our service was not the regulator 
and did not tell businesses how they should  exercise their commercial judgment.  Our service  
was there  to look at the circumstances of the individual  complaint  and decide  whether or not 
Royal London had acted unfairly or improperly.  The investigator was not persuaded that 
Royal London had acted unfairly or improperly  with regards to the maturity value paid on the 
policy. 
The investigator asked  Royal  London about the delay in paying  the maturity  proceeds.  Royal 
London said that it couldnt  explain why the payment had not been processed  until a few 
days after maturity. It said this issue hadnt been  investigated previously because the original 
complaint had been about the amount  paid out on the policy. Royal  London agreed to pay 
interest at eight percent simple on the maturity value from the day it should have been  
received by Mr C to the day it was paid. The investigator thought  that offer was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He expanded on the points he had 
previously made about the management  of the fund. Mr C said that he should have received 
a much bigger  final bonus as he had held the policy for 37 years. Mr C referred to Royal 
London accounts in 2000 which give final bonuses  for policies held for 37 years  as around 
300% and business accounts in 2004 which give final bonuses at around  180%.
Ref: DRN94832533Mr C reiterated Royal London had not applied smoothing to the policy  and was not treating 
its policyholders  fairly. He said the fund has been in run down since  2001. Mr C said we had 
not investigated this aspect or challenged Royal London and asked to see the run down 
plan. Mr C also said he should  have  received  a higher final bonus  than someone  who had a 
25 year policy.
Mr C said it was unfair of Royal London to apply factors such as the impact  of regulations 
and Brexit to policyholders whose policies matured in 2016.  
I issued a final decision in 2017  and didnt  uphold Mr Cs first complaint. Mr C pursed the 
matter with Royal London and the FCA. Royal London then located a telephone  call from 
2016. In that phone call Royal Londons representative had given Mr C an estimated 
maturity value on this policy  and another similar policy  held with Royal  London. Royal  
London accepted that the values given  by it representative were inaccurate as he used 
incorrect final bonus rates which were  out of date.  Royal London offered Mr C compensation 
for the trouble and inconvenience caused  in relation to both policies. It offered £500 in 
relation to this policy including the handling  of his complaint.
Mr C didnt agree with the compensation offered.  He felt Royal London should pay out the 
amount it had told him in a series  of phone calls in 2012, 2013  and finally in the phone call of 
2016. He reiterated that Royal London had not treated him fairly in the way it had awarded  
the final bonus on his policy. He explained to Royal London that he had calculated that 
£64,000 was the correct  amount based  on the average investment returns  over the term. He 
provided his calculations to Royal London.  He reiterated that it was a closed fund and so he 
said the factors applied  by Royal London werent  relevant. Mr C felt Royal  London had not 
been open with customers about  how it calculated the bonuses. He also felt it had reneged 
on promises made when  it took over from Scottish  Life as it hadnt  paid out an additional  
reversionary bonus.
Mr C also raised  concerns that the 2016  phone call had not been located until recently and 
felt Royal  London  should be able to provide  the other calls.  
Royal London didnt  agree that it had treated Mr C unfairly in the amount it had paid in final 
bonus. It said the regulations it had referred  to applied to all funds whether open or closed. 
Royal London also said guaranteed annuity risks were a risk to the fund. Royal London said 
a decision had been taken by the Scottish Life Supervisory Committee not to pay out an 
additional reversionary  bonus in 2001  because of market conditions at the time. 
Royal London said the operation of the Scottish Life Fund has been subject to internal and 
external audits since it had been  acquired by Royal  London. It said it had published annual 
fund updates which gave key elements of the run off plan to customers  and its returns and 
accounts were published  on its website. 
Royal London didnt  agree with the way Mr C had calculated the maturity  value. It said the 
key issue was the underlying asset  share whereas Mr C had credited the investment  return 
to the guaranteed value.  It said the investment returns applied  to the underlying  asset share. 
Royal London confirmed  it had sent a cheque for the compensation  it had offered and said it 
didnt have recordings for the telephone  calls in 2012 and 2013. 
Mr C didnt agree with Royal London  and referred his complaint to this service. 
Ref: DRN94832534As there was material new evidence  which hadnt  been available and was likely  to affect the 
outcome I decided I could  consider the new complaint although the subject matter  was 
largely the same as before.  I issued a provisional  decision  that I explained related to the 37 
year policy as the other policy  was being dealt  with separately. 
I provisionally concluded that Mr C had been  caused trouble and upset by the incorrect  
information that had been provided by Royal London. But I wasnt convinced  that he had 
been paid an incorrect amount on maturity.  I also didnt  agree that Royal London had 
promised Mr C £64,000 or led Mr C to reasonably expect it would pay him £64,000 on 
maturity. I didnt consider  that Royal London  had treated  Mr C unfairly in paying him around  
£50,000 on maturity.  Both parties were provided  with an opportunity to respond.
Royal London accepted my provisional decision.  Mr C didnt agree and sent a detailed 
response setting out a number of issues.
In summary  he said:
He was unhappy with the way our service  had handled the matter. We had given 
undue deference to Royal London  and ignored the facts  and evidence. We had 
simply accepted statements from Royal London at face value.
He pointed out it was well documented in the press that policyholders trapped  in 
closed funds are ripped off and gave some  examples.
He said when Royal London took over Scottish Life it made promises to Scottish Life 
policyholders and it had reneged on those promises. It hadnt paid the additional 
reversionary bonus it had promised. It was also supposed to add enhanced final 
bonuses to the policy.
He had complained about his two with profits policies and this decision only referred 
to one of the policies.  
He said the average  investment returns since 2001 were  around 5.94 percent. He 
asked where is my share of these  funds?
He referred to the Solvency II regulations  and pointed out that they were  well known 
about prior to the implementation  date at the beginning  of 2016. He said that the 
costs of these regulations should  mainly be borne by Royal  London policyholders 
rather than former  Scottish  Life policyholders  where the fund was closed.
 He referred to the Scottish Life accounts  for 2000. He said final bonuses  for longer 
term policies, such as his, should  have been  much higher. He said Royal  London had 
not shown him how that had been applied to his policy.
He said he was given  a reasonable expectation by Royal London  in the run up to the 
maturity of his policies that he would  receive a much larger  amount. He received 
£14,000 less for this policy  which  was a very material reduction. Mr C said Royal  
London had failed to provide evidence for the fall in final bonus.
He pointed out that Royal London  had repeatedly said it didnt  have records of the 
telephone calls. 
Ref: DRN94832535He questioned why anyone would  believe  Royal London had now got the correct  
amount.
He pointed out that Royal London  was doing exceptionally well as set out in an article 
in 2016 so it could afford to pay more in bonuses.
He said we had cherry picked the illustration  of 2013 which was grossly  unfair  and 
unreasonable. 
Mr C said it was quite clear  that Royal London had acted unfairly  to him with regards 
to the pay outs for the two policies. He said it should have sent him specific letters in 
the run up to the maturity date so he could  have challenged any figures. He pointed  
out FCA regulations  required  clear  and meaningful correspondence  with 
policyholders. 
He reiterated  the evidence clearly  pointed to the fact that the pay out for the policy  
should have been  £64,000. 
He said he had not been  provided  with any verifiable tangible  evidence as to how 
Scottish Life assets have been distributed  since the takeover. He said the Scottish 
Life fund was virtually invisible in the annual Royal London accounts. Mr C also said 
the Scottish Life Supervisory Committee was not independent. 
He said the entire  management and operation of the Scottish  Life fund since  the 
takeover of 2001 required investigation.  
He said Royal London had failed to demonstrate to him that the pay outs for his 
policies were materially consistent with all other  pay outs from 2001- 2017 to 
policyholders with the same type of policy. 
He said the failure  to pay the maturity value  on time was a breach of contract and he 
should be paid compound  interest and punitive damages.  
Mr C said the remedies I had suggested  were paltry and didnt accurate reflect the 
damage caused. 
I asked Mr C and Royal London  to provide some further information relating  to some of the 
points Mr C had raised.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important  to note that I am considering the subject matter  of Mr Cs complaint for a 
second time because  material  new evidence has come to light that wasnt  available at the 
time of the first complaint  which  I considered  would  be likely to affect the outcome.
Ref: DRN94832536I should also make it clear that this decision relates  to Mr Cs first policy which  matured in 
2016. At the time of my final decision for his first complaint there  had been no referral in 
relation to the second policy which matured in 2017. Given  the background and the amount 
of information  related  to Mr Cs complaint  in relation  to the first policy I consider it fair and 
reasonable to deal with this policy separately. This allows the background and arguments  in 
relation to the second policy (which are not entirely the same) to be considered separately 
and for our two stage  process to be followed.
I have considered all the points  raised by Mr C but in this decision I have tried to focus on 
those I feel are the most  relevant to the crux of the complaint. 
Phone calls 
 
Mr C is unhappy with the maturity value he received from his with-profits  endowment policy.  
Mr C says it is not in line with projections he was previously given by Royal London. He 
refers to a series of phone calls in 2012, 2013  and 2016. We unfortunately dont have the 
phone call recordings from 2012 and 2013 but there is a letter  sent out by Royal London 
following the 2013 phone call giving projections. 
Mr C says we have  cherry picked the 2013 projections letter but I consider that letter is 
relevant as it was sent out following a phone call. So I consider it likely it would have 
reflected what had been discussed.  And if it didnt, it would  have put Mr C on notice there 
was an issue.
The documentary evidence that is available shows projections were  given in 2011 and 2013 
which were broadly in line with the maturity value  Mr C received. So whilst  Mr C may have 
been given different projections on the phone I am not persuaded it would have been 
reasonable to have  relied upon those because the projections in 2011 and the written 
confirmation which followed the 2013 phone call gave lower  predictions than the £64,000 he 
had referred to. 
I also have to take into account  that projections are only estimates and the maturity  values 
are not guaranteed
However there is a recording of a phone call from 2016 which has recently been located.  
Mr C asks Royal London representative for an estimated maturity value for both of his 
policies. The operator tells Mr C that he doesnt have up to date final bonus  rates.  So he 
gives Mr C an estimate  based on the final bonus  rates which the representative says are 
from the year before  (January 2015). 
Royal London has accepted that the estimates  given to Mr C in that telephone call were 
inaccurate because  the final bonus rates were incorrect.  It has also explained  that the final 
bonus rate used by the operator would have been for a 37-year old policy maturing in 2015. 
This would mean it was taken out in 1978  when premiums were higher and it would have 
had a different  investment period which would all have affected the final bonus.  
Mr C says he should be paid the amount quoted by the representative not the maturity value 
of around £50,000  he was paid. He says he was given a reasonable expectation by Royal 
London that he would be paid that amount.
 
Ref: DRN94832537Mr C had taken out this policy many years  before  he had this conversation  in 2016.  I have 
listened carefully to the telephone conversation  and I dont consider what was said 
amounted to a promise made by the representative,  on Royal  London behalf,  to pay Mr C a 
certain amount.  It was also not an inducement to try and get Mr C to enter a contract as 
Mr C had already taken out the policy many years  before. 
I consider on balance that it was an incorrect estimate of the value of his existing  policy at 
maturity. I dont consider  it was a statement of fact that should have been relied upon or that 
it was reasonable  to have relied  upon  it. And even  if it was, there  is nothing  to suggest there 
was any financial loss as a result of relying  upon  that statement.  Mr C hasnt lost any money 
because the policy wasnt worth £64,000  when  it matured.
Although I dont consider Mr C has suffered  a financial loss I do think  he has been caused 
trouble and upset  by the incorrect estimate he was given. I will return to that later in this 
decision.
Accuracy of maturity figures 
Mr C says that Royal London has not paid him the correct amount  on maturity .I am not 
persuaded that being given an estimate by Royal London based on out of date information 
demonstrates it has paid him an incorrect  amount for his policy.  
Mr C also states what  Royal London  says cannot  be relied upon because it previously said 
there were no telephone  recordings. I dont think the failure by Royal London  to locate the 
telephone recording  during the initial complaint means I cannot  now rely on anything it says 
about how it calculated  the maturity value.
Mr C is in effect saying the £64,000 estimate given  over the phone is correct  and the 
£50,000 pay out is incorrect. But I dont consider the information given on the telephone by a 
representative using  out of date information to be more reliable than Royal  London 
calculations at maturity.  Royal  London  has checked those figures a number of times.  Royal  
London with-profits actuary has also checked  the pay out figures and been involved at 
looking at this complaint.
I note Royal  London  has provided a breakdown of the maturity value. It has set out the 
bonuses and final bonus paid. 
Final bonus
The main  area of contention  is the amount awarded for the final bonus. Mr C says Royal 
London has acted  unfairly in the way it has decided his final bonus. Royal London has given 
the bonus percentages for 2016  and 2015.  It has also explained  some  of the factors that 
have affected  the bonus  paid  which include the estate  distribution; the impact of 
regulations and the risk posed  by the fund which was impacted further by the result of the 
referendum on Europe. 
Mr C says it is unfair to penalise policyholders whose policies are maturing in 2016 by taking 
account of matters such as the impact of new regulations.  While  I can see Mr Cs point of 
view Royal London also has to take into account  the remaining policyholders. If it pays out 
too much  now there is a risk that the remaining policyholders will lose out. This is a 
balancing exercise for Royal  London using its commercial judgment. Its also the case that 
this is an investment, and so it cannot  be immune from economic  factors.
Ref: DRN94832538Mr C also says that as it is a closed fund the impact of regulations is not relevant and should  
not be taken into account. But Royal London has confirmed that the regulations  still apply to 
closed funds. 
I am also not persuaded this is a situation  where a reduction in the final bonus  has come 
completely without warning. Royal London  was already saying in its correspondence in 2013 
that it anticipated a negative  impact  on the fund because of the new regulations  but that 
there was a level of uncertainty about the impact  of those regulations. It said
At this stage, with the final rules  for Solvency II still not confirmed, what  follows  is based on 
our current  best estimate of the likely impact. Clearly we will need to react to further 
developments/clarification on Solvency II as they arise.
So it appears Royal London was aware there  would be a negative impact on the fund and 
informed Mr C. But it was difficult to predict exactly what the impact would be until the 
regulations came into force. 
In addition when  Mr C made a complaint in 2011 about the level of bonuses applied  to his 
plans Royal  London  highlighted in its response that the performance of the fund had been  
an issue. 
It said 
Unfortunately,  over recent years, the performance of the with profit fund has been  severely
restricted by the reduced, and sometimes negative, returns  available  on equities and the
low level of interest rates.
I am also not convinced  that because final bonuses were at a particular level in 2000 and 
2004 that it would be unfair or improper to award a lower percentage in 2016. The level of 
final bonus is not guaranteed, it can be affected by economic conditions and go up and 
down over time. 
Mr C says in effect that Royal London has not proved  how it has given him a fair share of the 
fund. He disputes the amount paid Royal  London  has paid him and has provided a 
calculation which he says shows  Royal London  is wrong. Royal London has explained why 
his calculation is incorrect.  It has said that Mr C has credited the investment return  to the 
guaranteed value whereas investment returns are applied  to the underlying  asset share.
Asset share is described as follows:
Asset Share;  refers  to the accumulation of premiums paid into a policy after deducting
amounts to cover expenses, charges and tax and after crediting or debiting  amounts to
reflect the investment  returns achieved by the fund. From time to time we may also
make adjustments to allow  for any enhancements  to asset share.
I am not convinced I need to ask Royal London  to provide detailed calculations  of the way 
returns have been earned over the years. I take into account Royal London  has provided 
evidence of the bare asset share and enhanced asset share.
Ref: DRN94832539Royal London has explained that to check that Mr Cs final bonus is fair it looks  at what  
percentage of the bare asset share it represents.  The percentage for Mr Cs policy  falls 
within the target percentage bracket  for asset  share. It notes that the FCA Handbook  uses  
asset share as a key guide to fair hand  outs.
Overall I do not consider  on balance that Royal London had acted  improperly or unfairly in 
the amount it paid to Mr C.
With the points Mr C raises he is effectively asking me to look at the management of the 
fund by Royal London and the decisions it has taken about bonuses. 
Businesses, such as Royal London,  are allowed significant discretion in how bonuses  are 
calculated and whether to allocate bonuses at all. This understandably  can lead to concerns 
about how a fund is operated. So I can understand Mr Cs concerns about  what he believes 
is a lack of transparency by Royal London in the way the fund has been managed. 
Royal London provides annual fund updates  and publishes  its Principles and Practices of 
Financial Management  document that sets out how it manages  its with-profits funds. It is 
required to appoint a with- profits actuary  and the FCA provides rules  and guidance  on their 
duties. Royal  London also has a With-Profits  Committee  whose remit is to protect  the 
interests of the with-profits  policyholders and ensure that they are treated fairly. So there are 
checks and balances on the way it manages  the fund.
Ultimately however this service looks at individual complaints. It is not a regulator and does 
not tell businesses how they should exercise their commercial judgment. The question  of 
how these funds are managed and operated is a question for the industry regulator, the 
FCA. Royal Londons management of the fund is supervised by the FCA and any question 
over whether  its being properly managed is an issue for it to consider in that regulatory 
capacity. So, I do not think that is something that falls within my remit. 
 
I understand Mr C has contacted the Financial Conduct Authority  with his concerns. 
Take-over by Royal London
 
Mr C has also raised the takeover of Scottish Life by Royal London  and the promises  he 
says were made to existing policyholders  at that time. He has referred to a letter  from 
October 2000 sent to policyholders. He says policyholders were promised: 
a) £11m as a fixed  cash payment  of £500  each  to each qualifying  policyholder
b) £160m to be declared as an additional reversionary bonus after completion of the deal.
c) £829m  to be paid out to policyholders  in the form of enhanced final bonuses.
I dont think it is appropriate for me to look generally  at the terms of a take over agreement 
that took place  nearly 20 years ago. That is not something that falls within my remit. 
However as Mr C has raised this issue I will consider whether the Royal  London made Mr C 
any specific contractual promises which it has not fulfilled.
I understand that Mr C was paid the £500  fixed cash payment referred  to in the letter.  The 
additional reversionary  bonus (ARB) was not paid to policyholders at the completion of the 
takeover. I am not convinced on balance that this was an actionable contractual  promise  
made to Mr C. I think it was more of a broad intention. 
Ref: DRN948325310The letter sent to Mr C said:
Approval of the proposal
Early next year we will send you a formal circular, which  will include a notice convening  an
Extraordinary General  Meeting of Scottish  Life (probably in March  2001) at which members 
will be asked  to consider  and approve the proposals.
The policyholder circular  from April 2001 said 
It is anticipated that each  Qualifying  With Profits Policy will receive an Additional 
Reversionary Bonus  and a Terminal  Bonus  Enhancement. 
The take-over then took place in July 2001.
Then business has said it decided not to issue an ARB because of the effect of the terrorist 
attacks at that time on world markets.  This was set out in the Supervisory Committee update  
to policyholders. The committee concluded:
Having considered  the issues very carefully  and having taken actuarial advice, the 
Supervisory Committee unanimously decided that it would not be in policyholders best 
interests for an ARB to be declared.
However that money would still have been kept in the fund and a share of that money would 
have been paid to policyholders eventually by way of final bonuses. So Mr C would have 
received his share of the purchase price and estate in his final bonus. Unfortunately that final 
bonus was affected by some of the factors that have already been mentioned.
Trouble and upset  
I think Mr C has been caused significant  trouble and upset by the incorrect  estimate he was 
given by Royal London in a phone  call in 2016.  In particular because the estimate was given 
only a few months before his policy matured. So I can appreciate  that Mr C wouldnt have 
been expecting  a significant  difference from the estimate. I also note that he said he had 
been tracking the value of his policy in the telephone conversation.  I am satisfied that the 
value of this policy was important to him. So to receive considerably  less (some £14,000) 
than he had been expecting would have been very upsetting. On that basis I think  an award 
of £500 for the trouble and upset caused  by this error would  be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr C has also raised concerns about  the way his complaint was handled  by Royal  London-
namely that it didnt  locate  the telephone calls. I consider that forms part of this complaint. It 
is accepted by Royal London  that the 2016 call was not located  until recently and it has 
apologised to Mr C. I have to consider the trouble and upset caused to Mr C by the way his 
complaint was handled.
Ref: DRN948325311Mr C has said from the outset that he was given projections over the phone that werent in 
line with the maturity value he received. Royal London had said that it didnt have any of 
these phone calls but a phone call from 2016  has now been  located. I can imagine that it 
must have  been  extremely frustrating  for Mr C to be told there were no recordings.  He had to 
progress his complaint  to this service without the benefit of that recording and then he spent 
some time pursuing the matter with Royal  London  after I had made a final decision in his 
case. I think this would have caused  him not an insignificant  amount of inconvenience and 
upset. So I think an award of £400 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I should make it clear that both these amounts only relate to the 37-year with-profits  policy 
which was the first to mature  and is the subject of this complaint. As I have said Mr C has 
now also raised a complaint in relation to the second with profits  policy which  is being  dealt 
with separately.
Payment of maturity proceeds
Mr C has also complained  about  the time it took for him to receive his maturity amount. He 
says this was a breach of contract. 
Although there was a maturity date the contract  didnt  specifically state  the date the monies  
should be paid.  I think it would have been implied that it should be paid within a reasonable 
timeframe.
Royal London agreed that it didnt  pay the proceeds  as quickly  as it should have done. It 
agreed to pay simple interest for the period of the delay at eight percent simple  per year. 
It seems  that the maturity  pay out was not processed as efficiently as it could have been and 
Royal London did not really acknowledge this until later on. 
Mr C says simple  interest is insufficient  and he should be paid compound interest on his 
maturity amount. He also thinks there should be punitive damages.
I consider interest  at eight percent simple per year is a fair and reasonable way of 
compensating Mr C for being deprived  of his money.  While the interest  is simple  rather than 
compound this is balanced out by the rate which is higher than normal  bank account interest 
rates. It also reflects the current statutory interest  rate on judgment debts. 
We compensate consumers for financial loss which was caused by a business. We dont 
punish businesses.   So I dont agree that punitive damages should  be awarded. 
I think it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Royal  London to pay interest on the 
maturity value at the rate of at eight percent simple per year from the maturity  date to the 
date Royal  London  actually made  the payment. But as Royal  London has already agreed  to 
do this I do not uphold that aspect  of the complaint.  
Ref: DRN948325312my final decision
My final decision is that Mr Cs complaint  against Royal London  Mutual Insurance  Society  
Limited is upheld  in part and Royal London  should  pay Mr C £900 compensation for trouble 
and upset as set out in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9483253