K821x#15complaint
Mr D says Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as Moneyboat.co.uk) irresponsibly 
lent to him.
background
This complaint is about two instalment loans Moneyboat  provided  to Mr D between June 
2018 and July 2018. Loan 1 was repayable in 2 monthly instalments and loan 2 in 5 monthly 
instalments. This is a summary of Mr Ds lending  history  from Moneyboat.  
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 8/06/2018 20/07/2018 200
2 20/07/2018 - 800
The adjudicator thought  the neither of the loans should have been given. Moneyboat didnt 
agree, so the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN93466692I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Moneyboat was required to establish  
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.  Having done  so Ive reached  the same  
conclusion as the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
I dont think Moneyboat completed proportionate  checks for loan 1. I say this as within the 
information it gathered  from the credit reference agency there were indications  that Mr D 
might be having problems managing his money.  I think it should have carried  out further  
checks based on this. And a proportionate check would most likely  have shown  that Mr D 
already had at least four other short term loans outstanding with other lenders. So 
Moneyboat ought  to have realised his finances  were under pressure - it was most likely he 
was just borrowing  to pay off other loans. And that this loan, and any subsequent loans, 
were unlikely to be sustainably affordable for Mr D. It follows I dont think  Moneyboat  should  
have given loans  1 or 2 to Mr D.
Ive considered carefully Moneyboats response  to the adjudicators  view.  It argues that 
given the infancy of the relationship the checks were proportionate, saying we have agreed 
with this assertion  in other assessments. But this does not change  my conclusion. Each 
case is reviewed on its individual merits and, for the reasons set out above,  in the 
circumstances of this complaint I think Moneyboat  should have done more  before agreeing  
to lend. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 1 and 2, and Moneyboat  should  put things right. 
putting things right  what Moneyboat needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr D paid on loans 1 and 2;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
if it chooses, apply  the refund to any outstanding principal balance on loan 2 before 
paying any remaining  balance  (if there  is any) to Mr D**; and
remove any negative information  about loans 1 and 2 from Mr Ds credit file
I understand Moneyboat has sold the outstanding debt from loan 2 to a third party  so it 
should buy it back before doing what Ive said above. If this isnt possible, Moneyboat needs 
Ref: DRN93466693to make sure that Mr D has paid or will pay no more  in total than the principal amounts he 
was lent. So Moneyboat should (in addition to the above  if necessary):
arrange to repay  any portion of the sum due to the third party  that is made up of 
interest and charges   including any added by the third party;
refund  any interest and charges  that Mr D has already paid to the third party,  plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
instruct the third party  to remove any information that it may have recorded about the 
loans from Mr Ds credit file.
If Moneyboat doesnt buy the debt back then it isnt entitled to make  any deductions 
from the amount  that it needs to pay Mr D.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Moneyboat to take off tax from this interest.  Moneyboat must  give 
Mr D a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If Moneyboat  intends to apply 
the refund to reduce  any outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting  the tax.
**If after taking  the above steps  there is still a principal balance due, I remind  Moneyboat of its 
obligation to treat Mr D fairly and reasonably in any settlement discussions.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ds complaint.  Evergreen  Finance London 
Limited (trading as Moneyboat.co.uk) should  pay Mr D compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020. 
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9346669