K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva) declined to cover the cost of upgrading 
the flights home for her and her son.
background
Ms F and her son, D, were on holiday when D was taken  ill and admitted to hospital. 
Ms F and D were  due to travel to another  part of the country before taking a connecting flight 
to the UK. As D hadnt been discharged in time for them to make  the first flight, the airline  
cancelled the connecting flight.  Aviva, with Ms F, made new travel  arrangements for her and 
D; this included booking  new tickets for their return journey to the UK.
Ms F upgraded the seats for her and D. She felt this was a more appropriate way for D to 
travel as he was still recovering from his recent illness and hospital stay.  
On returning to the UK, Ms F submitted a claim to Aviva for the expenses she had incurred 
including the cost of the flight upgrade. Aviva settled the claim excluding the flight upgrade 
costs. It explained  the upgrade  isnt covered under the policy  as it wasnt deemed medically 
necessary.
Ms F was unhappy with this and said that she had been told by Aviva  that the upgrade would  
be covered. So she brought her complaint to this service.  The investigator didnt recommend 
the complaint  should be upheld. In summary  she said there  was no evidence:
of Aviva having said it would cover  the cost of the upgrade.
to say the upgrade was medically necessary
Ms F disagreed and so the matter has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so I dont think Aviva has acted  unfairly  in not covering  the cost of the upgraded 
flights and Ill explain why.
When an insurer arranges travel  home  for someone  following  illness on holiday,  it has to 
take into account medical advice from the treating doctor and the medical assistance team 
on the ground. In Ds case there  were  no recommendations from either about him having  
any particular needs for travelling back to the UK. So Im satisfied there  was no medical 
reason to upgrade the flight.
Ref: DRN97172752Ms F has said that Aviva  told her at the time that it would cover  it. I have looked at all of the 
written correspondence  between Aviva and Ms F and cannot see Aviva has agreed  to do 
this in any of this correspondence.  Ive also listened  to the calls between them when booking 
the replacement  flights. There is only one call where  I heard the flight  upgrade mentioned  
and this is the call where  the flights are being  booked. In that call the following is said:
Ms F: I have been looking up the difference on business or premier  and depending  
on what economy ticket you buy, I might not be able to upgrade
Aviva: Yeah  we just go for standard economy
Ms F: OK
There is no further mention of the upgrade and Ms F goes on to confirm her and Ds 
passport details. Based on this, I havent seen any evidence to show that Aviva told Ms F 
that it would  cover the cost of the upgrade.
Ms F and Ds original flights home to the UK were  economy ones. And, while  I understand 
and accept Ms Fs reasons that upgrading the tickets made the flight  more  comfortable for D 
to travel home, there  was no medical  necessity.  Avivas only responsibility  was to replace 
the tickets Ms F and D had been unable to use on a like for like basis.  It follows I wont be 
asking Aviva to cover  the cost of the flight upgrades.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9717275