K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says Provident  Personal Credit  Limited lent to her irresponsibly. Mrs L says the 
affordability assessment  Provident did was vague  and it didnt find out that she couldnt 
afford to repay the loans. She also says that Provident wasnt sympathetic  when  she was in 
financial difficulty.
background
This complaint is about four home  credit  loans Provident provided  to Mrs L between May 
2015 and April 2016.
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 18/05/2015 £750 52 14/03/2016
2 15/09/2015 £600 52 06/04/2016
3 31/03/2016 £1,000 63 25/01/2017
4 07/04/2016 £500 63 25/01/2017
Provident says that its sales documentation shows Mrs L couldnt afford the repayments  to 
loan 2. So it has offered to refund  the interest and charges she paid to this loan. Mrs L hasnt 
accepted this offer. 
One of our adjudicators partially upheld  the complaint. As far as I can see Provident hasnt 
fully responded  to the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term and high cost lending - including  all of the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs L 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Provident should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN92113972the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being  affordable  on a strict pounds and pence  calculation might be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ls complaint. Ive decided  to uphold Mrs Ls 
complaint in part and have explained  why below.
Mrs L didnt disagree  with our adjudicators opinion about loan 1. And she hasnt  disagreed 
with the offer made  in respect of loan 2. Because of this I dont think there  is any ongoing 
disagreement about these loans. So I wont be making a decision  about loan 1, and I agree 
with the offer made  about loan 2. But these loans  were  part of the borrowing relationship 
Mrs L had with Provident. So they are something  I will take into account  when considering  
the other loans she took.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans 3 and 4 would most likely have 
shown that Mrs L was having  problems  managing  her money. She had told Provident that 
she was paying  around £1,000 a month to other creditors.  This was significant when 
compared to her declared income of around  £1,500 a month. So Provident should have, at 
the very least,  found out what her other liabilities were. 
If it had done this it wouldve seen that she owed a large amount to other creditors  such as 
credit cards and other high cost loan providers. And she was in arears on a number of these 
accounts and one of them was in default.
So I dont  think it was reasonable  for Provident  to lend on the basis that Mrs L would be 
likely to sustainably repay her lending. She was clearly struggling to pay the outgoings  she 
already had. And Provident shouldve found  out about this. So Im upholding Mrs Ls 
complaint about  loans  3 and 4. 
putting things right  what Provident  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs L paid on loans 2 to 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loans 2 to 4 from Mrs Ls credit file;
Ref: DRN92113973If Mrs L still owes Provident any of the principal  balance  she borrowed on loans 3 and 4 
then, instead of the above compensation for these loans, Provident  should remove all the 
interest and charges applied to the outstanding  balance. Provident should then re-work the 
account as if all payments  made by Mrs L went to towards  the principal. But importantly, 
Provident needs to make sure that Mrs L doesnt  repay more  than the principal amount 
borrowed. 
If after doing this Mrs L hasnt repaid the principal  she borrowed Provident  can deduct this 
from the remainder of the compensation.  If, Mrs L has already paid enough to repay the 
principal then any overpayment should be refunded to her with 8% simple* interest from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement. 
And if Provident no longer owns this debt, and it wants to make a deduction due to the 
amount owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any 
deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Mrs L.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Provident to take off tax from this interest. Provident must 
give Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mrs Ls complaint.
Provident Personal Credit Limited  should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9211397