K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out to protect a 
store card in 1997. Mrs T says Financial  Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her 
the PPI.
Mrs T took out the store card in a shop  in 1996, and was later sold PPI over the phone   but 
FICL has taken responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs T hasnt said much about  what happened when she was sold PPI  so I need to 
consider if she was made  aware  that the policy was optional, and if she was given a 
choice in taking  it out. Theres no call recording available,  but this isnt unusual for a sale 
made in 1997,  and businesses arent  required to keep records  indefinitely.  But FICL has 
provided a call script that was in use at the time which shows  that its representative 
would be prompted to point out that the PPI was optional, and gain proper consent for it 
to be added to an account. While I cant be certain how closely this script was followed,  I 
havent seen anything to suggest FICL  did anything differently  when it sold PPI to Mrs T. 
And as she already  had her store card for a year, I think  she wouldve known that she 
didnt have to have PPI to get the card,  and chose  to take it out. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs T so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs T got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs T has said, including  what shes  said about having good  
sick pay from her employer. But the PPI couldve paid out on top of her existing cover,  and 
for longer than she wouldve  received  full pay for. So this point doesnt change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN93765702my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9376570