K821x#15complaint
Mrs Bs representative, a Claims Management  Company (CMC), complains on her behalf 
that she was given unsuitable  investment advice by Clydesdale Bank Plc.  
The CMC says:
The investment  was made too soon after her fathers death. 
She shouldve  been  advised  to pay off her mortgage instead.
She was advised  to take too much risk.
She invested too much money.   
background
In February 2007,  Mrs B was advised to invest £10,000 into the cautious balanced fund, 
comprised of £7,000 into an Individual Savings Account  (ISA) and £3,000 into an Open 
Ended Investment Company (OEIC).   She was left with a cash  deposit of £6,000.  
It was recorded  that Mrs B was in her mid-forties, married and employed. Her husband 
owned their home outright  although  this is now disputed  and covered the household 
expenses. Mrs B had no outstanding financial liabilities.
It was also recorded  that she had a net disposable income of £240  based on a monthly  
income of £640,  and wanted returns in excess of bank accounts. The recommendation was 
made based on her own circumstances. An auto-ISA application was on file ensuring all 
funds would be fully ISA wrapped.
The investment was surrendered in March 2013  for £11,105.60. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
The recommendation was unsuitable  as Mrs B invested too much money and took 
too high a risk with the investment.
Given the level of equity and geographical spread  44% invested directly  in equities 
and 39% invested in overseas investments  the fund was more balanced than 
cautious/medium.
This meant  Mrs B  as an inexperienced investor  was investing roughly 62.5% of 
her money where the return was dependant on the performance of the stockmarket, 
which was too high a risk. 
It might be true that 37.5% of her total available money in cash  represented  15 
months worth of expenditure, but given that it was more than likely  she would see 
her investments fluctuate, it wouldve caused her to worry.  Therefore she shouldve  
been left with more of her money in cash. 
Mrs B shouldve  been advised to take a smaller  risk on a smaller amount of her 
money. As theres  no hard and fast rule she shouldve been  advised to invest  50% of 
her money. 
Clydesdale disagreed with the investigators  view. It maintained that its advice was suitable.  
In short,  it said:
Mrs Bs goal was clear she wanted to invest a lump sum for a period  of five years. 
Ref: DRN99863332Whilst she had no specific target for these  funds she wanted the potential for returns  
higher in excess of those available from traditional bank and building  society 
accounts. There was nothing to suggest she needed access  to her funds sooner.
She  was recorded as having no debt, and was in a position  to absorb any losses  
Even though  Mrs B made a profit  it made  no guarantee as to the level of returns.
Only 44% of the fund was exposed to equities,  which equates to £4,400 of the 
investment or 27% of her overall  money (£16,000). And 62.5% of her overall funds 
invested wasnt excessive  in the circumstances.
Mrs B was left with 40% of her available  funds (£3,000 in cash)  so the overall risk 
wasnt excessive. This represented  15 months  worth of expenditure so it couldnt 
agree too much of her capital  was invested.  
It fundamentally disagrees that the fund was more balanced than cautious/medium. 
A balanced fund would  contain a significantly higher  risk. 
In respect of the 39% invested in overseas investments it seems the investigator 
hasnt identified the fund fact sheet  which states  that Global Equity is split between  
hedged global equity  (14%) which has a currency exposure removed, and unhedged 
global equity (10%).
She had plenty of time  three months  from when she received the money and then 
decide to invest.
The largest asset class was in the cautious balanced fund. 
The fund was recommended  based  on her attitude to risk.
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on balance I agree with the investigators conclusions for much  the same 
reasons.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Clydesdale  says,  Im minded to 
agree with the investigator that the recommendation to invest roughly 62.5% of Mrs Bs cash 
was unsuitable.  Consequently Im not persuaded that she was left with sufficient funds for 
emergencies particularly  in light of her acquisition of a car, and all the expenses that go with 
it. On balance I also think Mrs B was advised to take too much risk with their money. 
The CMC and Clydesdale have provided detailed  submissions to support  the complaint, 
which Ive read and considered carefully. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every 
single point raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by the CMC and 
Clydesdale, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based  on 
the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by this. Its for me to decide, based  on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Im not specifically looking at whether Mrs B was a balanced risk investors or whether the 
funds were. Im aware of our investigators  and the CMCs comments  regarding this but its 
not for me to give the fund a risk rating. Im simply considering if the advice  was generally 
suitable for Mrs B and on balance Im not persuaded that it was. 
Ref: DRN99863333Whilst its fair to say that certain questions were  asked of Mrs B to arrive  at this conclusion  
that she was a balanced risk investor   Im uncertain  as to the reasoning behind this.
I appreciate she was willing to take a risk in order to have the opportunity to secure greater 
returns over the five year term than with a cash deposit account. Overall, given her 
circumstances, Im not persuaded this was an accurate reflection of her attitude to risk.
I note Mrs B was aware that the value of investments could  fluctuate  but the funds 
recommended contained  a higher risk for a first time investor with no previous experience  or 
knowledge of risk based investments. In this regard I agree with our investigator.  
I note it was recorded Mrs B was in her 40s, working at the time, and with no financial 
liabilities. I note her husband  had purchased the property and they were  mortgage free. So 
she was in a position to take some risk with a portion of her money.   But I also note she had 
a tendency to keep  her money  in cash deposit  accounts and wanted advice based on her 
own circumstances. 
Whilst Mrs B might  have been  in a position  to replace some losses,  I dont  think  that makes 
an unsuitable recommendation  suitable.  So, in the circumstances, and on balance,  I think  if 
she was made aware of the risks involved,  its likely she wouldve opted for a lower/cautious 
risk investment. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, whilst  I appreciate the key points made by 
Clydesdale, I think its only with the power  of hindsight we now know nothing  had gone 
wrong and that she made a profit. In my opinion this also doesnt make  an unsuitable 
recommendation suitable.  
If an emergency had occurred, given that were looking  at her circumstances, I dont think 
the cash reserves wouldve necessarily  been sufficient to see her through. 
I agree  with the investigators analysis that Mrs B was willing to take some risk in order  to 
meet her objective  for capital gain. I dont think she was risk averse and nothing that Ive 
seen precluded her from making a risk based investment. However I dont think  the current 
recommendation was suitable for the reasons Ive already outlined. 
Whilst I acknowledge its difficult to know what Mrs B wouldve done instead, on balance Im 
minded to agree with the investigators proposed redress benchmark as shown below  but 
only on the basis of her having  invested  50% of the invested funds.  
I think Clydesdale should pay redress on the remaining 50% on the basis of it being  kept in a 
deposit based account  compared to the Bank of England base rate +1%  with 8% simple  
interest from the point  of investment to the point  of settlement. 
fair compensation  in relation to the £8,000
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
B as close  to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable 
advice. 
I take the view that Mrs B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what she would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
Ref: DRN99863334and reasonable given  Mrs B's circumstances  and objectives when she invested. 
what should  Clydesdale do?
To compensate Mrs B fairly,  Clydesdale  must:
Compare the performance of Mrs B's investment  with that of the benchmark  shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Clydesdale  should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
MLC  
Cautious 
Balanced 
Portfolio 
£8,000transferredfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
transferred8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Clydesdale  
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. 
Ref: DRN99863335If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Clydesdale totals  all those  payments  and deducts  that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mrs B wanted capital growth  with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
I consider that Mrs B's risk profile  was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mrs B into that position. It does not mean  that Mrs 
B would have invested 50% of her money  in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind 
of index tracker  fund. Rather, I consider  this a reasonable compromise that broadly  
reflects the sort of return Mrs B could have obtained from investments suited to her 
objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
fair compensation  in relation to the £2,000
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
B as close  to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable 
advice. 
I take the view that Mrs B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what she would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mrs B's circumstances  and objectives when she invested. 
what should  Clydesdale do?
To compensate Mrs B fairly,  Clydesdale  must:
Compare the performance of Mrs B's investment  with that of the benchmark  shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Clydesdale  should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Ref: DRN99863336investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
MLC  
Cautious 
Balanced 
Portfolio 
£2,000transferredaverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
transferred8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Clydesdale  
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Clydesdale totals  all those  payments  and deducts  that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because: 
Mrs B wanted to achieve  a reasonable return without risking  any of her capital. 
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  given Mrs B's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean  that Mrs B would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc should pay the amount 
Ref: DRN99863337calculated as set out above.
Clydesdale Bank  Plc should provide details of its calculation to Mrs B in a clear,  simple 
format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2019
..
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9986333