K820x#14Complaint
Mrs L is seeking to recover £3,235  from TSB Bank plc (TSB), which  she lost as a result
a third-party scam.
TSB says it is not liable for the loss because Mrs L unwittingly authorised the payments 
herself  and it could not reasonably have  done more to try to recoup the money  from the 
receiving account.
Background
I issued a provisional decision in February  2021 to explain why I thought  Mrs Ls complaint 
should be partially upheld  but no further  refund was needed. And I said Id consider 
anything else anyone  wanted to give me. This is an extract from that provisional decision:
On 11 March 2019, Mrs L received a phone  call from someone  who she thought  was 
Her Majestys Revenue and Customs  (HMRC). Mrs L was self-employed at the time and 
during a lengthy call, she was deceived into believing that she had an outstanding tax 
bill. Mrs L was told she would have to pay this unpaid tax bill immediately  - otherwise she 
was at risk of arrest.
Over the next hour or so, Mrs L was convinced  to send 3 payments amounting to £3,235 
to the fraudster. Later, when Mrs L told her husband about what  had happened,  she 
realised she had been the victim  of a scam - which she reported to TSB straightaway.  
But by the time TSB contacted the receiving  bank on her behalf, all of the funds had 
been removed  from their account.  However,  the receiving bank was able to contact  the 
bank where the funds  had been  transferred on to and was able to recover  £1,340  
which was later transferred back to Mrs L.
TSB declined to offer Mrs L a refund of the additional amount she had lost. It said it had 
carried out Mrs Ls instructions in making  the payments and she had failed  to verify who 
she was speaking to / what she was told before making the transfers. It said there wasnt  
anything about  the transactions themselves that would  have  prompted  further  checks 
from TSB before they were processed. TSB said it had followed the correct procedures  in 
contacting the beneficiary bank in attempting to recover Mrs Ls funds. But, as the money  
had already been removed from the recipient account, there wasnt  anything  further it 
could do until it was told about the funds  remaining in the second-generation account, 
which were later returned.
Unhappy with TSBs response, Mrs L brought her complaint to our service and one of our 
investigators looked into things. Our investigator  thought Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld 
from the second transaction onwards. She thought,  at this point,  TSB shouldve contacted 
Mrs L before  it allowed the payment to go through  and if it had, the scam wouldve been 
uncovered.
TSB didnt  accept our investigators findings. It reiterated that it didnt think  there was 
anything about  the three  individual payments that wouldve  looked  suspicious enough to flag 
on its fraud monitoring systems.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN93116512my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good  industry practice at the time.
Upon reading  all the available evidence and arguments, I am currently  minded to conclude  
that the fair and reasonable outcome would be to partially uphold  this complaint - but not 
award any further compensation. Ill explain why.
It is not disputed  that Mrs L authorised all of the scam payments herself. Over a period of just 
under two hours, Mrs L made three transfers  for varying amounts. I accept that these were 
authorised payments even though Mrs L was the victim of a scam. She used her security 
credentials to request  the payments online. So, although she did not intend the money to go 
to the scammers,  under the Payment Services Regulations 2017,  and the terms and 
conditions of her account, Mrs L is presumed  liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators  rules  and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good  industry practice at the time, I consider TSB 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases  declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud.
Our investigator thought that TSB shouldve stepped in and contacted Mrs L at the point she 
attempted to make  the second transaction. But having looked  at how the activity  unfolded  on 
Mrs Ls account, I dont  think it would be reasonable to say TSB shouldve done  more at this 
point.
In short,  I dont agree that the activity  on Mrs Ls account shouldve  started to look suspicious  
to TSB from the second transaction onwards. I dont think  the activity  on the account starts to 
look unusual  until Mrs L attempts to make the third transaction.  And Im satisfied it is this 
transaction that shouldve prompted further  action from TSB.  By this point, the total value  of 
the transactions had started to mount  up and there  had been three consecutive payments to 
a new payee in a relatively  short period  of time:
The first payment for £1,400 takes place at 11.42am,  leaving Mrs L with a 
credit balance  of £847.26
Ref: DRN93116513A second payment of £1,335 then takes place just under half an hour 
later, taking Mrs L £329.54 overdrawn
A third payment for £500 then leaves the account just under half an hour 
after the second, taking Mrs L £829.54 into her overdraft
All of the above payments are made to a new payee.
I agree  with TSB that there wasnt anything about the first payment of £1,400 that shouldve 
put it on notice  that Mrs L mightve been at risk of financial harm.  And I dont agree with our 
investigator that the second payment wouldve looked so unusual that it shouldve flagged  
on TSBs fraud monitoring systems either.  Whilst I appreciate the total value of these 
payments was starting to creep up, I dont consider the total outlay at this point in itself 
enough to be an indicator  of fraud,  warranting further action from TSB.
I have taken into account that the second  payment  takes Mrs L into her overdraft but Ive 
also had to balance  this against what I know about how Mrs L usually manages this 
account. And I can see that she used her overdraft facility on a number  of occasions in the 
months leading  up to the scam. And so, I dont think it would be fair for me to say that this 
amounted to unusual and out of character  account  activity for Mrs L either or that it was an 
indicator she was at risk of financial harm. But I am satisfied  that by the third payment, a 
pattern of potential fraud was starting  to appear and the activity on the account  had started  
to look suspicious.
This is because, by this point, there had been  a series of relatively high value payments 
happening in relatively quick succession to a new payee. And I think this shouldve  caused 
some concern for TSB. This is not normal account  activity for Mrs L and its uncharacteristic 
of the way she usually manages her account.  And so by the time Mrs L attempted  to make 
the third transaction, I think TSB shouldve been concerned  that something might  not be 
quite right here and it shouldve contacted  her to verify the legitimacy of this payment 
before it processed  it. If it had, I think the scam wouldve come to light relatively easily  and 
been prevented.  Ill explain why.
This is a scam that is all too common and it is a scam that is now well-known  to banks. 
And Im satisfied that had TSB contacted  Mrs L to ask about the final payment, she 
wouldve told them  she was making  payments  to HMRC for an unpaid tax bill  she hadnt  
been provided with a cover story  by the scammers. Knowing the prevalence of this type of 
scam, at this point  TSB couldve probed a bit more  asking Mrs L if shed  been  told about  
this unpaid tax bill before  now and if shed  been able to check and verify who she was 
speaking to  especially  as she appears  to have received a cold call.
TSB couldve told Mrs L that the circumstances leading  up to her making  these transfers 
had all the hallmarks of a well-known scam and that HMRC  would  not contact her out of 
the blue and threaten her with arrest upon  the first notification of an unpaid  tax bill. It could 
have directed Mrs L to log into her HMRC account to check or to contact HMRC on a well- 
established contact  number before she made  any further payments. And Im satisfied that 
this would have  effectively broken the spell for Mrs L and she wouldnt have made any 
further payments.
My conclusions about what is likely to have happened if TSB had asked some probing 
questions are reinforced by the fact that when Mrs L speaks to her husband  about  what  
Ref: DRN93116514had happened, she says,  and I accept, that when  given  the opportunity to reflect on what 
had just occurred  and been  discussed,  she started to entertain doubts. But by then it was 
too late, the funds had already left and were  almost immediately removed from the payee 
account by the scammers (which meant TSB could  not, despite  efforts,  recover  Mrs Ls 
funds from the payee  bank). 
In other  words, if the staff had carried out further  or better questioning in line with a banks 
duty of care,  it seems probable that Mrs L would  have become credulous about  the scam  in 
time and would not have continued  to make the final payment to the fraudster. The fraud 
would have failed  at this point; and Mrs L would not have lost £500.
In light of my conclusions above,  it is not necessary in this case  to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from 
the payee bank before they were removed by the scammers. But for completeness, I will 
say that TSB contacted the payee bank within an hour of being notified of the scam and 
were informed at that point that the scammers had withdrawn all of Mrs Ls funds from the 
receiving account. It was only when the receiving bank contacted the bank that the funds 
had been transferred on to, that £1,340 was recovered and returned to Mrs L.
For the reasons  above, I would normally recommend that TSB refund  Mrs L the £500  she 
lost as part of the scam.  However,  I can see that Mrs L has already received a refund of 
£1,340 and so has already been placed in a better position than I am currently minded to 
recommend. And so, Im not currently minded  to direct TSB to return  any further  funds to 
Mrs L.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
TSB didnt  respond  to my provisional  decision  with any further  points. Mrs L did respond and 
she did not agree with my provisional  decision.  Specifically, she asked me to consider the 
following points:
Mrs L said she had only used her overdraft once in the five months leading up to the 
scam and so entering her overdraft was unusual for her and shouldve been  a 
warning sign that she was at risk of financial harm - especially considering  that when 
the card attached to this account  is used in other countries, this is often followed up 
with a phone-call  from TSB.
Mrs L questioned  whether  she should be held 100% responsible  for the transfers 
made using her overdraft as this was TSBs money, not hers.  
TSB had recently contacted been  in contact to notify her of its fraud  guarantee and 
when shed enquired about  this, she was told it didnt apply to her case, as the scam 
took place before  its implementation.
Ive thought carefully about the new points Mrs L has raised  but Ive reached  the same  
overall conclusions  as I did in my provisional  decision. Ill address each point in turn and Ill 
explain why.
In reaching my findings, I reviewed Mrs Ls statements for the six months leading  up to the 
scam and can see that she used  her overdraft facility on 7 December 2018 and 4 January 
Ref: DRN931165152019 and so, whilst I have thought carefully about what Mrs L has said, I cannot agree that 
she had only used  her overdraft once in the months  leading up to the scam. And whilst I 
agree that this doesnt necessarily show that she is a frequent  user of this facility, a 
customer going into their overdraft isnt by itself necessarily an indicator that they are at risk 
of financial harm. And I dont think there was anything so unusual about the second 
payment, including that it took her into her overdraft, that meant  TSB should have carried  out 
further checks before processing it. I take on board what Mrs L has said about  further  checks  
being carried out if she uses her card abroad  but this is a different set of circumstances and 
is likely  to prompt further checks  by TSB because  the card isnt being used in its country of 
issue.
Ive also thought about what  Mrs L has said about  the last two payments being partially paid 
for out of her overdraft facility but I dont think this has any bearing  on the outcome of this 
complaint. Mrs L is responsible for the repayment of any payments made using  the overdraft 
facility attached to her account  as set out in the terms and conditions of her overdraft. As I 
am satisfied  that Mrs L authorised the payment herself and TSB processed it on her behalf, 
in line with its customer mandate, it follows  that it is Mrs Ls responsibility  to repay the credit 
attached to her account.
Finally, Mrs L has directed me to TSBs Fraud Guarantee Scheme that came  into effect on 
14 April 2019. As such, the scheme  wasnt introduced  until after Mrs L made the payments 
now in dispute  here.  I can only apply the standards that were applicable at the time and so it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to compel  TSB to offer Mrs L a refund under this 
scheme  it wasnt in place at the time and it is not retrospective. 
In summary,  I am really very sorry to hear about  the circumstances  Mrs L has found herself 
in. This is a particularly cruel scam  and one that relies on causing panic in its victims. But I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable of me to conclude that TSB should be liable for 
her losses   the fault here lies with the fraudsters.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partially uphold this complaint but I dont recommend that 
TSB Bank plc pay any further redress.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2021.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9311651