K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained to us that the Co-operative Bank Plc (the Co-Op) mis-sold 
them a mortgage  payment protection  insurance (MPPI)  policy when they were applying for 
a re-mortgage  in 2004. The policy was set up to cover Mr P only.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 19 December 2018. Both parties  were  given 
an opportunity to comment on it and to submit further evidence, if they so wished. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  the reasons  for this. Ive reached  my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most  likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the policy and based on the 
information thats been provided to us, it looks like Mr P met those rules. So I think hed have 
been able to claim on the policy if hed needed to.
Next, Ive looked at whether the Co-Op made it sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs P that the 
policy was optional. Mr and Mrs P have told us unequivocally that they werent aware  they 
had MPPI. 
However, I can see that on the mortgage application form there  was a section about the 
MPPI. This was headed;
PROTECTING YOUR MORTGAGE PAYMENTS.
There was a statement  which read;
If you would like Payment Protection,  please state  type of cover required. 
Next to this was a box and inside this box was typed;
Accident, Sickness and Unemployment Insurance. 
Below this, the form stated that if cover  wasnt required,  Mr and Mrs P could sign below. 
In addition to this form, Mr and Mrs P also signed  a separate MPPI  application  form. 
I cant be sure what was said during  the meeting when  the policy was sold.  I accept its 
possible the Co-Op representative may have said something to make Mr and Mrs P think  
they needed to take the policy and thats  why they signed the forms. However,  having  
considered it carefully, I dont think the forms presented the MPPI as compulsory. In my 
view, given that they were entering  into a major  financial commitment, its most likely that 
Mr and Mrs P would have read the paperwork and having done so, would have understood 
they could have declined the cover. So having considered all the available  information, I 
think that the Co-Op  did make it sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs P that the policy  was 
optional.  
Ref: DRN91100592Next, the parties dont agree about whether the Co-Op provided a personalised 
recommendation to Mr and Mrs P about the MPPI.  But I dont need to decide this issue for 
the purposes of this decision  because I think the policy was suitable  for Mr P and Ill explain 
the reasons for this. 
Firstly, Ive checked the main exclusions and restrictions of the policy  and in his 
circumstances it doesnt look like Mr P would have been caught by any of them.
Next, Mr and Mrs P told us that if Mr P was too ill to work or was made unemployed, he was 
entitled to generous employer benefits;  six months full pay followed by six months half pay. I 
understand why Mr and Mrs P feel that this removed  the need for MPPI  and that therefore 
the Co-op shouldnt  have  recommended  it to them.   But I dont think  this is enough  for me to 
say the MPPI wasnt suitable and Ill explain the reasons for this.
Policies like this are there to reduce the pressure of meeting payments in financially difficult  
times by providing a safety net. If Mr P was too ill to work or was made  unemployed, the 
policy would have covered their mortgage repayment. This would have given them peace of 
mind and security. In addition, it would have allowed Mr and Mrs P to use any sick pay or 
redundancy monies for other necessary household  expenses.  
Mr and Mrs P also told us that Mr P would have been entitled  to over five years final salary  
death in service benefit. But the death in service benefit was a different  type of benefit to that 
provided by the MPPI, so there was no duplication.
Mr and Mrs P also told us that their family could have helped them with their repayments.  
But that would have depended  on the circumstances which  the family faced at that particular 
time, so wasnt guaranteed. They also told us that they could have sold some personal  
belongings such as jewellery. But this is precisely the kind of difficult financial 
accommodation which insurance is designed  to mitigate or avoid  altogether, and the 
consequences of missing mortgage  repayments  on their home could have been serious. 
In addition, Mrs P also complained to us that Mrs P wasnt  covered.  But given her salary  
level this was an appropriate recommendation. So overall, having considered all these 
factors, I think that the recommendation was suitable for Mr and Mrs P and the MPPI would 
have provided  them  with a useful benefit  which was affordable for them. 
Finally, the Co-Op had to give Mr and Mrs P information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so they could  make the decision for themselves about whether or not to take 
the MPPI.  
Ive considered the possibility that the Co-Op didnt give Mr and Mrs P clear enough 
information about the cost, benefits, main  exclusions  and restrictions of the policy.  But for 
the reasons Ive already  explained above,  I dont  think  that Mr P would have been affected  
by the main exclusions and restrictions. And the cost was comparable to the cost of other, 
similar policies  available at the time.  On balance  I dont think  having better information would 
have put them off taking it out. Overall, notwithstanding what Mr and Mrs P have  told us, Im 
of the view that theres nothing that the Co-Op needs to put right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN91100593Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Katrina Hyde 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9110059