K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed  updating  her address and paid her 
insufficient compensation.
background
Mrs A has two loans with Barclays. Another  complaint was made in relation to the reporting  
of those loans  on her credit file. That complaint  was separate and this decision does not 
address it. 
Mrs A moved home in October  2017.  She says that she asked Barclays  to update  her 
address in mid-October 2017, but didnt realise it hadnt done so until she failed its security 
checks during a call in December 2017.  Barclays looked into what had happened  and 
subsequently updated her address at the end of December  2017. But Mrs A remained 
unhappy about what had happened.
Mrs A said the banks delay in updating her address meant important information about  the 
status of her loans had been sent to her old property. She said shed  had to drive to her old 
address to collect that post, and that a payment shed made to her landlord had gone 
missing. She said the banks handling of the entire  matter had been poor, causing undue  
strain and stress on both her work  and personal  life.
Barclays said it didnt have a record of Mrs A asking to update her address in October  2017, 
and it updated  her address after a call it received in December 2017.  It confirmed that the 
payment Mrs A thought was missing  had in fact been made. But apologised for any delays 
and paid £400 compensation to reflect the trouble  and upset it had caused.  
Mrs A remained unhappy  with what had happened  and approached this service. One of our 
investigators looked at the complaint and said:
The available evidence showed  Mrs A asked the bank to change  her address in 
December 2017. It showed that, in October 2017,  Mrs A had told the bank that it had 
sent letters to her parents address, but shed advised it that her mother would be 
taking pictures of those letters for her and hadnt asked the bank to update her 
address.
Calls  between Mrs A and one of the banks case handlers were lengthy and heated. 
Whilst they could  have been handled  better, the compensation paid by the bank was 
reasonable.  
The bank  had confirmed the payment Mrs A made to her landlord wasnt  missing and 
had been credited  into the account  shed requested it to go into. It had acknowledged 
Mrs A had chased the matter  though, and paid her £25 compensation to recognise 
that which was fair.  
Our investigator didnt  think that Barclays needed to pay any more  compensation, but Mrs A 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to decide the case. 
Ref: DRN94624552my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see that this has been  a difficult and 
frustrating time for Mrs A, and I recognise her strength of feeling about what has happened.
Mrs A has said that she asked Barclays to update her address in October 2017. I can see 
that Mrs A told the bank  that letters about her loan arrears had been sent to her parents 
house during a call in October 2017. But she said her mother would be taking photos of 
those letters for her and sending them  on. I cant see that she asked for her address to be 
updated at that point.  The first record I can see of Mrs A asking the bank to change her 
address is during a call in mid-December 2017, but that made no mention of Mrs A having 
made any earlier requests. And I note that, in January 2018, Mrs A told the bank shed first 
asked it to change  her address in November 2017.  So I appreciate their may have been 
some confusion over the dates. 
Whilst I accept  Mrs A believes  her initial request to change her address was made in 
October 2017, the evidence I have available to me doesnt support that. And as no mention 
was made  of any earlier requests when she spoke to the bank in December 2017, on 
balance I think it most  likely that the request  was made in December 2017.  
I can see that Mrs As address was updated by the end of December 2017. I dont consider 
that to have been an unreasonable  amount of time given when the initial request appears to 
have been made. I realise that Mrs A will be disappointed by this, but on balance the 
available evidence doesnt persuade me that she asked Barclays to update her address in 
October 2017. So I dont think the bank needs to do any more  in this regard. 
Mrs A has said that the level of service she received from Barclays, as a whole and in 
particular from one of its case  handlers, was unsatisfactory.  I can see that Mrs A spent a lot 
of time dealing with what had happened and, as I noted above, I acknowledge it was a 
difficult and frustrating time for her. 
Looking at the level of communication between  Mrs A and Barclays,  its my view that at 
times the bank could  have done more  to keep her better updated. It is also my view that its 
call handler could have  done more to manage  the challenging calls Mrs A had with the bank. 
Barclays has acknowledged  that it could have provided a better service though, and has 
already paid £400 to recognise the trouble and upset that Mrs A was caused.  Having  looked  
at the circumstances of this case,  Im satisfied  that the amount of compensation Barclays 
has paid Mrs A reasonably recognises the impact  its level of service had on her. So Im not 
persuaded that it needs to do any more  in this regard either.
Barclays has confirmed that the payment Mrs A initially thought  had gone  missing was paid 
in to the account shed  asked for it to be credited to  her landlords account. I recognise that 
Mrs A had to chase that however, and Barclays compensated her £25 to acknowledge that. 
But again,  in the circumstances of this case Im of the opinion that amount reasonably 
reflects the trouble and upset Mrs A was caused  by having to do that. 
I realise that Mrs A will be disappointed by this outcome, but for the reasons given above,  I 
wont be recommending  that Barclays pay any further compensation. Barclays  has caused 
her some trouble and upset, but I consider  the amount its already compensated to be more 
than reasonable.  
Ref: DRN94624553my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019. 
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9462455