K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs V took out a mortgage in 1991. Its unclear exactly  how or when they took out 
PPI  but theres a certificate that shows that the insurance was in place shortly after the 
mortgage was set up. So it looks like this was something Mr and Mrs V arranged  around the 
same time as their mortgage. The PPI covered Mr V for disability and unemployment and it 
protected Mr and Mrs Vs mortgage monthly  repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs V disagreed with our 
adjudicator. Mr and Mrs Vs main complaint is that they werent made  aware that the policy 
was optional  they say they took out this insurance only because they thought  they had no 
realistic choice other than to accept it. They dont feel they needed PPI as they had other 
means to rely on and said they would've declined PPI if they couldve done.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Mr V was the person covered by the PPI policy, but Mr and Mrs V had a joint mortgage so 
Ive looked at both their circumstances when the insurance was taken out.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Vs complaint. Heres why I say this.
Halifax couldnt provide any documents from the time of sale showing how the PPI was sold. 
Its not surprising,  given how long ago this sale happened, that paperwork isnt still available.  
I wouldnt reasonably  expect Halifax or Mr and Mrs V to have kept this. Mr and Mrs V 
recalled arranging their mortgage during a meeting  so I think  its possible that PPI mightve  
been discussed then as well.
I cant know exactly what, if anything, Halifax told Mr and Mrs V about  PPI. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  Mr and Mrs V to recall  precisely what was said at the time.  This means 
that what they say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. I have 
to look at all the available  information and decide what  I think  is most likely. 
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, repayable over a substantial  number of 
years. Mr and Mrs Vs home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage  payments werent  kept 
up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and significantly better protection  than they had 
otherwise. So, I can see why Mr and Mrs V mightve felt PPI was useful to have. 
On balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs V decided they wanted to protect their home by 
taking out the PPI offered  and they chose to buy the policy.   
Ref: DRN97119062Halifax wasnt sure how it sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs V. So, in fairness to them, it looked at 
their mis-sale complaint on the basis that its advisor had recommended  PPI during the 
meeting Mr and Mrs V mentioned. Given the lack of paperwork showing how Halifax  sold the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs V, I think this is the fairest way to assess  this complaint as it imposes 
extra obligations on the lender. If a business  makes  a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt 
just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable 
steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable.   
Mr V was eligible for the PPI. And as he was the main  earner  when Mr and Mrs Vs 
mortgage started I can see why it made sense for the policy  to be taken out in his name.
No job can be guaranteed  to be secure indefinitely. The policy  protected  Mr V for up to 
12 months per claim in the event he lost his job unexpectedly  and was out of work.  
The policy wouldve also paid out if he had an accident or was too sick or disabled to work, 
on top of any work benefits, for up to 24 months per disability claim. This was longer than 
Mr V told us he would've expected to get sick pay from his employer. And, looking at his 
contract of employment, I can see theres no contractual provision for sick pay at all. So 
I think the PPI provided better and more dependable  protection  than Mr V had available  
through work. 
Mr V mentioned having substantial savings. But there was no guarantee when Mr and Mrs V 
took out this mortgage that they would always have savings to rely on as everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
And it looks like they preferred not to spend  any savings, or they had other  plans for that 
money, since they took out this mortgage rather than invest all their savings to reduce their 
borrowing. Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs V could  depend on being able to continue to keep 
savings intact  to spend on other things or to provide financial security for the future. 
Mr V couldve made repeated claims on the policy. So PPI provided long term cover whilst 
Mr and Mrs V had to pay their mortgage.  
Looked at overall, I think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs V taking into account what 
theyve told us about their situation  at the time.  
Ive checked the policy  terms and there were some  things the policy  didnt cover. But it 
doesnt look as if those applied in Mr Vs case as he was in full time employment  and he was 
in good health when  he took out the PPI. So, I dont think having more information  about 
things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected  Mr and Mrs Vs decision to take it out for 
Mr V.
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  I dont  know 
if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs V when they bought the policy.  But they 
havent suggested that they couldnt afford the monthly premiums. And looking at their 
circumstances and the benefits PPI offered, I think Mr and Mrs V still wouldve decided to 
buy the policy even  if theyd been better informed as the policy gave them  useful protection 
in their particular situation. 
So I dont  find theyve  lost out financially as a result of anything  that Halifax did wrong.  This 
means that theres  nothing Halifax needs  to do to put things right. 
Ref: DRN97119063In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account  what Mr and Mrs V said in response to the 
adjudicators assessment,  and the additional paperwork theyve sent me. But, on balance, 
I dont find theres enough  information for me to say that Halifax mis-sold  them  PPI. 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9711906