K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance from 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS).
background
In August  2014  Mr P was supplied  with a car and entered  into a hire purchase agreement 
with VWFS.
In March 2018 the car suffered engine failure and was recovered  to the supplying dealer. 
The dealer  asked Mr P to authorise a diagnostic  investigation at a cost of £600 following 
which the fault would either be repaired at an estimated cost of £3,000  or the engine  would 
be replaced at an estimated cost of £7,500.
VWFS refused  to accept responsibility  for the cost of repairs because of the length of time 
which had passed  since the point of supply.
Mr P wasnt  happy with the response and arranged  for the car to be repaired at an 
independent garage at a cost of £2,200. After the repairs had been  completed Mr P 
arranged for an independent inspection  to establish whether the fault was present at the 
point of supply.
The independent report concluded that the failure  of the engine was due to a manufacturing 
defect.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said he was satisfied based  on the independent 
report that the fault was present at the point  of supply. The investigator recommended  that 
VWFS reimburse Mr P for the costs he had incurred in identifying  and repairing the fault.
VWFS didnt  agree. It said the independent  report was biased because it had been 
commissioned and paid for by Mr P. It also said the car hadnt been  serviced  by a VW 
approved garage  and suggested that the engine bolts could have been tampered with by a 
third party when the car was serviced or repaired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because VWFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres  an implied  
term that the car has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality  if they are 
of a standard that a reasonable  person would  expect taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car. In order to 
uphold this complaint I would  need to be satisfied that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply due to an inherent defect  rather  than general wear  and tear.
Mr P and VWFS disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In order to 
reach a decision  I need  to look at all of the available evidence and determine on the balance  
of probabilities whether the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply.
Ref: DRN94576582Mr P experienced issues with the car approximately 43 months  after the point  of supply. 
During this time the car had covered approximately 18,000 miles.
Ive looked at the independent report. This concluded that the engine failed because the 
securing bolts of the toothed gear on the inlet camshaft  drive  pulley head had worked loose  
due to them not being tightened enough  when the engine was built.  The independent report  
says that the fault was due to a manufacturing  defect.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault occurs within 6 months of the point of 
supply its generally  accepted that this will be the responsibility of the finance  company. After 
6 months its up to the consumer to show that the fault was present at the point of supply.
Based on the conclusions  in the independent  report Im satisfied that Mr P has shown that 
the fault was present at the point of supply.
Ive taken into account the points  raised  by VWFS about the impartiality of the independent 
report and the fact that the car hasnt been  serviced by a VW approved  garage.
In relation to the independent report I dont think the fact that Mr P has paid for the report  
means that it is biased. Theres no evidence to suggest that the inspector was known to Mr 
P or that he wasnt  a fit and proper person to carry out the inspection.  Ive also taken into 
account the fact that VWFS could have  arranged for an inspection themselves whilst the car 
was with the supplying dealer, but it didnt do this.
In relation to servicing, VWFS has suggested  that a third party garage could have loosened  
the bolts. I dont  have  any information about  the work which has been  carried  out on the car 
in the past but Im persuaded by the independent inspection  which  says that the camshaft 
pulley is not a serviceable item and would  not normally be checked or require any 
maintenance during a routine service. Based on this I think  its very unlikely that the bolts 
were loosened  by a third party.
Putting myself into the shoes of a reasonable person, I wouldnt expect a car to have this 
type of fault. The car was financed from new at significant cost and it isnt very old, nor has it 
covered high mileage. Im of the view that the fault was caused by a manufacturing  defect 
which was present at the point of supply  but presented itself later than it otherwise might  
have done because of the very low mileage covered.
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. It follows that VWFS are responsible  for reimbursing Mr P for the costs of repairs and 
any associated costs.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
should
Pay Mr P £2,572.26 in respect  of identifying the fault and having it fixed  together  with 
8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay Mr P £150 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Ref: DRN94576583Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9457658