K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Zenith Insurance plc cancelled two motor  insurance policies.
Mr K is the policyholder and Mrs K is the named driver on both of the policies.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
20 August 2019,  an extract of which  is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
So, I wont repeat  that information here.  
In my provisional decision I said that Mr and Mrs K were asked whether or not they had any 
claims that affected their no claims discount. I didnt think that I could safely say that 
Mr and Mrs K misrepresented  the facts about a July 2014 claim such that Zenith was entitled 
to cancel  the policies.  I  set out why I intended to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint and what 
I proposed to direct Zenith to do to put things right. 
Mr and Mrs K accepted my provisional decision and provided copies of the replacement  
policies they took out in 2018.
Zenith said that Mr and Mrs K disclosed a 2015 claim as a fault claim but that didnt affect  
their no claims  discount and it questioned why Mr and Mrs K treated the 2014 claim 
differently. It also provided details  of a quote  it says was carried  out by Mr and Mrs K in 
which they said that both the 2014  and 2015  claims were fault claims. So, Zenith said that 
this may not be a case of innocent misrepresentation  and  Mr and Mrs K knew  that the 2014 
claim should be disclosed as a fault claim. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what  Zenith  says but I dont think it alters  the outcome here. Ill explain why. 
Zenith says that Mr and Mrs K were asked the same question  about a 2015  claim and 
disclosed that it was a fault claim.  But Mr and Mrs K had different information  about the 2015 
claim, as they knew it was a fault claim, so thats  what they disclosed. I dont think that 
means that they misrepresented the position in relation to the 2014  claim. 
Zenith also provided details of a quote  Mr and Mrs K obtained  in which  they said that the 
2014 claim was a fault claim. Theres no indication of the date of that quote.  Mr and Mrs K 
say that after Zenith  cancelled  their policies they got a quote which included the 2014 claim 
as a fault claim. The information provided  by Zenith  may well relate to the quote Mr and 
Mrs K got after it had cancelled their policies, so after they knew that they should  disclose  
that the 2014 claim was a fault claim.  
I dont think that the information Zenith  has provided  shows  that Mr and Mrs K 
misrepresented the 2014 claim.  Ive looked  at everything again and I think  that Mr and Mrs K  
answered the question they were asked accurately, based on the information they had. I 
remain of the view that Mr and Mrs K took reasonable  care in answering the question  they 
were asked. So, I dont  think that Zenith acted fairly in cancelling  Mr and Mrs Ks policies. 
Ref: DRN95502702Mr and Mrs K have  provided evidence that the cost of the two replacement  policies  in 2018 
was £117.58 more than the policies Zenith  cancelled.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision and above,  I uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ks complaint and now require  Zenith  Insurance plc to:
1.Pay Mr and Mrs K £117.58, which is the additional cost of the 2018 replacement policies. 
2.Pay Mr and Mrs K interest on the sum at 1. above at the simple  rate of 8% per year from 
the date Mr and Mrs K made the payments to the other  insurer  - 14 June 2018 - to the 
date of settlement.*
3.Remove the record  of the cancellations  of the policies from internal and external databases.
4.Pay Mr and Mrs K compensation of £200 in relation to their distress and inconvenience.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Zenith to take off tax from this interest.  Zenith must give
Mr and Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 November  2019. 
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN95502703extract of provisional  decision 
complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Zenith Insurance plc cancelled two motor  insurance policies. 
Mr K is the policyholder and Mrs K is the named driver on both of the policies.
background
In May 2018, Mr K applied for two policies with Zenith via an online comparison website. 
During the application, Mr and Mrs K were asked  whether they had any driving incidents or 
made any insurance claims in the last five years. I understand that Mr and Mrs K said that 
each of them  had been involved in an accident that was their fault and Mrs K had also been 
involved in an accident that was the other  drivers fault.
In early June 2018, Zenith, by its agent, wrote to Mr K and said that it had discovered 
that the accident involving  Mrs K on 21 July 2014  was, in fact, a fault claim.  It said that, 
as a result, it wasnt able to provide cover and it would cancel the policies and issue 
refunds. Zenith later wrote  to Mr K and confirmed that it had cancelled the policies
Mr and Mrs K say that they answered  all the questions they were  asked to the best of their 
knowledge. They say that their previous insurer settled a claim arising out of an incident  on 
21 July 2014 on a 50/50 basis and they didnt think that meant it was a fault claim.  Mr and 
Mrs K say that they didnt intend to give Zenith incorrect information. They say that Zenith  
didnt give them an opportunity to clarify  the situation. Mr and Mrs K want the cancellation 
of the policies removed  from their records and compensation.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Zenith  had treated  Mr and Mrs K unfairly. She said that 
Zenith found out that there were three  fault claims and if it had known that at the outset, it 
may not have covered them. The adjudicator didnt think that Zenith was at fault in 
cancelling the policies.
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree  with the adjudicator. They said:
The damage to them is disproportionate to their unintentional error.
They provided information to the best of their knowledge and belief and they 
didnt intend to give incorrect  information.
They did the application based on information  on renewal notices from their 
previous insurer, which dont show whether they were fault or non-fault.
They didnt know that the previous insurer settled  the matter  on a 50/50 basis  or 
that cases  settled  that way were fault claims.
They received  appropriate notice but didnt have the opportunity  to investigate  
the matter with their previous insurer, accept  that it was a fault claim and 
continue with the policy on modified terms.
Zeniths internal  approach to risk means they will suffer  disproportionately because  
of an unintentional error.
They want the cancellations removed from their records  or a letter  that says that 
the cancellations werent valid.
As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed  to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide.
Ref: DRN95502704my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a complaint  arises  from non-disclosure of information important to an insurer,  we 
look to see that it asked a clear question when the policy was taken out. We check  that the 
information given  would  affect whether a policy  was offered or its terms. And we check  
whether the policyholder has taken reasonable care to provide accurate information.  If not, 
we consider whether they did so deliberately,  recklessly or carelessly.
The comparison web site collected information from Mr and Mrs K on Zeniths behalf. 
Zenith tells me that the question put to Mr and Mrs K was as follows:
Claims & convictions
Have you had any driving incidents or made  any insurance 
claims in the last 5 years?
If you dont tell your insurer about  previous incidents  or 
claims your car insurance may not pay out if you make a 
claim
Need help?o Yes
o No
What kind of incident or claim was it? o Accident
o Theft
o Windscreen/Glass
o Other
When did the incident happen? 
Need help?DD/ MM /YYYY
Did this claim affect your no claims discount? 
Need help?o Yes
o  No
If Mr or Mr K clicked on Need help?  it 
said: Not sure how to find out?
Your current insurance documents  should tell you how many  years no claims discount 
you have, so you should be able to work  out whether your no claims discount was 
affected.
I understand that Mr and Mrs K answered  no to the question about  whether the incident  on
21 July 2014 affected their no claims discount.  I think  that answer  was accurate.
Mr and Mrs K have provided this service with a letter to Mrs K from her previous insurer  
which says that it had settled the claim arising  out of the incident on 21 July 2014 and her 
no claims bonus is protected.
Zenith has provided information  recorded by the price comparison web site which shows 
that the accident on 21 July was noted as a non-fault accident. That wasnt in fact the case. 
It was a fault claim, as Mrs Ks insurers had settled the claim on a 50/50 basis. But I dont  
think that I can safely say that Mr and Mrs K misrepresented the facts such that Zenith was
entitled to cancel the policies. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN95502705Zenith hasnt provided the wording of any other  question Mr and Mrs K were asked about 
whether the accident on 21 July 2014 was a fault or non-fault claim or their response. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I think that Mr and Mrs K took reasonable care in answering the 
question they were asked.  The renewal confirmation notices from Mr and Mrs Ks previous 
insurer dont make it clear that the 21 July 2014  was a fault claim. Neither did the letter  to 
Mrs K from their previous  insurer  about the resolution of that claim.  So I think that Mrs K 
most likely answered carefully  and to the best of her knowledge. Based on what  Ive seen,  I 
dont think that Zenith acted fairly in cancelling Mr and Mrs Ks policies.
Mr and Mrs K arranged  cover with another insurer so its not appropriate to direct Zenith 
to reinstate the policies. Mr and Mrs K say that the replacement  polices they took out in 
June 2018 cost them  £117.58 more than the policies Zenith cancelled. The 
documentation theyve  provided so far doesnt  show what  they paid for the replacement  
policies in 2018. On production of proof  of the premium for the June 2018 replacement 
policies, Zenith should  pay Mr and Mrs K the difference between  the premiums  for the 
cancelled policies and the replacement policies they took out with another  insurer in June 
2018. As Mr and Mrs K have been  kept out of the use of that money, Zenith  should  also 
pay interest on the refund.
Zenith should remove the record of the cancellations  of the policies from internal 
and external databases.
Mr and Mrs K say that the policies they took out at renewal in 2019 were considerably 
more expensive because  of the cancellation of the policies by Zenith. They  should  
approach their current insurer about that as when Zenith has removed the record  of 
cancellations the new insurer may be willing to re-rate the policy.
Zenith should pay Mr and Mrs K compensation for their distress and inconvenience as 
they were upset that their policies were cancelled and about the effect this had on them.  I 
think fair compensation for that is £200.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im inclined to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint and intend 
to require Zenith Insurance plc to:
1.On production  of proof of the amount they paid for the replacement policies in 
June 2018, pay Mr and Mrs K the difference between the premiums for the 
cancelled policies  and the replacement policies.
2.Pay interest on the sum at 1. above  at the simple rate of 8% per year from the 
date Mr and Mrs K made the payments to the other  insurer, to the date of 
settlement.*
3.Remove  the record of the cancellations of the policies from internal and 
external databases.
4.Pay Mr and Mrs K compensation of £200 in relation to their  distress 
and inconvenience.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Zenith  to take off tax from this interest. Zenith  must give
Mr and Mrs K a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off, if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN9550270