K821x#15the complaint
Mr and Mrs N say TSB Bank plcs IT problems  meant that they had intermittent access to 
their online banking. Theyve said this impacted their ability  to monitor  their account, causing 
stress and worry. And when they decided to move their account elsewhere, they then had 
issues with arranging the account  switch.
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems, which went  on for some time.  Mr and 
Mrs N say that in August  2018 this meant they couldnt  log onto online banking or use the 
TSB phone app to check on their account.  When they tried to switch  their account to a 
different bank in September 2018, there was a problem with the switch,  and they say this 
also caused additional stress.
Mr and Mrs Ns son, Mr N1, has been  representing  them in this complaint, and hes told us 
TSBs telephone banking  service was very busy,  so he spent a long time waiting on the 
phone and was occasionally cut off. Hes also said that Mr and Mrs N had to employ an IT 
access to try and regain  access to their online banking, but that this was unsuccessful.  Mr 
N1 has said the whole  complaint process was very frustrating and that after eight months of 
talking to and writing to TSB they still had not received  a proper response to Mr and Mrs Ns 
complaint.
Our investigator looked at the complaint. He thought  TSB should pay Mr and Mrs N £150 for 
the trouble and upset caused. TSB accepted this, Mr and Mrs N didnt. On their behalf, Mr 
N1 said he thought £1,000 compensation would be a fair amount instead. So the case has 
been passed to me to decide.  
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I think £150 compensation is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
I dont doubt that the IT issues at TSB caused  stress  and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs N, 
and that they werent able to monitor their account  in the way they would have  liked. But I 
can see from their account statements that the way they used their account  didnt change 
significantly after the problems with their online banking began. Their direct  debits were still 
paid and they were  still able to make faster payments out of the account and receive credits 
into it. So although not being able to see their account would undoubtedly have caused  
some worry,  I dont  think this significantly affected  their ability  to use their account  in the way 
they usually did.
And deciding  to employ an IT specialist was their own choice, not something that TSB had 
suggested they needed to do. So I also dont think it would be fair to ask TSB to cover the 
cost of that specialist.  
As they were unhappy with how TSB was managing their concerns, Mr and Mrs N decided 
to move their account to a different bank. They originally requested this switch  on 12 
September, but it appears the switch was stopped by their new bank as it didnt have 
authority from Mrs N. I dont think this was TSBs fault. And when the switch was requested  
Ref: DRN97818932again on 20 September, it completed without any issue. So I dont think TSB has made an 
error here  any issues with the account  switch appear to have been outside of TSBs  
control.
Mr N1  on behalf  of Mr and Mrs N  says he wants fair compensation for the worry and 
frustration caused  and for the time spent trying to resolve things with TSB  and I can 
understand his strength of feeling. I also appreciate that Mr N1 has spent a lot of time trying 
to resolve Mr and Mrs Ns complaint  against  TSB, and I dont  doubt  this has been frustrating 
and time-consuming  for him. But Mr N1 is not the eligible complainant  here, I can only 
consider the distress and inconvenience  caused  to Mr and Mrs N.
I also appreciate that what  one individual might feel is a fair amount for the impact an issue 
has caused might not be thought of as enough  by someone else who went  through  the exact 
same problem. But taking  everything into account,  I think the £150 compensation the 
adjudicator has already  recommended  and TSB has agreed to  is a fair amount for whats 
happened here.
putting things right
To put things right TSB should:
pay Mr and Mrs N £150 for the impact  the IT issues had;
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
TSB Bank plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above  if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9781893