K820x#14complaint
Ms C says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for her mortgage.  
St Andrews  Insurance Plc have taken responsibility  for the sale.  To keep things simple, Ill 
only refer to St Andrews in this decision.
background
In 2004, Ms C took out a mortgage. In 2007, Ms C took out a PPI policy over the phone to 
cover that mortgage. Ms C paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt 
attract interest. It covered  her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Cs case.  
Ive decided that Ms Cs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   Ill explain why.
I wasnt there at the sale, and because of all the time thats  passed  there  isnt still a 
recording of the call. But Ive looked  carefully  at the evidence I do have. The adviser filled 
out a demands  and needs statement, where they recorded that they found Ms C couldve 
used additional  protection and so they recommended PPI. This was only a recommendation, 
not a requirement,  and it looks  like the policy was described as optional. And Ms C had 
already had her mortgage for several  years by that point, so she wouldve known she didnt 
have to take PPI to get approved for the mortgage.
Ms C doesnt remember buying PPI, but I think thats understandable given that the sale was 
well over a decade ago, the policy closed years  ago, and buying  insurance isnt often 
memorable. I can see she was sent a welcome letter  which thanked her for choosing PPI, 
gave her details of the policy  shed chosen, and gave confirmation of the direct debit she 
wouldve set up to pay for the PPI. Ive not seen any evidence which shows that St Andrews 
added this policy without  Ms Cs permission, nor have I seen any wider problems with the 
way these types of policies  were  sold around  this time. So overall, I think  its most likely that 
St Andrews  made Ms C aware  she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose 
to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no longer recalls doing  so after so long.
St Andrews  recommended the PPI to Ms C, so they had to check  it was right for her. And 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, Ms C 
was eligible for cover  and doesnt seem to have  been affected by any of the main exclusions  
or limitations. While  Ms C had some benefits  through work, the PPI covered her for much 
longer than those  lasted  and wouldve paid out on top of her work benefits.  I also understand 
Ms C had some savings, but those wouldve only lasted a relatively short time if needed to 
cover her income.  Again,  the PPI offered her more comprehensive cover, and it meant  she 
could effectively protect her savings  and use them for other things.  Finally,  Ms C had 
another insurance policy, but it covered different things to the PPI and wasnt relevant here.
Ref: DRN94413122Ms C pointed out that she hasnt had to claim on the PPI, which  she feels means it wasnt 
worth the money.  I understand  her point, but Ms C only knows  she hasnt needed to claim in 
hindsight. She didnt know that in 2007. Generally, insurance is there to cover  things  that 
might happen, rather than things that definitely  will happen. And accidents, illnesses and 
redundancies can and do occur, even for people who feel healthy or feel their job is stable. 
And Ms C hadnt been with her employer for very long. Ultimately, its worth  bearing in mind  
that this mortgage  was Ms Cs sole responsibility,  and if she fell behind  on the payments she 
couldve lost her home. So it looks like the PPI couldve  been useful for her in protecting  her 
home and giving some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information St Andrews gave  Ms C about PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  But as I explained above,  Ms C wasnt affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt  cover, and it couldve been useful for her in case something went  wrong. 
The policy was competitively priced  given  how much it would pay out in a claim, and Ive not 
seen any indication that it was unaffordable.  And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly 
basis, so Ms C could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better 
information was likely  to have put her off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9441312