K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy with the mortgage  advice  they were  given  by M & R FM Ltd 
(M&R) in 2017. They are unhappy they were advised to repay  an equity loan as part of the 
re-mortgage and have been  paying  interest  on that sum when they wouldnt have been  if 
they had left the equity loan in place. In addition, Mr and Mrs O are concerned that the 
mortgage was for more  than they needed  as they received £1,300  from the solicitors after 
the mortgage completed.
background
In 2017 Mrs O had an existing mortgage for approximately £70,000 and an equity  loan on 
her and Mr Os home. The equity loan had been provided by the builder and was for 10% of 
the purchase price, which amounted to £9,399.50 when Mrs O bought the house. The loan 
had a term of ten years,  although  there  were  situations where the loan would have to be 
repaid earlier and others where it could be extended to a maximum of 15 years.  The loan 
could be repaid in full or in part after it had been in place for a year.  No interest  was payable 
under the agreement.
The fixed  rate on Mrs Os mortgage was due to end in the spring  of 2017 and they told M&R, 
in their initial telephone contact, they wanted  to add Mr O to the mortgage, pay off the equity 
loan and reduce  the mortgage term. Mr and Mrs O were planning to speak to the company  
dealing with the equity loan to find out what was involved and how much  they needed to pay 
to redeem it. They thought the house  was worth  less than it had been  when  Mrs O bought it. 
Approximately six weeks later the equity  loan company confirmed the valuation  on the 
property to be used  for calculation  of the loan repayment  amount was £87,000. Mrs O 
confirmed to the loan company that she agreed  the sum required and would instruct  her 
mortgage advisor. Shortly thereafter  Mr and Mrs O met with the adviser at M&R.
The fact find completed  detailed that both Mr and Mrs O were in their early forties and were 
employed. They had recently married  and had a joint income of approximately  £32,000. 
Mrs O had her existing  mortgage of £70,000 over a remaining term of 26 years,  an equity 
loan of £9,000 and between them they had a further  £13,000 of unsecured  debt. It was 
detailed that they wanted to borrow more on the new mortgage to pay off the equity loan.
The documentation  detailing the discussions held at the meeting with the adviser confirmed 
that Mr and Mrs O wanted raise capital to pay off the equity loan. The adviser  said that 
before making  any recommendation,  he had encouraged Mr and Mrs O to speak to the 
existing lender about their requirements as there  were rates that wouldnt  be available 
through brokers. The letter went on to explain the adviser had looked at re-mortgaging  to a 
different lender and, alternatively,  keeping  a mortgage of the existing amount and obtaining 
a secured loan for the increase in lending. 
However, assuming  Mr and Mrs O didnt remain with the existing lender, a re-mortgage was 
recommended as they wanted just one mortgage  payment. A mortgage with a new lender for 
£79,000 on a two-year fixed  rate of 2.98% over a term of 20 years  was recommended.  The 
advisers internal  notes  indicated that only one lender would consider the mortgage loan 
Mr and Mrs O wanted  because of affordability  and the loan-to-value of the mortgage 
required.  The recommendation was accepted,  and a mortgage application was submitted  on 
28 April 2017.
Ref: DRN98440372The completion statement  sent to Mr and Mrs O showed that a mortgage  of £78,970 had 
been advanced. It documented the amount  needed  to repay Mrs Os mortgage  and the 
equity loan, which the solicitors had paid to the relevant  companies.  After paying fees and 
charges associated with the re-mortgage, there was a little over £1,300 left from the advance 
money. This was sent to Mr and Mrs O by the solicitors.
Mr and Mrs O complained  to M&R in 2019  about the advice they received. It didnt uphold  
their complaint. It said the decision to repay  the equity loan had been theirs  and had been 
made before the advice was given.  It didnt consider the advice it gave was unsuitable.  It 
also highlighted that by paying off the equity loan at the time Mr and Mrs O did, meant  they 
paid less than Mrs O originally borrowed.
Mr and Mrs O didnt accept M&Rs position and referred their complaint to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators. He didnt recommend  it was upheld.
Mr and Mrs O didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They provided a copy of a 
questionnaire, signed  by Mrs O on 31 May 2017, which  the new lender asked them  to 
complete. The questionnaire also detailed  that they werent expecting any funds being 
released to them when the existing  mortgage and loan were paid off. Mr and Mrs O raised 
questions about  the content  of the questionnaire and the timing  of it and how it would  fit with 
regulatory requirements.
Mr and Mrs O repeated  that M&R advised  them  to pay off the equity loan. They said this was 
because M&R believed  there had been  problems with those loans. They  said they had 
thought the loan was interest free for ten years, but M&R said the interest free period was 
only five years. Mr and Mrs O questioned the repayment of the equity loan when the exact 
details werent known. In addition,  they reconfirmed that they had been  putting away  £100  
per month since 2013 and would have had enough to pay off the equity loan before the end 
of the ten years without ever having  to pay interest. 
The investigator responded to Mr and Mrs Os questions, but he didnt change his view of 
the complaint.   Subsequently, M&R commented  on the issue  of Mr and Mrs O being sent a 
cheque for just over £1,300 after the re-mortgage  had completed. It explained the mortgage  
application had been put in based  on the figures  Mr and Mrs O had given it. Those figures 
turned out to be a little higher and so the difference was sent to them. It pointed out that 
Mr and Mrs O hadnt  questioned the money being  received  with M&R and had they done  so, 
it could have explained what had happened  and the funds could have been paid back  to the 
mortgage account using the overpayment function on the mortgage.
Our investigator explained that the issues raised after the initial complaint to M&R needed to 
be referred to M&R before  we could comment on them.  This was done and a further  final 
response was sent to Mr and Mrs O by M&R. 
M&R explained the early repayment charge (ERC) documented on the mortgage  
questionnaire from 2017  was what would  apply if the mortgage was paid off before the end 
of the fixed rate. The mortgage wasnt, and there was no intention of it being, so the charge 
didnt negate the saving  they made in redeeming the equity loan at a lower value than it was 
granted for. It was explained that when a mortgage is applied for it can only be done on the 
basis of an estimate of what is needed to redeem the existing arrangements.  Sometimes the 
figures used in the estimate and the final mortgage/loan redemption figures dont match  and 
this is why a surplus  was paid to Mr and Mrs O at completion. However, had they questioned  
Ref: DRN98440373this with M&R, it would have explained  they could use the overpayment  allowance on the 
mortgage to pay the money back.  
In relation to Mr and Mrs Os concern that the fixed interest rate they got on the new 
mortgage was higher  than that on the original mortgage, M&R explained that each lender 
sets its own rates and they change over time. It presumed the rates offered  by the old lender 
were lower when that mortgage was taken than they were  when the new one was applied  
for. M&R  also confirmed that its fact find document was started when discussions 
commenced with Mr and Mrs O on 9 March 2017.  
Mr and Mrs O provided us with their comments on M&Rs further complaint response.  They  
said they didnt  know the difference between a fact find and a mortgage questionnaire. As far 
as they are aware,  the mortgage questionnaire  is a fact find and so there  are two  an official 
one and an unofficial one dated  31 May 2017.  They dont think this looks professional.  They 
reiterated that they hadnt understood what the cheque  they received from the solicitors  was 
for and questioned this with both their new and old lenders, but both said it was nothing to do 
with them.  In relation to M&R  saying the mortgage  applied for was based on the information 
they gave it, they feel this is them  being blamed for the situation when they couldnt have 
known about the potential  surplus.
In relation to the higher  interest rate, Mr and Mrs O again feel that they are being blamed for 
changing their mortgage.  They also said that when they first contacted M&R they wanted  to 
reduce the term on their mortgage and it was M&R that recommended  the equity loan be 
paid off. They believe that since 2017  it has become clear that not paying off the equity loan 
would have been a better  option  for them. They also mentioned having raised a complaint 
with this service about the term of the mortgage  in 2017, which they say wasnt  investigated.
As Mr and Mrs O remained  dissatisfied  with the answers they had received from M&R and 
this service, the complaint was passed to me for consideration.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 October 2020,  in which  I set out my conclusions  and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Before I comment on the merits  of the complaint,  I would like to provide Mr and Mrs O some  
clarification regarding process and the documentation they have questioned. Before making  
its recommendation to Mr and Mrs O at the end of April 2017, M&R completed a fact find, 
which is designed to fulfil the regulators requirement for an adviser  to know  his customer.  
The document doesnt have to be signed  and will often be completed  over a period of time 
as discussions evolve  and further information becomes available.  M&Rs version  of this 
document was a computer based  one. 
The paper mortgage questionnaire that Mrs O signed on 31 May 2017 and M&Rs fact find 
are not the same  document.  The mortgage  questionnaire was a document the lender  
created and asked  Mr and Mrs O to be complete for it after it received their mortgage 
application. The advice  M&R provided  was not based on that document  as it didnt exist at 
the time it assessed  their needs and circumstances.  The document  was for the lenders use 
and as such when  it was completed  is irrelevant  to my assessment of the advice given by 
M&R.
For clarity,  the mortgage document  that Mr and Mrs O have referred to as the application  
dated 26 May 2017 is the mortgage offer  the document the new lender sent them 
confirming it had decided  to accept their application  and detailing  the terms on which it did 
Ref: DRN98440374so. The mortgage  application would have been a computer-based document  sent to the 
lender electronically  when  Mr and Mrs O accepted the advice they were  given by M&R.
As for the surplus  sum from the new mortgage  advance, as M&R  has explained, it submitted 
the mortgage application based on the approximations Mr and Mrs O gave them during the 
advice process. This is normal  and it isnt unusual for the eventual amount needed to 
redeem the existing mortgage and/or loans to be slightly different to the amount applied  for 
and agreed by the lender.  The amount needed  to redeem existing mortgages/loans is not 
usually known until redemption statements  are received by the consumers solicitor.  The 
solicitor will then usually discuss the difference with a consumer, whether that be more or 
less than the amount of the new mortgage, to see what  the customer  wants  to do about it. If 
there is a potential surplus of funds, and the customer  doesnt want the money, they will 
usually be directed back to their broker to have the amount changed, or sometimes the 
solicitor will liaise directly with the lender. I am not aware of what happened in this case,  but 
it doesnt appear that M&R were approached about this matter  after the mortgage offer was 
issued. In light of that I cant  find it did anything wrong in this respect.
I would also confirm that I have searched  our complaint handling system and I have been 
unable to locate  a complaint from 2017  about  the mortgage advice Mr and Mrs O received. 
The adjudicator name  they have mentioned in their letter  was involved with a complaint for 
them in 2017,  but that complaint  was against  their building warranty provider. That is the 
only complaint we have any record of for Mr and Mrs O from 2017. 
Mr and Mrs O have said they approached M&R for a new mortgage  with a shorter  term and 
hadnt already  decided  to look into repaying  the equity loan. However, M&Rs notes from that 
time indicate their requirements were wider  than simply reducing the term of the mortgage.  
In addition to shortening  the term of the mortgage, M&Rs notes state  they also wanted to 
add Mr O to the mortgage (due to their marriage)  and they wanted  to pay off the equity loan 
as they thought the house was worth less than it had been when it was bought. This would 
mean that they wouldnt have to pay back as much  as Mrs O had originally borrowed. 
It is difficult in cases  where the recollections of the two sides  differ materially.  However, in 
order to uphold this complaint, I must  be persuaded that Mr and Mrs Os account  of events is 
more likely than that recorded in M&Rs records, not just as likely. We have the 
contemporaneous notes from the time of the original contact between  the parties. In 
addition, the email provided  detailing discussions between  Mrs O and the equity loan 
administrator indicates that the decision to pay off the equity loan was led by her and Mr O. 
Whilst I know that this will disappoint Mr and Mrs O, I am not persuaded M&R recommended 
that they increase their mortgage borrowing in order to pay off the equity loan. Rather it 
seems Mr and Mrs O decided to do so without the input  of M&R and M&R simply factored in 
the additional lending this would require when it gave advice on the re-mortgage they 
wanted. 
Mr and Mrs O have mentioned the interest rate they paid after the re-mortgage was higher 
than that on Mrs Os original mortgage. As has been explained, the rates available at any 
particular time will change  and fixed rates on offer will increase and decrease at different 
times. So it is entirely plausible that the higher rate was due to the timing  of when the 
existing rate expired. In addition, different rates will be offered depending  on the loan-to-
value figure,  for example  it wouldnt be unusual for a lender to offer a lower rate on a 
mortgage of 60% or less than it does  on mortgages  of 90% or more. I havent seen anything  
that indicates M&R did anything wrong  in recommending  the fixed interest rate it did. I also 
Ref: DRN98440375note that Mr and Mrs O were aware of the rate they were  applying  for in 2017  and appear to 
have been satisfied with it at the time.
M&R accepted  my provisional  decision, but Mr and Mrs O didnt. They  said:
The reference in the paperwork to them being told to speak to their existing lender about 
alternative mortgage arrangements was a lie. They said at no point was this discussed 
with M&R and they think it is unfair that its come to light in my provisional  decision.
They still think the interest rate they got with the new lender was high for the time.  They  
say they recently  bought a new home and the adviser that dealt with their new mortgage 
said it high. They think the claim they were  told to check alternative rates  with their 
existing lender was to cover up the fact they were put on a high interest rate.
It appears they are being blamed for there being a surplus of funds following the 
re-mortgage. They said they simply contacted their existing lender for a mortgage 
balance and gave  that to the business.  As it took some  time for the re-mortgage to go 
through, it was still being paid and the amount went down. They cant  see how they 
could have been expected to know this and they think M&R should have sorted this out. 
In addition, they confirmed they did contact M&R after the cheque was received and it is 
again lying. They believe  M&R has a duty, be that legal or not, to make  sure that the 
process is free from problems. 
The FOS has made no comment on M&R emailing them about this case  being 
adjudicated on (closed). They  sent the email that theyd  received from the business. 
They said that in all fairness, anyone else would become suspicious about this. They  
emailed M&R  about  this and received no response. 
When they had a meeting with M&R, it tried to fob them off and, according to this service 
M&R hadnt followed the correct procedure for complaints. They thought  we would be 
addressing this issue, but it has not been  the case.
They have now sold the property and, if they still had the equity loan, they would have 
been better off financially. Equity loans lasting five years  was mentioned by M&R, but 
their loan was for ten years and M&R were told that.
They dont see how paperwork produced by M&R can be taken  as hard evidence.  It gave 
them the advice.  
They ask why anyone  would want to pay off a ten-year  interest  free loan and turn it into a 
twenty year mortgage with an interest rate of nearly  3%. They say they decided to pay 
off the equity loan because  M&R told them there had been problems with such  loans. 
They think it strange  that they had an equity loan, no paperwork and didnt know  exactly  
what it was. M&R knew  this, so why did it give advice on a loan it didnt know the details 
of?
They put forward that they could  put £4,500 towards paying  off the equity  loan, but M&R 
told them  they didnt  need to because  the new lender had agreed to lend them the full 
amount. They  reiterated that theyd been saving  regularly  to be able to repay  the equity 
loan.
Ref: DRN98440376my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  Mr and Mrs Os 
further comments, to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
In general, we dont  comment  on a financial  business  handling of a complaint as its not an 
activity that falls within our remit. As we are an informal service  we will focus  on the key 
matters and information on which the outcome of a complaint turns. This is not meant  to be a 
discourtesy and I would  apologise if we havent  made this clear  in the past. 
I note Mr and Mrs Os comments about the documentation I relied on when reaching my 
provisional conclusions.  However, these are documents that were sent to Mr and Mrs O at 
the time of the advice. Given they were aware (of should have been) of what discussions  
were documented and didnt raise concerns at the time, I am satisfied it is reasonable for me 
to rely on this evidence,  even if Mr and Mrs O dont  now recollect some parts of the 
discussions. 
I would like to assure  Mr and Mrs O that they are not being blamed for anything. However,  I 
cant find that M&R did something wrong when it did what  Id expect it to do when processing 
a mortgage application.  It was not until Mr and Mrs Os solicitors  received  the redemption  
statement from their existing lender that the final figure needed to repay the existing lending 
would have been known. M&R didnt have  sight of that document  and couldnt do anything  to 
change the advance amount without Mr and Mrs O or their solicitor asking it to. That didnt 
happen and so I cant find M&R at fault for not acting on information  it didnt know about.
I note that Mr and Mrs O have reiterated their comments about the interest  rate on the new 
mortgage and have said a broker has agreed with them. However, they havent provided a 
statement or similar from the broker confirming  this opinion, explaining the reasoning  for the 
statement and providing supporting evidence  for it. As I said in my PD, there are various 
factors that may have  meant Mr and Mrs O didnt qualify for a lower  interest rate product. 
Nothing that has been said since evidences  they could have got a better rate or M&R did 
anything wrong  in recommending the product.
I can only uphold a complaint if I find the financial business did something wrong or made an 
error. If the evidence is contradictory, I will make  a decision about what  I think  is more  likely. 
In order to uphold  this complaint, I need  to be persuaded that Mr and Mrs Os account of the 
events leading up to the equity loan being paid off is more  likely than that of M&R. 
Mr and Mrs O have repeated that they were given advice by M&R to pay off the equity  loan, 
but thats not what the evidence from the time indicates, including  the correspondence  
between Mrs O and the equity loan company. I think it more likely  that Mr and Mrs O made 
the decision to pay off the equity loan themselves and then asked M&R to factor  that 
decision into its recommendation. As I havent found M&R is responsible for the decision to 
repay the equity  loan,  I cant  find it responsible  for any loss that occurred because of that 
decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs O to accept or reject  my decision 
before 12 December 2020.
Ref: DRN98440377Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9844037