K820x#14Complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited  (Ageas) declined  a claim made under his 
home contents insurance policy.  
Background
Mr P has a home  contents  insurance policy taken out through a broker and underwritten  by 
Ageas. His policy  provides cover for loss or damage to contents  in certain situations outlined 
in the terms and conditions.
In February 2019,  a bird flew down Mr Ps chimney, causing soot to come  down  damaging 
Mr Ps settee,  chairs and curtains.  The carpet  was also badly stained. Mr P made  a claim but 
is unhappy Ageas hasnt  agreed to meet it. Initially Ageas  said the damage was accidental,  
and Mr P didnt have accidental damage cover. Mr P then said he felt his claim should be 
considered under the Collision section  of the policy. Ageas looked  to see if this applied but 
it disagreed. It said the damage wasnt caused by a collision, but by soot which was 
dislodged as a result of the bird coming down the chimney. 
Mr P referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked  into it and didnt uphold it. 
He said the collision  section of the policy was intended to provide cover  for damage by an 
animal which was caused  by impact  and this isnt what  happened in this complaint. So he 
thought the policy terms were  applied reasonably. 
Mr P didnt agree with our investigator. He says the bird falling down the chimney caused the 
impact and subsequent damage to the contents and carpet. He feels  the claim should be met. 
Hes asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.  So the complaint has been  passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ive looked at the policy summary and the statement of fact. This states that Mr P has 
standard contents insurance which covers damage caused by fire, theft, impact,  flood or 
storm. Mr P chose  to have legal expenses  and personal possessions  cover within the policy 
but didnt take out accidental damage cover on his contents. 
As Mr P doesnt have  accidental damage cover  included  on his policy, I need to look at 
whether his claim is covered by any other section of his policy.  Household goods are 
included within the standard contents  cover  and are defined as fixtures, fittings and interior  
decorations. Additionally, the policy states that loss or damage  to those household goods 
are covered  if caused by collision. 
Specifically:
9. Collision  by
i aircraft
ii aerial devices
iii road or rail vehicles
Ref: DRN92426082iv animals
- or anything dropped by them. 
The only exclusions  to this section  are loss or damage caused by domestic pets or insects. 
There are no other sections of the policy that could  apply to Mr Ps claim. 
Mr P only has standard contents insurance. He doesnt have accidental  damage cover for 
his contents. The collision  section applies  only if the animal collided into the contents 
claimed for and damaged this directly.  However, the cause  of the damage was the soot. So, 
in other  words, it was the resulting soot that got dislodged which  damaged the furniture and 
carpet rather than the bird itself.
 
Mr P says Ageas has applied a narrow interpretation of the policy  and on whats  covered. But 
having looked at what contents  are covered, Im satisfied that the damage caused  to the 
furniture and carpet as a result of the bird coming  down  the chimney isnt covered in the 
circumstances of this compliant. Ordinarily this type of cover would fall under accidental  damage 
for contents  and the policy is clear enough  in stating whats covered  and whats not under the 
standard contents. Im therefore not persuaded the collision section does apply in this case
While I appreciate that Mr P has suffered a loss, Im afraid I cant  see that its covered by this 
policy. And having also looked  at the section for loss or damage caused by collision, I dont 
think this applies either because the bird coming down the chimney didnt cause the damage 
to the contents,  it was the soot that caused the damage.
In summary,  Im not persuaded that Ageas has acted out of line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and in declining  the claim. I also dont think  its treated Mr P unfairly. 
As such I dont think Ageas needs  to do anything  further. 
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  Mr Ps complaint against Ageas Insurance  Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Nimisha Radia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9242608