K822xcomplaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the proposed  settlement by Builders  Direct SA of her home insurance 
claim for water damage to her home.
background 
In November 2018 Mrs B made a claim to Builders Direct following a leak from under the 
bath in her park home.  The damaged  areas were in the kitchen and bathroom. Mrs Bs 
husbands company was going to carry out the work in the kitchen so it was proposed to pay 
her a cash settlement.  Mrs B had a detailed  quote prepared which included kitchen units  and 
bedroom furniture,  flooring  and carpets. She accepted that a lot of the work improved on 
what was there before  so she wasnt asking to be paid the full quote. Builders Direct offered 
£2,641 against £7,497 which is what Mrs B requested. It proposed to pay any VAT on 
receipt of the appropriate invoice. Its offer included the full payment of Mr Bs quote for the 
kitchen less £550 for contingency work. It said it would consider further payments if the 
damage was found to be more extensive  after the work started.
Our investigator thought that Builders  Directs offer was reasonable. He pointed out that 
Mrs B had refused  the offer of a further  visit from the loss adjuster. After considering the 
matter Mrs B agreed that Builders Direct could send out a contractor to reassess. Following 
this visit our investigator noted that Builders Direct had assessed that a further £5,000 was 
due in respect of the bedroom.  He proposed  that Builders Direct pay this. He also proposed  
that it pay compensation of £150 as it failed to assess the costs for the bedroom earlier. 
Builders Direct agreed to this.
Mrs B didnt accept this and the matter has been  passed to me for further  consideration.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should emphasise that in deciding this matter I have  to rely on expert  evidence  to inform  
me about the damage and the cost of carrying  out the work. So I have evidence  from 
Builders Direct about its assessed costs and evidence from Mr B about his costs for carrying  
out the work.  Mrs B agrees that a fair amount of the work is an improvement on what was 
there before and that Builders Direct is only liable for like for like replacements. 
I think Builders Directs offer is reasonable. Its offer included the whole  of Mr Bs estimate  for 
the kitchen work, less the contingency  cost. As it agreed that if the damage appeared worse 
as the work went on it would consider  further payments, I think  this was reasonable. I further 
think the offer of £250 for the carpets is reasonable. This was based on the assessment that 
they should be restorable by being  cleaned.
I think Builders Direct  could have considered the bedroom costs earlier. Mrs B had protested 
that she couldnt match the damaged furniture with the undamaged.  Eventually I think  it 
made a reasonable offer, in July 2019.  Because of the delay I agree that a payment of £150 
compensation is reasonable.
Ref: DRN92396952So to be clear the payments proposed are:
Carpets: £  250
Vinyl: £  280
Kitchen: £1,161.31
Bedroom: £5,000
Total £6,691.31
Builders Direct proposes to pay any VAT after production of the necessary VAT invoice. I 
think thats reasonable, and would be the normal way to deal with such payments.
I understand that Builders Direct  offered this as an interim payment to Mrs B but she didnt 
accept it, preferring to wait for this services decision. It also offered the payment to her more 
recently. I understand  her reasons for not accepting but if shed accepted it as an interim 
payment she could at least  have  got on with the repairs.
On the subject of delay,  I think  there  was a delay in dealing with the payment for the 
bedroom and for that reason Builders Direct will pay compensation  of £150. The other  
delays were because  of the parties  being  unable to agree a way forward,  particularly Mrs B 
declining the offer of a further site visit. I wont award any further compensation. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Builders Direct SA to:
pay to Mrs B £6691.31 in settlement  of her claim
pay any VAT payment  due on receipt  of the appropriate invoice.
consider any further payment if necessary once the repairs  are under way.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9239695