K820x#14Complaint
Mr R complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays)  wont refund him the money he lost as a 
result of a scam. 
Background
Mr Rs child attends a private school. On 28 August  2018 Mr R received an email he thought  
to be from the school registrar. It said if Mr R paid the years school fees in advance to a 
nominated account,  hed receive a 15% discount. Mr R was interested in this offer because 
hes said that at the time, he was in a difficult financial situation.
Mr R says he repeatedly tried to call the registrar for confirmation of the offer but was unable  
to reach  her, so left a message asking  her to call back. The registrar didnt call back, but as it 
was during the school holiday,  Mr R wasnt surprised by this and decided to take up the 
offer. 
Mr R applied to Barclays for and obtained a loan of £10,000 and transferred £9,000 from his 
savings account  in order to pay the discounted  fees of £17,748 . Mr R initially tried to transfer 
the £17,748 using the mobile app, but after this was declined because  it exceeded  the 
mobile app limit, Mr R completed  the transfer online. 
A week later the real school registrar contacted Mr R and said she hadnt  sent the email  Mr 
R had responded  to. At this point  Mr R realised  hed been the victim of a scam and 
contacted Barclays.  
Barclays was only able to recover £630  from the receiving bank. Mr R was unhappy with this 
and made  a complaint. He said Barclays could have  done  more to protect his money as he 
made a large  payment  to a new payee.  Mr R felt that Barclays should have checked the 
beneficiary account was that of the school and that as it hadnt it should be responsible  for 
his loss.  
In its final response letter  to Mr R, Barclays said Mr R had authorised the payment and it 
paid in line with his instructions. Barclays referred to its terms and conditions, which say if a 
payment has been authorised and none  of a customers details have been compromised 
Barclays had to assume the customer wanted to make the payment. Barclays also said the 
onus was on Mr R to ensure the payment details were correct. Finally,  Barclays  said it had 
correctly contacted the beneficiary bank and as a result £630 was applied  to Mr Rs account 
on 16 October 2018.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered the complaint didnt  uphold it. She said Mr R had 
authorised the payments, and Barclays wasnt required to check the account holders name 
against the account details. The investigator also considered Mr Rs normal  account activity  
and concluded  it wasnt unusual for him to make  large payments and transfers, or to set up 
new payees. In these circumstances she felt Barclays  acted reasonably in not identifying the 
possibility Mr R might be the victim of a scam.   
Ref: DRN90361732Barclays didnt respond to the investigators opinion. Mr R asked for an ombudsmans 
decision, so his complaint has been passed to me. He said:
-The systems  on which Barclays decisions are based are wrong and designed to 
protect banks, which are in a much more powerful position than their customers. 
-Mr R noted he tried to make a smaller payment to a new payee  in February 2020 and 
received a message to say that now when setting  up a new payee the payment is 
matched against  the name  of the account holder to prevent  fraud.  Mr R asks why this 
simple step is only being taken now. 
-He felt the investigator hadnt considered developments and updates in regulations 
when considering his case.  
-As a result  of the scam Mr Rs family was facing  a very difficult  financial situation  that 
could easily have  been avoided if Barclays had completed a simple check. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story.  Taking  into account the law, regulators  rules and 
guidance, relevant  codes  of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring  accounts  and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud  and scams.
Have had systems in place  to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among  other things).  This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,  
which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps,  or make  additional  checks, before processing  a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where 
a bank should, in my opinion, fairly  and reasonably  take additional  steps, or make  
additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
Ref: DRN90361733This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the
average customer.
So taking all of this into account, in this case,  I need to decide whether  Barclays acted fairly
and reasonably in its dealings  with Mr R when  he transferred £17,748 on 28 August 2018. 
Im not persuaded Barclays acted unreasonably in making the payment. I say this because:
-Barclays should identify and help to prevent transactions,  and particularly unusual  or 
out of character transactions, that could be the result of fraud or a scam. Whilst the 
amount of money involved in this case is high, Im not persuaded the relevant 
transaction was unusual or out of character, or that there  were any indications to 
Barclays it might be the result of a scam.  In the months before the transaction  was 
made Mr R made  regular high value  payments,  some of which were for considerably  
more than £17,748. Mr R also made  significant cash withdrawals, including  a 
withdrawal of £8,000  on 24 July 2018  and transferred  large sums between  accounts. 
Given these transactions I cant say a payment of £17,748  was unusual or out of 
character.  
-Ive also considered the fact the payment on 28 August  2018  was to a new payee.  
Having considered Mr Rs account  history, I also dont  consider this fact made the 
payment unusual or out of character.  Mr R set up over ten new payees from the 
beginning of 2017 to the payment  to the scammer in July 2018. He also made high 
value payments to new payees. In July 2018 he paid £5,000  to a new payee  he then 
made further payments to. And in May 2018  Mr R transferred over £100,000  in three 
transactions to a new payee. So, I dont consider setting  up a new payee, and 
transferring large sums of money to a new payee, was so unusual  that Barclays  
should have flagged it.  
-Ive considered the fact that after Mr R made the payment of £17,748, he was left 
with a balance  of £395.37.  Whilst this seems like a low balance, Im mindful of the 
fact Mr Rs account was regularly overdrawn so the low balance also wasnt  unusual.  
It seems  from what Mr R has told me that Barclays now has a different procedure  in place 
when a customer sets up a new payee. Mr R suggests that banks now check  whether the 
account holder  name matches up. But this doesnt  mean that I can say Barclays acted 
unreasonably or should have done  more in 2018 when Mr R made the transfer.  At the time 
Barclays wasnt required to complete this check.  
Mr R hasnt specified which other rules and procedures  he thinks have changed  and not 
been taken into account by the investigator. Having carefully considered the case  Im 
satisfied the investigator  considered the correct rules and procedures in Mr Rs case. I set 
out earlier in my findings what Ive taken into account in reaching my decision.
Recovery of funds
Finally, Ive considered  whether Barclays did what it could to recover  Mr Rs funds when he 
notified it he was the victim  of a scam and I think it did. This is because after Mr R contacted 
Barclays with concerns about the payment, Barclays contacted  the receiving bank promptly 
but unfortunately the payment could not be recovered. Almost all the funds were used on 28 
Ref: DRN90361734August 2018 before  the scam was reported on 5 September, with only £630 remaining  which 
was returned to Mr R.  
I am sorry  that Mr R has lost a substantial  sum of money and appreciate this will have had a 
significant impact on him, but I dont conclude Barclays acted unfairly  or unreasonably in this 
case. It follows Im not asking Barclays to refund the money Mr R lost when he fell victim to a 
scam. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2020.
Jay Hadfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9036173