K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the interest Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  is charging on his 
mortgage.
background
Mr B has had his mortgage with Halifax  for many years. In 2012, when he was paying the 
standard variable  rate (SVR), Halifax wrote  to tell him that the SVR would increase from 
3.5% to 3.99%  - and as a result, Mr Bs monthly  payments would increase. It said that this 
was because of changes in the costs of the funds it lends to its borrowers.
Mr B was unhappy about the increase. He complained, saying that it wasnt fair. Halifax  had 
already lent him money, so had no need  to raise  any additional funds  on the markets in 
respect of his mortgage. So the costs of doing so werent relevant to him. He said it could  
have raised funds in other ways. And he said that the banking  group Halifax was part of was 
one of the banks that had been fined  for manipulating the LIBOR rate, artificially raising the 
cost of lending   and it wasnt fair to pass the costs of that on to him.  
Mr B said that he was trapped in his mortgage.  He was now disabled and reliant on benefits, 
with his mortgage being paid in part by the support  for mortgage  interest  (SMI) government 
benefit. He wasnt  given the option of a new interest rate product when his old one expired, 
and as a result was on the SVR. He couldnt  move his mortgage  to a new lender and it 
wasnt fair that Halifax was taking  advantage  of him.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr B asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  Mr Bs ill health, and I can understand why things have been difficult 
for him in recent years.
Mr Bs previous interest  rate ended in 2011 and there was some discussion  about moving 
him to a new product. However, he didnt return the relevant forms and so the mortgage 
moved on to the SVR.  Later that year, Mr B wrote to Halifax  to explain that he had been  
and continued  to be  very unwell. Hed spent some  time in hospital.  That was why he hadnt  
been in contact. While hed been in hospital  his benefits had stopped and so the mortgage 
had fallen into arrears.  
It wasnt Halifaxs policy to give new interest  rates to customers  in arrears.  Thats  because  if 
a mortgage is in arrears  its more  likely  to come to an end  either  through repossession or 
sale of the property  and if that happens  an early  repayment charge would apply. I think  this 
was a reasonable concern for Halifax to have had at the time, and so I dont think it was 
unfair that Mr B wasnt given a new interest rate and went on to the SVR.
Halifax increased the SVR in 2012.  The SVR  standard variable rate  is a variable rate, 
which means it can go up and down. Its not linked  to LIBOR, the Bank  of England  base rate 
or any other  external benchmark,  and nothing in the mortgage documents  suggests it is.
Ref: DRN99344992The terms and conditions  of the mortgage explain  that Halifax has the power  to change the 
interest rate for a variety  of reasons  one of which is to reflect  changes  in the cost to us of 
raising the money we lend to our customers with mortgages of residential property. So Im 
satisfied that Halifax  increased the SVR in 2012 for a reason that was allowed by the terms 
and conditions.
The next question  I have to answer  is whether the increase was fair. The terms and 
conditions are broad, and give Halifax  a wide power  to change the interest rate  and I think 
it would  be difficult for a borrower to understand exactly how,  in what circumstances and by 
how much  the rate could change. But I also note that the term only applies when the 
mortgage is on the SVR  not when its on a fixed rate  and when thats the case there are 
no early repayment charges or other reasons why Mr B would have been prevented from 
moving his mortgage  elsewhere if he was unhappy  with the increase.
But I understand that while nothing  in the contract would have prevented  him moving  the 
mortgage, that wasnt in practice  something he could do. His finances and health would have 
prevented it. As I say, Im very sympathetic to his predicament. But it wasnt something  that 
Halifax was responsible for, and not something  that could have been predicted  or foreseen 
by either  of them when he took the mortgage out. On balance,  I dont think the term allowing 
Halifax to change the interest  rate was unfair.
Mr B makes  the point  that he thinks the term was unfairly applied.  He says his mortgage was 
already funded and paid out to him, so increases in Halifaxs costs  arent  relevant to him. 
And he says LIBOR  manipulation by the Lloyds group is partly  responsible  for that increase, 
and its not fair to pass it on to him. And it could have raised funds in other, cheaper,  ways.
Mr Bs criticisms of Halifax,  in particular its decisions to raise funds in one way instead of, or 
as well as, other options that may have  been available, are central  to its business model for 
operating its mortgage  business. As such, theyre  not something  I can comment on, since 
my role is to decide whats  fair and reasonable in individual cases   not to regulate a 
lenders business  model.
In common with the rest of the mortgage  market, Halifax  offers new fixed and variable 
interest rates, along with a single  reversion rate  the SVR. The SVR applies to all 
customers who dont have  an interest rate product, whenever they took their mortgage out, 
and is written into the agreements of those who do have a product so that their loans will 
revert to the SVR at the end of the product period.
Ref: DRN99344993So while Mr B is right that Halifax had already lent him his money,  thats not the end of the 
matter. It may well be that it itself has to keep renewing the money it has lent him, or has 
borrowed it at a variable  rate, so its costs change on an ongoing basis.  And as it applies a 
single SVR to all customers, different costs of money raised at different times all have to be 
factored into the SVR  which might very well therefore  need to change  even  if the costs  of 
money raised to lend to Mr B havent. All of this is covered in the term Ive quoted  above, 
which relates to changes in the costs of money  Halifax lends to its customers  generally, not 
just the costs of money it lends to him. Mortgage financing  is very complex. It wouldnt be 
practical or possible for lenders to identify the costs of funding individual  loans and only vary 
the interest rates if those  specific  costs  change  which would require bespoke interest rates 
for every borrower. Thats not how the lending  market  works.
Mr B also refers to the LIBOR  manipulation scandal,  and I can understand how thats led him 
to question the good faith of the lending group Halifax  is a part of. But theres no evidence of 
a direct link between Lloyds LIBOR activities and the costs of funds  Halifax raises, or the 
costs of Mr Bs mortgage. So theres no evidence that Mr B has been caused  a financial loss 
by it.
Taking everything into account,  therefore, I dont think  the 2012 SVR increase  or later 
changes after 2016  were unfair or imposed because of an unfair contract term. So I dont 
uphold this complaint.
However, I would  just remind Halifax that Mr B remains its customer, and that he has a 
series of very difficult health  conditions. These  mean that he cant visit a branch or speak 
over the phone. In common with other lenders, Halifax has now agreed  to contact customers  
who are on the SVR and could  benefit  from switching, and thats good industry practice. If 
Mr B is now eligible for a new interest rate, he will need assistance  in applying, and Halifax  
will need  to make adjustments in how it deals with him to take account of his communication 
difficulties. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9934499