K820x#14complaint
Mrs H represents the estate of her late husband,  Mr H. The complaint is that Zurich  
Assurance Ltd failed to consider a critical illness claim, which was first made in July 2016. 
Mr H brought the complaint originally, noting that he felt Zurich had deliberately delayed its 
assessment of the claim.  He said it was unreasonably conducting intrusive  and unnecessary 
searches into his medical records. This had caused  Mr and Mrs H and their family significant 
upset at a time when  Mr H was undergoing  treatment for cancer. 
Mrs H now additionally complains that Zurich has since cancelled Mr Hs policy altogether  on 
the grounds of misrepresentation,  meaning  his critical illness  claim could not be considered  
nor could she pursue  a claim for death  benefit. 
background 
In March 2016, Mr H applied for a term assurance policy  with Zurich. This comprised 
£100,000 of level life and critical  illness cover  for a ten-year  term. The policy came into force 
on 1 April 2016. Mr H did not make any medical  disclosures  on his application.  
In late July 2016, Mr H made a critical illness claim.  He had sadly  been diagnosed with a 
type of colorectal cancer earlier that month. He also made a claim to a second insurer for a 
separate policy. 
Zurich asked Mr Hs GP and his treating specialists asking about Mr Hs relevant medical 
history, diagnosis and treatment. 
However, Mr H noted that he believed Zurich  had sought to obtain his entire  medical 
records, which he made a written objection against  in November 2016. 
Zurich said Mr Hs medical  records  had some inconsistency  about  the length  of time his 
symptoms had been ongoing.  On that basis, it had asked Mr Hs GP for a twelve-month 
history prior to his application. It had also written  to the second insurer.  Zurich set out that Mr 
H had given his express  consent for Zurich  to contact those third parties, at the time he 
made his claim. 
Mr H wrote to Zurich  in December 2016 to clarify  that two of his medical  records  (from a 
clinical fellow and a non-treating consultant) were incorrect   these had said he had a nine-
month history of rectal bleeding. In fact, at the time he saw his GP on 18 April 2016, Mr H 
said this had been happening for just two weeks. Mr Hs GP supplied a letter confirming the 
same. 
In January 2017, Zurich said it had reasonable cause to seek Mr Hs medical records from 
September 2015 onwards  because  the matter of the nine-month  history was unclear. 
Further, though  the GP had mentioned a two-week  history, he had also referred to a 10-
week history of bleeding elsewhere  in the report. Zurich explained that Mr Hs policy  terms 
allowed it to ask for more  medical information.   
Zurich felt it needed to be certain that the two letters from the consultant and the clinical  
fellow were stating an incorrect history, given  this history would pre-date Mr Hs application. 
So, it asked  Mr H to give his consent  for evidence to be sought from the relevant doctors.  
Ref: DRN93350482In February 2017,  Mr H complained. He said that Zurich  was unreasonably trying to avoid 
the claim.  Firstly, his treating consultant had no knowledge of the mistaken reference to a 
nine-month history and she had recorded  as such on her medical report.  Secondly, the 
matter of ten-weeks  prior was unrelated. At that time, Mr H had undergone a type of elective 
sterilisation reversal  and this had left him with some minor post-operative constipation and 
bleeding.   
Mr H said he had not misrepresented his position  on his application. He said it was usual to 
have post-operative  issue with sterilisation procedures; and in this case, he had suffered 
minor haemorrhoids.  This was materially different from the bleeding  he experienced in early  
April, which  led to his cancer diagnosis. He felt Zurich was distorting the facts in order to 
delay or avoid his claim.  
In March 2017, Zurich told Mr H that to be able to finalise his claim, it needed to rule out 
whether he had a history  prior to the application and policy commencement that it should 
have known about. It remained the case that it still needed to see Mr Hs medical records 
from September 2015 to 1 April 2016, including any copies of letters,  computer  records and 
in particular a copy of the referral made  by Mr Hs GP of May 2016. To date, it had not 
received those records.
Mr H denied that Zurich  didnt have access to the records because it had been  liaising  with 
the second insurer  and that insurer did have the relevant information.  The second insurer  
had also since paid out on his critical illness claim. He further  complained that Zurich had 
continued to call him instead of writing to him, despite his having asked Zurich not to call him 
while he was undergoing treatment for his cancer.  He said that this along with the 
maladministration of the claim  has caused  an extreme amount  of inconvenience and distress 
to himself and his family.
Zurich reiterated  that in assessing a claim, it was usual practice to ask for relevant  medical  
records, and this was paramount in cases where the onset of an illness  occurs  closely  after 
a policy  start date. It had not been able to ascertain Mr Hs history of symptoms  from the 
other insurer or from the information it had to date. It therefore  still required his consent to 
progress the claim.  
Mr H brought his complaint to this service  in May 2017 where it was reviewed  by one of our 
investigators. She didnt believe the complaint should succeed. She said that Zurich  had 
been reasonable in needing  more evidence  because its policy  application contained a 
different question to the other  insurer. 
She therefore found it fair for Zurich to request medical records going back to September 
2015 as it would allow it to verify the accuracy of the letters reporting nine months of 
bleeding. It couldnt do so as Mr H had withdrawn  his consent to share  his medical  records 
with Zurich in November 2016.   
Mr H disagreed. He explained  that he had undertaken a subject access request to the other 
insurer, and it was clear information  had been  shared with Zurich. He said the claim should 
have been paid, because the second  insurer had rightly determined  he hasnt made a 
misrepresentation. Further, his GP had expressly  said he had only had his symptoms  for two 
weeks. Mr H also submitted  that the time and effort he had taken to correspond  with Zurich  
and now with the Financial Ombudsman  Service had taken a significant  toll on his health at 
a time when  he was trying  to convalesce following surgery and chemotherapy.  
Ref: DRN93350483Our investigator was not minded to change her view and referred  the matter  to an 
ombudsman. Mr H said he was making another subject access  request, this time to Zurich. 
And he wasnt sure if he wanted an ombudsmans review, but he would give this some 
further thought  whilst the matter awaited referral  to an ombudsman.  
Sadly, in the intervening months, Mr H became  very poorly after his cancer  worsened.  By 
this time, another investigator had taken over the complaint. In October 2017, Zurich  told our 
investigator that Mr H had said his condition was now terminal,  so he required a claim form 
regarding terminal illness benefit.  
Zurich said that even with an ombudsmans decision, it could not complete a claims 
assessment unless Mr H gave it access to the relevant medical records. It wrote  to Mr H 
explaining that without the evidence, it would decline the claim. 
Mr H supplied some  medical records to Zurich in late October 2017. These covered the 
required period  from September  2015 to March 2016 as far as they related  to Mr Hs 
sterilisation reversal. He also supplied  the hospital  referral of 6 May 2016. And he provided  a 
letter from the GP of 17 October 2017.  The letter said the GP confirmed Mr H had no history 
of rectal bleeding, abdominal pain and no abnormal blood test results before he consulted 
the GP in April.  
Mr H confirmed to our investigator that he had sadly been diagnosed  with metastatic cancer  
in early October 2017, and that he was now receiving  palliative care.  
Zurich said it still couldnt process a claim for Mr H. It needed the complete  medical  records 
from September 2015 to March 2016  to ensure that it could be satisfied that there were no 
symptoms present prior to the completion of the application and policy  commencement.  And 
it had still not seen those records. 
Mr H said he had always maintained that Zurich had enough  information,  right back from 
August 2016 when  his GP and consultant  returned  their medical reports.  But, on 22 
November 2017  he gave consent for access to the GP records for the relevant dates. 
Once the records were  available,  Zurich  still didnt have sight  of the GP record from 18 April 
2016. So in December 2017,  it asked  Mr H for his consent for that record  too. On 2 February  
2018, Mr H reconfirmed consent for March 2016 to May 2016. 
In April 2018, Mrs H took over representation  for the complaint. The complaint had also 
since passed to another  investigator. Mrs H confirmed  that Mr H had sadly  passed  away in 
March 2018. She said Zurich had yet to issue a claim payment.  
On 18 May 2018, Zurich  wrote a letter addressed to Mr H, explaining  it had cancelled  the 
policy because he failed  to disclose material information about  his symptoms when applying  
for the policy in March  2016.   
On 22 May 2018, Zurich  refunded all of the premiums Mr H had paid by cheque.  It also 
wrote to Mrs H the following month  to explain a death benefit claim could not be pursued,  as 
the policy was now cancelled. 
Mrs H told our investigator  that she disagreed with Zurichs decision. She said at the time he 
saw his GP, he had only had bleeding  for two weeks, and the GP agreed  with that. She said 
she would  not be cashing the premium refund cheque. She felt that Zurich had distressed Mr 
Ref: DRN93350484H throughout the claims process at a time when  he should have been resting and 
recovering. 
There was a further delay until late August 2018, while Mrs H was required to seek  probate.
Given the policy had now been cancelled, our new investigator issued a fresh view on the 
complaint. She said that the evidence  showed  Mr H had a longer history  than two weeks of 
rectal bleeding,  and it had in fact been stated that this was for three months. She therefore  
believed Mr H should have told Zurich about  that in his policy  application, as he was asked a 
specific question about it. Had he done  so, he wouldnt  have been  offered the insurance  at 
all.  
Mrs H disagreed, and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. She said, in 
summary that:
at the time of his application, Mr H was experiencing no symptoms;
the GP confirmed that Mr H had no history of bleeding before his visit of 18 April 
2016;
he therefore was not awaiting any tests or investigations;
he did not misrepresent his position  as the question about ill health  asked  for a 
change to bowel habits of four weeks or more;
Mr H would not have  undergone his sterilisation reversal in February 2016 if he had 
known he was unwell.  
The complaint was first passed to me in August 2019. Upon review  of all the evidence, I 
asked our investigator to seek  further information  from Zurich.  I asked specifically  whether  
Zurich had sought any further retrospective opinions from its underwriting.  That was because 
it had done so on 7 March  2017, but at that time Mr H had not given consent for his full 
medical records and so the underwriters statement had to make  a number of assumptions.   
I also asked for Zurich to supply us with underwriting and manual pages  that would have 
applied at the time Mr H took out the policy, as the information on file was incomplete.  
Zurich has now replied  to my further requests, and the complaint has been  passed back  to 
me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that this has been a protracted complaint  covering  a number of years. Most of the 
issues raised arose during a time where  Mr H was seriously ill and now he has sadly passed 
away. Before I go any further, Id like to pass my condolences to Mrs H; I understand this 
process must have  been particularly difficult for her. 
There are two aspects to the complaint.  Ill address those issues in separate headings  
below. The first issue are the matters  Mr H brought to us in his original complaint  these are 
an unfair and protracted claims  process and Zurich being unreasonable in how it required 
access to his medical records. Mr H said these prevented payment of the critical illness 
claim.   
Ref: DRN93350485Secondly, Mrs H brings further aspects of the complaint now on Mr Hs behalf   this is 
Zurichs actions in voiding the policy, which  she says prevents her from pursuing Mr Hs 
original claim  and a further claim for death benefit/life assurance.
the claims process 
I realise both Mr and Mrs H feel strongly that Zurich has tried to prevent them from being 
able to pursue  a claim. However,  like our investigators before me, I dont  agree  that Zurich  
has done anything  wrong in the way it has asked for evidence or how it has processed the 
claim. 
The reason  I say that is because Mr Hs policy terms allow for this. They say that:
Settling  claims
If you claim, we or any third party dealing with your claim will need to collect  sufficient 
information to confirm that your claim is covered. We may need  to;
-ask for more information about  your physical  or mental health
-ask for information, including medical records, about previous or current 
claims and share  it with other companies. We will use this to check  that the 
claim is valid
-obtain any other information needed  to assess your claim. 
I also realise that when  Mr H brought his complaint to us, he felt Zurich was being unfair 
because the critical illness  policy he held with the other insurer  had since paid out his claim 
in full. While  I appreciate Mr and Mrs H might have felt these were the same circumstances, 
they do in fact differ. Each insurer  decides what questions it will ask on an application. These 
will vary between insurers. It is for each business to ask questions that it deems relevant, to 
establish if it is prepared  to offer insurance for a certain premium. 
In the case of Zurichs  policy, the second  insurer asked different questions. Specifically, it 
asked a question  in the application which asked about bleeding and /or change  of bowel 
habit, whereas the second insurers questions did not include the same wording. It is 
therefore not the case that Zurich must pay a claim, simply because another  insurer has 
chosen to do so in different circumstances. 
Mr H believed the two insurers  shared  all information between  them,  which was not the 
case. There was communication regarding the claims process between the insurers, but 
Zurich was not in receipt of everything it needed. It still did not have sight of the required 
medical records. Because of this and ongoing subject access requests,  the process of 
getting the relevant evidence was protracted. But I cannot identify any clear  point at which  
Zurich unreasonably prolonged the matter. Though Mr H was entitled to refuse  to consent to 
access to his medical records, Zurich was still acting reasonably in asking for the 
information, as it had a clear  need  for it. 
Zurich required the medical evidence because  it needed to satisfy whether the questions it 
chose to ask Mr H in April 2016 had been answered  correctly. A claim payment was 
completely dependent on Zurich being satisfied  it would  have  offered  Mr H insurance in the 
first place. The fairest and most  objective way of doing that is to look at the relevant medical 
evidence, covering the correct timeline.  
Ref: DRN93350486I believe this was set out clearly in the final response to Mr Hs complaint dated 16 March 
2017, which said:
We have to obtain certain information  and evidence in order to assess  the claim. We 
also need to ensure there wasn't  any non-disclosure of a pre-existing medical  
condition. I can assure  you that we are not calling  into question your integrity, it may 
have been a case that something was deemed  as insignificant to you, which may 
now not be the case as a result of further medical investigations, and could  have 
been an early symptom of bowel cancer.
Clearly in order to assess  all claims,  we need to be able to have access  to full 
medical records, which you seem  reluctant to allow us, and this is what  is delaying 
any decision  about your claim. We are acting in accordance with our claims 
procedures, and this is standard across the industry. You need to consider that your 
application was accepted  on the basis of the medical information  you disclosed at the 
time. If there  are any variances in your health,  which  were  previously  unknown  to us, 
then this may have  affected our decision on whether to accept your application. 
However, this is yet to be established, as we have  still not gained  access  to your full 
medical records.
Whilst the medical evidence we have received to date confirms  that the cancer 
definition has been met, we need to satisfy  ourselves there wasn't  any symptoms 
which existed prior to the application. The medical  reports that we have received 
provide a confusing  history of when symptoms started, and some copies have been 
annotated to say "incorrect  medical records", so we needed clarification of what  was 
correct.to clarify, we need details of the initial GP consultation and subsequent 
referral as a result of this.
I am sorry  you feel that we have  been  unreasonable and that the reference  made  on 
the two letters (which detail a nine month  history  of symptoms, which  you say is 
incorrect) which  you feel is an obvious  administration error. We cannot  simply take 
your word  for this, as we must base our claim decision  on factual information and 
evidence and as you are not willing  for us to obtain any information  from your 
medical practitioners, we are at an impasse,  which is not of our making.
Dealing with a critical illness claim is naturally upsetting, especially where the claimant is 
seriously unwell.  I can see Mr H took great effort to ensure he maintained prompt 
correspondence whilst he was undergoing treatment. I do not doubt this was very distressing 
for him. I know  Mr H wanted to receive compensation for the upset caused to his family 
because he felt Zurich  had caused him extra time and effort  in dealing with the matter. 
However, Mr H also refused to allow access to his medical records for the period preceding 
his policy  application.  He would not consent to these  being viewed by Zurich from the claim 
inception in 2016 up until December 2017  and February 2018 when he provided the required  
consents. Zurich  is bound by data protection  rights and it could not access  personal 
information about Mr Hs medical history  without his consent. Once  Zurich  had sight of the 
relevant information,  it did issue a prompt  claims  decision of May 2018. I find those  actions 
fair in these circumstances. 
Though I can see how distressing things were for Mr and Mrs H, I dont  accept that Zurich is 
responsible, such  that I could direct it to pay compensation. Awards for upset  or 
inconvenience are within my remit, but I will only make awards where I feel a business has 
Ref: DRN93350487caused distress because of its actions  or inactions.  As Ive said above, Zurich was 
reasonably asking for information that was crucial to its claims decision. It could not process  
a claim without evidence  of Mr Hs circumstances for the period  preceding  his policy  
application, because  there were  conflicting  accounts of Mr Hs history of rectal  bleeding. 
When it had the information it needed, it did issue a claims  decision. An insurer  can refuse a 
claim and/or void a policy if it feels an applicant has withheld medical information. Ill look at 
that issue in more detail below.   
I wont be asking Zurich  to do anything further  in respect of how it has handled the claim.  
misrepresentation
When applying for insurance,  if an applicant doesnt  tell an insurer  relevant information in 
response to a clear  question its known as misrepresentation. If the circumstances around a 
claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may have occurred within an 
application, its entitled to consider what ought  to have  happened at that time.
When Mr H completed  his policy  application on 19 March 2016,  he was asked a series of 
medical questions.  One of the questions asked:
In the last three months have you had any symptoms of ill health, such  as 
unexplained bleeding, weight loss, change of bowel habit, unexplained lump  or 
growth, breathing  problems or shortness of breath, or a cough  thats  lasted for four 
weeks or more?
Mr H answered  no to that question.
On 23 March 2016, Mr H was sent a copy of his answers to check. He didnt make any 
changes to the answers given the previous week. On that basis,  the policy  began  on 1 April 
2016 at standard  rates   meaning the premium was not altered due to any disclosures, nor 
was any policy exclusion added.
Mr Hs GP first gave a medical report of 5 August 2016 noting that Mr H had a two week 
history of bleeding at the time of his attendance on 18 April 2016.  
However, two further medical letters were supplied to Zurich  from a clinic fellow and a non-
treating consultant based at the hospital  treating Mr H. 
On 18 May 2016 the clinic fellow, Mr A, issued a letter  when he saw Mr H (the day before) 
he presented with a nine month  history  of intermittent rectal bleeding, which  has become 
constant over the last three months. This was associated with lower  abdominal  and back 
pain which  becomes worse after opening his bowels. Mr H was reported  as taking regular 
paracetamol for the associated pain.  
On 17 June 2016, Mr R, the non-treating consultant  in colorectal surgery also wrote  a further 
letter which reconfirmed Mr Hs presentation of 17 May 2016 and noted he required a CT 
colonography on that basis. That scan had sadly confirmed the presence of a cancerous 
tumour. 
Both of these letters had incorrect medical  record handwritten across the top of them.  It is 
unclear who wrote this. 
Ref: DRN93350488Contrastingly, Mr Hs treating consultant Mr S reconfirmed  the two-week history set out by 
the GP. The treating consultant surgeon, Ms A, said she could not comment as she did not 
have the information before her. 
During the course of the complaint, Mr Hs GP wrote to Zurich again on 11 November 2016  
and 6 February 2017. He said the wording  of Mr A and Mr Rs letters from the colorectal 
clinic did not match what Mr H reported  to him on 18 April 2016. He said at that time he had 
a two-week duration  of symptoms, and because these did not ease by 6 May 2016,  Mr H 
was put forward  for a two-week cancer  referral as at that date. 
The GP also said his view was it isn't really clear  where the symptoms  from post-operative  
constipation (after  the vasectomy  referral) stop and the symptoms from his bowel cancer  
start and I think may be part of the clarity you require.  If so, I'm not sure this is possible,  
although you could  seek opinion from an independent expert gastroenterologist or colorectal  
surgeon to comment on it.
However, the medical records  from the appointments  of 18 April 2016  and 6 May 2016 differ 
from the later report given by the GP. 
The medical record specifically says:
Seen in GPs surgery  vasectomy reversal 10/52 ago. Some swelling + constipation 
post op
Since op more conscious of lower back/natal cleft discomfort, worse  after having 
bowels open,  feeling of tenesmus
Bright red blood on tissue  on wiping  last 3/12
Bowel slight change 
The note went on to record  that the GP would treat [as] haemorrhoids  see if symptoms 
dont improve after this.  
By 6 May 2019, Mr H returned to the GP as he had not improved. At that time,  a two-week 
cancer referral form was completed  by the GP. I have reviewed the form. A GP can only 
make the referral if a patient meets defined criteria. He ticked  the box for Mr H which 
permitted a referral because he was:
40 years and older with rectal bleeding AND change of bowel habit which  is defined 
as change to loose stools and / or increased frequency of defecation  persisting  for 6 
weeks or more.  
I realise Mr H might  have had a different conversation  with the GP than what was recorded, 
particularly since the GPs  recollection  some months  later is then altered. However, I have  
seen no reason why I ought to discount  the medical records. These  are more consistent with 
the discussions had at the colorectal clinic, and the record of 18 April 2019 expressly says 
Mr H had suffered with rectal bleeding for the last three months. 
The assessment by Mr A and repeated  by Mr R said Mr H had a nine-month history and I 
accept this clearly differs  from the GP records. There is a degree  of conflicting evidence  
here, and it simply isnt possible for me to know what was said at each appointment Mr H 
attended. But, I have placed  the greater weight  on what has been recorded by the GP 
contemporaneously. Mr H also submitted that his GP was best placed  to confirm what was 
said at the relevant times. Further, the assessment by Mr A does note that Mr H had a three-
Ref: DRN93350489month persistent  history (the final three  of a longer disputed nine-month  window)  which 
would be consistent  with the GP records.
Further, if Mr H had only been suffering from rectal  bleeding since the first week  of April (two 
weeks), the GP would not have been able to complete  a two-week  cancer referral on 6 May 
2016, as the minimum  period of symptoms  for such a referral  is six weeks. 
The GP has also reconfirmed his understanding in a letter dated 20 September  2017 where 
he said:
I understand from [Mr H] and from previous  reports and letters  provided  that our first
meeting on this day [18 April 2016]  is subject to considerable debate  regarding  the 
insurance claim he has subsequently pursued.
I have printed the exact consultation for the insurance company. This is just to 
confirm that these report that he had had no contact with us before this date 
regarding these symptoms. He reported  to me that he had a vasectomy reversal  10 
weeks before and that he had arranged this privately. He reported  altered bowel 
habit post operatively  and constipation  is not uncommon when  recovering from 
surgery. I also recorded a 3-month history  [my emphasis] of bright red blood rectally  
on wiping  with slightly looser stools and no mucus. There was no history of weight  
less or family history of bowel cancer or inflammatory bowel disease. There was nil to 
find on examination  and although  it was treated as haemorrhoids and constipation  I 
was concerned and asked  him to call me if there  had been no alteration in his 
symptoms. He did this on the 6th May and he was referred on the same day via the 2 
week wait colorectal system.
At the very least  in my view- Mr H had suffered from his symptoms for more than six 
weeks by the time he was given his two-week  cancer referral  on 6 May 2016. This was a 
time before the policy began, where Mr H remained under a duty to disclose any changes  to 
his answers of 19 March 2016. In fact, I believe it more likely that these symptoms had been 
present since February 2016.    
Mrs H says that the issues Mr H reported to the GP with in April 2016 were  simply a direct 
response to the surgery he had undergone  ten weeks  prior  and the GP says (above) his 
medical records do not otherwise show a history of bowel problems. 
I accept that Mr H hadnt been to the GP about  these issues  before, or in the past. And I 
accept Mr H might have  simply  disregarded  them as post-operative complications. 
Nonetheless, its my view that Mr H didnt answer  the question  put to him correctly.  The 
specific question doesnt ask about a cause or about  past history. It asks about symptoms  of 
ill health such as unexplained bleeding  and change in bowel habit in the last three months. 
I realise Mrs H suggests that the bleeding and bowel habit changes Mr H suffered from were 
not unexplained, and therefore didnt amount to ill health. But I disagree  with that; the 
medical letter from when  Mr H was discharged  records  Mr H as having  no adverse effects. 
Further, I dont believe suffering from rectal bleeding  some ten weeks  after unrelated  surgery  
is explained. Its for that reason Mr H sought  help from his GP, because the symptoms  he 
had are not likely  longer-term associated symptoms of vasectomy reversals.  
The question specifically says in the last three months have you had any symptoms of ill 
health and it then goes  on to list examples of such symptoms. I do not take the same 
Ref: DRN933504810view as Mrs H that the question limits the applicant to four weeks.  It cannot  logically  be the 
case where the question begins with a qualifying period of three months. What the four 
weeks refers to is for a person having had a cough  that has lasted more than four weeks.  
Otherwise, the applicant  is required to tell the insurer if he or she has had any symptoms of 
ill health including 1) unexplained  bleeding or 2) change of bowel habit in the last three 
months (that being in Mr Hs case from 19 December 2015  to 19 March 2016). Mr Hs GP 
records say he had suffered from both at the material time, irrespective of the possible 
cause. Understandably, Mr H couldnt have known  at the time that he would go on to be 
diagnosed with cancer. But he could   and should- have told Zurich about  his current 
symptoms because he was asked a clear question  about them.
the policy cancellation
There are two types of qualifying misrepresentation  careless and deliberate/reckless. I 
believe that Mr Hs actions are best described  as careless. I cannot presume why Mr H did 
not provide Zurich with an explanation  of his history. And I realise he maintained that he had 
only had his symptoms  for two weeks (and the GP then confirmed the same  in a later 
medical report), but the records  do not support that assertion.  In fact, the weight of medical 
evidence suggests  a longer history of rectal  bleeding  and in 2017, the GP reconfirmed that 
Mr H had in fact told him he suffered bleeding  for the past three months.  
I am not suggesting  that Mr H intended to mislead Zurich. But I am not persuaded that the 
contemporaneous medical record is wrong.  Therefore, I believe Mr H should  have taken  
care to give accurate  information about symptoms  he had likely been experiencing since (at 
least) February 2018; this question should  have  been answered  positively. 
In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer must consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome  will therefore  depend on what  the underwriting decision 
would have been had the misrepresentation  not occurred at the time.
Zurich has now confirmed  that it did undertake another  retrospective underwriting 
assessment in 2018, once it had sight of the medical records. The guidance says it has to 
refer the matter to a medical officer, postpone it (for two years), or if it can offer cover, rate 
the premium based on the underlying cause of the symptom  (bleeding). 
If Mr H had told Zurich of his current symptoms in March 2016, Zurich would therefore  have  
awaited his referral for further tests at hospital. These would  have confirmed his cancer  
diagnosis and sadly the insurance could  not have been offered to Mr H at that time. 
Industry guidance from the Association  of British  Insurers  on misrepresentation says that 
with careless misrepresentation, if the application  would  have been  declined, an insurer 
ought to refund any premiums that have  been  paid. 
I understand Mrs H said she would not accept the premium cheque  issued to her in 2018. It 
is unclear what has happened  to that premium refund. If Mrs H did not cash this cheque 
before it expired, I would  expect Zurich to reissue  it to her at her request.  
my final decision
I appreciate my decision isnt what Mrs H had hoped for. But I must be fair to both parties in 
a complaint. For the reasons stated  in detail above,  I believe Zurich processed the claim 
Ref: DRN933504811fairly in the circumstances where it had to await relevant medical  records until Mr H 
consented to them being reviewed. 
Further, Zurich reasonably voided Mr Hs policy on the grounds of misrepresentation. If it 
had known his correct medical  circumstances in March 2019, it would not have been able to 
offer him insurance once  any investigations had been completed,  as sadly  Mr H went on to 
be diagnosed  with cancer shortly after the policy started.  
I therefore do not uphold this complaint or make any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H, on behalf  of 
the estate of the late Mr H, to accept or reject  my decision before  1 December 2019.   
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9335048