K822xcomplaint
Ms N complains about Omni Capital Retail Finance Limiteds refusal to agree to a full refund 
in relation to a point of sale loan she took out with it.
background 
In March 2018 Ms N agreed to buy 24 treatments that she says she was told would 
completely transform  her body. Ms N paid for these treatments using a point of sale loan 
provided by Omni. The treatments were meant to be provided by the retailer, a limited  
company that I will call N.
Ms N said she only received 14 of the 24 treatments. And as far as she is concerned  they 
didnt work  instead  they had the opposite impact. She told us that she was depressed  at the 
time she agreed to purchase the treatments and she had hoped  the improvement in her 
body that she expected,  would improve her self-esteem. Instead  she has been left feeling  as 
if she was misled as the treatments have not worked. 
Further, she felt she was pressurised  into signing up for the treatments. She suggested the 
therapist and her manager were relentless in making offers to her until she agreed  to buy the 
treatments. She explained shed only gone to Ns salon in the first place for a free facial. And 
had come out having agreed to pay for 24 treatments. Moreover, she told us during the 14 
treatments she got different advice from different therapists making inconsistent claims 
about what treatments  were the best.
To make matters  worse  N ceased  trading before she was able to receive  all 24 treatments. 
Feeling upset and like she had not got what she was promised and what  she paid for Ms N 
complained to Omni.
Omni looked into Ms Ns complaint. But it was unable to come to a conclusion within 8 
weeks. On that basis, it let her know it would  continue  looking into her complaint, but it also 
told her she could come to us, which she did. Ms N relies on the rights  she says she has 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Once Ms N came  to us, Omni  sent her a substantive  response.  It agreed that it had a 
responsibility to her under Section 75. It accepted that N had ceased trading before the 
contract was completed. It also accepted this was a breach of contract. It indicated  it had 
looked for and found an alternative  supplier  who could  complete the contract and offered this 
to Ms N as a solution.
Alternatively, it agreed to write off the cost of the 10 treatments Ms N had not had. It 
suggested it would only chase for payment for the treatments she had received. 
Moreover, it offered  her £150  in recognition  of taking too long to come back  to her with a 
detailed response.  It agreed to ask the credit reference agencies  to remove  any adverse 
information it had asked to be registered on her credit file after N had stopped trading.
Our investigator took a look at Ms Ns complaint.  Our investigator  recommended  that Ms Ns 
complaint be upheld in part. He was satisfied that Section  75 was relevant law in the 
circumstances. He thought that the contract had 27 separate elements. Not the 24 that Ms N 
and Omni  had mentioned. He also thought the contract had been  breached  because  N 
wasnt able to provide  all of the individual treatments.
Ref: DRN92713522Next our investigator looked at redress. He said that the Consumer Rights Act 2015 was 
also relevant law in this complaint. He didnt agree that Omni had offered an equivalent 
service. Neither did our investigator think the alternative treatments  had been  provided in a 
reasonable time.  For all of these reasons he concluded the alternative put forward by Omni 
was not a like for like replacement. So, he thought it was fair and reasonable to say Ms N 
could decline that offer 
Our investigator noted what Ms N had said about  being given inaccurate information about  
the treatments, but he wasnt  persuaded by this in the circumstances. Neither did he think  he 
could fairly  and reasonably say the treatments hadnt worked and would never have been 
able to work. 
When he took all the information available to him into account,  he thought a price  reduction 
was a fair and reasonable way forward. In short, he suggested Ms N need only pay for the 
parts of the contract  that she had already received. He added that any adverse information 
recorded on her credit  file, after N ceased  trading, should also be removed.
Omni accepted our investigators recommendation, Ms N did not. In summary, she repeated 
her earlier stance, she told us she now had no means of repaying the loan and told us why 
she is vulnerable  and that she is also caring  for someone who is vulnerable too.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have finished  my review  of Ms Ns complaint I intend to uphold  it in part. I realise that this is 
most likely going to disappoint Ms N who was looking for a full refund.  Please  let me explain 
why I have come to this conclusion.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ms N and Omni both agree that the contract has been breached.  They also both agree that 
Section 75 is relevant  law here.
I think its important to set out my role. In considering a complaint about  a financial services 
provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under Section 
75. Rather, in deciding  whats a fair way to resolve Ms Ns complaint, I have to take account 
of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive taken it into 
Ref: DRN92713523account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged  to reach  the same outcome as, for example,  a 
court might reach if Ms N pursued  a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract. Our 
service is an informal  alternative  to the courts.
Section 75 says, amongst other things, that in certain circumstances if the debtor has, in 
relation to a transaction  financed by a credit  agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or a breach of contract, then he has a like claim against the 
credit provider. So, if Ms N can show that the she entered into the contract with N because  
of misrepresentation  or that there has a been a breach of contact Id say it was fair and 
reasonable that she should be able to ask Omni  to put things right.
was Ms N given incorrect information about the contract that caused  her to make  a loss?
Misrepresentation is a false statement of fact that induced the consumer  to enter  into the 
contract to their detriment.  Ms N suggests  N made very clear  promises about the treatments. 
She tells us she was guaranteed she would lose weight.  Which  she did, although she tells us 
this was due to her own actions. She also says she was told that the weight loss would be 
targeted to give her weight loss in her stomach  area. None of these promises  were made in 
writing rather this is what she was told in conversation according to her.
By their very nature such alleged verbal  representations are hard to substantiate, and I 
therefore have  to assess this aspect on the basis of the balance  of probabilities.  Ms  N was 
buying cosmetic treatments. I find it likely she was told she would get a benefit from the 
treatments otherwise why would she buy them. But as to whether she was given a cast-iron 
guarantee that she would  lose weight in a specific area I find that unlikely. And indeed,  she 
did lose weight whether that was because of her own actions or the impact of the treatments 
I just cant tell. 
Ms N also suggests that she was put under undue pressure to enter  into the contract. I dont  
doubt that N was persuasive. Nor do I doubt  that it gave her a free facial  with the intention of 
using this an opportunity to cross  sell to her. But if Ms N really  hadnt wanted to enter  into 
the contract  and felt pressurised  to do so, I might have expected her to have cancelled  the 
contract at the earliest opportunity, but she didnt  do that. And using marketing methods 
such as giving her a free facial are not in themselves a misrepresentation.
She also suggests that N was running a scam  in so far as the treatments could never have 
had the impact she says she was promised. I accept that she did not get the results  that she 
was hoping for. But as I mention above, it isnt clear what benefit  she was promised.  And just 
because she is disappointed  with the results  does not mean that she didnt get what  she was 
promised.
For these reasons, in the circumstances, I cant safely conclude that the contract was 
misrepresented to Ms N.
Ms N and Omni both agree that Ms N didnt get all of the treatments that she had paid for
That said,  there is no doubt that the contract  was breached. The question  now is whats a 
fair and reasonable way for Omni  to put this right? Ms N is clear she thinks  a full refund is in 
order. I dont agree. I say this because a full refund would suggest  that no services at all had 
been received  and that isnt the case here.  
Ref: DRN92713524Omni has offered  an alternative supplier to carry out the treatments. But its not clear  that 
this is a like for like replacement. I also think any such  alternative treatment should have 
been provided in a reasonable time particularly given the treatments were originally meant to 
be given with a matter of months not years  as is the case now.  It follows,  I dont find that the 
offer of an alternative  supplier to deliver  the remaining  treatments is a fair and reasonable 
solution here.
Omni has offered  a price reduction, as an alternative solution. I think  this is fair and 
reasonable. Ms N should only have to pay for what she received. I think  the methodology for 
working out the redress suggested by Omni and endorsed by our investigator is fair and 
reasonable.
I agree  that based on the information I have available to me, the contract is broken into 27 
equal parts.  That is 24 treatments  and 3 products. The total price  of the contract  was £3,750.  
This divided by the 27 equal parts of the contract  means the value of each individual  item is 
£1,38.89.
Ms N and Omni both agree that she had received 14 treatments  before  N ceased trading. 
The information I have  seen suggests that the 3 products were supplied  to Ms N.
This means  that in total Ms N received 17 elements out of the 27. In other words, she has 
not had the benefit of the remaining 10 items that N contracted  to provide her with.
what Omni needs to do to put things right
Based on this reasoning I find Ms N should receive a price  reduction of £1,388.89 
(10 x £138.89). The total price was £3,750.00 and this therefore  means  the total amount she 
should be liable for is £2,361.13.
If shes already repaid  more than £2361.13 (including the £510 deposit), then the
overpayment should be refunded to her, plus 8% simple interest. This interest  should  run 
from the date the payment was made until the date of settlement.
If she has not repaid  £2,361.13 including the deposit  of £510 then Omni can ask her to pay 
the remaining  balance.
Omni has offered  Ms N £150 for taking too long to give Ms N its take on her complaint. I can 
well understand if that delay  caused Ms N distress  and inconvenience. That said,  I can see it 
had to get information from a third party that is N, and it also had to source an alternative 
supplier. Both of which wouldve  taken some time.
I regret to hear about Ms Ns circumstances. In particular, it is clear she has a lot of 
responsibilities in her day-to-day life. It seems it has been her custom  to put the needs of 
others before her own. These  treatments  were one of the rare things she did for herself. Her 
sense of injustice  that things went so wrong  for her from her perspective jumps  off the page. 
She has told us about why she is a vulnerable consumer and the impact this matter  has had 
on her. But she hasnt said that her vulnerability prevented  her understanding what  she was 
entering into. Further I think the resolution she has been offered is fair and reasonable taking 
account of her individual circumstances.
For all of these reasons I think that £150 for distress and inconvenience  is appropriate.
Ref: DRN92713525Ms N tells us about her money troubles and suggests she will struggle now to repay the 
money she owes. Since she has said this I expect  Omni to look carefully at what  she says 
about this and to treat her in line with its obligations. To be clear  Ms N is saying she is facing 
financial difficulties. This may mean that Omni  will be in touch  with Ms N separately and 
without our involvement to assess her financial situation. Hopefully Ms N and Omni will be 
able to come  to a mutually acceptable solution about this. But if they cannot reach an 
agreement about  this point, then Ms N could raise a fresh complaint about this one limited  
new point.
my final decision
My final decision is that Omni  Capital  Retail Finance  Limited must, as it has already agreed 
to do.
1.Only ask Ms N to repay it no more than £2,361.13 it must take the £510 deposit  off 
this amount it must  also take off any repayments she has made towards  the loan.
2.If this results in a balance, it must refund the balance to her. It must also pay interest 
on the balance  at the rate of 8% simple per year. The interest  to run from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
3.Pay Ms N £150  for distress and inconvenience.
4.Contact the credit  reference agencies and ask them  to remove any negative 
information it asked  them to register on Ms Ns credit file from the point at which  N 
stopped trading.
 
Omni must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Ms N accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the £150 from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9271352