K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bulstrad Life Vienna  Insurance Group JSC turned down their 
cancellation claim under their travel insurance  policy.
My references to Bulstrad  include its agent.
background
On 18 August Mr and Mrs H booked a weeks holiday for 29 August. They bought  travel  
insurance on 28 August.  Bulstrad is the insurer for the policy.
Sadly Mrs Hs father died on 29 August. Mr and Mrs H cancelled  the holiday and claimed the 
costs from Bulstrad. 
Bulstrad turned down  the claim.  It said Mrs Hs father had been  an inpatient  in hospital at the 
time they took out the insurance, and the claim wasnt  covered  under the policy. Mr and 
Mrs H said this hadnt been made  clear to them and it should pay the claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said it wasnt covered under the policy  
terms and Bulstrad had fairly turned it down. Mr and Mrs H said they werent told about  the 
exclusions for non travelling relatives,  and if theyd known theyd have gone elsewhere  for 
travel insurance. Our adjudicator explained that a complaint about  the sale of the policy  
would have to be made against the company that sold it to them. She said Bulstrad had 
made the exclusion clear  in its policy.
Mr and Mrs H asked for a review so the complaints come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  for Mr and Mrs Hs loss. In the circumstances it feels cold to discuss the reason for 
the claim,  but I need to do this to explain my decision. 
I must decide whether Bulstrad fairly turned down Mr and Mrs Hs claim. I think it did, so 
I dont uphold this complaint.  
The policy terms say that Bulstrad wont cover any cancellation claims arising directly from 
any medical condition  known to Mr and Mrs H prior to the start of the period of insurance and 
before booking the trip affecting  any close relative  in certain  stated circumstances. This 
includes if during  the 90 days immediately prior to the start of the period of insurance the 
close relative had required surgery, inpatient treatment or hospital consultations; or required 
any form of treatment or prescribed medication. This information  is set out clearly on page 4 
of the policy  under a section called Non travelling relatives.  
Mrs Hs father had lung cancer. His GP said this was stable. On 21 August Mrs Hs father  
was admitted to hospital with pneumonia. The GP said this was secondary  to the lung 
cancer, and this information was also on the death  certificate. So Mrs Hs father was an 
inpatient in hospital before the start of the period of insurance on 28 August. 
Ref: DRN95071962I appreciate Mrs H wasnt told that her fathers condition was terminal before they took out 
the insurance, and this was explained  only on the day he passed away  - 29 August. But they 
did know he was an inpatient in hospital.  The cancellation claim sadly arose directly from the 
pneumonia for which he was hospitalised.  I think Bulstrad fairly turned down Mr and Mrs Hs 
cancellation claim under the exclusion for non travelling  relatives,  which it had set out clearly 
in the policy.
I think Mr and Mrs H could reasonably have anticipated that they might  need to make  a claim 
at the time they took out the insurance   even  though they didnt know his medical condition 
was terminal. He had lung cancer and pneumonia, and was being treated in hospital, and it 
was sadly always possible his health would deteriorate. So I dont think  its fair to make 
Bulstrad pay their claim. 
Mr and Mrs H say that the policy terms werent made clear to them  when they bought  the 
policy, and theyd have  gone elsewhere  for insurance if theyd known about the 
non travelling relatives exclusion.  But Bulstrad  didnt sell the insurance policy to Mr and 
Mrs H. Our adjudicator has explained  that they are able to make a complaint  to the company 
which sold the policy, and if theyre not happy with the outcome they can bring that complaint 
to us. I wont make any findings  on that other  complaint  about  the sale in this complaint 
about the insurer. But I should  say that in my experience most travel  insurance policies have 
similar exclusions for non travelling relatives.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 September 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9507196