K821x#15complaint
Mrs L complains  that Santander  UK Plc gave her incorrect  information  about the exchange 
rate that would apply to a foreign cheque. And she feels it made mistakes which delayed the 
clearance of her cheque. 
background
Mrs L contacted Santander  to discuss ways  she could receive a large payment from the 
United States. She was told her that if she received a cheque  the exchange  rate applied 
would be that of the date she deposited  it into her bank account.
Mrs L requested the payment by cheque  based  on this advice. But when she went  to deposit 
it on 19 November 2018 she was told the exchange rate applied would in fact be that of the 
date the cheque cleared. She complained to Santander who agreed it had given her 
incorrect information previously, and paid her £75 compensation to apologise for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Mrs L spent a lot of time chasing Santander for updates before the cheque cleared on the 
19 February 2019. Santander  paid her a further  £425 compensation to apologise for not 
providing her with information about  delays. And for the fact its complaints advisor gave her 
further incorrect advice  about the exchange rate. 
Mrs L wasnt happy with this response so she brought her complaint to our service.  She 
wants Santander to reimburse her £1,600  she feels she lost as a result of the difference  in 
exchange rate between  the 19 February  2019 and the 19 November 2018. 
Our investigator felt that the total £500 compensation offered by Santander  was reasonable. 
He pointed out Mrs L was made aware  of the correct exchange rate that would apply before 
she deposited her cheque.  He also didnt think it would be fair to hold Santander responsible 
for the delay  in her cheque being cleared.  But felt it had suitably recognised the 
inconvenience this caused.
Mrs L disagreed, so the complaint was passed  to me to decide
first provisional decision 
I sent my first provisional decision to both parties  on 17 July 2019. I it I said that;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mrs L will be disappointed but I 
think the £500 compensation Santander  has paid her is fair to resolve  this complaint. So Im 
not proposing  to ask it to increase this offer. Ill explain why.
Its clear Santander made mistakes here.  Theyve  agreed that Mrs L was given incorrect  
information about the exchange rate that would  apply to her cheque three times  twice  
before she deposited the cheque, and once afterwards. 
Santander has also accepted that it made  mistakes  when presenting Mrs Ls cheque to the 
overseas bank it was drawn on. A $75 fee was omitted in error. The overseas bank then 
requested this fee and wiring instructions on 13 December 2018, and Santander replied the 
next day with the wiring  instructions. But the cheque was returned as it didnt include the $75 
Ref: DRN94265052fee. Santander paid the $75 fee on 14 January 2019 and expected to receive the funds 
shortly after this. But there was confusion because  its advisor  didnt realise the overseas 
bank had closed  the original payment request and required the wiring instructions  to be sent 
again too. And Mrs L didnt receive  the funds in her account until 19 February 2019.
Mrs L says she only chose to receive  this payment  by cheque  after being given assurances  
by Santander  that the exchange  rate used would  be the one as at the date she deposited it. 
Shes told us that if shed  known prior to requesting the cheque this wouldnt be the case, 
she wouldve explored other ways she could receive the money.  And shes suggested  she 
would have had the funds  transferred to her by BACS payment instead. 
I appreciate this has been a very frustrating  experience for Mrs L. She feels Santanders 
actions have led to her losing out on £1,600  as the exchange rate on the date her cheque 
cleared was less favourable than that of the date she deposited  it. Ive thought  about  what  
shes said. But I dont it would fair for me to ask Santander to honour the exchange rate from 
19 November 2018. Let me explain why.
Firstly, Im satisfied Santander gave Mrs L the correct information about  the exchange rate 
that would  apply before she deposited her cheque.  Whilst I appreciate  this would have been 
very disappointing to discover, her expectations  when  she deposited it were based on this. 
Mrs L has explained it took her several months to get this payment. She feels  that if shed 
returned to the payer at this point  to ask for the money to be paid by another means  its likely 
this would have  caused delays and additional costs. But I havent seen any evidence that 
she discussed it with the payer to see if this would  be the case before  depositing  the cheque.
Even if I was to agree that at this point it was too late for Mrs L to receive her payment by 
another means, I dont think its likely she would have received a full £1,600  more  had she 
been able to do so. Shes  told us one of the reasons shed spoken to Santander  about  ways 
she could receive  this payment was because shed  been  sent funds from the same overseas 
bank by BACS previously  and fees had been  applied. If shed asked for this money to be 
sent to her by BACS as shes suggested, I think its likely she would have also incurred fees 
here. Mrs L has told us she would have tried to negotiate for the payer  to cover these costs. 
But I dont think there was any guarantee they would have agreed to this. I also cant  be 
certain which date this transaction would have  been completed to know what  exchange  rate 
would have applied.
Mrs L is unhappy it took 3 months  for her cheque to clear, having initially  been told it should 
take between  2 and 8 weeks.  As Ive outlined  above,  its clear  Santander was responsible for 
some delays here. But again,  I cant be certain  which date this transaction  would have  
completed had this not been the case. I also note Santander hadnt actually guaranteed  
shed receive her funds  within 8 weeks. 
Ive looked at the U.S dollar  to pound sterling exchange rate across  the period 
19 November 2018 to 19 February  2019.  I can see it fluctuated  a lot. So I also dont think  its 
certain Mrs L would  have actually received a more  favourable exchange rate had the cheque 
cleared sooner.
Santander has explained that £250 of the compensation it paid Mrs L was to apologise for 
the incorrect information it gave her about the exchange  rate. And the other £250 was to 
apologise for not keeping  her updated about  the delays encountered in processing her 
cheque. I know  Mrs L will be disappointed,  but overall I think this is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN94265053Mrs L has told us that Santander also promised to pay the $75 fee charged by the overseas 
bank, but that it was then deducted  from her funds. Santander says it doesnt have any 
record of this offer. Its sent us a recording  of the telephone call its complaints advisor  had 
with Mrs L on the day shes  told us it was made, and another from the following day. Ive 
listened to these calls, and I cant hear that this was discussed. I can see that Santanders 
foreign cheque terms and conditions  explain its the responsibility of the customer to pay any 
charges incurred in collection  of the cheque, and that they will be deducted from its 
proceeds. So whilst it seems there has been a misunderstanding between Mrs L and 
Santander on this point, I dont think Santander  has acted unreasonably by not paying  this 
fee.
responses to first provisional decision
Santander said it had no further information  to add. 
Mrs L responded with some detailed comments for me to consider. In summary she said 
that:
 It had taken some time for her to receive this settlement, which she had requested 
be paid by cheque  based on the earlier (incorrect)  advice Santander had given her 
about exchange rates.
 It wouldve been impossible for her to go back to the parties involved and ask for the 
funds to be paid to her by another  means. 
 She was confident that based  on the advice Santander had given her she wouldnt 
need to receive  the payment by BACS. 
 She feels she would  have received her funds in December 2018 if Santander hadnt 
made so many errors.  And this wouldve made  a difference  of potentially over 
£5,000 based on exchange rates, and a further  £750 in two months  of lost interest.
second provisional decision
I sent my second provisional decision to both parties on 20 December 2019. In it I said that;
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L was made aware of the correct exchange rate that would apply before she cashed her 
cheque. So I still feel that it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Santander to put her in the position 
she would  have been in if the exchange  rate of 19 November 2018 had been applied.  
I appreciate Mrs L had made decisions based  on earlier advice  shed been  given  from 
Santander. But in the absence of any evidence she tried to make  alternative arrangements,  I 
cant fairly say for certain that this wouldnt have been possible.  In my first provisional  
decision I also explained why, if she had made  other arrangements, I think  other  fees and 
charges would likely have applied.
However I note Mrs Ls comments about  the impact of the delays  in her cheque  being 
processed. And Ive thought more about what happened here after Mrs L deposited her 
cheque with Santander. Santander  has accepted it made mistakes  which caused these 
delays. And I agree  it would be fair for it to put her back in position she wouldve been in if 
these delays hadnt occurred. 
Ref: DRN94265054In my first provisional decision  I said I thought the £500 compensation Santander had 
offered was reasonable to put things right for Mrs L. But, having  reconsidered the high value 
of this cheque,  I no longer think this is the case.
Santanders terms and conditions say cheques of this nature can take between two and 
eight weeks to clear - though this timescale  isnt guaranteed. And Santanders explained it 
cant be certain when  Mrs Ls funds wouldve been credited to her account if there hadnt 
been any delays  in it being  processed. 
Where evidence is incomplete or not available then I have to make  my decision based on 
the balance of probabilities  that is what  I think is most likely  to have happened.  So Ive 
thought about when,  based on the information  provided, I think  it the cheque would likely 
have cleared if the delays hadnt arisen.  
Mrs L paid in her cheque on 19 November 2018. The overseas bank requested  wiring  
instructions and its fee on 13 December 2018. Santander responded the next day, but 
without paying  the fee. And when  a cheque was subsequently sent for the fee, it appears the 
wiring instructions werent resent  until 13 February  2019.
Mrs L received the funds  from her cheque on 19 February 2019. So 6 days  after the 
overseas bank had both its fee and the wiring information it needed.
Based on these events  I proposed to Santander that if the cheque had cleared 6 days after 
Santander should reasonably have provided both the fee and the wiring instructions, i.e. 
when it responded  to the overseas banks first request on 14 December 2018, Mrs L 
wouldve received  her funds on the 20 December 2018. 
Santander hasnt  provided any evidence to suggest  this process wouldve taken  longer  than 
6 days. And whilst I understand Mrs L feels it should  have made  its payment to the overseas  
bank by BACS rather than cheque,  Santander  has explained that its not able to make BACS 
payments in circumstances like this, and that it followed its normal  process here.  So I dont 
think it acted unreasonably  by paying the overseas banks fee in this way.
Santander has confirmed  the exchange  rate that wouldve been applied  to the cheque had it 
cleared on 20 December 2018  was 1.27754900.  Ive calculated that this means Mrs L would 
have received £223,024.71 had her cheque cleared on this date. 
Mrs L actually received £218,177.85 when the cheque cleared on 19 February 2019.  So I 
think it would  be reasonable for Santander to pay her £4,846.86 reflecting the difference  
between this amount  and the amount I think she likely would have received had it not made 
any errors when processing her cheque.
To reflect that Mrs L was deprived of these funds  for a time, I think it would also be 
reasonable for Santander to pay her interest on these amounts. It should  calculate 8% 
simple interest on £218,177.85, applicable between 20 December 2018 and 
18 February 2019. And 8% simple interest  on the further £4,846.86, applicable  between  the 
20 December 2018 and the date it makes this payment to her.
Ref: DRN94265055responses to my second provisional  decision
Santander responded to my second provisional  decision  with an offer to settle Mrs Ls 
complaint in line with the method I put forward. But it said that it felt her cheque would 
reasonably have cleared on 24 December 2018, not 20 December 2018 as Id suggested. 
And it proposed to use the exchange  rate from that date in its settlement calculations  which  
it said was 1.28022550.
Mrs L said she was inclined to accept  this offer using  this exchange rate. But asked some 
questions about  the interest calculations Santander  included in its offer. 
Santander has now confirmed its calculations included  a deduction for income tax payable to 
HMRC.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, and in light of the parties responses to my second provisional decision, Ive 
reached the same overall conclusions I did in my second provisional  decision. But I accept 
Santanders view that this cheque would likely have cleared  on 24 December  2018.  And 
Mrs L indicated shes willing to accept  a settlement offer on this basis  too.
Santander has confirmed  the exchange  rate that wouldve been applied  to the cheque had it 
cleared on 24 December 2018  was 1.28022550.  This means  Mrs L would have received 
£222,617.03 had her cheque cleared on this date.  
Santander has offered  to pay Mrs L £4,439.18  to reflect the difference between  this amount 
and the amount she actually received when her cheque was credited to her account on 
19 February 2019. Its also agreed to pay an additional  8%  simple interest in line with the 
directions I set out in my second provisional decision, (minus any adjustments it feels it has 
to make in line with HMRC requirements). Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable to resolve  
this complaint.
Ref: DRN94265056my final decision
My final decision is that to resolve this complaint Santander UK Plc should pay Mrs L:
£4,439.18  to reflect the difference  in exchange  rate caused by the delays in 
processing her cheque. It should  also pay her interest on this amount at the simple 
rate of 8% per year,  to be calculated from 20 December 2019 until the date it makes  
this payment*
Interest on £218,177.85, at the simple rate of 8% per year, to be calculated from 
20 December 2018 until 19 February  2019*
Santander UK Plc can deduct the £500 compensation it has already paid to Mrs L from this 
amount.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman
*If Santander UK Plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from any interest due it should provide Mrs L with a certificate of deduction of income tax, so the tax 
can be reclaimed  from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9426505