K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Santander  UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs J took out a PPI policy for their mortgage in 1992. Mr and Mrs J paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It would help cover the 
mortgage payments  in case either  of them was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Js case. 
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Js PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Because of all the time thats  passed, understandably  neither side have the original  
documents from the sale. But I have looked  at a sample copy of the application Mr and Mrs J 
wouldve used. From that, it looks like Mr and Mrs J wouldve  been  given  the option to select 
either Yes or No to taking out the policy. They wouldve then had to sign and submit  an 
application specifically  for PPI, separately  to applying for the mortgage. And to pay for the 
policy they wouldve  had to set up a direct  debit for it, separately to the one for the mortgage.  
So it looks  like it wouldve  been clear the PPI was an optional extra, rather than something 
that was necessarily included. And Ive not seen any evidence to show that Santander  told 
Mr and Mrs J it was a required part of their mortgage, nor have I seen any wider problems 
with its sales process  from the time. So I think its more likely that Santander made  Mr and 
Mrs J aware they had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the 
time.
Santander has said it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs J, so it had to check  it was right 
for them. And based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For 
instance, it doesnt look like they were affected  by any of the policys main exclusions or 
limitations. Mr and Mrs J have said they arent sure of what  their sick pay entitlements  might  
have been at the time, but I can see that this policy could have helped cover their mortgage 
payments for up to 36 months if either of them had been too ill to work, and thats likely to be 
significantly longer  than their sick pay would have  lasted.  It also would have covered them  
for up to 12 months if either of them had become unemployed. And while  theyve said they 
had some savings its worth bearing  in mind that if Mr and Mrs J fell behind on their 
mortgage payments  they were at serious  risk of losing  their home. So I think  the PPI 
couldve been useful  for them in protecting their home and giving some peace of mind.
I do appreciate that Mr and Mrs J say they had a guarantor for their mortgage. But I dont 
think this means the PPI wasnt right for them. The policy  would have meant that they 
Ref: DRN90815792wouldnt need to call on the guarantor to cover  their mortgage for some time if something  
had gone wrong,  and would have given some helpful breathing space at what could be a 
difficult time. 
Its possible that the information Santander  gave Mr and Mrs J about PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think  better information was likely to have 
changed their mind.  But as Ive explained  above, they werent  affected by any of the main  
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve been useful for Mr and Mrs J in case  something 
went wrong. And the policy  wasnt bad value given how much it would pay out in a claim, so 
overall; I dont think that better information was likely  to have put them off taking out the 
cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 June  2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9081579