K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) was misrepresented to him.
background
Mr A took receipt of a used car in September 2018. He funded the deal through  a conditional  
sale agreement with Santander.
In October  2018 Mr A complained to Santander. He said hed taken the car for an inspection  
by Transport for London (TfL) as he intended  to use it as a taxi. But he explained  that TfL 
had refused to register the car as they noted the VIN numbers had been scratched off. Mr A 
later discovered that the car had previously been stolen and he said if the business had told 
him this at the beginning  he would not have  signed up for the deal. He said as a result of this 
omission hed suffered  a loss as hed been unable to work and had to pay for GAP and car 
insurance. He also mentioned that hed had to replace the cars  battery  in September 2018, 
shortly after hed taken  receipt of the car as the battery had failed.
Santander investigated the issue and it was discovered that the car had been stolen in 2015.  
The police had recovered the car and the stolen marker was removed by them  so the car 
had the correct identity on police records. They noted that the car had passed its TfL 
examination in November 2018. They explained  that the dealership may not have been  
aware of the history  of the car when they supplied it to Mr A as the checks  they had 
performed would have shown  the car to be properly registered. They  understood that Mr A 
would have been inconvenienced by matters but they didnt think the car had been mis-sold  
to Mr A. They offered  to make a payment to Mr A equivalent to one monthly finance 
instalment in respect of the distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
Mr A wasnt  satisfied with their response so he referred his complaint to this service and our 
investigator provided her opinion. She didnt think the car had been misrepresented  to Mr A 
as she noted that at the time the business would have completed their checks on the car it 
would not have been registered as stolen. She explained that even  if there was 
misrepresentation she would need  to be persuaded that Mr A would not have proceeded 
with the deal if hed know the correct facts. She wasnt persuaded this would have been the 
case as she didnt think there was evidence the theft had impacted on the cars functionality.
She didnt  agree that Mr A should  therefore  be refunded any consequential  costs hed 
incurred for insurance  for instance.
She did however;  agree  that Mr A shouldnt have  been provided  with a battery that failed so 
soon. So she thought the business should refund the £106.38  hed spent replacing it.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators view. He said the dealership had told him they had 
been aware of the previous theft of the car when theyd bought the car at auction and they 
should have highlighted the fact to him when he agreed to the deal. He said it was a 
requirement of TfL that the car was insured before it was inspected  so he thought  the 
insurance costs should be refunded to him. He said that the fact the car had previously been 
stolen would clearly  have a detrimental  effect  on the cars value and he asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN90677522my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr A so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  not have been  
misrepresented to Mr A. If it was, and if I thought Mr A would not have proceeded with the 
deal if hed been aware of the true facts, then I would  think  Santander were responsible and 
Id ask them to take some further  action.
Mr A says that the dealership were aware  of the fact that the car had previously been stolen 
but theyve not accepted that. So Ive thought  about  whether it was likely Mr A was told 
about the previous theft. I dont think,  on balance, that there is evidence the business should 
have been reasonably aware of the fact the car had previously  been stolen. It appears that 
the cars  identity was restored by the police in 2016  so any HPI check would not have shown 
the car as stolen.
But even if Im wrong, and the previous theft was hidden from Mr A, I would need to be 
persuaded that there is sufficient evidence  that Mr A would not have proceeded with the 
agreement if he had been aware of the theft.  Im not persuaded I have sufficient evidence. 
The car has now passed the TfL examination and Im not aware the previous  theft has 
impacted on its functionality. Ive also not seen  evidence to explain why the cars future sales  
value would be impacted. 
Santander have  refunded  one monthly finance instalment in relation to the distress and 
inconvenience. I think, taking everything into account, that that is reasonable recompense  in 
the circumstances. I understand Mr A is concerned about insurances hes taken out but its 
clear that the car has now passed  its TfL examination so I dont think those insurances are 
wasted. Mr A was inconvenienced by having  to take the car for two failed inspections. That 
wasnt his fault but I think Santander have compensated him fairly for the inconvenience hes 
experienced. I dont  think it would be fair to ask Santander to fund any loss of earnings. Im 
not persuaded there is sufficient evidence  that Mr A had told them  he intended  to use the car 
for work  its not on the finance agreement for instance. He hadnt started this work and the 
car has now passed the TfL examination anyway. 
Santander are responsible for the quality of the car when it was supplied  to Mr A. I dont 
think a reasonable  person would expect  to have to replace  the battery after only a couple  of 
months. In those circumstances I therefore agree with the investigator that it would be fair for 
Ref: DRN90677523Santander to refund the cost of the replacement battery that Mr A has provided us with an 
invoice for. The value of that refund is £106.38.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc to refund the £106.38 Mr A paid for the replacement  battery.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9067752