K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Ms K are unhappy that Skipton Building Society told them the conveyancing firm 
dealing with their remortgage would be acting  for them,  rather  than just for the lender.
background
Mr B and Ms K applied for a remortgage with Skipton. As part of the package  Skipton 
covered the cost of the conveyancing. The remortgage completed on 27 March  2019.
Mr B and Ms K complained to Skipton, saying theyd been  told the conveyancer would be 
acting for them.  Skipton  accepted it gave  the wrong  information to Mr B and Ms K verbally, 
but explained the true situation was set out in the paperwork. It offered £150 compensation.
Mr B and Ms K didnt accept this and referred  their complaint to us, saying  (in summary):
They werent able to compare like for like because they were  given wrong  information.
Theyve possibly not been given legal advice  on the impact of the charge on the 
property, they dont know if Skipton has taken too great a charge or registered the title 
unreasonably in its favour.
The quality  of service provided by the conveyancer  was poor, perhaps because they 
were acting  for Skipton rather than for Mr B and Ms K.
Theres been  quite a bit of inconvenience  and anxiety caused  by this.
Our investigator felt Skiptons offer was fair and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B and Ms K 
didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep  my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  
point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. 
Skipton provided  Mr B and Ms K with an illustration  dated 31 January  2019 and then a 
mortgage offer dated 5 March 2019. Both of these contained a section entitled Incentives  
which said:
Legal costs
If your product provides for this, the Society  will pay the standard  legal costs involved, 
this is only available  where you choose to jointly instruct the Skipton Remortgage 
Conveyancing Service. If the mortgage  loan is above £1,000,000  some of the fees may 
be payable by you. Please see the Skipton Remortgage Service  leaflet.
The Skipton  Remortgage Service leaflet said:
Our Remortgage Conveyancing Service is available on selected  products, so you dont 
have to worry  about the legal side of things. And well cover the standard  remortgage  
costs weve agreed with our recommended conveyancers.
Ref: DRN97526872If youre moving  your mortgage to us but not moving home or changing the owners  of 
the property, you wont usually have to pay anything for the standard  legal costs if your 
chosen product includes this option.  We instruct the conveyancer  to act on our behalf  
and its free to you. There may be some additional costs you need to pay if the loan is 
over £500,000.
The instructed conveyancer acts on the Societys behalf for the standard legal  work,  
although you will be contacted by our conveyancers during the remortgage  process,  by 
post, phone or email.  We have a well-established relationship  with our recommended 
conveyancers, which  helps make the process  as easy as possible for you. The legal  
professionals we use are regulated  by either the Law Society  or the Council for 
Licensed Conveyancers.
As a lender, we need to ask our conveyancers  to assess the legal title to the property 
and have the necessary legal documents prepared. The remortgage work is undertaken 
by our conveyancers  on a reduced title check basis,  which  we consider sufficient to 
assess its security.
 Please note some  of our mortgage  products include cashback following completion, but 
do not offer free legal fees. You should  always consider if one of these products might 
be more appropriate  for you, so you can arrange your own conveyancer to act for both 
you and Skipton throughout the remortgage if they are on our conveyancing panel.
So it was clear from this that the conveyancing  firm was only acting on behalf of Skipton, and 
not Mr B and Ms K. Ive no reason to believe  this leaflet wasnt provided to Mr B and Ms K 
otherwise Id have  expected them to ask for a copy of it at the time.
Following this a welcome letter was sent by the conveyancing firm. This said:
Who is our client?
We act for and provide advice to your new lender only. We are, of course, happy to deal 
with any queries that you may have.
Independent Legal  Advice
We are acting on behalf of your new lender.  You are entitled,  therefore, to take 
independent legal advice from a solicitor  in connection with any aspect of your 
remortgage or on any documents which you are required to sign in relation to it. If you 
do take independent legal  advice,  you will be responsible for the solicitors fees.
Mr B and Ms K have said the welcome  letter is from the conveyancing firm rather than from 
Skipton, and was provided after the decision to go forward with Skipton. Theyre  quite clearly 
correct, it was from the conveyancing  firm and it was provided after they decided to apply for 
the mortgage. But I cant ignore the fact it was provided, and that it was provided before they 
entered into a legally binding mortgage contract  so they could have pulled out of the 
remortgage transaction if theyre werent happy.
Mr B and Ms K have said we havent  properly understood their concerns and why 
independent legal advice is valuable. Clearly independent legal advice is valuable, and thats 
why people pay for it. It would be very unusual for any lender to offer independent legal 
advice for free as part of a remortgage  package, its much more  usual for lenders to offer 
Ref: DRN97526873free conveyancing on the same basis as Skipton  did here.  If Mr B and Ms K had found a 
remortgage package  that offered free independent  legal  advice  then they could have instead 
applied for that when  they were told in writing by both Skipton and the conveyancing  firm 
that the legal  work was only for Skipton.
Theyve said theyd be happy if Skipton agreed to waive the initial  fee and any exit fees 
which would put them in the correct  position  because they would then be able to make  a 
meaningful comparison, which was not possible at the time of purchase due to the incorrect  
information.
The £1,995 fee was paid for the product they chose. After discussions on the phone  about 
the different  costs  Mr B and Ms K chose  to pay a higher fee to get a lower  interest  rate. That 
fee is part of the price  of the fixed rate product, has nothing to do with the conveyancing, and 
so theres no grounds for it to be waived. Mr B and Ms K also chose to proceed with the 
mortgage offer  and thus accepted the terms of that contract including  the early repayment  
charge (ERC)  after theyd been told by both Skipton and the conveyancing  firm that the 
conveyancer was only acting for Skipton, and not for Mr B and Ms K. So theres  no grounds 
for me to order Skipton  to waive  the ERC.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when  a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. In this case it was simple  human  error that meant Mr B and Ms K were initially told 
that the conveyancing firm would  be acting for them,  rather  than just for Skipton. This is a 
mistaken statement  of facts; otherwise known as a misrepresentation. When were looking at 
complaints of this type we consider the appropriate  remedy is to place the consumer in the 
position they would be in if the incorrect information  hadnt been given. We dont put them in 
the position they would be in if it had been  correct. 
If the correct  information had been  given, Mr B and Ms K would have been told verbally  the 
correct information,  that was given to them in writing by both Skipton and the conveyancer 
very soon  after.  Mr B and Ms K could  never  have been in the position where they would 
receive independent legal  advice  for free, or that they could  have this product without paying 
the £1,995 fee and without an ERC. As the mistake was corrected in writing  long before they 
had legally committed to proceed with this mortgage Mr B and Ms K have  already  had the 
appropriate remedy in that they knew the true position before they were tied to taking out the 
mortgage. If Mr B and Ms K werent  happy with that position they could have looked for a 
mortgage elsewhere.
Its not our role to fine or punish  a business  and our awards arent punitive. Clearly  no 
amount of compensation can change what happened;  all I can do is consider the impact  of a 
businesss actions on the consumer. I also look at the awards of compensation weve made  
in other  similar  cases. Having done so Im satisfied that the £150  compensation already 
offered by Skipton is more than fair.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint,  in the sense  I consider  Skipton made a fair offer in its response 
to the complaint. I leave it to Mr B and Ms K to decide if  on reflection  they now wish to 
accept that. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which  means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under  the rules 
Ref: DRN97526874of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms K to accept or reject  
my decision  before 20 December 2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9752687