K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains about the interest charged  on her mortgage with NRAM Limited. 
background
Ms F took her interest only mortgage out with the former Northern Rock many  years ago. 
Following Northern Rocks collapse, her mortgage was transferred to NRAM. Ms F has been 
on NRAMs standard variable rate for much of that time, and she complains  that the rate is 
too high  compared to rates  offered  by other  lenders  and to the Bank of England base rate.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so Ms F asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ms F took her mortgage out, and when it was taken over by NRAM, the lending 
environment was very different. Now, its much  harder  to get an interest only mortgage.  And, 
as a result, its harder  to move an interest only mortgage to a new lender. Thats made  it 
difficult for Ms F to move her mortgage.  Shes  also experienced some financial difficulty  and 
had periods of arrears,  including during recent  ill health.
NRAM was one of the lenders that got into financial difficulty when the financial crisis 
happened, and it was taken over by the government. The government  has explained that, for 
legal reasons (to do with competition  law and state aid), government  owned lenders  
including NRAM  are not permitted to offer new interest rate products  such  as fixed and 
discount rates.
And, for the same reasons, NRAM is not allowed  to reduce its SVR below the levels of SVR 
set by other  lenders in the market.
I dont think NRAM is acting in breach of the terms of the mortgage agreement  in not offering 
Ms F a new rate or lower SVR either. Ms Fs mortgage offer sets out that she would pay a 
fixed rate until 2009 and thereafter the SVR. Nothing  in the mortgage  offer or the mortgage 
terms says that Ms F would be entitled  to another interest rate after that one expires.
Im aware, of course, from my knowledge of the mortgage market that its common  for 
borrowers to take a fixed or tracker rate product  and then, at or shortly before its expiry, 
take another rate rather than revert to the SVR. Sometimes thats  with their existing lender; 
sometimes its with another lender. But as I say, theres nothing  in the mortgage agreement  
that says Ms Fs entitled to a new rate  and thats also true of most other lenders mortgage 
agreements too. 
The rules  of mortgage regulation dont say that a lender must offer new interest rates, either. 
They say lenders must treat their borrowers fairly. And where  new rates  are available, there 
are rules  around whether its fair to restrict access to them. But theres nothing  in the rules 
that says new interest rates have to be made  available.
Ref: DRN97946272Ive set out that theres nothing in the regulators rules, and nothing in the mortgage contract, 
that requires NRAM to offer new interest rates. And, the government says,  its under  a legal 
obligation not to do so, and not to reduce its SVR below market level.  NRAMs SVR, which 
has been below 5% throughout the period  covered by this complaint, is comparable to the 
SVR rates  (though not the introductory rates) charged by other lenders in the market. 
Its very unfortunate  that, through  no fault of her own and through  a series  of events entirely 
out of her control,  Ms F ended up with a closed book  lender that doesnt offer new rates. But 
NRAM is the lender,  and legitimately so. Its not able to offer new interest rates  to any 
customers, including Ms F, or reduce its SVR to equivalent levels.  Im mindful that if NRAM 
were to offer new lower rates to some customers but not others, that could mean  some  
customers were  being  treated less favourably than others with similar characteristics   which  
in turn could  potentially cause unfairness. But that isnt the case. All its other customers are 
in the same position as Ms F.
However, theres nothing  in Ms Fs mortgage agreement that would have prevented or 
hindered her re-mortgaging elsewhere   an early repayment charge, for example. In 
practice, thats not something that would have been easy for Ms F to do  because shes an 
interest only borrower, and because  of the arrears.
But NRAM placed no barriers in her way. Indeed, it has an arrangement with an independent 
mortgage broker who can assist customers, free of charge, with moving their mortgage  to 
another lender to access better rates if possible. Given the position NRAM is in, I think  thats 
a fair way of helping  its customers.
The terms of the mortgage say that NRAM can vary the SVR to reflect changes in the Bank 
of England base  rate. When it did so in 2016  and again in 2017 and 2018, therefore,  it was 
allowed to do so by the terms and conditions.  So I dont think those changes were unfair.
Ms F has questioned how Northern  Rock raised the money it lent her in 2007.  I dont know  
how it did that. And in any case, I dont think that would make any difference to the fact that 
she did borrow it and has to pay it back.  Nor does it make any difference to the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage. 
Taking the facts  of this case into account, and taking into account the law, rules  and my 
findings about NRAMs business model  and the level of its SVR, I dont think  I can fairly 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9794627