K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
BOS has provided a copy of Mrs Ms signed  credit card application which has a printed 
cross in the box next to credit card repayments  cover. From what I know  of how BOS 
sold policies around  this time, I think its likely  the printed  cross wouldve only been  
added after Mrs M confirmed she wanted  PPI. And, in my view,  this is supported by 
there being no cross  in the box to request card protection. So overall I think  its most 
likely that BOS made  it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose  to 
take it out  although  as Im looking at events from more than fifteen years  ago I can 
understand why she cant remember this.
BOS recommended the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she appears to have had a need for it. 
Its possible  the information BOS gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems  like it would  have been  useful for her if something went  wrong. For 
example, while  Mrs M may have been entitled to some sick pay the policy  wouldve paid 
out in addition to this and potentially  for longer.  It also looks like it was affordable. So I 
dont think better  information about the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said. But Im afraid that these points  dont change  
my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything  
Mrs M paid for it. But BOS has already offered to give Mrs M back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
BOS will make arrangements to pay Mrs M now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Ref: DRN91208672Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9120867