K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think its more likely than not that Halifax made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take 
out the PPI and he chose to take it out.
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mr Hs credit  card application. The option  for 
PPI has been  pre-populated with an x. I think this is likely to have been added 
following a discussion between Mr H and the Halifax adviser,  other equally prominent 
products have not been selected. Ive also noted  that some of Mr Hs personal  details 
have been typed on the form  suggesting  that a discussion  took place.
PPI also would have  appeared  on Mr Hs monthly  credit card statements, I think if it 
was something he hadnt  been  aware  of, hed have questioned this with Halifax  much 
sooner than he did. But the evidence  is that Mr H continued to pay for PPI for some  
time after taking it out. Its possible given the time thats passed that Mr H may not 
remember everything clearly.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr H so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said but these points dont change my decision and I 
dont uphold this complaint.
 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr H paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr H back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr H now Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN90151542my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9015154