K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Santander  UK Plc (trading at the time as Alliance & Leicester) mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy for their mortgage.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 10 April 2019.  A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
this PPI policy had not been mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
10 May 2019. Santander didnt add anything further.  Mr and Mrs C did reply,  which  Ill go 
through below.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs C, having reviewed the case again I dont think  
their PPI policy was mis-sold  here.
Mr and Mrs C pointed out that Santander had been unable to provide all the original 
documents from their sale.  But given  that the sale was 14 years ago, its perhaps not 
surprising that Santander dont still have  everything.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Santander  were  able to provide sample copies of 
the documents Mr and Mrs C wouldve used at the time of their sale,  and I think  theyre 
reflective of the sales process from the time. Putting the sample  documents  together with the 
evidence I have about Mr and Mrs Cs sale, it looks like they wouldve been given a fair 
choice about whether  theyd like optional  PPI or not, and that they chose it. And while  I can 
understand if Mr and Mrs C later forgot they had PPI as the years  went  on, they do seem to 
have been aware  they took it out, as they did successfully  claim on it.
Mr and Mrs C reiterated that they had sick pay, savings, and family support.  And while 
I understand their point  of view, I already explained in my provisional decision why I didnt 
think they had equivalent cover to the PPI, and why the PPI was useful in their situation. 
Mr and Mrs C also mentioned that they may have had another  type of insurance at the time, 
but that covered different things to what the PPI did, so there wouldnt have been an overlap.
Mr and Mrs C mentioned  that the adviser had stressed the risk of losing their home,  which 
possibly persuaded them to take out the PPI. But if Mr and Mrs C fell behind  on their 
payments, they really  were at risk of losing their home. And as I explained in my provisional 
decision, the risk couldve  been very serious if they hadnt had PPI, especially if one or both 
of them  had lost their job. So it doesnt sound like they were unfairly pressured into buying 
PPI, it sounds more like the adviser  gave them suitable advice.
Ref: DRN91417042I understand Mr and Mrs C didnt feel they were given good  enough information about PPI. 
But I explained before  why I think the cost was made clear,  and that neither Mr nor Mrs C 
were affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover  so better information about 
the exclusions wouldnt have changed  their mind  about buying  PPI. I will also clarify  that 
Santander were only selling their own products, and werent required to give Mr or Mrs C 
any information about their competitors products.
Mr and Mrs C said they were  mis-sold  PPI on a store card around a decade earlier. While 
I appreciate why theyve  mentioned this, different PPI policies worked in different ways,  and 
were sold using different  methods at different  times. So even if one particular policy  may 
have been mis-sold, it doesnt mean  that another different policy  was, too. Ive explained 
above and in my provisional decision why I dont think that this PPI policy  was mis-sold.
Lastly, Mr and Mrs C said that Mr C may have been able to claim at one point,  but didnt. If 
Mr C was eligible to claim while the policy was in force,  but didnt, then he may still be able 
to make a back-dated  claim  now. If hed like to do that, he should  get back  in touch with 
Santander. And if he has any trouble with the back-dated claim, he may be able to bring that 
to our service as a separate case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr and 
Mrs Cs complaint against Santander UK Plc about  the sale of this PPI policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN91417043COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Santander  UK Plc (trading at the time as Alliance & Leicester) mis-sold  them  a 
payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  for their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2005. Mr and Mrs C paid for the PPI with a 
regular monthly premium,  which didnt  attract  interest. It covered  their mortgage  payments in case  
either of them was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think that Mr and Mrs Cs PPI policy was mis-sold  here  Ill 
explain why.
Santander dont have the original documents from the sale. So our adjudicator upheld the complaint, 
as she couldnt be reasonably sure that the bank gave Mr and Mrs C a fair choice  about whether they 
wanted PPI. However,  in response, Santander has now provided sample copies of the documents 
Mr and Mrs C wouldve seen at the time.
From those samples, it looks like the adviser wouldve gone  through a financial review with Mr and 
Mrs C, where they checked their existing benefits  and asked how important it was for them to be able 
to protect their repayments. Then the adviser wouldve made  a recommendation about buying PPI  
and this wouldve  only been a recommendation, not a requirement, which Mr and Mrs C were  free to 
accept or decline. It looks like Mr and Mrs C wouldve been asked to sign the record of the advice to 
confirm what was discussed and what theyd chosen, and then they wouldve  been sent a summary. If 
they decided they wanted  PPI, Santander  says they wouldve  completed and signed a separate 
application and direct debit  mandate for it, though it was not able to give us an example  copy of that.
Then, since it was a regulated mortgage,  Mr and Mrs C wouldve been given a key facts  document. 
From the example Ive seen, this wouldve  described the PPI as optional,  set out its cost separately 
to that of the mortgage, and reiterated that Mr and Mrs C didnt have to buy any insurance from 
Santander if they didnt want to.
I cant  be sure of exactly what was discussed  at the sale.  But on balance, I think its most  likely that 
Mr and Mrs C wouldve used the sample documents Ive seen, not least as they are dated within a 
month of their sale. And Ive seen the welcome  letter Mr and Mrs C were sent, confirming  the details  
of the policy theyd chosen.  Overall, it looks like Santander wouldve made Mr and Mrs C aware  they 
had a choice about buying the PPI, and I think its most likely they chose to take it at the time  even 
if, understandably, they no longer remember  doing so.
Ref: DRN91417044Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, so it had to check  it was right for them. And based 
on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time, I think  it was. For example,  Mr and Mrs C werent  
affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. And while they had some benefits  
through work, the PPI covered them for longer and paid out on top of those  benefits. And they dont 
seem to have  had much other protection in case one of them  lost their job. Mr C said he had some 
good savings, though I dont  know how much these were or whether they were  readily available  
they couldve been needed for other things, such as the deposit  for instance.  Further, the mortgage 
was a very large, long-term commitment, and there was no guarantee those  savings  would still be 
there in the years to come.  And the PPI would  protect  any savings, leaving them available for other 
purposes.
I also understand that Mr and Mrs Cs family  may have been willing to help. But peoples 
circumstances change over time, so there was always the chance theyd  be unable to help when  
needed. And this mortgage was Mr and Mrs Cs responsibility  I dont think  it wouldve  been suitable  
for Santander to have  advised them to rely on someone else to pay it. Its worth bearing in mind  that if 
Mr and Mrs C fell on difficult times  and got behind on their mortgage payments, they risked  losing  
their home.  So I think the PPI couldve been useful for them  in protecting  their home, such as when 
they successfully claimed on it in 2011.
It looks like the cost of the policy wouldve been shown clearly  on the key facts  document, which 
I think  Mr and Mrs C wouldve been given. So I think Mr and Mrs C wouldve  understood how much 
they would need to pay for PPI if they chose it. And Ive not seen anything  that would indicate  the PPI 
was unaffordable for them. Further, if Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances changed, they could cancel the 
policy at any time without  a penalty.
Lastly, its possible that Santander  didnt  point out the main  things the policy wouldnt cover. But as 
I said above,  Mr and Mrs C dont seem  to have been affected by any of those  things.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont plan to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Please could  Mr and Mrs C and Santander send me any more information  or comments to look at by 
10 May 2019. After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9141704