K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr and Mrs G say Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs G have said the PPI was added without their knowledge  and the mortgage came  
with the PPI. But its likely Mr and Mrs G signed  a separate  PPI application form to take the 
PPI. So I think its likely  they knew they were applying for the cover  and agreed  to the cover.
Also a separate application form helps suggest that Lloyds presented  the PPI as something 
that was separate from the mortgage  rather than as part of the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs G have also said they feel they were led to believe the PPI wasnt  really optional  
if they wanted the mortgage. But Mr and Mrs G took the mortgage and PPI over a decade  
ago, so I wouldnt expect  them  to remember the details of the sale vividly. With that in mind - 
and bearing in mind  also what Ive already  said above - what Mr and Mrs G remember isnt, 
on its own, enough to make me think Lloyds didnt make clear  the PPI was optional.
Taking into account all Ive said above, I think Mr and Mrs G agreed  to the PPI and what Ive 
seen doesnt persuade  me that Lloyds didnt make it clear that Mr and Mrs G had a choice 
about taking the cover. But I can understand why Mr and Mrs G might not remember this. 
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, it had to do more and check  the PPI was 
right for them. And Lloyds  thinks it did recommend  the PPI to Mr and Mrs G. So I think its 
fair to assess things on that basis  which places on Lloyds more responsibility  for the sale.   
But based  on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time, I think  the cover 
was right for them. For example Mr and Mrs G werent affected  by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover  so they couldve  claimed the benefit if the circumstances arose.  
Also I think  Mr and Mrs G had a need  for the cover. It helped protect their mortgage,  a long 
term liability secured on their home. And from what Mr and Mrs G have told us, their work 
sick pay wouldve halved after six months. For a successful sickness  or unemployment claim 
the PPI wouldve paid its benefit  for up to twelve months  and on top of Mr and Mrs Gs 
existing work  benefits.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take the cover   so it looks to me like they wanted 
this type of cover. And, for the reasons Ive already given above, it looks like the PPI 
wouldve been useful  for Mr and Mrs G if something  went wrong. So, taking everything  into 
account, I dont  think  better information  about the PPI wouldve changed Mr and Mrs Gs 
decision about taking  the cover.
Ref: DRN99721042Ive thought about all Mr and Mrs Gs points, including what  theyve said about having an 
endowment, life cover and critical illness cover. But I dont think Mr and Mrs Gs existing 
policies made the PPI unsuitable or wouldve given them cover  for their mortgage payments 
like the PPI did. So, for these reasons and the reasons Ive already given  above,  these 
points dont change  my decision.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Mr and Mrs G some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Gs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Lloyds 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9972104