K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
This complaint is about the sale of a PPI policy. The policy  was part of a packaged 
protection policy called a Total Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP).  A TMPP  can be made  up 
of three  different  elements   a PPI policy, life cover and critical illness cover.  The individual  
elements of the cover can be added or taken out as the consumer wishes.  
This complaint only focuses on the sale of the PPI policy   called Mortgage Repayment 
Cover - which covered  accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment - not the life or 
critical illness cover. 
Mrs M paid £40.44 per month  for the PPI part of the cover. If shed made  a successful 
claim, the policy wouldve paid out the monthly  mortgage repayment for up to 24 
months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs M bought the PPI in a meeting. Unfortunately there  arent any notes or recordings 
available from the sale, and understandably Mrs M may not recall  it clearly after so long. 
There are also no documents  available to me from the time of the sale, which  is not at all 
surprising considering the sale took place over 14 years  ago. So its difficult to know how 
the policy was positioned with Mrs M.
In order for me to uphold this complaint, Id have  to think that Mrs Ms account was
more likely than that of Halifaxs. But as these events happened so long ago and as
theres no documentary  evidence to support either partys  position, I have to
conclude that Mrs Ms account is only as likely  not more likely than Halifaxs.  
Mrs M says she was pressured into taking the PPI. But Halifax says she wouldnt have 
been pressured, and thinks that as part of its normal procedure,  it will have made  her 
aware that the PPI was optional. As this was a recommended sale I think  its likely that 
the representative may have said that Mrs M should  take the PPI but thats different to 
saying she must take it. And pressure is a subjective  area and what one person thinks is 
pressure another  may not. So without  stronger evidence of this I cant  safely uphold on 
this basis. 
Ref: DRN92371302So on balance I cannot safely conclude that the policy wasnt  presented as optional
or that Mrs M wasnt given  a choice about  PPI.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable at the time.  So I dont think better information about  the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said including  what she has said about  a six month 
holiday before  she could make a claim but in havent  seen  this as part of the terms and 
conditions of the policy so these points  dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs M paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs M back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs M now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9237130