K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains about the sale of her income  protection policy  by Lloyds Bank  PLC.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties so I wont  repeat  them  again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator for these reasons:
At the time of sale, the maximum benefit available  to Ms T based  on her earnings  
(and after deducting state benefits) was £4,110.60  per annum, or £342.55 per month. 
However, the adviser shouldve taken into account her mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) cover, as this wouldve been  deducted from any claim payments. 
The information from the time of sale confirmed that Ms Ts mortgage amount was 
£206 per month. Therefore, this amount  shouldve been deducted from the maximum 
benefit of £342.55,  leaving cover of £136.55. 
When a financial business has done something wrong, the aim of this service is to 
require it to place  the consumer in the position they would have been in (as far as 
possible) if the error hadnt been  made. Im satisfied that Lloyds has done that, as it 
has worked out how much Ms T wouldve paid for cover  of £136.55, then reimbursed 
the overpaid premiums,  plus interest.
Ms T says she wouldnt have taken out the policy  at all if shed known that her MPPI 
benefit would be deducted from any claim. However, Lloyds did identify that she had 
a need for the cover, and so I think it was appropriate for Lloyds to arrange  a partial 
refund of premiums,  rather  than a full refund. 
I note that Ms T says her mortgage amount was actually  £215.75  rather  than £206, 
and so she thinks Lloyds calculations are incorrect. As I understand it, Ms Ts 
mortgage didnt  start for some time after the income protection policy was taken out. 
If Lloyds had taken  into account  her MPPI  at the time of sale (as it should  have  
done), its reasonable to have expected it to have taken into account the mortgage 
amount stated in the fact-find. This was £206, and so Im satisfied it was reasonable 
for Lloyds to base  the refund on this figure.
Ms T also says that her pension would have made  a payment in the event of ill-
health, thereby  negating the need for her income  protection  cover.  An ill-health 
retirement pension  may be paid if someone is permanently unable  to work because  
of ill-health, which is a stricter test of incapacity that Ms T was required to meet under 
this policy. Because  of that, I dont think an ill-health retirement pension ought  to be 
relied upon as a definite source  of income in the event of incapacity and so I wouldnt 
have expected Lloyds to have  taken this into account. 
Ms T has also complained about  the commission  paid to the adviser.  Lloyds has told 
us it didnt pay commission,  and instead  paid remuneration to its advisers, which 
included administration service  and support. Ive checked Ms Ts quote  and this said 
that Lloyds and the insurer would  provide  remuneration to the adviser and provide 
Ref: DRN98489092services and support.  Lloyds was entitled to decide  how to remunerate  its adviser,  
and Im satisfied that this was made  clear  to Ms T before she took out the policy. The 
figure was added to the premiums, and so Ms T received a proportionate refund of 
the fee from Lloyds  when  it provided  her with a partial refund of her premiums. I think  
that was fair.
For the above reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 October  2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9848909