K822xcomplaint
Miss S complains  the vehicle she acquired on a conditional sale agreement  financed by 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  trading as Barclays Partner Finance was not of 
satisfactory quality. She wants to reject the vehicle.
background 
Miss S tells us she acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as T, in June 2018. She 
says shes had numerous problems with the vehicle. This has included issues  with the 
brakes; steering;  ignition and central  locking system; and more  recently  an EGR valve.  She 
says various repairs havent solved all the problems and she now wants to reject  the vehicle.
BPF told us that Miss S had complained  about  spongy brakes in August 2018. As a 
gesture of goodwill it said T had provided the parts - even though brakes  are serviceable 
items - for the necessary repairs. And the work had been carried  out by a firm Ill refer to as 
Q. Subsequently it said shed been  in touch with T about various issues but shed had 
matters dealt with by a third party repairer, under the extended warranty. It felt that Miss S 
should refer the continuing issues to the third party repairer which had carried out the work. 
It said Miss S hadnt returned the vehicle  to T since it had been supplied.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 November  2018.  In that provisional 
decision I said I was minded to uphold the complaint but only in part. I said that I would 
recommend BPF refunded the cost of Miss Ss payment  towards the replacement steering 
column. Since then Ive had replies  from both parties. BPF said it accepted  my provisional 
decision. Miss S replied  through  a representative  and said she didnt agree with my 
provisional view.
I thank both parties for their replies.  Ill deal with the issues raised in my final decision. But as 
Ive not been provided with any new information  I shant be changing  my provisional  
decision. This is largely repeated in my final decision  which  is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Miss S has experienced several  problems  with this vehicle. And Im aware this 
has had a serious impact  on her and made it difficult  for her to get out and about. Miss Ss 
conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service is able 
to consider complaints relating to it. BPF supplied the vehicle and its therefore responsible 
for a complaint about the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - directly - I do 
take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer Rights Act of 2015 (CRA).
In order to make the reasons for my decision clearer Ive set out a chronology  of events 
which have arisen  with this vehicle. I think its helpful  to identify the various  problems and 
how they were dealt with.
At the time the vehicle  was acquired  by Miss S it was around seven years  old and the 
mileage was recorded as just over 71,300 miles.  And its a fact of life that with a vehicle of 
this age and mileage things are more likely  to go wrong.
Ref: DRN92658332In August  2018  Miss S complained about  the brakes on the vehicle and Ive seen an invoice 
from Q about the repairs it carried out. The invoice  is made out to T and shows  that 
suspensions arms and ball joints were replaced  along with the rear brakes. It also refers  to 
the steering being checked  and adjusted.  The mileage is recorded  as 76,892 miles although  
this seems to be inaccurate based on several  further readings. Miss S has made  reference  
to it being 72,804 miles which I think  is probably  more reliable. Although  the invoice is made 
out to T, it (T) says it didnt authorise the work. It said it simply supplied  the parts as a 
gesture of goodwill and itd expected Miss S to pay for the labour.
On 9 October the vehicle broke  down  and was recovered by a vehicle recovery  service , R. 
Ive seen the report by R which refers to running  a scan on the anti-lock braking system 
(ABS) but no fault being recorded.  But R felt the ABS wasnt  working correctly  and advised  it 
should be looked at further. The mileage is recorded as being 73,343 miles. Various fault 
codes were also identified  including an engine control unit (ECU) being blocked and a 
steering column  fault.
After the fault code  labelled steering assistance was identified  by R, T sent an email  to 
Miss S indicating this could be either  lights or steering. It suggested  she should seek to have 
the matter dealt with through her extended warranty. But it did say if this didnt cover the 
issue it might be able to assist.
Some repairs seem  to have been carried out in December 2018  by a company  Ill call B. 
An ignition  switch was replaced apparently due to an intermittent fault. BPF also paid £50 to 
Miss S around this time to reflect the fact that the vehicle had required some repairs.  
Miss S made a further complaint to BPF in February  2019  and explained  that shed had 
various issues with the vehicle  and she referred  to the ignition  key needing to be repaired 
and issues with the steering. But on 21 February BPF sent a final response letter  declining to 
uphold the complaint.
In March 2019 Miss S experienced further  problems with the steering and the vehicle was 
again inspected  by B. And on 2 April R, following a breakdown call out, reported it suspected 
the EGR  valve was sticking  and the vehicle was again  taken  to B. Subsequently, Ive seen 
an invoice from B dated 3 April 2019  which shows the steering column was replaced under 
the extended warranty agreement. It seems Miss S was required to pay £230.40 towards the 
cost.
On 9 April the vehicle again broke down and was recovered by R. The customer  assistance  
report again indicated  that it was suspected the EGR valve was sticking. Mileage at this time 
was recorded  as 75,501.  On 13 May theres  another report of the vehicle breaking  down  and 
R reporting an ongoing fault with the EGR valve.
On 7 June R records  a further issue  with the EGR valve  and that the vehicle wasnt safe to 
drive. The mileage is recorded as 76,335 miles. And as far as Im aware  Miss S hasnt been 
able to drive the vehicle  since.
I want to emphasise that my decision deals only with the actions of BPF.  Im not considering 
the actions of B or R. If Miss S is unhappy with either B or R she will have to take any issues 
up directly with the relevant business.
Ref: DRN92658333Theres no doubt this vehicle has experienced its share of problems but in order  to say that 
Miss S should be entitled to reject  the vehicle Id have  to think that it wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the time of supply. I dont think it would  be fair and reasonable of me to reach that 
conclusion. Ill explain why.
I think it makes  for easier reading if I say the complaint seems to fall into two main 
categories. These relate  to all the issues which arose from the time of supply until the 
steering column  was replaced in April 2019. And then the EGR  valve  fault which  seems  
likely to be the cause  of the vehicle  currently being  out of use.
The EGR fault was first identified around  10 months  after supply and the available  
information doesnt show the fault was present at the point of supply. The vehicle has been 
able to cover  around 5,000 since Miss S acquired it and I dont think that wouldve been 
possible if this fault had been  present from the outset. So I dont think BPF is responsible for 
putting this right.
Dealing with the other  issues,  the first report of any fault was with the brakes. Brakes are 
usually considered to be a wear  and tear item and given  that T supplied the parts which  Q 
fitted, I wouldnt expect  it to do anything else. Although theres reference at the time to the 
steering being  checked and adjusted this doesnt  indicate there was any separate fault with 
the steering column.
Various repairs were  subsequently carried out to the vehicle by B including  an ignition switch 
being changed and the steering column  was replaced under warranty  in April 2019. 
I understand why our adjudicator felt that the repairs which  she thought  were  carried  out by 
Q, on behalf of T, meant  that when  faults arose - which eventually required the steering 
column to be replaced - this indicated thered been an intermittent fault with the steering 
since August. And, that as Q had attempted to repair it and this had failed, Miss S shouldve 
been able to reject the vehicle.
But I respectfully disagree with that view. Ball joints and suspension arms are an important 
part of the vehicles suspension  system and if they get worn or damaged this can affect the 
steering of the vehicle. So Id expect as a matter of routine  for the steering to be checked  
after such  repairs and any necessary adjustment to be carried out.
The work done at this point doesnt show there was a separate fault with the steering. But as 
Miss S still wasnt convinced everything had been  put right, she complained about the 
steering assistance  fault code to T. And T - presumably rather  than investigate the matter 
itself - suggested that she should  contact the provider of her extended  warranty.  And thats  
what she did. This eventually led to the replacement  of the steering column. Ive seen 
information which indicates that Miss S was required to pay £230.40 towards the overall 
costs which  were in excess of £900.
In the light of Ts suggestion to Miss S that she should use her extended warranty  to deal 
with this, and its offer to consider assistance if this didnt cover it, I think  that it would be fair 
and reasonable for her contribution to these  costs to be refunded. The issue had been 
identified within the first six months after supply and Miss S had followed the advice she was 
given by T. It seems  probable that T or BPF wouldve had to meet these costs if theyd not 
been largely covered by the warranty.
Ref: DRN92658334For completeness Ive also considered the fact that BPF says Q didnt carry out any work on 
behalf of T and therefore, it shouldnt be considered a failed repair.  I dont think  I need  to 
make any finding on this issue as Im not finding  there was a failed repair.  Theres no 
suggestion the replaced ball joints or suspension arms failed. And with regard to any 
potential issue with the steering assistance  fault code, Miss S followed the advice she was 
given to take it up with the warranty provider. And it was the warranty provider who later 
authorised the replacement  steering column.
Ill now deal with several issues which were raised  by Miss Ss representative in the reply to 
my provisional decision.
It was suggested  the vehicle  should never  have passed its MOT test in June 2018, prior to 
supply to Miss S, due to the issues  with the ball joints and suspension arms. Im not able to 
make any finding upon  this as the conduct of MOT tests does not fall within the jurisdiction of 
this service. If Miss S wishes to complain to the Driver and Vehicle  Standards  Agency she 
should do so directly.
Concern was also raised about the sale and terms of the warranty and Miss S feels  she 
wasnt supplied with all the relevant  information  until after the sale.  Ive not seen any 
information to suggest the warranty was part of the regulated finance agreement supplied  by 
BPF. So as this complaint refers to BPF Im unable to make any finding on this issue.  Again 
Miss S may be able to take up the matter directly  with the retailer or the provider of the 
warranty.
Miss S also emphasised  that she hadnt  paid towards the labour costs of Q. Ive already 
explained that it seems  T paid these costs - although it said it did so inadvertently. But I dont 
think anything turns on this point.
Finally, Im aware  that Miss S has mentioned the possibility of her taking legal action. That 
would be a matter  entirely  for her. This service  is an informal resolution service  and its open 
to complainants to take such alternative actions  as may be available to them  if they dont 
accept a decision of this service.
 
In summary,  I dont think theres  sufficient information to show  this vehicle wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Its also the case  that as repairs  have been carried  
out by a third party - and these might have  affected  the various issues  which have arisen  
with the vehicle - I cant say BPF should now be responsible for putting things right. It had no 
role in determining  how or by whom the vehicle  was repaired at various stages.
Im aware that in only upholding the complaint in part my decision will come  as a 
disappointment to Miss S. But I think - for the reasons Ive given above - it would be fair and 
reasonable for Miss S to be refunded, upon proof of payment, her contribution towards the 
cost of the replacement steering column.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  this complaint but only in part.
In full and final settlement  of the complaint I require Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited 
trading as Barclays Partner  Finance  to take the following action:
Ref: DRN92658335Upon proof  of payment, refund to Miss S £230.40 (inclusive of VAT) this being the cost of 
her payment  towards  the replacement  steering column. Simple  interest  at the rate of 8% per 
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement should be added
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9265833