K821x#15complaint
Mr V complains about two payday  loans that he took out with Curo Transatlantic Limited, 
trading as WageDay  Advance, (WDA). He said that WDA shouldnt  have given  him the 
loans as they were  unaffordable.
our initial conclusions 
Mr V took out two payday loans with WDA as follows:
Loan number  and 
date of loanLoan amount
Amount to be 
repaid including 
interest (if paid by 
due date)Date repaid and 
other comments
1.21/12/2012 £100 £129.50 30/1/2013
2.1/2/2013 £250 £323.75 Unpaid and sold to 
third party
Mr V said that the loans  helped to trap him in a debt spiral with the loan repayments taking 
so much of his wages  that he had to borrow from other payday lenders to cover his next 
months living costs. Mr V said that in the 30 days prior to Loan  1, he had taken out three 
other payday loans  totalling £700.  He also said that his income was variable as he was a 
student at the time. Mr V said that WDA should  have seen  from its credit  check that he had 
other borrowing and debt problems.
WDA said that it had asked Mr V for his income and expenditure before the loans.  It noted  
that Loan 1 was paid on time. It said that the pattern of lending didnt indicate that Mr V was 
potentially experiencing a level of debt. WDA hadnt  carried out a check at the credit 
reference agencies  as it said that the data wouldnt have been valid or a reliable option at 
that time to establish if Mr V had other  payday loans. So instead Mr V was asked to provide 
details of his expenditure  including other credit commitments.  It had an expectation that any 
other credit commitments would  include payday  loans.
The adjudicator said that the checks WDA made on Loan 1 went  far enough. He said that it 
was reasonable  for WDA to consider  that Mr Vs declared disposable  income of £200  would 
enable him to repay around £125. But he said that the checks on Loan 2 didnt go far 
enough and that Mr Vs disposable income  of £350  wasnt enough to sustainably meet the 
repayment of around £325 as he wouldnt have had funds to meet unexpected costs. So the 
adjudicator recommended  that WDA should:
-Refund all interest  and charges that Mr V paid on Loan 2;
-Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*;
 -     Remove any negative information about this loan from Mr Vs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WDA  to take off tax from this interest. WDA must give 
Mr V a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If WDA intends to 
apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  capital  balance, it must do so after deducting  the 
tax.
WDA disagreed and said, in summary,  that the fact that Mr V was left with disposable 
income following  repayment of the loans showed  that they were affordable. It said that Mr V 
Ref: DRN94534762hadnt told it about any sudden or urgent expenses occurring  before repayment of the loan. It 
also said that as Loan 1 was repaid without difficulty, it didnt feel that it was reasonable for it 
to have had concerns about lending again. And as Mr V had only taken two loans from 
WDA, it was clear that Mr V wasnt reliant  on its short  term loan product. It also said that no 
other short term loans  were evident  from its checks.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
WDA was required  to lend responsibly.  It should have made checks to make  sure 
Mr V could afford to repay each of the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr V was borrowing, and his lending history. But 
there was no set list of checks WDA  had to do. 
The guidance in place at the time of the loans (The Office of Fair Tradings Irresponsible 
Lending Guidance) sets out the lenders  responsibility to take reasonable steps to ensure 
that a borrower  can sustainably  repay  their loans.  It said that assessing affordability is a 
borrower-focussed test which  involves a creditor assessing a borrowers ability  to undertake  
a specific credit commitment, or specific additional  credit commitment, in a sustainable 
manner, without the borrower incurring (further) financial difficulties.  The guidance also said 
that repaying credit in a sustainable manner  meant  being able to repay credit out of income 
and/or available savings and without undue difficulty. And it defined  undue difficulty as 
being able to repay credit while also meeting other debt repayments and normal/reasonable 
outgoings and without having to borrow further to meet these repayments.
I cant assume that because Mr V managed to repay  one of his loans that he was able to do 
so out of his normal means without having to borrow further. 
WDA has told us about the checks it did before  lending to Mr V. It asked him each time 
about his normal  income,  and his monthly expenditure. Mr V said that his income was 
£1,100 and £1,250  respectively  for the loans. But his outgoings were £900 for both loans. I 
also note that WDA didnt  carry out a search  at the credit reference agencies  at the time, 
although I can see that its records show that it carried out an identity check.
I note that Mr V said that he had other borrowing  and debt problems  and that WDA would 
have seen this from its credit check. But the guidance in place at the time didnt require 
lenders to carry out credit checks.  So I cant say that WDA shouldnt  have lent without doing 
one. 
I also note that WDA  said that other  short term loans werent evident from its checks. WDA 
said that it had asked Mr V to provide  details  of his expenditure including  other credit 
commitments and that it expected that the commitments provided  would include  payday 
loans. I dont think this was a reasonable expectation as I dont think borrowers would 
necessarily know whether to include payday loans within an amount for credit  commitments 
or to just include regular  credit commitments  such as loan and credit  card repayments.
I also note that WDA  said that Mr V wasnt reliant on its short  term loan product as hed only 
taken two loans  from it. But as Mr V didnt  repay  Loan 2, I think  it unlikely  that he would have  
applied to WDA for another loan.
Ref: DRN94534763WDA told us that before lending Loan 1 to Mr V, it had asked  him about his income and 
regular expenditure. Mr V had declared a monthly income of £1,100 and regular expenditure 
of £900 at the time of Loan 1. So that left him with a disposable income of £200  to repay the 
repayment amount  of £129.50. WDA said that as there would  be disposable income left after 
repayment of the loans,  that showed  they were affordable. I note that Mr V would have been 
left with just over £70 after repaying Loan  1. But given the early stage of WDAs relationship 
with Mr V and the small amount being borrowed,  I think it was reasonable here for WDA to 
have considered it reasonable to make  this loan.
Loan 2 was taken out two days after Loan  1 was repaid. The amount borrowed had 
increased substantially  from £100 to £250.  The loan repayment amount represented a 
significant percentage of Mr Vs declared  income.  I note that WDA said that as Loan  1 was 
paid without difficulty, it didnt feel it was reasonable to have concerns about lending again  to 
Mr V. But I think  it might  have had concerns in view of the substantial increase in his 
borrowing and that his second  loan request  was so soon after his first loan was repaid. 
Mr V had declared a monthly income  of £1,250 and regular expenditure of £900 at the time 
of Loan 2. So that left him with a disposable  income of £350  to repay the repayment  amount 
of £323.75. I noted  above  that WDA  had said that as there  would be disposable income  left 
after repayment of the loans, that showed they were affordable.  But I disagree with that 
statement here. Given the amount left over after repayment of the loan, I cant  see how Mr V 
could sustainably afford the loan. I also think it possible  that the expenditure declared by 
Mr V was unlikely to cover all routine expenditure, so any amount left over was likely to be 
used for routine expenditure as well as unforeseen expenses. So, I dont think a responsible 
lender would have considered this a sustainable loan and I dont think WDA should have 
given Loan 2 to Mr V.
I also said above that the regulators requirements set out a lenders responsibility  to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that borrowers  can sustainably  repay  their loans.  This involves 
assessing a borrowers ability to undertake a specific credit commitment in a sustainable 
manner, without the borrower incurring (further) financial difficulties.  Ive carefully thought  
above about whether Mr Vs disposable income was sufficient to show that the repayment 
for Loan 2 could  be made in a sustainable  manner. But I dont think  Mr V would have had 
enough left over each  month after making  the loan repayment for WDA to have  safely  
concluded he could  sustainably afford  Loan  2. It would have taken a small change in Mr Vs 
financial circumstances for him to have significant problems making  ends meet after his loan 
repayment. 
For the above reasons, Im not persuaded by WDAs comments in response to the 
adjudicators recommendations and I agree with the adjudicator that WDA shouldnt have 
given Loan 2 to Mr V. To settle the complaint, I think WDA should:-
1.Refund all the interest  and charges  that Mr V has paid on Loan  2, and pay 8% simple 
interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of settlement. As 
the balance on Loan 2 has been transferred to a third party (T), WDA should also 
refund any unpaid interest and charges that are included in the outstanding balance  
on Loan 2 (since T will expect to collect this money from Mr V);
2.As Loan  2 has been transferred to T, pay the above refunds to Mr V in full and no 
deductions should be made  by WDA. But, if WDA buys  back Loan 2 from T within 21 
days of Mr Vs acceptance of my decision, it may apply the refunds referred  to above 
to reduce any capital  outstanding on Loan 2, and pay any balance to Mr V; and
Ref: DRN945347643.Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Vs credit  file with regard to 
Loan 2 if WDA buys it back.  If Loan 2 has to remain with T, then WDA is to assist 
Mr V, so far as it is able, to correct his credit file record. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WDA  to take off tax from this interest. WDA must give 
Mr V a certificate  showing  how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one. If WDA intends to 
apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  capital  balance, it must do so after deducting  the 
tax. 
As my compensation award  differed  from that of the adjudicator to take into account that 
there was a balance  outstanding on Loan 2 which had been transferred to a third party, I 
asked the adjudicator to ask WDA if it had any comments  on this. WDA  hasnt provided any 
comments. Im satisfied that my above award is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Curo Transatlantic Limited, trading as WageDay Advance, to:
1.Refund all the interest  and charges  that Mr V has paid on Loan  2, and pay 8% 
simple interest* a year on the refunds  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement. As the balance on Loan 2 has been  transferred  to a third party (T), 
WDA should also refund  any unpaid interest  and charges that are included  in the 
outstanding balance on Loan  2 (since T will expect to collect  this money  from 
Mr V);
2.As Loan  2 has been transferred to T, pay the above refunds to Mr V in full and no 
deductions should be made  by WDA. But, if WDA buys  back Loan 2 from T within 
21 days of Mr Vs acceptance of my decision,  it may apply  the refunds referred to 
above to reduce any capital outstanding  on Loan 2, and pay any balance  to Mr V; 
and
3.Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Vs credit  file with regard to 
      Loan 2 if WDA buys  it back. If Loan 2 has to remain with T, then WDA is to assist 
      Mr V, so far as it is able, to correct his credit  file record. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WDA  to take off tax from this interest. WDA must give 
Mr V a certificate  showing  how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one. If WDA intends to 
apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  capital  balance, it must do so after deducting  the 
tax. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9453476