K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004 alongside a further advance. Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-
sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The MPPI was sold during a meeting between Mr S and Halifax. During  that meeting Halifax  
shouldve made  Mr S aware  he had a choice in buying the policy.  Mr S says he was told he 
needed to take the policy  in order to get the borrowing.  
Neither Halifax nor Mr S has much  paperwork  from the time of sale. I dont think thats 
surprising. But it does  mean I have limited information  about the sale, so I have to decide 
what I think is likely to have happened, given the information I do have and the broader 
circumstances.
Ive seen a screenshot of Halifaxs records which shows  it asked  Mr S a series of questions  
checking whether  he was eligible for the policy  and also recorded his answers. I think  this 
suggests that a discussion  took place between Mr S and Halifax about mortgage PPI  and 
based on what I know about how Halifax sold policies  like this at the time I think  its likely the 
optional nature wouldve been made clear.  
So overall I think its more  likely  Halifax made it clear to Mr S he had a choice about the 
MPPI and he agreed to it.  
Halifax recommended  the policy to Mr S. So it had to check  it was right for him. 
Looking at Mr S circumstances, he seems to have had a need for the cover. Mr S wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions  or limits on the MPPI cover.  
Mr S says he didnt have any sick pay benefits from his employer or any other  means  such 
as savings  he couldve used to make his mortgage  repayments.  So it seems  Mr S had a 
need for the policy.  Mr S was borrowing funds against a large and long term financial 
commitment, which was secured on his home, on his own.  So I think  having the security that 
his mortgage repayments would be made if he was unable to work would have been 
important to him.
Mr S says Halifax  didnt explain anything about  the policy to him. Looking  at everything Ive 
been given, its possible the information Halifax gave  Mr S about  the MPPI  wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But Mr S chose to take out the MPPI - so it looks  like he wanted  this 
type of cover. And  for the reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. 
Ref: DRN95076242It also looks like the policy was affordable for him. So I dont think  better  information  about 
the MPPI  would have  put Mr S off taking out the cover.
Overall, I dont  think Mr S have lost out by anything Halifax might have done wrong. This 
means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything Mr S 
paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered  to give Mr S back  some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr S.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9507624