K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that, after selling some shares  in September  2018,  Computershare Investor 
Services Plc failed to track down the proceeds from more than three months later causing 
her considerable distress.
background
Ms W said shed  been unable to pay an invoice as a result of this problem, which had 
caused her considerable trouble and upset. She also felt that an incorrect  bank number was 
a common error and that Computershare  should  have been  geared up to sorting this out far 
sooner.
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel her complaint  should  be upheld.
He said that Computershare was not responsible for the initial  transfer not reaching its 
destination as this was due to Ms W putting an incorrect bank account number on the form.
He also felt its subsequent actions had been  appropriate and reasonable. In particular, he 
noted:
Ms W sold the shares (units) on 24 September,  electing  for the proceeds  to be paid 
into her bank account
On 25 October Ms W told Computershare that she hadnt  received payment
On 31 October Computershare confirmed the account into which  the funds had 
allegedly been paid; Ms W replied that this was not her account  number and on 1 
November it placed a trace on the payment via its bank, and updated  Ms W 
accordingly
On 7 November  it said the matter  was still being investigated and her bank had been 
contacted
On 17 November Computershare  was told by its bank  that Ms Ws bank had not 
responded to its requests
On 23 November it advised Ms W to pursue this missing sum with her bank
On 11 December Ms W told Computershare  that her bank had said the funds had 
been rejected  on 28 September and provided a copy of that rejection message
On 8 January  Computershare  chased  its bank and were  told the funds had been 
found and were being returned to Computershare so it could pay them  into Ms Ws 
bank account.  This occurred on 10 January  2019
Overall, he felt Computershare had acted with reasonable speed, saying it had pursued its 
bank about the missing  funds promptly and received a response within a fortnight. He also 
noted that once it had been told the fund transfer had been rejected, on 14 December, it had 
then pursued things further  and delivered the money  into her account within 20 working 
days.
Ms W did not agree, and said:
Her bank returned the funds to Computershare on 28 September  2018  but she did 
not receive them till 10 January 2019
Ref: DRN98938992my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked Computershare for more evidence about  what, if anything, its bank had told it after 
Ms Ws funds had been returned   and what actions it had taken to identify  the source of the 
money now residing in its bank as a result of a clients  failed transaction (even if the name of 
the client in question was not identified in the banking record).
After further correspondence with Computershare, I explained that I felt it was ultimately  
responsible for the failure to identify this money  in either its account or its payment providers 
 and take appropriate action to ensure Ms W was refunded this money far sooner.
Given the sum involved and the considerable delay, I felt it should  pay Ms W £500. This 
roughly equated  to £250 in lieu of being unfairly  deprived of interest on the money (using 8% 
simple) and £250 in lieu of the trouble and upset  this whole  issue  had caused.
Computershare agreed to this, saying its payment provider would do this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Computershare Investor Services  Plc to pay Ms W £500 
if this sum has not already been paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9893899