K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1997 
alongside a mortgage. Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), Cheltenham and Gloucester at 
the time,  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Unfortunately, due to the length of time since the sale, some of the documentation from the 
sale of the policy is no longer available for me to see. And as I wasnt present at the meeting 
either I must  look at the limited documents available  alongside  the evidence  provided by 
both parties to come to a decision on what I think is more likely to have happened. 
Ive considered carefully what Mr B has said, including what  he said about the PPI being  
added without his knowledge or consent. Ive also considered  how long ago the sale was 
and that it wouldnt  be reasonable to expect Mr B to recall every detail from such a long time 
ago. And while  I dont doubt what  Mr Bs has told us are his honest recollections, this is not 
enough on its own to make me think its more likely the PPI was added  without  his 
knowledge and consent. So, without stronger evidence to show  Lloyds  didnt make  Mr B 
aware the PPI was optional, I cant fairly  uphold  the complaint on this point. I think its more 
likely than not that Lloyds wouldve made Mr B aware that he had a choice about buying  the 
PPI and that he chose to take it out.
Lloyds didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Mr B says he wasnt given any information about the policy, nor was he sent the terms and 
conditions of the cover. And I do think its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B about  
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen  of his 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover - so it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Mr B says he already  had an insurance  policy that wouldve covered him for accident, 
sickness or unemployment as well as a life and critical illness policy,  so he didnt need the 
PPI. He also says he had some saving  which  were  held with his company and he couldve 
used these funds  to help him make his repayments. We asked for some more  information 
and evidence of the accident,  sickness and unemployment policy  Mr B says he had in place. 
However, at the time of writing weve not received a response. So Ive not been persuaded 
that a similar  policy was in place at the time.  And even though Mr B had some  savings,  the 
PPI wouldve  paid out on top of his savings, so these funds couldve been used for other 
expenses. These savings  also seen to have been held with his company, this money was 
guaranteed as he couldve  moved jobs or the company couldve  withdrawn  this benefit at 
Ref: DRN96278692any time. So I think the cover wouldve been useful for him and I dont think  better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  it out. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9627869