K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) unfairly  settled 
a claim as a fault claim under his car insurance  policy. 
background
Mr H bought a car insurance policy with LV. In July 2018 he was in the process of reversing  
into his drive. In order to do this, he needed  to pull across toward the left before carrying  out 
the reverse manoeuvre.  Mr H has provided photos  and a clear diagram to support his 
account.
As Mr H was reversing his car, he collided into a third party vehicle (TPV) which  was 
correctly travelling on the left hand side of the road.  Mr H believes the other driver must have 
seen him carrying out the reverse manoeuvre and should have waited.
LV said that the great responsibility was on Mr H to check it was safe for him to reverse  as 
his was the riskier manoeuvre and the TPV was correctly proceeding. So it decided to settle 
the third partys claim  for damages to her car. This meant it recorded  the claim  as a fault 
claim against Mr H.
Mr H asked us to look at his complaint. He was also unhappy that LV said it had contacted 
him to tell him about  the third party claim, but the first time he was aware  of it was when he 
received his renewal  documents. 
Our adjudicator thought LV had acted  reasonably.  He explained that we dont decide  liability 
 but he felt LV had fairly  applied a very common term which allows  it to take over the 
defence and settlement of a claim under the policy. He thought that LV had reached its 
decision reasonably.  He saw that LV had instructions to only call Mr Hs daughter  but it 
said it had tried to call Mr H. But in any event,  LV sent a letter  to Mr H confirming it would 
settle the third partys  claim. So ultimately  he didnt think  this changed the outcome. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said it was dangerous of the other driver to mount the pavement  and 
drive onto his private drive, rather than simply wait for him to finish reversing his car into his 
drive. Mr H said LV didnt try to contact him or his daughter by phone as he has an answer 
machine. He doesnt believe it sent him a letter dated 27 September  2018 (which it later sent 
a copy) which confirmed  how it intended  to deal with the third party claim.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand Mr H will be disappointed, 
but having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. Ill explain  why.
As the adjudicator explained,  it isnt our role to decide liability. We can look at whether an 
insurer reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy.  
Mr Hs policy  has a very common term which  Ive seen  in most  if not all motor  insurance 
policies. This term says that LV can defend  and settle a claim. This means that LV might  
make a decision Mr H disagrees with, but the policy allows it to do this. 
Ref: DRN91502402We dont disagree with this term in principle, provided the insurer  can show  it treated Mr H 
fairly when  it was applied. 
I know how strongly Mr H feels about LVs decision.  Mr H has provided a very clear and 
detailed account  - and his diagram and photos have  been very helpful. 
But I think LV properly considered the circumstances of the incident. LV explained  that the 
greater responsibility  was on Mr H to check that it was safe and clear  before he carried out 
the reverse manoeuvre.  Its also reasonable that the third party may have mounted  the 
pavement in an effort  to avoid a collision with Mr Hs car. There were no independent  
witnesses. 
LV as the insurer  has experience in negotiating,  defending and settling claims on the best 
terms possible  based on the evidence available to it. As it said - it was for Mr H to check  it 
was clear before he reversed. So I think LVs decision to settle the third partys claim for 
damages was fair as the at fault insurer. And this means I think  its decision to record the 
claim as a fault claim under Mr Hs policy was a reasonable one. 
LV provided a copy of a letter it sent to Mr H dated 27 September  2018. In this letter  LV 
confirmed that it would look to settle the third partys claim on the best terms possible.  I 
agree with Mr H that the letter had spelling errors. But I dont think this means  LV didnt send 
it. I think its unfortunate that Mr H didnt  receive  it  and so I can understand  his shock when 
he found out at renewal. But from what Ive seen, I think  LV let Mr H know  when it received 
the third party  claim and that it intended to settle it in September  2018. 
I understand how upset  Mr H feels with the way LV dealt with the claim. But overall I think  it 
acted reasonably and in line with the policy. This means I dont think it needs to do anymore. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9150240