K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complained she was mis-sold  a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  St 
Andrews Insurance  plc (St Andrews) has taken responsibility for this complaint. 
background
Mrs H bought the PPI during a telephone call with St Andrews in February 2010. It looks as 
though this was after she had taken  out the loan in a branch of the lending  bank. St 
Andrews said it advised Mrs H to take the PPI. Mrs H didnt think  shed  received  advice  but 
said she was told she had to take the PPI to get the loan. She also said that she wasnt 
given enough  information about the cover, and that she didnt need it as she had good 
employee benefits.
 
The monthly cost of the policy  was £12.07. If Mrs H had successfully claimed  on the policy  
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it wouldve covered the monthly  loan repayments  of 
£120.59 for up to 12 months per claim. The policy also included  carer cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say St Andrews had mis-sold the 
PPI. So he didnt uphold  the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
St Andrews  wasnt able to send  in a recording of the telephone call between Mrs H and the 
adviser, but I do have  a copy  of the script it said wouldve been used. I cant  know  whether 
the adviser followed the script word-for-word  but I think  its likely that it was broadly 
followed. The script required the adviser  to state  that the PPI was optional, and to ask the 
consumer whether they wanted to go ahead with the cover. It also required the adviser to 
say that the policy  could  be cancelled  at any time. 
Ive considered what Mrs H said about being told that she had to take out the PPI policy.  But 
Ive also kept in mind  that St Andrews said she was advised to take out the cover. And from 
whats in the script,  it looks  as though  the adviser is likely to have recommended the PPI for 
Mrs H, rather  than say that she must  have  it. This is a subtle difference, and as the sale took 
place over nine years  ago, its possible Mrs H hasnt remembered exactly  what was said at 
the time.
Overall, I dont  think I can fairly say that its most likely that Mrs H was told she had to take 
out the policy, which is what I must be able to do before I can uphold her complaint on this 
point. I simply  dont  have enough  evidence to say that this is what  happened.
I think St Andrews did advise Mrs H to take out the policy.  So it had to make  sure that it was 
suitable for her. I think it was. 
Ref: DRN94990172The script required the adviser to explain the main  things  not covered by the policy. From the 
information I have,  I dont think Mrs H wouldve been  affected  by any of these. 
Mrs H told us that she was entitled  to sick pay from her employer  of six months full pay 
followed by six months half pay. She mentioned having other means  of repaying the loan, 
but then referred  to her salary. So it doesnt look as though Mrs H had much  by way of 
savings to rely on. Overall I think Mrs H couldve found it difficult  to meet  the loan 
repayments once  her sick pay reduced or if she lost her job. So I think  the PPI couldve 
given Mrs H useful cover. 
Ive also considered the information that St Andrews gave Mrs H. The script  required the 
adviser to state  the cost of the policy, and to ask whether Mrs H was happy to go ahead  on 
the basis of the limited  information provided (with  the full policy  being promised after the 
call). From what I can see, I think its most  likely that there was enough information for Mrs H 
to reasonably understand the main points of the cover. 
Overall; I dont  have enough evidence to say that St Andrews mis-sold Mrs Hs PPI policy.  I 
think it couldve provided useful protection if Mrs H had been unable to work. This means 
shes not worse off, so theres nothing St Andrews needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9499017