K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined his claim and about its service  under 
his travel insurance. My references to AXA include its agents.
background
Mr H was on holiday in Europe with his wife when  he became ill with a urine  infection.  On 
13 May the doctor  at the local hospital prescribed him antibiotics.  Mr H felt worse and 
returned to the hospital  three days later. Another  doctor told Mr H she wouldnt change the 
antibiotics as he had to give them a chance to work. The doctor also told him she wouldnt 
catheterise him. He returned  to his accommodation with pain relief.
Mr H contacted AXA. He was due to get the ferry home a few days later and he was 
concerned what to do if his condition got worse. He says hed told AXA that he had a similar 
problem in the past where his condition deteriorated and he had to be hospitalised. AXA told 
Mr H he needed to get a medical report from hospital and complete and return a request of 
medical information form (ROI). 
Mr H didnt get the medical  report.  He took an early ferry home at an additional cost of £175.  
He says a urine  test by his GP in the UK confirmed he still had an infection.
Mr H is very unhappy that AXA wouldnt help him without having a medical  report. He says 
AXA didnt tell him he needed  a medical  report until after hed been to hospital  the second  
time and he was very unwell so it wasnt reasonable for him to go to the hospital  again for a 
report. He thought the policy terms didnt say AXA needed a medical report and it should 
have given simple  advice without having a report.  Also AXA told him to make  a claim for his 
additional ferry cost which it then declined.
Our investigator thought AXA had acted fairly.
Mr H disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans  decision. He says AXA knew he was seriously  
ill and didnt help him. He felt abandoned.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  I need to decide  whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably, and 
I think it did. Ill explain why.
AXAs call notes show that when  Mr H contacted it on 14 May it asked him to get a medical  
report. Its mail to Mr H on 14 May listed the information it needed from him, the first being a 
full medical report issued by your treating  doctor confirming the diagnosis and the treatment 
that you have  received.  So the evidence is that AXA did ask Mr H for a medical report  
before he went to the hospital on 16 May.
But even if thats  not correct, AXA acted  fairly  in asking for a medical  report  before it could 
give Mr H medical  assistance. Mr H was able to give AXA some  information about his 
condition. But AXA reasonably wanted  a medically  accurate report  of his condition which its 
Ref: DRN96109052medical team would assess  and decide if it was suitable for him to continue  with his trip or if 
other action  was needed.
The policy says AXA must approve  Mr Hs early return from holiday for that to be covered 
and Mr H needed to provide supporting  medical evidence from a medical practitioner. Also,  
its standard procedure  for most insurers  to ask for a medical report before providing  medical  
assistance. AXA didnt  do anything wrong  in asking for a report in Mr Hs situation.
Mr H has shown that AXA received his ROI on 17 May and Ive considered whether it should 
have contacted the hospital and got the report for Mr H. If Mr H had been seriously ill it 
would have been reasonable for AXA to do so. I do understand Mr H was in discomfort with 
his infection and worried. But theres  no medical  evidence that he was seriously  ill and 
unable to go to the hospital  to get the report.
Mr H says AXA should have been able to assist him with the following three matters without 
the medical report. 
I dont have any evidence  that Mr H asked AXA about the nearest  hospital with a urology 
department. If he had asked, AXA should  have reasonably given that information although 
without a medical report it wouldnt have been  able to say the facility could assist  him. But 
even if AXA didnt tell him I dont think it altered Mr Hs position. Unless his condition  was an 
emergency its probable that the department wouldnt have seen him before he was due to 
return home on 20 May. Theres no medical evidence  Mr Hs condition  was an emergency.
AXA wouldnt have been able to tell Mr H if the ferry was able to cope with his condition as it 
didnt have sufficient  medical evidence about his condition.
Its not AXAs responsibility under the policy to tell Mr H where to park his vehicle.
Although AXA told Mr H to claim for the earlier ferry cost it wasnt confirming the claim would  
be paid. For Mr H to make a successful claim he would need  to have medical evidence that 
it was medically necessary for him to return home early and Ive seen no such evidence.
AXA acted  fairly and reasonably in its service and in declining the claim. AXAs final 
response letter to Mr H did refer to his flight home, which wasnt correct, but I dont think he 
was sufficiently inconvenienced by that error  for me to make a compensation award.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9610905