K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
During a meeting in 2000 Mr and Mrs W took out a loan with Halifax.  At the same time they 
were sold a regular  premium PPI policy to protect  their repayments. Although the loan was in 
joint names the policy was in Mrs Ws name only.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She thought the policy was 
presented as optional and wouldve suited  their needs.  
Mr and Mrs W disagreed.  They say Mrs W was entitled to sick pay and didnt need the 
policy. 
 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Mr and Mrs W applied  for a loan during a meeting with Halifax.  Mr and Mrs W say it wasnt  
made clear the policy was optional. I dont know exactly what  was discussed at the time. And 
given the length of time that has passed since Mr and Mrs W were  sold the policy  I wouldnt 
expect them to have  a detailed recollection  of what was discussed. So Ive given more 
weight to what the documents from the time of the sale show.
Ive seen a sample  copy of the loan application  form that Mr and Mrs W wouldve had to 
sign. It has two separate boxes about PPI. One box asks if they want  to take PPI. And the 
other asks them  to confirm if they dont want PPI. So I think  Mr and Mrs W wouldve realised 
they had a choice about whether  to take the policy and I think  the policy  wouldve only been 
added to the loan agreement if they had signed  under the YES.
Ive also seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ws loan agreement. I can see on the loan agreement  
that the costs  of the loan and PPI are set out separately on the right. Mr and Mrs W have 
signed just to the bottom left of the agreement. I think Mr and Mrs W wouldve read the 
agreement that they signed and understood they were taking out PPI with the loan. And I 
dont think that PPI wouldve been included  on the agreement if there hadnt been a 
discussion about PPI and Mr and Mrs W hadnt  agreed to take it. 
So taking everything into account, I think that Halifax did make it clear the policy was 
optional and that Mr and Mrs W chose  to take PPI at the time of the sale.
This was an advised  sale. What  this means  is that Halifax not only had to provide 
information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs W could 
Ref: DRN98616942make an informed choice  about buying PPI. They also had to make sure that if they were to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to their needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Halifax did take all the steps they shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs W for the following reasons:
Mrs W was eligible  for the policy and it doesnt  look like she wouldve  been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.  
At the time of the sale Mrs W says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay but 
had no other means of making her repayments  if she couldnt work. The policy 
wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay and wouldve covered her repayments for up 
to 60 months and for up to 12 months  if she lost her job. So I think the policy 
wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs W in their circumstances.  
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs W at 
the time and if they no longer wanted  the policy they could cancel it.  
I also need to consider  whether Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs W information  in a way which  was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. I can see that cost of the policy was shown on the loan 
agreement but I dont know if Halifax gave all of the information as they shouldve.
For the same reasons  that the policy was suitable and based on what  Mr and Mrs W has told 
us about their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if 
theyd been given all the proper information on the policy.  
This means  Mr and Mrs W arent  worse  off as a result of any wrong doing by Halifax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against  
Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2019
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9861694