K821x#15complaint
Miss J is unhappy that Covea Insurance plc has cancelled  her home insurance policy  on the 
ground of fraud and is requiring her to repay what it had already paid her in respect of the 
claim.
background
Miss J made a claim  to Covea on 18 April 2018.  She said her home had been broken into. 
Part of her claim was for damage to her garden.
On 1 May 2018  she sent Covea an invoice  for the damage to her garden amounting  to 
£1,100 for fencing and gates, £80 for digging out and disposing of old broken shrubs and 
£550 for replacement  shrubs. The invoice said that the work had been carried out between 
19 and 20 April 2018.
Coveas loss adjuster  visited the property on 1 June 2018 and he reported there were no 
shrubs planted in the relevant part of the garden.
Covea said it wouldnt settle the claim for the fencing as the fence belonged to Miss Js 
neighbour. It asked  for copies of receipts and photos for the shrubs.
Covea said that in August 2018 Miss J provided it with receipts for £885.02 for plants and 
photos of the shrubs she said shed bought. Covea raised concerns because  the receipts 
were dated  after the date of the invoice from her landscape gardener. It noted  that the 
landscape gardener  lived at the property  with Miss J. It said Miss J had deliberately 
misrepresented to it that the shrubs had been  replaced in April 2018.
Covea also said it had obtained a photo from Miss Js neighbour which appeared to have 
been taken shortly after the break-in.  It said it showed that parts of the fencing had been 
removed rather than broken down and there  were  no shrubs  visible through  the gap in the 
fence. It alleged that Miss J had deliberately  exaggerated her claim by claiming for items that 
hadnt been there in the first place. It said as a result  it was cancelling  her policy  from the 
date of the claim and wouldnt pay any more in respect of the claim.  It required her to repay 
what shed received in respect of her claim  which  was over £7,800.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. An 
extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Fraud  is defined as an attempt to gain a benefit  that one isnt actually entitled  to receive. It 
is a serious allegation as an accusation  of fraud can have  far-reaching consequences.  As 
such this service has long held that an insurer, if alleging fraud,  needs  firstly  to be very clear 
with its policyholder about the reasons it feels a fraud has occurred and secondly support 
such an allegation with strong evidence. In essence its findings must be robust and 
persuasive.
Although I can understand why Covea considered that fraud  was a possibility in this case, 
from what Ive seen,  Im not persuaded Covea  has shown,  its more likely than not that 
Miss J deliberately exaggerated her claim.  It relied on the following to cancel Miss Js policy 
and Ill look at each  point in turn:
Ref: DRN93395152The photo from the neighbour which it said suggested that there hadnt been  any plants 
behind the damaged  part of the fence before the incident.
The fact that shed presented an invoice which said all the work had been carried  out 
when the shrubs hadnt been  bought at that stage.
Ive looked at the photo taken by Miss Js neighbour. I agree that it shows  a small gap in the 
fencing through which no shrubs are visible. Miss J says that the shrubs she claimed for 
were under the fencing that had come down. I dont think  theres  enough information in the 
loss adjusters report or other photos to support Coveas allegation. Since this part of the 
claim involved 12 metres of fencing  and the photo  is only of a small gap in the fence,  I dont 
think Covea has convincingly shown that there werent shrubs in this part of the garden  
originally.
Theres no doubt that the invoice Miss J presented for the garden works was misleading. It 
said All work has been carried out between  the 19th and 20th of April 2018 when the 
shrubs clearly hadnt been replaced at that point. I also agree there appear to be 
inconsistencies in how this was explained to Covea. Miss J said she couldnt  afford  and 
didnt have time to buy new shrubs straight away as her priority was to make her garden 
secure. Her partner/gardener said it was too hot to plant new shrubs. I think both of these 
explanations are plausible because Miss J would have had a number of other expenses  as a 
result of the claim and there was unseasonably  warm weather at the relevant time. That 
doesnt mean it was acceptable to send in an invoice which was misleading. But conversely I 
dont think its enough in itself to justify  Covea cancelling the policy  for fraud.
In this case whilst its clear  to me that Covea has concerns  about  this part of the claim, in my 
view it hasnt shown sufficient proof to convince me that its decision in respect of fraud  was 
fairly and reasonably made. As such it will have to remove the record of fraud from its own 
and any national database and re-instate the policy if Miss J wants it to. If she doesnt want  
the policy reinstated, Covea will have to change its own and industry records to show  the 
policy as having  been cancelled by Miss J. It also shouldnt require Miss J to repay any of 
the payments  already made in respect  of the claim.
For the avoidance of doubt Covea is entitled  to assess what  it considers would be a 
reasonable amount to pay for replacement shrubs.
In response to my provisional decision Miss J said shed found  it difficult  to find another  
insurer due to her insurance  record and that shed been made  to feel uncomfortable by 
Coveas loss adjuster.
Covea accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional  findings,  I see no reason to change  them  and they 
now form part of my findings in this final decision.
Its understandable  that Miss J has found it more difficult to obtain  insurance because of the 
record of her policy having been  cancelled  on the ground of fraud.  My decision should mean 
that this isnt an issue for her in future. If she thinks in the meantime she has paid more  for 
Ref: DRN93395153insurance as a result of the cancellation, she may wish to provide evidence  of that to Covea 
and seek reimbursement of the increase. 
I appreciate that Miss J may have  felt uncomfortable  with the questioning  by Coveas loss 
adjuster. But there were  some anomalies in respect  of her claim and it was his job to try to 
get to the bottom of them. I havent  seen any evidence that the loss adjuster treated Miss J 
unreasonably.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Covea Insurance plc to:
remove its record of fraud and cancellation from any internal and external databases;
reinstate the policy up to the next renewal after the claim date if its requested to do so by 
Miss J. If she doesnt require reinstatement,  then it should mark the policy  and any 
relevant database to show the policy was cancelled by the policyholder; and
reassess Miss Js claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9339515