K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), who were trading at the time as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester plc (C&G),  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  policy,  once in 
2004 and again in 2007.
background and summary to complaint
Mr B bought PPI when  he took a mortgage  in 2004. When Mr B took further borrowing in 
2007 the original mortgage was paid off and a new mortgage started. Mr B was sold PPI to 
go along with the new borrowing. Both Lloyds and Mr B think these sales  occurred in a 
branch. 
The policy for each  sale provided cover  for Mr B for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay the mortgage amount £340.45 a 
month in 2004,  and £415.39 a month in 2007,  towards Mr Bs mortgage balance  in the event 
of a successful claim. In addition, in the event of a successful claim the policies also paid out 
an additional  £3 per £1000 of mortgage account  balance at the point of claim, up to certain 
maxima. At the time of the sale in 2004  the policy cost £8.70  a month, and in 2007 it was 
£12.50 a month. 
Mr B initially  provided his circumstances for the sale in 2007. We asked him to clarify  his 
details at the time of the sale in 2004  and to provide  some evidence  for the benefits  he told 
us about. Mr Bs representatives told us they had been unable to contact Mr B and that we 
should assess the complaint using the details Mr B provided for the 2007 sale and to use 
those same details for the 2004  sale as well. 
Where there is missing or insufficient evidence  for me to consider, I need to make my 
decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider  what  I do have,  look 
at what both sides have  said,  and make a decision based on what I think most likely 
happened. 
Lloyds has provided  the mortgage  application  for both sales. These show  that at the time of 
the 2004 sale Mr B was employed as a maintenance foreman. In 2007 Mr B was employed  
as a manager for a park resort.  For the 2007 sale Mr B told us he was entitled  to one year on 
full pay in the event he was off work  through ill health. This is an unusually high level of sick 
pay for any occupation, so we had asked Mr B to supply  some evidence of it. At the time of 
writing we have not received any such evidence. And so, this has reduced the weight I feel 
able to place on what Mr B told us about his circumstances  at the time of the sales in 2004 
and 2007. Consequently,  I believe its more  likely  that Mr B had benefits  which  were smaller  
than he told us about, i.e. that his sick pay was most likely less than full pay for 12 months. 
But, whatever  Mr Bs sick pay was in 2007, I think its reasonable to assume  it was the same 
in 2004. 
Mr B also told us he had more than a years worth of savings and other means  at the time of 
the sale in 2007. Mr B later told us he had savings  of £1,000  and £1,500 in life cover. And 
so, in the same way as above, I think its reasonable,  in the circumstances, to assume  that 
this is what he held at the time of the sale in 2004. These assets  dont suggest to me that Mr 
B would have been able to maintain his salary for a whole year based on these other  means 
alone. 
Ref: DRN93664132Mr B has said he was in good  health  at the time of the sale in 2007, and so it follows he was, 
most likely, in good health in 2004. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account was redeemed  and that 
the mortgage account was a regulated account. The screenshots tell us that the mortgage 
accounts became  regulated when Mr B took a further advance  in 2007.   
Mr Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Bs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Bs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr B and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN93664133relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
This first sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching 
principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable 
to this complaint;  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Mr B arranged a further advance on his mortgage after mortgage  lending became regulated 
in October 2004   this led to the whole mortgage becoming an FCA regulated  mortgage. 
That means the unfair relationship provisions  set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, 
the Supreme Court  judgment in Plevin  about  s.140A  of that Act and the rules and guidance 
made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission 
in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable  to the sale in 2004 or the sale in 2007.
the 2004 sale
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
Ref: DRN93664134when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Bs 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
the 2007 sale
This sale took place  in 2007 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, as mentioned  above,  there  
was a period of industry self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards Council 
(GISC). It published The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code 
for private  customers  the GISC Code. This set out minimum standards  of good practice 
for its members to follow  when selling  insurance,  including PPI. 
And, as mentioned  above, the Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published  a number 
of codes, which I consider  to be indicative  of the standards  of good industry practice  
expected from intermediaries, like Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ref: DRN93664135For both sales, Ive also taken account  of relevant law in reaching  my decision,  including: the 
law relating to negligence,  misrepresentation and contract (including  the express and implied 
duty on professional  advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the 
law relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation  and 
remoteness. 
And Im also mindful of the evidential provisions  and guidance set out at DISP  App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. The 2004 sale took place  before  insurance mediation  became a regulated 
activity, so Lloyds  was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they 
were guidance  when considering Mr Bs complaint about the 2004 sale.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policies  were appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr B sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policies, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr B suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above, and the information provided by both Mr B and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr B know  he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
To get the PPI in 2004, Mr B had to complete  an application form for it. This application is 
separate to the application  Mr B was making for the mortgage, as was the separate direct  
debit mandate  Mr B had to complete to pay for the PPI. Mr B completed  both the PPI 
application form and the direct debit mandate. Had he not wanted the cover he could have  
not completed these  documents.  
The same was true of the 2007 sale in that Mr B completed an application form for the PPI 
and a separate direct debit. And both documents were separate to the documents Mr B 
would have completed for his mortgage. In addition, the mortgage  offer at section 9 says,
Insurance you must take out through C&G
 You are not obliged  to take out any insurance through C&G as a condition  of this mortgage. 
Ref: DRN93664136The document then describes PPI as an Optional  Insurance. It then explains that, 
Payment Protection Plus covers your monthly  mortgage payment in the event of accident,  
sickness or redundancy. You are not obliged to take this cover  but should  you wish to 
through Lloyds  TSB, the monthly cost for the term of the mortgage  is shown  opposite.
The premium of £12.50 is shown on the document. Mr B signed  this form to get the 
borrowing and the PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  and in the absence of any detailed testimony from Mr B to 
the contrary to consider,  I think its more likely that Mr B knew the policies  were  optional and 
he agreed to take them  out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it provided advice during these sales. Mr B couldnt remember  whether  the 
policies had been sold with a recommendation. So, whilst it places a higher responsibility  on 
Lloyds whilst, in this case, making  no difference to the outcome of this complaint, I have 
assessed the case as if advice  was provided  in both sales.  
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr B with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took in 2004 to establish whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr B. It seems Mr B cant remember clearly what  happened and there is 
no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mr Bs 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Mr B would have been caught  by the significant exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs.  For example, there  is 
nothing to suggest Lloyds considered whether Mr B had any pre-existing medical conditions.
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting in 2007,  the documentary  evidence 
suggests that Lloyds took some steps  to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr B. The adviser had information about  some of Mr Bs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  a demands and needs 
statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr B had a need for the policy  I 
dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable by asking questions  about his wider  
circumstances such as any health  issues and existing means. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policies were  suitable for Mr B given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policies were  
suitable for Mr B, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policies were ultimately suitable 
for him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policies.
Ref: DRN93664137-Mr B had a need for the policies  it seems likely that Mr Bs ability  to continue  to 
meet his mortgage  repayments would have been  put under strain  if Mr B was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for [the redundancy benefits, 
sick pay benefits and savings] he says he would have been entitled to. I say that 
considering that I have seen no evidence to support the high level of sick pay that Mr 
B told us he would be entitled  to. And Ive considered that at the time of both sales 
Mr B was taking the majority of the borrowing to consolidate existing debts. So, I 
have considered that the policy would have paid out in addition  to whatever sick pay 
arrangements Mr B may have been  able to rely on, and most likely for longer. I have 
also though that Mr Bs savings  were modest  in nature and Mr Bs likely redundancy 
payment, considering  his income at the times of the sales, was most likely also 
modest in nature.  The policies  could have paid out for up to 12 months  in the event 
Mr B had long term ill health, or if he lost his job, in which circumstance he wouldnt 
have been able to rely on any sick pay benefits,  whatever  they were.  
-The monthly cost of the policies appears to have been affordable for Mr B.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policies unsuitable for Mr B. There  
was nothing about Mr Bs employment or occupation which would have  made it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policies (including: the any 
similar gainful occupation condition  for the 2004 policy  only,  the requirement that 
Mr B be disabled  or unemployed for 60 days before he could make a claim  both the 
2004 and the 2007 policy, and the fact the policy would only pay benefits for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim  both policies), the policies still provided 
valuable cover given:
Mr Bs circumstances, including his employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  he might expect to provide an income during the policies 
60-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policies could play an important role after those provisions were  exhausted;  
and
The fact the policies protected the mortgage repayments relating to his home 
and the potential consequences  should  Mr B be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against his home.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr B sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policies to enable him to understand what Lloyds was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policies.
the information
In 2004, Im satisfied its more likely  than not that Mr B was given a broad description of what 
the policies were intended to cover (that is that the policies would protect his payments if Mr 
B was unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment)  and of the approximate 
costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr B would have taken out 
Ref: DRN93664138the policies without any sense of what the policies were for and of how much the premiums 
might be. For the 2007 sale there  is some  evidence that the cost was made clear to Mr B at 
the time of the sale.
But the evidence  from the times of both sales doesnt tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (for the 2004 policy) or about 
the exclusions or limitations  before  Mr B agreed to take out the policies. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policies were a suitable  recommendation for Mr B Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policies it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr B all of the information he needed  
about the policies to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendations and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Bs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr B? To what extent did Mr B suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold these policies  to Mr B. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr B 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr B 
would have still taken  out the policies, had Lloyds done things properly. 
Ref: DRN93664139While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policies it recommended were suitable for Mr B, I have found that the policies were ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr B has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr B would have acted differently, or whether  he would have taken out the policies in any 
event.
Mr B says he wouldnt have taken them out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr B had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised him that there was a suitable  
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But Mr B made  that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Bs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policies were not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr B knew he would have to pay something 
for the policies, it doesnt appear  Lloyds  told him the exact  premium  at the point Mr B applied  
for the policy in 2004, whilst I think it did in 2007. Having said that, it seems likely Mr B would 
have been told the cost before the policy started in 2004 and he paid for the policies for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with his expectations  at the points  
of sale, its possible he might have  raised  that with Lloyds at the time,  or reconsidered his 
decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr B would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policies.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr B would get back in return 
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Bs expectations about 
what the policies  would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his 
mortgage payment)  were significantly different to what the policies actually did  if anything, 
it is more likely than not that the policies actually paid more  in the event of a claim than he 
would have expected as there was an additional cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mr B knew  about  or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
Ref: DRN936641310The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
For the 2004 policy, the requirement  that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  
Mr B be unable  to do his own job, a similar  job or any paid work which his 
experience, education  or training reasonably  qualified his to do;
The policies protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term 
of the mortgage.   
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr B pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policies werent as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B from taking  out the policies. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policies 
werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. Mr B was eligible for their benefits  and 
they provided cover that, despite  their limitations  and exclusions, couldve  proved valuable to 
him should the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen  any evidence to 
suggest Mr B wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr B didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he 
had some good reasons to take the policies out.
The policies didnt  exclude back or mental health  conditions, or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr B 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policies without  first providing some  
evidence to support  that claim.
For the 2004 policy, if Mr B had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable to 
do both his job and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he would be, 
or might reasonably  become, qualified for, it might  have played into his thinking about  what  
he would  have done. And I accept it may have  given him pause  for thought   although  its 
possible he may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr B was unable  (through 
disability) to carry on his own occupation  the chances that he would  be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr B would  still have taken out the policies. The policies were suitable  for him, were 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help his manage the consequences  if Mr B was made  redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr B 
would have taken  out the policies in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN936641311Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales processes. In those  circumstances,  DISP App 3 says it should  
be presumed Mr B would not have bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr B 
found himself in as a result of the sales was the same position he would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales processes 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policies. I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr B in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policies, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policies he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr B compensation, as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr B thinks Lloyds misrepresented  the terms of the policies in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr B, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2004 and 2007 when  providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr B and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr B in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Ref: DRN936641312Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9366413