K820x#14complaint
Ms Y complains  about the way Santander UK Plc handled a chargeback  request she made.  
background
On 10 January 2018 Ms Y asked Santander to complete a chargeback  in relation to four 
payments she made on 17 and 18 December 2017 whilst abroad.  Ms Y has told us she was 
pressured into buying jewellery and, with the help of police, thought she had obtained a 
refund from the merchant.  But she later discovered  the merchant hadnt refunded her as 
promised. 
On 25 and 26 January  2018 Santander  provisionally  refunded  the disputed transactions to 
Ms Ys account. It wrote to Ms Y on 27 January 2018 to confirm it had issued the refund 
pending its investigation. Santanders  letter explained that the funds may be taken back at a 
later date.
Santander received  information from the merchants bank on 6 February  2018  which said 
the transactions were genuine  and non refundable. Santander wrote to Ms Y on 
8 February 2018  and forwarded the evidence it had received. It asked  Ms Y to respond with 
her comments within  10 days but didnt hear back.  Santanders letter said that if it didnt hear 
back from Ms Y it would retake the funds  it had previously refunded. 
On 9 March 2018 Santander reversed the refunds and debited Ms Ys account. 
Ms Y complained via our service and Santander  responded on 23 April 2018.  Santander  
said it didnt agree the chargeback had been processed incorrectly  and said the merchant 
had provided evidence to show the transactions were genuine. Santander also said Ms Y 
hadnt responded to its letter dated  8 February  2018  which  was why the chargeback  
investigation didnt  proceed further.  
An investigator at our service looked at Ms Ys complaint but didnt find that Santander had 
made any mistakes when completing  the chargeback investigation. Ms Y didnt agree with 
the investigator so her complaint has been  passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that when  Santander refunded the disputed transactions to Ms Y it wrote to her on 
26 and 27 January 2018. Santander said that the funds would be credited to her account 
until it knew the outcome  of the chargeback investigation. Santanders letter confirmed it 
may debit  Ms Ys account again.  So whilst  I agree that Santander did initially  refund the 
disputed transactions,  I think  it was clear in explaining that it was a provisional step and 
whether Ms Y kept the funds was subject  to the outcome of its investigation. 
Santander received  a response from the merchants bank. The merchant  provided  copies of 
signed receipts and explained it didnt have a refund policy.  On 8 February 2018 Santander 
wrote to Ms Y and asked for her comments about  what the merchant had said and the 
evidence it supplied. Santanders letter said that if it didnt hear back  from Ms Y it would 
assume she no longer  wished to pursue the chargeback request  and would take the funds 
back from her account. 
Ref: DRN95198992Santander didnt  hear back from Ms Y so it took the disputed transactions  back  on 
9 March 2018. Whilst I appreciate Ms Y maintains the transactions  werent genuine,  
Santander has acted  in line with the information  it sent her and how Id expect a chargeback  
investigation to be carried out. Santander  provided reasonable notice that it would  take the 
funds back and end its investigation if it didnt hear back from Ms Y. As Santander has acted 
in line with what it said, I havent found any evidence  of a mistake  or that its treated Ms Y 
unfairly. 
Whilst I note everything Ms Y says, the chargeback  investigation ended after Santander  
didnt receive a response to its letter dated  8 February 2018.  I think Santanders decision to 
debit the funds back from Ms Ys account  was reasonable  after it didnt receive any further 
comments or information. 
Ms Y says the decision  to take the funds back has caused her account  to become 
overdrawn and passed to the collections team at Santander. But, as Ive explained above, I 
havent found anything to show Santander  has made a mistake  or treated Ms Y unfairly.  
I think its decision to take the provisional  refund back was correct and the funds  now 
outstanding are something  Ms Y may wish to discuss with Santander. I note what Ms Y says 
about the impact  of this issue on her and that shes asked Santander for compensation. But 
as Im not persuaded there have been  any errors  or that Santander has treated Ms Y 
unfairly, Im not telling it to take any further  action. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9519899