K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1992 
alongside a mortgage. Mr and Mrs C say Yorkshire  Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them  
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs C say that they had to take out the PPI in order to get the mortgage. YBS say 
that PPI wasnt a condition of obtaining  a mortgage, but agree it was a condition of the 
particular mortgage  Mr and Mrs C decided  to take out. But this doesnt  mean  the policy was 
mis-sold. YBS is allowed  to set conditions on the lending  it provides, but it must  make this 
clear to those looking  to borrow the money. Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage 
offer which states  the fixed rate of interest  agreed for the first two years of the mortgage.  It 
also specifies, under the heading special conditions that YBS can transfer this account  to 
the standard interest rate if the PPI is cancelled or reduced during the first two years. So 
based on this evidence along with what Mr and Mrs C have said,  Im confident they knew  
that if they wanted this particular mortgage  with YBS they had to take out PPI. It was up to 
Mr and Mrs C to decide if they still wanted to go ahead with the lending  after being made 
aware of this condition.  So, I dont think YBS did anything wrong here.
The PPI policy was something Mr and Mrs C had to take. But YBS still had to make  sure that 
they were given clear  information, and enough of it, to make a well informed decision when 
agreeing to take the policy and, by extension,  the mortgage. So thats what Ive looked at.
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like Mr C (as the insured party)  was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. And even though  Mr C was entitled  to 
some sick pay and redundancy  pay at the time, the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to 
these funds - so I think it would have  been  useful for them  if something went  wrong. So, I 
dont think better information  about  the policy wouldve made Mr and Mrs C make a different  
decision about taking  it out  particularly  as it seems they wanted this type of mortgage  with 
YBS.
This means  YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. But 
YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because : 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because YBS didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs C, that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN98840022To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. YBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs C any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs C the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs C 8%* simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs C can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs C any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9884002