K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained to The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) 
about a mortgage endowment policy they were  sold in 1991.
Represented by a claims management company, Mr and Mrs C say the endowment  was not 
suitable for their needs.
background
In 1991 Mr and Mrs C were first time buyers, and sought a mortgage  in order  to purchase 
the house theyd been renting  under  the right to buy scheme.  They were sold an interest 
only mortgage and a low-cost endowment policy (invested in the with-profits fund) over a 25-
year term.
Mr and Mrs C say they were told the policy would return sufficient funds to repay the 
mortgage and perhaps produce  an extra lump sum at the end of its term.  The policy 
matured in 2016 leaving a shortfall  from being able to repay the mortgage.
The CMC representing  Mr and Mrs C say the endowment policy was unsuitable as their 
attitude to risk was not considered and they couldve afforded  a capital repayment mortgage.  
It also said that Mr and Mrs C werent  told about  the policy costs.
As Prudential didnt uphold their complaint,  Mr and Mrs C have referred the matter to our 
Service.  One of our investigators reviewed everything and recommended the complaint  be 
upheld.  In summary, he said that although  the endowment policy  was considered  to be low-
risk, in their circumstances he didnt think Mr and Mrs C had wanted  to or had the capacity to 
take risk.
Although Mr and Mrs C accepted the investigators  opinion, Prudential did not.  It said that it 
wasnt persuaded Mr and Mrs C were totally risk averse, and it is possible risk was 
discussed  but in 1991 the requirement to record information was not the same as now.
Prudential highlighted  that although Mr and Mrs C werent experienced investors,  such 
policies were considered  to be relatively  safe at the time.   It pointed  out that Mr Cs income 
was above the national  average and they would have immediate equity in the property as it 
was being bought at below market value from the local authority.  Prudential  also said its 
quite possible mitigating the risk of shortfall  was discussed, by using disposable  income or 
savings.  In fact, Mr Cs pension was ultimately  used to make up the shortfall,  and this 
couldve been considered as an option at the time.
As no agreement could be reached, Ive now been asked to review  everything afresh and 
make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, and for much the same reasons.
I should say at the outset that I havent  seen evidence to satisfy  me Prudential gave a 
guarantee that the policy would repay the mortgage  at maturity. Or that it would return  an 
Ref: DRN91380662additional lump  sum.  I appreciate the adviser  is likely to have spoken about the policy in very 
positive terms. But, that isnt the same  as giving a binding  guarantee.
When selling  the policy, the adviser had to give recommendations that were suitable for Mr 
and Mrs Cs circumstances. 
At the time of sale Mr and Mrs C were relatively mature first time buyers,  with three  
dependants.  They were purchasing the property at a discounted value, and had a modest, 
but above national average  income.   They were  making a small savings contribution each 
month, but had little investment experience, and no mortgage experience.
I consider it likely they would have been very reliant on the options and advice given to them 
to arrange the mortgage  and policy.  Due to the time which  has since passed,  there  is little 
recorded information from the sale, and so its necessary for me decide  what I consider to be 
most likely on balance.
Whilst I appreciate the endowment policy was considered  to be low-risk and relatively safe at 
the time,  I dont think Mr and Mrs C have demonstrated anything  to suggest theyd be willing  
to take any chances with there being a shortfall  to repay the mortgage.  They were relatively 
unsophisticated in their financial experience, and given they had the opportunity  to buy their 
first family home, its likely  theyd  want  it to be secure.
Mr and Mrs C had sufficient disposable  income  to have been able to afford a repayment  
mortgage, and given the comparison, I think that the likely option they wouldve taken.  So 
whilst I take on board the points raised by Prudential,  overall  Im not persuaded the sale of 
the endowment  policy was suitable.
putting things  right
The financial  regulator  has laid down a standard approach for calculating  compensation in 
cases such as this in its guidance, Handling Mortgage Endowment  Complaints" (sometimes 
referred to as a Regulatory Update  89 or RU89 calculation). The guidance can be found in 
the FCA's  handbook at DISP Appendix 1 or on its website. 
In effect, the guidance provides that Mr and Mrs C are entitled to be put in the position they 
would have been in, so far as is possible,  had Prudential not recommended  an unsuitable 
policy. In other words, in this case,  in the position they would  have been  in if the mortgage 
had been arranged on a repayment  basis in 1991. I am satisfied that compensation 
calculated in accordance with this guidance is the appropriate redress to award in this case.
Prudential must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which  Mr and Mrs C 
accept my final decision. Should  payment  not be made within  that period Prudential should  
add interest at 8% simple per annum to the loss from the date of this decision to the date of 
settlement. 
If Prudential considers that it is legally required to deduct income  tax from the interest,  it 
must send  a tax deduction certificate  with the payment.  Mr and Mrs C can seek to reclaim 
the tax from the HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN91380663my final decision
For these reasons and for those given by the investigator, my decision is that I uphold 
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  against The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.  I direct  that 
it should put things right by calculating and paying the redress as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 April 2019.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9138066