K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mr B holds with Santander UK Plc. He complains  about  
arrears charges, the increased balance on the account and says Santander  hasnt kept him 
informed because it doesnt send his statements and other  correspondence  to the correct 
address. To put things right, Mr B says the mortgage balance (currently over £34,000)  
should be taken  back to £20,000.
background
Mr Bs had the mortgage for around 35 years; it was originally  with Alliance and Leicester, 
before that business became part of Santander. From hereon, Ill refer to the business at all 
times as Santander. The mortgage was originally £9,000, but after Mr B was placed  in 
financial difficulty through domestic  problems, the mortgage was increased to £20,000  and 
placed on a life-time interest-only basis.
Mr B received assistance with the payments from the then Department for Social Security; 
now the Department for Work and Pension  (DWP). But this only covered part of his 
payments, and in 1987, Mr B was taken  to court for mortgage arrears. His domestic 
problems continued  and eventually, Mr B sealed up the mailbox at his home  and arranged  
for mail to go to correspondence  addresses. 
In 2016, Mr B brought  a complaint to us about  how Santander was adding arrears  charges to 
the mortgage balance; he also said at the time that he wasnt  receiving his mortgage  
statements. One of our case-handlers  looked  at that complaint and brokered a settlement 
under which Santander refunded charges totalling  £560 that had been applied  during 2015 
and 2016. It also agreed  to pay Mr B £200 compensation for his time,  trouble and upset. 
In 2018, Mr B brought  the current complaint to us; he said hed not received his annual 
statement for 2017, so had no idea how much he owed or how much he and/or the DWP 
should be paying. But he said the mortgage  balance had kept growing over the years as 
Santander kept adding charges surreptitiously.
A different case-handler looked  at this complaint. He asked Santander to demonstrate  which 
correspondence addresses it had used from time to time, and for evidence  of when it had 
been asked to change it. On reviewing  the business records,  overall, he didnt think  
Santander had done anything wrong on where  it sent correspondence to Mr B. 
The case-handler also explained to Mr B that we were restricted by our rules  on how we 
could look at the other parts of the complaint. Firstly, the time limits in our rules meant we 
could only look at things  that had happened in the past six years. Normally, that meant we 
could go back to 2012, but another  provision in our rules meant  we wouldnt take a second 
look at something wed already  dealt with. Given the complaint from 2016,  he said wed only 
be able to consider  Santanders handling  of the arrears on the mortgage since  that earlier  
complaint was settled,  in November 2016. 
When he looked into how Santander had dealt with Mr B since November  2016,  he wasnt 
persuaded it had failed  to use the correct  address,  based on the most recent updates from 
Mr B, or that it treated  him unfairly  regarding his ongoing financial difficulties. Twice in 2017, 
Santander had agreed on the telephone  to refund recent charges.  Overall,  he didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr B asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ref: DRN92920292ombudsman; he wasnt happy  with the case-handlers conclusions or that hed only looked  at 
part of the complaint.
The case  came to me, and I decided  our scope to consider the complaint first. In a decision 
dated 11 June  2019, I ruled  that our jurisdiction to consider this complaint was limited to the 
following:
whether Santanders  handling of the arrears  on the mortgage   including the application 
of charges if relevant  since November 2016  has been fair; and
whether  since November 2016  Santander  has sent mortgage correspondence 
(including the annual statements) to the correct  correspondence address.
On issuing that decision, I said that wed give Mr B a further  two weeks  to make any final 
submissions before I assessed the merits. In fact, weve given Mr B three weeks,  and what  
follows is my final decision on the merits of the two points  listed above.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
news for Mr B. Ive reached broadly the same  conclusions  as the case-handler and for much 
the same  overall  reasons.
During the limited  period our remit allows  me to consider   that is, for the avoidance of 
doubt, since November  2016  Im satisfied there are no arrears fees that have been 
charged unfairly, and that Santander  hasnt  sent any material  about Mr Bs mortgage to a 
correspondence address other than that which hes asked  it to use from time to time. 
final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019. 
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9292029