K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
April 2001. Mr and Mrs D say Principality Building Society mis-sold them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs D case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Principality made it clear that Mr and Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that they chose  to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant  remember this. 
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage was arranged  through a third party and by the time they 
completed a separate PPI application form, their mortgage with Principality had already 
started.
Principality didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs D so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs D got the information they 
needed to decide  if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information Principality gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like they were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put them off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Principality doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs D.
But Principality will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because: 
Principality got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because Principality  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs D, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Principality has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Principality has to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission  and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Principality should also pay back to Mr and Mrs D any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Ref: DRN93536552Principality should  pay back to Mr and Mrs D the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Principality should 
also pay Mr and Mrs D 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs D can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Principality Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Principality Building Society does have  to pay back  to Mr and Mrs D any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9353655