K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC)  havent dealt properly with her chargeback  
request.
background
Mrs S complained to us as he was unhappy with the outcome of the chargeback process 
shed raised with HSBC  as her card issuer.  On 16 July 2018 Mrs S asked HSBC to raise a 
chargeback against  a third party from whom shed bought car in February  2018. For ease of 
reference Ill call that third party the merchant.  Mrs S said the car was faulty and not as 
described. 
HSBC didnt uphold  her complaint. In their Final  Response  Letter  (FRL) on 16 February  
2019 they set out the actions theyd taken in pursuing the chargeback  on her behalf  but that 
it had ultimately been concluded in favour of the merchant. And they told her their 
investigations were  governed  by the card scheme and that they were  required to abide by 
the schemes regulations. HSBC said they could only assist in retrieving funds from the 
merchant.
 
In both the views he issued our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he was satisfied 
HSBC had followed the chargeback process  and had taken the matter as far as they could. 
He acknowledged  there had been  some delays by HSBC  but he didnt think these have 
prejudiced Mrs S's position as the chargeback wasn't rejected as being out of time, and was 
still taken right through the process. And he said as the outcome of the chargeback claim 
was determined by the card scheme we didnt  have the authority to challenge it.
Mrs S didnt agree, she thought HSBC hadnt  fulfilled their role in the chargeback process 
adequately. She told us the bank hadnt  required the merchant to provide evidence of his 
claim prior to refunding a substantial sum of money. Mrs S said she would at least expect 
that the merchant  shouldnt  be able to make an erroneous statement without any verification. 
She said the bank  had told her the claim was being looked at by a specialist team and if 
further information was required from her they would be in touch. But no additional 
information was asked of her after the case had been reviewed by the team. She said as 
they were the experts shed have expected that they would have made requests for more  
information as needed but this didnt happen. And she thought this was in addition  to the 
poor service shed received all through the chargeback process which  she thought  was 
evidence of HSBCs lack of good management  of the whole process  from start to finish.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint and its 
timeline in his letter giving his opinion.  As thats  not been disputed by either party I shant 
repeat it here. Im afraid theres not a great  deal I can add to what the investigators already 
told Mrs S. I think hes covered most points quite clearly and I agree with his analysis and 
overall conclusions.
Banks dont have to process chargeback requests. They are voluntary. But its good practice 
to do so. And unless  there are good reasons we would normally expect banks to process 
Ref: DRN94127882them. And thats what HSBC have done here. Most  banks, as card issuers,  wont take the 
chargeback further  if its defended. And we wouldnt expect a bank to get into challenging 
the merchants  represent  or defence. But in this case I can see that HSBC  went beyond  what 
wed normally expect. After the merchants initial rejection of the claim on 12 October  2018  
on 31 October they made a further  claim  to the merchants bank but this was also declined.  
And HSBC  then went on to raise  the circumstances of the dispute  for arbitration with the 
card scheme on 5 December 2018. But after a review, by the card scheme, they concluded 
in favour  of the merchant. Mrs S was notified  of this on 28 January 2019.  Although  I can 
appreciate that outcome was a disappointment  for Mrs S it was something over which HSBC 
had no control.
Its important to say that when this service considers a chargeback complaint about a bank, 
were not deciding whether or not the customer  should have won against  the merchant. I 
realise that Mrs S is unhappy with the merchant as she thinks the car they supplied  is faulty  
and not as described. But what  Im looking at is the dispute between  Mrs S and HSBC, not 
what the merchant  did. And HSBCs job in this was to follow the rules of the chargeback 
scheme  a scheme which  is run by the card scheme company. HSBCs job wasnt  to make 
a decision on whether or not the car supplied was faulty or as described. That was for the 
card scheme.
Theres no guarantee claims made under  the chargeback process will be successful. It all 
depends on what the merchant says in response  to the request  the bank submits.  I know 
Mrs Ss main concern  is that HSBC havent  fulfilled their role adequately here. She thinks  the 
merchant has been allowed  to make an erroneous statement  without any verification being 
undertaken. Shes told us what the merchant  has said doesnt fit the facts. Whilst I hear what  
shes said the bank  arent required  to make  a determination on the merits of the chargeback  
- thats something for the card scheme.  And the bank pursued this claim as far as they could 
on her behalf.
There were some delays here.  But, for the same reasons as the investigator,  I dont think 
theyve prejudiced Mrs Ss position  although  I do appreciate  those delays would have been a 
frustration for her. From  the information  HSBC have  sent to this service Im satisfied they 
raised the chargeback, followed the correct  procedure  and pursued  the chargeback as far as 
they could under the scheme rules. So I cant say HSBC have done anything  wrong here.
As Ive explained, Im not required to determine  the underlying dispute between  Mrs S and 
the merchant. In this case I think the bank did enough when it attempted  the chargeback and 
later requested to case move to arbitration but, unfortunately,  the outcome of the arbitration  
was in the merchants favour. 
Mrs Ss strength of feeling is clear. But it wouldnt be fair for HSBC  to bear the loss Mrs S 
claims shes suffered. And I think HSBC did the right thing by refunding the payment while 
the chargeback  was going on and then debiting  the money again once the outcome of the 
arbitration was known. And from everything  Ive seen Im satisfied  they explained this 
procedure to Mrs S and kept her informed although I appreciate in the initial  stages Mrs S 
had to contact   the bank  for information and updates. 
Given how strongly Mrs S feels about  what happened she may want to pursue the matter 
further through other routes and against  other  parties. But my decision  brings  to an end what  
we  in trying to resolve her dispute with HSBC informally   can do for her. Im sorry if this 
disappoints Mrs S.
Ref: DRN94127883my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9412788