K821x#15Complaint
Mr K complains that Virgin Money  plc unfairly  delayed applying  a default to his credit card. 
Background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions are set out in my provisional 
decision - a copy of which  is attached  and forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought Mr Ks complaint about Virgin Money 
should be upheld  and how it should be resolved. I invited both parties to send me any 
additional comments or information they wanted me to take into account before I made my 
final decision. 
Mr K didnt provide  anything else for me to consider. Virgin  Money responded to say it didnt 
agree with my provisional decision. Virgin Money said that by delaying the default it gave 
Mr K more  time to see if there was a way he could bring his account back  up to date. 
Virgin Money said that if the account  had been  defaulted at an earlier point and Mr K was 
subsequently able to pay off his arrears hed have been in a worse position. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  the points 
Virgin Money made in response to my provisional decision. 
Virgin Money said its approach gave  Mr K more time to try and rectify his account, in effect 
reducing the chance he would default. It says that if Mr Ks position had changed during this 
period it would have given  him more time to bring  his account up to date and avoid the 
default. 
I take Virgin Moneys point. But, the financial information Ive seen shows  there was a 
surplus household income  of £867 after normal living expenses had been covered. That 
figure takes Mr Ks income into account  as well as his partners. So the surplus income 
doesnt solely relate to Mr K. The information  from the debt advice service shows Mr K had 
extensive unsecured  debts  that took up the surplus income each month.  Looking  at the 
information available,  I think it was reasonably clear from an early stage that Mr Ks 
relationship with Virgin Money had broken down as he wasnt able to afford  his monthly 
payments or address  the arrears on his account.  
Taking all the information Ive seen into account, I dont think there was any realistic chance 
that Mr Ks position would change.  I think the fairest point to accept the relationship had 
broken down and apply  the default was around  three months after the debt advice service 
got in touch and Mr Ks account went into arrears. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  Mr K complains that the delay  in registering the default 
means his chances  of obtaining credit in the future are lower. Information  about the default 
will remain  on his credit file for six years. I agree that the default was registered later than it 
should have been and that it will remain on Mr Ks credit history for a six year period. By 
backdating the default to February 2016, it will drop off Mr Ks credit file sooner.
Ref: DRN91537962Ive considered Virgin Moneys response  to my provisional decision. Having done so, I 
remain of the view that the fairest  approach here is to amend  the date of the default  to 
February 2016 in line with my provisional  decision.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Virgin  Money plc to amend the default  
date for Mr Ks credit  card to February  2016.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN91537963Copy of the provisional decision
Complaint
Mr K complains that Virgin Money  plc unfairly  delayed applying  a default to his credit card. 
Background
In November 2015 Mr K contacted a debt advice charity as he was experiencing financial 
difficulties and couldnt maintain his debts. The debt advice charity contacted Mr Ks 
creditors and offered reduced  payments.  The third party offered Virgin £22.18  a month  
against an expected payment of around £41. 
Virgin stopped  adding interest  and charges and went on to apply  a default in 
December 2016.  
In 2018 Mr K complained as he thought Virgin waited too long to register  the default. As a 
result, it will remain  on his credit  file for longer which  Mr K feels is unfair.  Virgin didnt agree it 
had made  an error and said it had acted in line with its process  and industry guidance. 
Mr K referred his complaint to our service and an adjudicator looked at it. She recommended  
Virgin change the default date to November 2015   the date the third party contacted it and 
gave details of Mr Ks financial difficulties. Virgin didnt agree so Mr Ks complaints  been  
passed to me to make a decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Virgins told us that its standard  policy is that it will default an account  once its missed six 
full payments. In this case, because Mr K was making payments of around half of what  was 
expected each month it meant the default wasnt applied until around  thirteen months  after 
Virgin was told about his financial difficulties. 
I agree  that Virgin is free to decide  how to handle customers who are in arrears and that its 
taken the industry  guidance into account. But in this case, I think Virgins decision to wait for 
six months full arrears to accrue has unfairly  impacted Mr K. 
Ive looked in detail at the information  Virgin was sent by the third party in November 2015 
and it shows the majority  of Mr Ks disposable  income was used up making  reduced  
payments to unsecured creditors. Unless something  significant  changed  for Mr K I think  it 
was clear that the default was highly  likely.  As Im satisfied it was clear from an earlier  point 
that Mr Ks account would most  likely default  I dont  think Virgin  achieved  anything by waiting 
for six months arrears  to build in full before  taking  that step. 
Ref: DRN91537964Virgin responded to the adjudicators view by saying that it had followed its standard  process  
by waiting to default his account. But the risk to treating all customers in the same way is 
that it can fail to take their personal  circumstances  into account. And the industry guidance 
allows for flexibility in how businesses treat customers  in financial difficulties. There may be 
situations where waiting for a full six months  missed payment to build is the fair thing to do. 
But, in this case, Im satisfied that from November 2015 it was reasonably clear to Virgin that 
Mr K was highly unlikely to be in a position to bring his account  back  up to date. At that stage 
I think Virgin should have  considered when  to fairly apply the default. 
The industry guidance says lenders will generally  consider applying a default  when an 
account is between  three  and six months in arrears.  As Ive said above, there is some 
flexibility built into the guidance so businesses can decide how best to treat customers  in 
financial difficulties. And the guidance also says the default reflects the breakdown in the 
relationship between the borrower and lender. I think the point where  it was reasonably  clear  
the relationship  had broken down  came considerably earlier than December  2016  so I think 
the default should have  been applied sooner. 
The adjudicator asked Virgin to move the default  date to November 2015   when the debt 
advice charity got in touch  and offered reduced  payments.  But I think Virgin could have 
reasonably waited around three  months  until February 2016  to see if Mr Ks 
circumstances changed. This is in line with the industry guidance  and would have given Mr K 
some breathing space  to look at his options.  But it wouldnt have prolonged the situation 
unreasonably. 
Mr K says that by waiting  until December 2016 to register the default  it will remain on his 
credit file for longer. And that has a negative  impact on him because its likely hell 
experience more difficulty getting credit  in the future. I think  thats  a reasonable point and I 
agree that by registering the default in December 2016, instead of when it was reasonably  
clear Mr K wasnt  able to bring  his account  back up to date, his ability  to secure  future credit  
has been negatively  impacted. 
Its up to Virgin to decide how to treat customers experiencing financial difficulties. But I think  
applying the default only after six full payments had been missed unfairly impacted Mr K in 
this case. As a result, I intend to tell Virgin to change Mr Ks credit  file to show  the default 
was applied in February 2016  three months after the debt advice charity contacted it in 
November 2015.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and tell Virgin  Money plc to 
amend the default date for Mr Ks credit card to February 2016.
Mr K and Virgin Money plc have  until 25 July 2019 to send me anything  further  theyd like 
me to consider before I make my final decision.  
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9153796