K822xComplaint
Mr S is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation), following 
a claim against it under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA)  1974. He also 
complains about  charges  that have been added to his loan agreement  due to late payments.
Background 
In August  2014,  My Planet, a company that supplied and installed solar panel  systems cold 
called Mr S. Following a meeting at his home with a salesperson, Mr S decided to enter into 
a contract with My Planet for it to supply  and install a solar panel system costing around 
£7,800. To fund this he also agreed  to enter  into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation. The solar panels were installed soon after.
In December 2016, Mr S made a claim under section 75 (s75) of the CCA to Creation, via 
his representative.  The representative said that My Planet had told Mr S that the solar  
panels would be self-funded and that the monthly  loan repayments  would  be more than 
offset by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income. But that hadnt happened. Instead, Mr Ss monthly 
loan repayments  had been  much  higher.
Creation looked  into the concerns. It wrote back to Mr S, via his representative in March 
2017. It didnt  agree that the solar panels  had been  misrepresented. But, as a gesture of 
goodwill, it offered to reduce the loan agreement and the associated  interest  by 40%.  
Mr S didnt accept this and referred  his complaint to this Service.  While one of our 
investigators was looking  into Mr Ss complaint he also raised a further concern as he had 
been receiving  up to four calls a day from Creation regarding outstanding arrears  on his 
account. Mr S disputed that he was in arrears as he had always  made his contractual 
monthly loan repayments and he felt the number of calls excessive. In response to this 
Creation said that Mr Ss payments  hadnt  always reached his account when they were  due 
and maintained they had been  applied correctly.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. She upheld the complaint in part. 
In summary  she said:
Mr Ss complaint wasnt so much  about  the solar panels  themselves but that they had 
been misrepresented  as self-funding.  To put things right Creation should work  out the 
potential savings and income to Mr S over the 10 year term of the loan. It should then 
rework the loan so that he would pay no more  than that amount over that term and 
refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest.
Although Mr S wasnt in arrears  he hadnt  always made his monthly contractual  
payments by the time they were required.  She was satisfied that the charges and 
interest, accruing  from the charges, had been  applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the credit agreement. She acknowledged that Creation had refunded 
some charges in the past as a gesture of goodwill  but that this didnt mean the 
outstanding charges  and associated interest should  be waived.
Creation used an automated dialling system  to call its customers about  arrears on 
accounts. And as it had input Mr Ss home number in under the mobile  number 
section as well, he was receiving twice the amount  of calls that he should. And as Mr 
S had told Creation  that he didnt want it to call him it should have written to him from 
this point. To recognise the trouble and upset  this had caused  she recommended 
Creation pay £250.
Ref: DRN97534552Creation accepted what our investigator had said in full.
Mr S, via his representative,  accepted the £250 trouble and upset payment and this has 
already been paid.  He also accepted  the proposal  to make the solar  panels  self-funding  over 
the term of the loan.
He didnt accept  that the charges shouldve been  added to his account and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached similar conclusions to those  of our investigator.  Ill explain why.
self-funding offer
Both parties  have agreed with the investigators view that to put things right Creation should 
work out the potential savings to Mr S over the 10 year term of the loan. And it should then 
rework the loan so that Mr S would pay no more than that amount over the 10 year term and 
refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest.  Ive considered whether this is fair, taking 
into account the assumptions  and methodology that Creation  will use to calculate this 
approach. 
Mr S says he was approached by My Planet and during  a sales  meeting was told that the 
installation would be entirely self-financing. I havent  seen anything  to suggest that hed 
shown a previous  interest in solar panels before he was approached by My Planet. Its 
difficult to see why Mr S would agree to the installation of the solar  panels  financed through 
a loan that would increase his monthly outgoings. I therefore think its unlikely that Mr S 
wouldve agreed to install the solar  panels  and take a loan with Creation unless he was led 
to believe that it would  be self-funding and come at no additional financial cost to him.
Ive also considered the action taken by Renewable  Energy Consumer Code (RECC)  
against My Planet. My understanding is that RECC administers the renewable  energy 
consumer Code and ensures its members  comply with the Code.
The RECC investigated My Planets conduct  in September  2014  and determined  that My 
Planet was in breach of Section 5.2 and Section 5.4 of the Code. These  relate to requiring 
members not to provide false or misleading  information to consumers and providing clear 
and accurate information about the costs and benefits of the product.  
I accept that what happened  in respect  of the cases RECC looked into may not have 
necessarily have happened in Mr Ss case. Whilst the RECC findings are general  and do not 
refer to Mr Ss case, the findings  do suggest that there  were  conduct concerns in the areas 
that related to Mr Ss complaint and at around  the time he was sold the solar panels and 
loan.
Taking the above into account, I believe that it is more  likely than not that the salesperson  for 
My Planet led Mr S to believe that the solar panels  would  be self-funding.
Ref: DRN97534553Im of the opinion that for the solar panels  to be self-funding and come at no additional cost 
to Mr S, the savings and income he would receive  should have been sufficient to cover  the 
repayments due under the loan agreement.
To clarify, Mr Ss expected savings  and incomes  from the solar panels  are from:
(1)generation income tariff,
(2)export tariff income, and;
(3)savings to Mr S by using the electricity generated by the panels  instead of buying  it 
from his energy provider.
Based on the figures Ive seen the total expected return from the above three items, in the 
first year, would have  come to around £700  whereas the loan repayments were  about 
£1,222 a year.
Taking this into account Mr S was likely to be out of pocket by about  £522 in the first year.  
And that would have  broadly been  the same  during the term of the loan.  This means  that 
based on this estimate  the solar panels werent self-funding.  So Im satisfied that My Planet 
misrepresented the benefits to Mr S.
Mr S didnt have any prior experience  of the solar panel system and he was approached by 
My Planet.  Im satisfied that Mr S decided to go ahead with the purchase of the solar  panel 
system based on the representations made by My Planet that the system would be self-
funding. 
For the reasons,  Ive explained above, I find that Mr S has suffered a loss as a result  of the 
misrepresentation made by My Planet. The system wasnt self-funding and Mr S ended  up 
paying a significant amount over the savings. And as Creation has equal liability  or the 
misrepresentation made by My Planet, I find that it is responsible for Mr Ss loss.
My view of Mr Ss complaint  is that it isnt so much about the solar panels  themselves but 
that he was led to believe that they would be self-funding. Based on this I dont think  it would 
be fair or reasonable  to require the removal of the solar panels from his home. And it is also 
accepted that it would cost Creation a significant  sum to remove them from his home. So I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask it to do that. Rather, Im satisfied that the fair 
outcome here is to put Mr S in a position  where  the panels are self-funding  over the original 
term of the loan. By allowing  Mr S to keep the panels, he will likely benefit from lower 
electricity bills of FIT payments going forward.
In cases like this I would  expect Creation  to apply the methodology that is has agreed  with 
our service.  To confirm  its calculation should be based on the actual performance and 
estimated future performance of Mr Ss solar panel system.
There will be a number of assumptions  used when calculating the estimated future  
performance. These include a self-consumption  rate of 37%. Based on the Energy Savings 
Trusts data Im satisfied that this is reasonable. I think this as it would take into account 
changing consumer  occupancy habits over the lifetime of the solar  panel system and once 
the loan has been repaid Mr S will continue to likely benefit from the system via lower 
electricity bills or FIT payments.
Ive also considered the other assumptions Creation has used such as the electricity  price 
inflation, the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI). Im of the view that 
Ref: DRN97534554they dont seem unreasonable taking into account the actual known figures.  As an example 
the actual average  RPI for the last 4 years doesnt  seem to be far from the assumed figure.
Ive also considered any ongoing maintenance costs  for Mr S by keeping  the solar panels. 
Ive looked at the information available from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that solar  
panels dont need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter would need  replacing 
sometime during  the lifetime of the panels at a current  cost of about £800.  So I accept that 
Mr S could have some  maintenance costs over the lifetime of the solar panels. I also accept 
that Mr S would likely  have some benefit by way of savings and FIT income going  forward.
Its impossible  to know what  the extent of those costs and the benefits would actually be. 
However, based on the available  information I think that the potential benefit  should be 
adequate to offset any reasonable  maintenance costs.
In summary,  to put things right Creation should recalculate the original loan based on the 
known and assumed  savings  and income  to Mr S from the solar  panels over the ten year 
term of the loan so he pays  no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel  system.  
By recalculating the loan this way, Mr Ss monthly  repayments would reduce, meaning that 
he wouldve paid more  each month  than he shouldve done  resulting in an overpayment  
balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment I would 
expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the date of 
settlement. In a case like this, I think the fairest resolution would be to let a consumer have 
the following  selection of options  as to how they would  like their overpayments  to be used:
(a)the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly  payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
(b)the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new monthly  payment until the end of the loan term,
(c)the overpayments are returned  to the consumer  and they continue  to make their 
current monthly payment  resulting  in their loan finishing early, or
(d)the overpayments are returned  to the consumer  and they pay a new monthly  
payment until the end of the loan term.
I also think Creation should  pay Mr S £100 for the trouble and upset caused. This is because  
the Renewable Energy Consumer Code,  which  administers the renewable energy consumer 
Code and ensures  its members comply with the Code,  had determined  that My Planet had 
breached a number  of sections of the Code. And because of this Im satisfied that Creation 
shouldve taken this information, available in the public domain, into account when reviewing 
Mr Ss complaint. Im of the opinion  that this supports  Mr Ss claim against Creation  and it 
should have upheld his complaint sooner than it did.
charges
Mr S currently has charges of around  £70 outstanding on his credit  agreement.  This is made  
up of a late payment  fee, a fee for sending Mr S an arrears letter  and interest that has 
accrued on the charges as they havent been paid.
Ive considered the credit agreement Mr S signed  when he decided to go ahead  with the 
purchase of the solar  panels. This sets out the charges that could be added  to Mr Ss 
account and explains  when they will be charged. Having reviewed the statements for the 
Ref: DRN97534555account, I can see that the charges  have  been applied in line with the terms and conditions  
and I cant conclude that they have  been  applied incorrectly.
I accept that Mr S has made a payment each month but the payments need to be made and 
have reached his account by the 18th of each month.  And this hasnt always  been the case. I 
understand that Mr S changed  to paying by standing  order  but he still needed to ensure that 
his monthly payment was with Creation by the 18th of each month. Ive noted  that this date 
has now changed to the 26th of each month  and Mr S hasnt incurred any further charges.
On previous occasions Creation has refunded late payment charges  and hasnt always 
charged him when he has been  a day or two late and has refunded previous charges as a 
gesture of goodwill. But as Ive explained  above the charges have been applied to the 
account in line with the terms  and conditions, which were set out, and that Mr S agreed to. 
Therefore, Im satisfied  they have been  added to the account correctly.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ss complaint should  be upheld in part. In full and final settlement 
of it, Creation Consumer  Finance Ltd should:
(a)allow Mr S to keep the solar  panels,
(b)estimate the potential  savings and incomes  to Mr S from the panels  over the ten year 
term of the loan and rework it so he pays no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Mr Ss electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
(c)add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date the overpayment 
was made to date of settlement,
(d)allow Mr S to decide, using the four options  given above,  how his overpayments 
should be used;  and
(e)pay Mr S £100 for the trouble and upset caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Creation Consumer  Finance  Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should  
also give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN9753455