K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  (MPPI)  policy taken out in 2001. The 
policy was amended in 2007, and the terms of the policy  were  updated  at this time.
Mr and Mrs I say that Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold them  the MPPI.
background
Mr and Mrs I were sold an MPPI policy alongside their mortgage  in 2001. The terms of the 
policy, and the level of cover provided  by the policy were  amended  in 2007 when Mr and 
Mrs I applied for a further advance.
When our adjudicator looked  at the complaint, they felt that in 2001, the policy wasnt mis-
sold. But they also after the amendment took place and new terms were applied  in 2007, the 
policy was no longer appropriate  for Mr and Mrs I, due to Mr Is employment  status.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr and Mrs Is complaint should be upheld  from the time 
that the policys terms changed.
Nationwide didnt agree.  So the complaint  has been  passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Is case. 
Like the adjudicator,  I also decided that when the policy was originally taken out in 2001 that 
it wasnt mis-sold.  I also think  that Mr and Mrs Is complaint should be upheld  from the time 
the policy was amended  in 2007. Ill explain why. 
original sale of MPPI   2001
Mr and Mrs I say that they took out MPPI because they thought  it was necessary at the time. 
But I think Nationwide made it clear that Mr and Mrs I didnt have to take out the MPPI and 
that they chose  to take it out  although  I can understand why they may not remember  this 
as it was so long ago.
I say this because  Nationwide  has provided  a copy of Mr and Mrs Is Internet mortgage 
application  on this I can see that the policy is presented as optional, and has been 
selected. Nationwide has also provided a copy of their MPPI application,  which has been 
completed and signed.  
Nationwide didnt recommend the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs I so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs I got the information they needed  to 
decide if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs I about  the MPPI  wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take out the MPPI - so it looks  like they wanted this 
Ref: DRN90720782type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like 
they were affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover - so it could have  
been useful for them  if something went wrong.  It also looks like the MPPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better information  about  the MPPI would have put off taking out the cover.  
Ive also considered Mr Is employment  status as a self-employed  person. But looking at the 
policy terms, I dont think that this made it any more difficult for him to make a claim  on the 
policy that for someone who was employed. So I cant uphold the complaint for this reason.
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs I.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs I because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs I about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs I, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the MPPI premium  - and I think  that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs I have said - but these  points dont change  my 
decision.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs I any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the MPPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs I any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs I the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of MPPI. Nationwide 
should also pay Mr and Mrs I 8%* simple interest on each payment.
This calculation should  be made up until the amendment of the policy in 2007.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs I can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
amendment to policy in 2007
In 2007 Mr and Mrs I applied for a further  advance on their mortgage. At the same time, the 
MPPI policy was changed to provide  a higher  level of benefit, given the increased amount of 
borrowing taken. Nationwide has confirmed that when the amendment  was made, new terms 
and conditions were  applied to the policy. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Is complaint  from this point onwards because  I dont  think  
that Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs I clear enough  information about the policy  changes at this 
time, and I think this wouldve mattered to Mr and Mrs I. 
I say this because  looking at the new terms and conditions of the policy, I can see that it 
wouldve been more  difficult for Mr I to have  made  a claim on the policy  as a self-employed 
person. This was a significant  term which shouldve  been made clear  to Mr and Mrs I. And I 
Ref: DRN90720783dont think that Mr and Mrs I wouldve  continued with the policy at this point if Nationwide 
had given them enough  information  about  it. So I think  that Mr and Mrs I have  lost out 
because of what Nationwide  did wrong.
Ive taken in to account all of Nationwides  comments, including what  it has said about Mr I 
being able to make a claim for unemployment if he was able to meet with the conditions of 
the policy, and that he would also be able to make a claim for accident  and sickness.  But I 
dont think this makes a difference. The conditions for someone self-employed  to be able to 
make a claim are restrictive, and while  Mr I may have been  able to make a claim for 
sickness, Mr and Mrs I were paying for full cover  from the MPPI  when only part of it may 
have been useful to them. So I still think I should  uphold the complaint  from the time of the 
amendment.
what the business needs  to do from the point of the policy amendment
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs I in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
MPPI from amendment. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already, 
and Nationwide  should:
Pay Mr and Mrs I the amount they paid each month for the MPPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs I made a successful claim under the MPPI policy, Nationwide can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide must give Mr and 
Mrs I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold in 2001,  so Nationwide Building  Society  doesnt  have  to 
pay back all of the cost of the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs I.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs I any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  up until the policy  amendment  
in 2007.
I do think that Nationwide Building Society did something wrong when  the policy was 
amended in 2007. It should put things right by doing what  Ive said above  from the date the 
policy was amended. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN90720784
Ref: DRN9072078