K820x#14complaint
Mrs G has questioned the advice she received from a representative of Openwork in 2017  to 
switch her pension. She says that the adviser  recommended she move  her pension  so that 
she would  pay less in charges. However  Mrs G believes she has actually paid significantly 
higher charges and this has affected her pension value. She does  not believe the advice to 
switch her pension  was suitable.  
background
I issued a provisional decision on 20 August 2020. A copy is attached  and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I explained why I was not intending to uphold the 
complaint. 
Openwork accepted the provisional  decision.
Mrs G did not accept  the provisional  decision  and made further submissions. In summary 
she said:
The main reason she decided to move  her pension was because the adviser said he 
would be reducing the fees. This was not achieved. 
The adviser made a deliberate attempt to prevent her from discovering she was 
being charged higher fees by not noting  her new address and giving  an incorrect 
email address to the new pension provider. When she contacted the pension 
provider she failed  data protection because of this and the provider also confirmed 
that the adviser had requested that it not contact her. 
The adviser visited her at her old address and was aware  that she and her husband 
were purchasing a new property.  This was at a very difficult  time due to family issues, 
and in hindsight  she not have made commitments at this time. The adviser did not 
mention this in his report and took advantage of her and her husband at a vulnerable 
time. She never  saw the documents  to release the payments and would not have 
agreed to them.  She was not given copies  of the documents  she signed. 
She did not request or suggest  that she wanted to access  her tax free cash. It was 
the adviser that encouraged this and said it would help with home improvements. 
The only improvements required to the new house were cosmetic  and were funded 
from disposable income. The planning permission was for the work regarding  the 
management of trees at the new property  and money had already been set aside for 
this. 
The Suitability  Report  was never  received and she only discovered  its existence 
when she complained to Openwork. So she could  not raise the issue  of tax free cash 
until she was aware of the reasoning  in the report. As she did not take the tax free 
cash, should this not have been  followed up by the adviser? If the Suitability Report 
was important there should have been  a system to make  sure it was received  such 
as confirmation  by the customer that it had been received. 
She did receive an inheritance but that was over a year later.  Her husbands  tax free 
cash was not used until this year, when it was invested  the cash  was not needed. It 
will now cost more money to move the pensions. She has lost over three years  
Ref: DRN95080162growth on her pension. She trusted  the adviser and does  not know anything about 
pensions. 
The charges  were excessive for changing a pension  that cost very little to maintain 
and was increasing in value. This was to a pension with excessive charges and to a 
provider she couldnt contact. Other pension providers clearly  set out their charges. 
When she later queried the reduction  in value of her pension the adviser  did not 
mention fees but only economic factors. She explained to the adviser at this time that 
she had not received  any paperwork. The adviser  said he would supply it but did not 
do so. She was able to find out about  the fees a few days after this visit when she 
was able to log on and see statements that would normally  be posted to her.
Her experience  of other financial intuitions is very different than Openwork and they 
would make sure she understood everything  and was supplied with the relevant 
paperwork. 
my findings
Ive reviewed all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
A material issue that has been  raised  is whether Mrs G was provided with the Suitability 
Report completed by the adviser.  I appreciate  what Mrs G has said but it has not been  
proven as she says that this wasnt sent or received. I considered  that issue  in the 
provisional decision. There isnt a set requirement  that checks should be made to make  sure 
such a report is received. Be that as it may,  as I said in the provisional  decision, I cannot 
necessarily assume that the information  contained in that report is incorrect. One of the main 
reasons for the transfer set out in that report is the release of tax free cash.  Whilst Mrs G 
says it was not needed, I am not persuaded that the evidence is that Mrs G was unaware 
that tax free cash  would  be released  she has said that the adviser made this suggestion at 
the time.  
Whilst Mrs G has said she did not need  that tax free cash  the evidence is that she was 
aware that this would be supplied.  As  I discussed in the provisional decision,  the fact that 
tax free cash was to be supplied was set out in all the financial planning documentation and 
whilst I appreciate what Mrs G has said about the new property, it is not an unreasonable 
suggestion that it might have been thought useful to have additional money  given the 
significant change  in personal/family circumstances that Mrs G has explained were occurring 
at the time. 
I am conscious of the very difficult circumstances that Mrs G said were occurring at the time 
of the advice but that does not mean  that the advice was unsuitable.  
Whilst I note that the Suitability Report was addressed to a property at which Mrs G no 
longer lived, I cannot assume this was intentional so as to withhold information  from her. Mrs 
G says that the new pension  provider  had an incorrect email address for her. It is not clear  
why this occurred.  But Mrs G could  have rectified  that at the time  as it later appears  she 
did to obtain statements and information.  Advisers do sometimes  request that the 
information issued  by the provider is sent to them so that they can review  the data  and that 
may have  been  the case here.  But that does not necessarily lead to a finding that the adviser 
was attempting  to hide certain facts  from Mrs G.
Ref: DRN95080163  
Mrs G has been clear  that the main reason for agreeing  to move the pensions was a 
reduction in fees or cost. The fees were set out in the Suitability Report and I have to take 
into account that Mrs G did sign a form to agree to them. I do not agree that the fees were  
excessive  they seem to me within the reasonable sphere of charges that would be applied 
for the provision of advice in such circumstances. In terms of when  a transfer should be 
made, there  should  be reasons for a transfer  and there are no particular reasons why a 
transfer of a pension should not be made at any particular moment in time  such as only 
when approaching retirement  or taking benefits. On the face of it there were such  reasons 
here  so I could not say the transfer was unjustified.  
I have considered the evidence carefully,  weighing up the evidence that Mrs G has provided  
with regard to the information in the Suitability Report and its receipt, the need or otherwise 
for tax free cash and the charges applied.  And also taking account of the evidence  
Openwork has supplied as to the provision of the Suitability Report  (a copy of which they 
have on file), knowledge  that tax free cash was being released and the disclosure of 
charges. On balance I cannot say that the evidence is that Mrs Gs complaint should be 
upheld. There is sufficient  evidence  that tax free cash  was agreed to and the parties were 
aware of its release (even  if in the event it was not used) and that the charges incurred in the 
transfer were justified. 
It might be useful to explain that investment performance would have had an effect on the 
new pension  value  after the pensions were transferred and it could not be known in advance  
whether the new pension  would generate  returns  better  or worse than the previous pension. 
The situation  should not be viewed  with hindsight with the knowledge that the performance  
of the new pension might not have been  as hoped for. There is no guarantee the previous 
pensions would have  performed better or worse than the new pension. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 October  2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN95080164copy provisional decision 
complaint
Mrs G has questioned  the advice she received from a representative of Openwork  in 2017 to switch 
her pension. She says that the adviser  recommended she move her pension so that she would  pay 
less in charges. However Mrs G believes  she has actually paid significantly higher  charges and this 
has affected  her pension value. She does not believe the advice to switch her pension  was suitable.  
background
Although this decision considers  Mrs Gs complaint, it would be helpful to note that Mr G has also 
made a similar complaint  and advice  was given to them at the same point by the same  adviser. So 
there will be references  to both Mr and Mrs G in this decision.
In 2017, Mrs G completed a fact find and risk profiling exercise with Openwork.
The fact find recorded Mrs G was aged 54 and employed part time as an administrator earning 
£7,000 per annum.  She had an expected retirement age of 67.
It was recorded that Mrs G and her husband had recently purchased  a new home and
took out a mortgage for £110,000. She held three pension plans which  had a combined
transfer value of around £40,000, and she wanted to consolidate the pensions and access
tax free cash at the age of 55 for home improvements. Her attitude to risk was recorded  as
Cautious.
Subsequently, on 21 September 2017 Openwork issued  a suitability  report  to Mrs Gs
old address  recommending  the transfer of her pensions to a Zurich  Retirement Account,
and investment into its Cautious Model  Portfolio.
Mrs G later complained to Openwork about the charges which had been deducted from her pension. 
She stated  that she had never received any paperwork and would not have agreed to the charges. 
She felt that advice to switch  her pensions  was unsuitable.
Openwork partially upheld  Mrs Gs complaint  on the basis that the suitability  report
had been sent to the wrong address, and awarded a payment  of £250 for this error.
However, in respect of the advice itself, Openwork did not uphold the complaint.  It said the adviser  
had given suitable advice  based on Mrs Gs objectives. This was primarily  to release tax free cash 
from her pension  for home improvements. It also believed that the fees and costs of switching the 
pension had been explained at the time. 
One of adjudicators investigated the complaint  and felt it should be upheld.  He noted  that the main  
objective for the transfer recorded in the suitability  report was to access  tax free cash, however,  Mrs 
G had not withdrawn it. After discussing this with Mrs G, he found  that whilst tax free cash had been 
discussed with the adviser there wasnt actually any requirement for it. This was evidenced by the fact 
that her husband had a modest amount  of cash  readily available to him should  they have required it 
for home  improvements as suggested in the suitability  report. 
In addition, he noted  that there were considerably higher  charges  incurred by switching to the new 
pension. She had not taken any tax free cash from the pension or any income.  She felt this called into 
question the material reason for the pension  switch. 
Openwork did not agree  with the investigators  assessment. In summary it:
Questioned whether  the suitability report completed by the adviser had been received.  It said 
that the adviser had confirmed  it was sent.  And the suitability letter set out that there was a 
need a for tax free cash  for home improvements which  Mrs G could have  challenged if 
incorrect.
Ref: DRN95080165Said Mrs G did not question the need for tax free cash when the initial complaint was made. It 
said this indicated  that there was a need for it. Furthermore, statements  Mrs G had made  
about requesting  a £25,000 drawdown indicated there was a need, as did statements about  
money being withdrawn  from her husbands pension  being sufficient.
Said Mr and Mrs G had recently moved house and taken out a mortgage  which indicated  a 
need for tax free cash. 
Said Mr and Mrs G could  not have taken drawdown and then tax free cash from the pension 
schemes they were switching  from. 
Said there was no advantage to the adviser  in recommending that Mrs G take tax free cash. 
This suggested a need for tax free cash.
Said the fact that Mrs G did not spend the tax free cash  does not mean she did not need it. 
She may have  changed her mind or her circumstances  could have  changed. In that respect it 
appears that Mr and Mrs G may have received an inheritance post advice that eliminated  the 
need for the tax free cash. Mr and Mrs G applied for planning permission for works with 
respect to their home in January 2018.  This would  have  required significant expenditure. 
Said the advice and fees to be charged were well documented  and were consistent.  
Openwork asked that an ombudsman review the complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted that the fact find (a record of Mrs Gs financial circumstances and objectives) completed 
by the adviser  in 2017  records that Mrs G wished to release  tax free cash from her pension  for home  
improvements. It also records that Mrs G wanted the flexibility to access  her pension as she wishes  
and has, discounted a move to flexi-access arrangements with her current  providers  as she, 
wouldnt get professional guidance which is very important  to her. It is stated that, For her aims and 
objectives to be met, (Mrs G) is prepared  to pay additional fees if necessary. 
I note there is a Suitability Report dated 21 September 2017 for Mrs G. This sets out that:
You will be 55 next March and you want access to your pension funds at this time as you want to use 
the tax-free cash for home improvements and do not want to increase debt through  borrowing as a 
potential solution. You and your husband, (Mr G), are keen not to take on any debt now or in the 
future. In addition, you have wanted a review of your funds for some time now as you do not know 
how they work but you believe you will not be able to access your funds  with the flexibility that you 
want.
As a cautious  investor,  you want advice going forward to ensure that your aims and objectives  are 
being met and that you are invested in line with your attitude to risk. You discounted a move to a flexi-
access arrangement  with existing providers as you wouldn't get professional guidance which is very 
important to you. You like the idea of simplification through consolidation to make it easier to 
understand your pension  savings and to aid future reviews.
There then followed  a recommendation from the adviser:
The (new pension provider) Platform gives you access to the right mix of products in a very cost-
effective way. It helps with administration and has the ability to look at a number of your investments 
together, meaning that you can make sure your investments are better  aligned  to your circumstances 
and objectives. It also provides a wide range of investment funds matching  your attitude  to risk and 
flexibility ensuring that your access needs now or in the future  can be met in the most appropriate way 
for your circumstances. Please refer to the enclosed  Platform Terms and Conditions for more details. I 
recommended the following platform accounts which are suitable for a medium to long-term 
investment strategy.
Ref: DRN95080166Retirement Account 
A tax-efficient way to invest that has the potential to benefit from tax relief on your contributions. A 
proportion of your fund will be available,  tax free when  you wish to take benefits  and you have flexible 
access to your funds from age 55.
It is also recorded  that: 
You want to be in a position to take advantage of flexible access to pension savings from age 55 to 
have funds for home improvements. This is less than 12 months away.
In terms of charges:
There are setting up and ongoing platform and product charges which  will impact  on the value of 
your investments. Some of the investments I recommended will have higher charges than alternatives 
available to you because  of the facilities they offer or the fund management  approach. These charges 
are covered in more detail in the product documentation and Illustrations we discussed  and that I 
provided to you. We freely  admit that nobody knows which fund managers  will turn out to be the most 
cost-effective over the years and past performance is not always a reliable indicator of the future.
And:
My service  & remuneration
We agreed that you'd pay the following for the services and advice you receive:
A total initial fee of £2,250 with an ongoing service fee of £283 a year which represents 0.75% of the 
value of your fund after my initial fees have  been  deducted. You chose to pay by having  the fees 
deducted from your funds.
It is also noted that:
investments no longer meet  your objectives because:
 None of the three  plans can facilitate flexi-access  drawdown which  is one of your
primary objectives  as you want  to raise capital  for home improvements
There is a fee agreement dated 30 August 2017 signed by Mrs G which sets out that there will be an 
ongoing service charge  of 0.75% payable  to the adviser  and (initial) payment of a £1,250 lump sum 
charge and 2.5% of the transferred pensions. 
On the subject of flexibility it was stated by the adviser that none of the existing  pensions would 
facilitate drawdown.  I believe this is correct in the case of the Capita and Sun Life pensions.  The 
providers of those pensions have confirmed  that Mrs G could not take drawdown from those  
pensions. In order  to release the tax free cash and take drawdown Mrs G would  have needed to 
transfer her pension. I am not aware of the position  with the Clerical Medical  pension, but it would 
follow that if the majority  of the pensions  had to be transferred to take tax free cash  and drawdown, 
then it would be reasonable to transfer this pension  at the same time into one arrangement.
Materially, Mrs Gs original  complaint was that when she met with the adviser  she was told that the 
new pension would be cheaper - and her comments are evidence I take into account. She also 
questioned the need for tax free cash.
But I also have to take into account that I have not seen any other evidence that such comments 
about lower  charges were  made  and Openwork has disputed  that such comments  would have  been 
made. In addition the charges to be incurred for the advice and the new pension are set out in the 
suitability report.
Ref: DRN95080167Mrs G has said that she did not receive  the suitability report. She says she moved to a new house on 
10 August 2017 and the adviser  was aware of this as he visited her at her new home. She says she 
did not have a post redirection  service  but depended on the person who moved  into her previous 
home passing  on mail. She says that individual did not pass on a suitability report.  Mr G said that he 
visited the previous address  on several  occasions to pick up mail but suitability reports  were  not 
amongst such  correspondence.
The suitability report was sent to an address at which  Mrs G no longer lived. So this would support 
Mrs Gs version  of events that she did not receive it. Having said that, the evidence is that Mr G did 
visit their previous address  to pick up mail. It is normal  (and in fact a requirement) for such a report to 
be issued and I cannot assume  that did not happen. It would also be reasonable  that an individual 
would expect some kind of formal  report from the adviser   and that it would be questioned if such 
was not received. In any event, I cannot assume that, even if it was not received, the report did not 
correctly set out what the objectives and the motivations  for the transfer were  (which are repeated in 
the fact find). As discussed, the suitability report  set out that the primarily reason the pension switch 
was taking  place was so that tax free cash could be taken  for home  improvements.  Mrs G had just 
moved house and so that version of events is plausible. Openwork has said that planning  permission 
was applied for on the new property in January 2018  which would tend to suggest that home 
improvements were  envisaged. 
Furthermore if Mrs G did not require  the tax free cash then I would expect  this matter to be raised at 
the time. From what I can see the issue of tax free cash being required  was not questioned until much 
later, after Openwork submitted this was a reason for the pension switch.  The evidence is that Mrs G 
was aware of the tax free cash and that it was understood this would  be supplied when  the transfer 
was made. 
Having said that, the evidence  is that Mrs G has not used any of that tax free cash. That could 
support her version of events  that this was not a reason for the pension switch.  Openwork has 
queried whether an inheritance might have obviated the need for the tax free cash, Mrs G has 
confirmed that the inheritance was also not used for any expenditure and has been placed in a 
savings/investment account.  Having  considered this but the fact that the tax free cash has not been 
used so far does not necessarily indicate that it wasnt a need when the advice  was given or that Mrs 
G didnt  agree to its release.  As discussed,  Mrs G was aware of it and that it would be supplied as a 
result of the pension switch.
Mrs G has said she agreed to the switch  because  she was told the new pension would be cheaper. 
However this is not the case.
The evidence  is that Mrs G did incur  higher charges by switching her pensions.  It seems that Mrs G 
did sign forms which  set out what charges would be incurred (although she says she does not recall 
the content).  The charges  were not unreasonable, were disclosed and there were  reasons for 
incurring those  charges.  I appreciate what Mrs G has said about the rationale for moving if charges 
were to be higher.  But higher charges does not necessarily equate to unsuitable advice if there are 
reasons for incurring  those charges  which the evidence  would suggest  there were  here. In terms of 
some of the adviser charges being assessed on the entire pension fund value, that is how the charge 
was levied  - on the amount of fund on which  the adviser was giving  his advice. Although the ongoing 
charges are assessed  on the actual fund after tax free cash is released.  I do not believe  the evidence 
suggests the adviser  acted incorrectly here.
Bearing all this in mind,  I do not believe the advice was unsuitable. It allowed  the tax free cash to be 
taken (which the evidence would suggest,  on balance, was a need or expected) whilst leaving the 
remainder of the pension fund intact. The remaining money was invested  at a risk level in accordance 
with Mrs Gs assessed  risk tolerance.
Ref: DRN95080168my provisional  decision
I am sorry  to disappoint Mrs G, but I do not believe  the evidence suggests  that I should uphold the 
complaint. So I do not intend to uphold  the complaint or make any award.   
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9508016