K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold her a mortgage.
background
In 2016 Ms F applied  for a Nationwide mortgage through an intermediary. In 2017  Ms F 
wanted to increase her mortgage  amount so she could repay her Help to Buy loan (HtB)  and 
consolidate some  other debts. Nationwide told Ms F she wasnt  able to borrow above the 
amount of her HtB loan and said instead  shed need  to first borrow  the amount needed to 
clear the loan, then reapply for further borrowing for the debt consolidation. And it said that 
Ms F would be subject to an early  repayment  charge (ERC) if she left Nationwide  or paid 
over her overpayment allowance as shed agreed to a five year fixed  term when she took out 
her mortgage. Ms F was unhappy  about  this so complained to Nationwide.
Ms Fs complaint points around the further  borrowing  and the conditions Nationwide applies 
have been dealt with separately  by our service.  This case is only looking into whether  or not 
the mortgage has been mis-sold. Ms F says it was mis-sold  as she was told she could 
redeem the HtB loan within  the five year fixed rate time period. And that she wasnt  given 
correct advice regarding  the terms and conditions  of the mortgage. She also said she 
thought shed taken a five-year  fixed rate so the intermediary got a higher  fee.
Nationwide didnt uphold  her complaint. It said that it didnt give her any advice as this 
mortgage was sold to her by an intermediary.  It explained its paperwork was clear on both 
the terms and conditions and the ERC,  so it didnt consider it had done anything  wrong.  
Ms F didnt agree so she brought her complaint  to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
her complaint as she also considered that Nationwide  wasnt responsible for incorrect  
information given  by the intermediary during the sale, just the information in the paperwork 
which was correct. Ms F disagreed to the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator set out, I cant hold Nationwide responsible for wrong advice or 
information given  to Ms F by her intermediary. In this case  they were an independent  third 
party and Nationwide cant  control what they told Ms F. I appreciate Ms F says she finds  
them intimidating so doesnt want to complaint to them. However that doesnt change 
Nationwides responsibility  in this complaint. I can only look at Nationwides actions and 
whether it has done anything  wrong. I cant and wont ask it to take responsibility  for a 
separate partys  actions.
The paperwork Ms F received from Nationwide  makes it clear what  shes agreeing to. It sets 
out both that shes agreeing to fix her rate for five years  and the consequences  if she does 
overpay or end the mortgage during that time. So I think the ERC was brought to her 
attention by Nationwide and its therefore  fair that its now saying these conditions apply.
I cant know whether or not the intermediary  recommended this rate to her due to 
commission. But in any event, that isnt something Nationwide is responsible  for. As the 
Ref: DRN99128892paperwork Ms F received  does make the fixed-rate clear, I dont think it needed to do 
anymore.
In relation to the terms and conditions, I understand this point is linked to Ms Fs other 
complaint and her ability to repay  her HtB and borrow to consolidate other debt in a single 
transaction.
Nationwide isnt required to disclose details of its internal  lending  criteria in its general  terms 
and conditions. I appreciate why this information was important for Ms Fs decision, but I 
dont consider its something Nationwide needed  to include in the general information it 
provided. I think she was provided enough  information by Nationwide  on the general 
mortgage terms and it was then for her, or her intermediary, to look further  into conditions 
that may apply to the specific, more specialist  transaction she wanted to carry out. Im aware 
Ms F did contact Nationwide to discuss this. What happened when she did this has already 
been considered by our service, so I wont  comment on that further  here.
I understand Ms F says she was given  incorrect and unclear information during  the sale of 
her mortgage. However I cant see that Nationwide was responsible  for this as I consider it 
provided clear and accurate information to her.
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9912889