K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Tesco Personal Finance  plc mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  The complaint is brought on his behalf  by a claims management 
company.
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy taken out in 2008. The policy  was taken 
out when Mr K applied  for a loan online to pay for a wedding. The policy  covered him for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that the cost 
of the policy   in particular  the interest  on the premium and the monthly cost - hadnt been 
made clear enough.
Tesco disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion saying, in summary, that:
During the online application, Mr K wouldve  seen the monthly insurance premium  
payable, the total cost of the loan and the cost of the insurance  premium.
He would then have  been sent a credit agreement to sign. This showed the monthly cost 
of the PPI, the total cost of the PPI and the total interest on the premium.
So Mr K was provided with all the relevant information he needed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ks complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint  Ill explain why.
Tesco had to give Mr K information  about  the PPI that was clear, fair and not misleading. Im 
not persuaded that it gave  Mr K clear enough information  about the cost of policy.
During the online application  process, Mr K wouldve been told the monthly cost of the PPI 
and the total cost over the loan term. But he wasnt told that hed have to pay £207.48 
interest on the premium  in total.
Tesco has given us a copy of the loan agreement which was sent to Mr K following the 
completion of his online application. This shows the cost of the PPI and how the interest 
would have been applied. But this document was only available  to him after the application 
had already been made and I cant be sure how closely Mr K would have read through the 
information. The interest hed be charged over the term of the loan was shown,  but it was 
within some  text and not with the headline figures. So I dont think it was clear  enough.  
Ref: DRN96733382Im also not persuaded Mr K would have reviewed this information in detail  or that he 
wouldnt have thought this was simply a reflection of what he had seen online before signing 
and returning  the documents. So, I cant say that Mr K was given clear enough information 
about the PPI at the time of making  his selection.  
Ive considered the costs of the policy and the interest charged over the lifetime  of the loan 
for the cover. And, I dont think Mr K would  have bought the policy if Tesco had given him 
enough information about the costs when he made his application online. I dont think  he 
would have thought it was value  for money.  So, I think Mr K has lost out because of what  
Tesco did wrong.
putting things right
Mr K borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been and he 
paid more than he shouldve each month.  So Mr K needs to get back  the extra  hes paid. 
So, Tesco Personal Finance plc should:
Work  out and pay Mr K the difference between what  he paid each month  on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple  interest  to the extra amount Mr K paid each month  from when he paid it until 
he gets it back.  The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
If Mr K made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Tesco can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
Tesco  made an offer to Mr K to refund some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K. This is 
because it got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it shouldve told him about. If this offer has been paid to Mr K, Tesco can 
take off what it paid from the amount  it owes him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Tesco to take off tax from this interest.  Tesco must give 
Mr K a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Tesco Personal Finance plc should  pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9673338