K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that National Westminster  Bank Plc gave  him an overdraft he couldnt 
afford to repay.
background
In September  2018 Mr M made an on-line application to NatWest for an overdraft of £1,250 
which was accepted.
In February 2019  Mr M complained to NatWest. He said it shouldnt have given him the 
overdraft because it should have known he wouldnt be able to repay  it. NatWest  refunded  
£40 worth of charges to Mr Ms account  but, apart from that, it didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr M wasnt happy with NatWests response and referred his complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. They didnt think 
NatWest had lent to Mr M irresponsibly. 
Mr M didnt  agree with our investigators  recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its up to a bank to decide whether  or not to lend to a particular individual and what criteria  it 
should apply when making its decision. It should  carry  out reasonable checks  to satisfy itself 
the customer will be able to afford to repay the loan.
Mr M says hed previously taken out large loans with different lenders that hed struggled to 
repay. These were  all paid off by March 2018. But he says he had a history  of missing 
payments and NatWest  failed to carry out sufficient  checks to ascertain if he would be able 
to repay  his overdraft.
When he made his application, Mr M gave  NatWest information about his monthly income 
and expenses. This showed he had a monthly  surplus of £399. On that basis, Mr M could 
afford to repay the overdraft. I dont  think  there  was anything on Mr Ms credit  file that should 
have alerted NatWest  to the possibility the information Mr M had given it wasnt correct.
Mr M was in the best position to judge  if he could afford to repay the overdraft. He made  the 
application and then spent the money so hes had the benefit  of it.
In all the circumstances Im not persuaded I could reasonably decide NatWest  shouldnt 
have given Mr M the overdraft or that it should have carried out any further  checks. I think 
the checks it made were  reasonable  and, coupled with the information Mr M had provided, I 
think it was reasonable  for NatWest to decide the overdraft was affordable.
Ref: DRN95754932my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make  no award 
against National Westminster Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9575493