K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that Southern Rock Insurance Company Limited unfairly  declined  a claim he 
made on his motor insurance policy. Hes also unhappy with its claims handling.  
background
When Mr A advertised his car for sale he got a call from a man who said he might be 
interested in buying it. The caller said he was in the motor trade, so a colleague of his might 
view the car. The caller didnt give his name. Mr A says a man with a different accent to the 
caller came  to view the car. Mr A started  the engine  whilst the potential buyer inspected the 
outside of the car and the engine. Mr A says the potential buyer then got into the drivers  
seat to rev the engine. He asked  if he could test drive the car. As Mr A tried to get round the 
car to the passenger seat,  the man drove  off.
In declining  the claim, Southern Rock  relied  on an exclusion  in the policy. It said it wouldnt 
pay for the loss of a vehicle through deception  by someone claiming to be a buyer. Mr A 
thought that was unfair. He objected  to being interviewed by an investigator as part of the 
claims process, but Southern Rock said it was standard practice.  It said it wanted to ensure 
it understood all the facts.  It accepted  Mr As point that its decision on the claim  should  have 
been issued earlier than it was. It offered him £100  compensation for that delay.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr A had voluntarily handed over control of the car. He said the 
thief took advantage  of a small  window of opportunity. In his view, the theft happened so 
fast that Mr A didnt  have  time to look at any documents to check  that the potential  buyer 
seemed to be genuine. The investigator  didnt think it was wrong for Southern Rock to use 
an investigator as part of the claims  process.  But he thought it should pay Mr A £200 in total 
for the delay  in issuing its decision,  as well as reconsidering the claim. 
Southern Rock maintained that it was fair to say Mr A had handed over control of the car 
voluntarily. And it said that by not checking  any documents in advance,  Mr A hadnt 
minimised the risk of something  going wrong.  The investigator then issued a second view, 
not upholding the complaint. Mr A asked  for a review of the case  by an ombudsman.
I said that where an insurer relies on a policy exclusion for theft by deception, we look at all 
the facts and consider whether it was reasonable for the insurer  to do so. We assess 
whether the evidence shows a consumer voluntarily handed over control of their car to 
someone else or not. And we also consider  whether a consumer can show  they took 
reasonable steps beforehand to check they were dealing with a genuine potential buyer.
In this case, I said the key was in the car and the engine was switched on when  Mr A 
allowed the potential  buyer to sit in the drivers seat.  He caused a distraction by asking to 
take the car on a test drive.  Mr As attempt to get to the passenger seat took a few seconds 
 but it was enough time to lock the doors and drive off. Mr A didnt expect that to happen, 
but I thought the chance was always  there.  And I thought he could have avoided the 
situation  perhaps  by insisting that he drove the car, or by taking  the key with him. But I 
thought he was deceived into voluntarily handing over control of his car to the thief. 
I didnt think Mr A had been  able to show he took reasonable  steps to check that the 
potential buyer was genuine  before he handed  over control of the car. I said asking to see 
his driving licence and insurance documents first may have  been  a deterrent to a potential 
thief. Mr A said he was going to check the documents once they were both sitting  in the car, 
Ref: DRN96997382so in my opinion he recognised there  was a risk. I thought making basic checks  up front 
would have shown  that Mr A tried to ensure that the potential buyer was entitled to drive the 
car. But in my view,  Mr A didnt take adequate  steps  to deal with the risk hed identified. 
I thought the loss of the car must have been  very shocking and distressing for Mr A. But I 
thought it was reasonable for Southern  Rock  to decline  the claim.  I also thought it was 
reasonable for it to use an investigator. Mr A had already given a full account  of the event to 
Southern Rocks advisors. But I didnt think it was unfair to Mr A that Southern Rock wanted  
to be sure it had understood all the facts  especially as it was already  minded not to pay the 
claim. I didnt think Mr A could show that its intention was to find a way to decline it.
I didnt think Southern Rock had explained the delay  in getting its decision on the claim to 
Mr A. It wasnt issued  until the end of April 2018, although the investigators report was dated 
29 January 2018.  So Mr A was unsure about whether the claim would be paid or not for 
three months. I dont  think Southern Rocks offer of £100 compensation for that was enough. 
I thought the £200 proposed by the investigator  better reflected the worry hed faced.
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Southern Rock accepted them,  
and Mr A didnt comment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Southern Rock accepted my 
provisional findings, and Mr A didnt comment, I see no reason to depart from them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Southern  Rock  Insurance  
Company to pay Mr A £200 compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9699738