K821x#15complaint
This complaint is brought on behalf  of Mr M1 by his brother, Mr M2. The complaint is about 
the way in which Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires  and referred to 
here as BM) has administered Mr M1s mortgage account. Specifically, the main issue  in the 
complaint is that BM failed to collect the direct  debit for four years, even though  it was live. 
Mr M2 also says that, although BM knew he had authority to deal with the account on behalf  
of his brother, BM continued  to call Mr M1, even though it was aware  he had mental  health  
issues.
To resolve  the complaint,  Mr M2 wants BM to write off the arrears so that only the original 
£30,000 borrowed (on an interest-only basis) is payable.
Mr M1 has brought  another complaint  against  a different business, upon  which  I have issued 
a final decision.  I have reviewed both files in tandem as there are some overlaps in the 
timeline of events.
Mr M1 has a mortgage account with BM taken out on 5 August 1999. It was originally in the 
joint names of Mr M1 and his mother.  I am sorry to note that she has since passed away  and 
so the mortgage account  is now in the sole name of Mr M1. It is an interest-only mortgage  
for £30,000.
Unfortunately Mr M1 experienced some  financial  difficulties, which  led to Mr M2 becoming 
involved in his brothers  affairs.
In January 2013 Mr M1 gave authority for Mr M2 to contact BM on his behalf, and later 
completed BMs third party authority allowing BM to discuss the account with Mr M2, obtain  
information and make payments when required.
Mr M2 wrote  to BM enclosing a direct  debit mandate, and explaining that, because  of mental 
illness, Mr M1 had asked Mr M2 to help him with his financial affairs.  The letter went on to 
explain that Mr M1 would be seeking  guidance from Citizens Advice  and other relevant 
agencies to ascertain  what  help was available. Mr M2 asked for an update on the account  
and for BM to state its position in relation to what  assistance was available.
The letter concludes by saying that Mr M2 was not assuming any responsibility for Mr M1s 
debts, and that his involvement was only to offer him help with the long-term management of 
his financial affairs.
Following Mr M2s intervention, Mr M1s direct debit was reinstated in March 2013, but after 
January 2014  the direct  debit stopped. BM says that this is because  it had been returned 
twice and, in accordance  with its procedures (and to stop bank charges accruing) its policy  is 
to cancel the direct debit.  Mr M2 says his enquiries have revealed that the direct debit was 
always live.
In any event, the mortgage was unpaid for several  years, with arrears  beginning to accrue. 
BM wrote  to Mr M1 about these.
At the point where BM would have been  expected to take legal action, as a result of 
intervention by the regulator, BM (and other  businesses in the Bank of Scotland Plc group)  
were required  to put recovery action on hold across  its mortgage accounts. So no steps 
were taken to bring the account  up to date. The mortgage remained unpaid and the arrears 
Ref: DRN96265922that have accrued (about £6,000) are now on a repayment basis  in order that they are 
cleared by the end of the mortgage term.
Mr M2 says that it was only in 2018   as a result of exceptional circumstances  that he first 
became aware  that Mr M1 was in financial difficulty. Hes explained that Mr M1 was showing 
no signs of dysfunction, he was holding down  a responsible job, was behaving normally and 
appeared to have overcome his previous difficulties. 
Mr M2 complained to BM that it had failed to keep him up-to-date,  in accordance  with the 
instructions from Mr M1. He also claims  that BM failed in its duty of care to Mr M1, as a 
vulnerable customer.
BM didnt uphold the complaint. It explained to Mr M1 that it had written to him in February 
2014 explaining that the direct debit had been stopped. BM also noted that Mr M1 had made  
payments over the telephone after that, and made six payments between  September  2014 
and March 2018.
Mr M2 responded to BM, disagreeing that it had acted  fairly. He argued (and I summarise) 
that BM should have contacted him (Mr M2) as per the third party  authority  on file. He also 
said that BM had allowed  the arrears to get to a point where it was unrealistic to expect a 
borrower to repay them, and that there was no structure in place for BM to manage the 
arrears. 
BM said it didnt think it had treated Mr M1 unfairly.  It explained that it had discussed the 
arrears with Mr M1 and that there  had been several  payment arrangements  since  2012. The 
last arrangement was set up in March 2015, after Mr M1 had gone  through  a full income and 
expenditure assessment.
Dissatisfied with BMs response,  Mr M2 brought the complaint to us, with the consent of 
Mr M1. 
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  He was satisfied 
that BM had acted reasonably by stopping the direct debit after January 2014.  He didnt think 
there had been  a pattern  of regular repayments that would have justified BM reinstating the 
direct debit.
The investigator also noted that Mr M1 had told BM he no longer wished BM to contact him 
by telephone. He remarked  that Mr M1 did not tell BM to telephone Mr M2 instead.
Finally, the investigator  was satisfied Mr M1 had been receiving  the account statements  
because he confirmed to BM in 2018 that he had had them.  So, even though  BM wasnt 
taking any action to collect the arrears  (due to regulatory intervention), the investigator was 
satisfied Mr M1 was aware of the position on his mortgage account.
As a result, the investigator didnt think BM had done anything wrong.
Mr M2 disagreed. In asking for an ombudsmans review, hes made  the following points:
he acknowledges that Mr M1 is responsible for managing  his debt by ensuring 
payments are maintained;
but BM is also required  to follow FCA regulations, and he contends that the specific  
rules relating to vulnerable customers were breached;
Ref: DRN96265923the Financial Ombudsman Service is in no position to determine the severity of 
Mr M1s  mental illness;
this complaint isnt about Mr M1s  illness  it is about whether or not BM, having been  
advised of that illness  in 2013,  followed Mr M1s  instructions  and FCA regulations;
as a result of its failure to follow proper procedures, BM has made a significant 
contribution to the accumulation  of the arrears.
provisional decision
On 5 February 2020 I issued a provisional decision in which  I made the following findings.
There are three issues in this complaint: the third party mandate,  the cessation of the 
direct debit and the way in which BM has dealt with Mr M1 (and specifically whether 
BM should have  involved Mr M2 in the account  after the direct debit was cancelled  in 
January 2014).
direct debit:  Generally  where a direct  debit has failed twice, a lender will cancel  the 
direct debit and let the borrower know. There are two reasons for this; it will stop 
charges on the mortgage account for failed direct debits and it will prevent the 
borrowers bank charging for direct debits  which  are returned unpaid.
Given that Mr M1s direct  debit had failed, I am satisfied that it was reasonable for 
BM to cancel it. Im satisfied BM wrote to Mr M1 about this. But I also note there was 
confusion at BM about whether the direct  debit had been cancelled  or not. But it is 
not disputed that there were no further attempts to collect it after January  2014, For 
some time afterwards, Mr M1 was engaging  with BM about his financial difficulties 
and made  several  payments manually.
Due to regulatory  involvement, BM was required  to put its collection activities  on hold 
and so although letters were sent to Mr M1, no further steps were taken. This was 
out of BMs control,  as it is required to comply with the regulator. But the implications  
for Mr M1 are that arrears continued to accrue. It also appears BM was writing  to an 
incomplete address  and so Mr M1 might  not have had the letters.
should BM have contacted Mr M2? Im satisfied BM had received  the mandate  
signed by Mr M1 in 2013. I say this because  it is stamped as received by BM on 30 
January 2013.  This is not limited in time, and it authorises BM to discuss and 
provide information  regarding  my mortgage account to [Mr M2] in order  to assist me 
with my current  financial situation and make  payments when required
BM didnt contact Mr M2 at any point. Its position  appears to be that, if Mr M2 had 
contacted it, then there was authority on file to provide Mr M2 with information  in 
other words, BM would be completely passive about  the extent to which  it would 
engage with Mr M2 about the mortgage account.
But Im not persuaded that this is correct. I think BM should have contacted Mr M2 
once it became apparent that payment had stopped,  so after March 2015. 
It seems  the account was sat in the wrong  queue for years  not generating any 
correspondence (according to BMs notes). BM has acknowledged the account fell  
into a black hole where not only was there no collections activity (due to regulatory 
Ref: DRN96265924issues) but there was also no account  management or engagement  with Mr M after 
March 2015 until May 2018. 
In the circumstances, I think that BM should  have contacted Mr M2 between those 
dates, as per the instruction on file. Its failure to do so has exacerbated the arrears  
situation.
vulnerable customer
BM is required to identify  vulnerable customers and provide  support for them  where 
appropriate. There was nothing in BMs dealings with Mr M1 to suggest  he was 
incapable of managing his own affairs in January 2014, or up to the point where  he 
was no longer engaging  with BM after March 2015.  Mr M1 told BM in 2015  that he 
was upset at receiving so many calls (which  I understand were via an automated  
dialling system) and so these were stopped.
Ive looked at Mr M1s bank statements  from 2014 onwards. These do not suggest to 
me that he lacked agency or was incapable of making his own decisions about his 
finances. Some of those decisions were perhaps  unwise,  causing him to go 
overdrawn, but it seems  his account would be back in credit  again within  a short  
space of time. Generally people are allowed to spend their money as they wish, even 
where the choices  they make are somewhat  imprudent. This is not the same as 
lacking the capacity to handle ones  finances.  
Of course,  BM had no access to Mr M1s  bank  statements or current account,  so 
although Ive noted the points Mr M2 has made about Mr M1s spending, it isnt 
something which impacts on BMs account administration.
Ive also taken into account that in 2016 Mr M1 applied for another  financial product 
(which is the subject of another complaint, also with me for final decision). Ive 
listened to Mr M1s calls with that business, in which he explained that, after a 
number of bereavements, he went through a period of depression in 2012  and 2013,  
which caused him to get into some financial difficulty. But Mr M1 said that he was 
now recovered.
I have also taken into account what Mr M2 told us in an email dated  30 October 
2019: At no point  did BM ever comply with the instruction mandate to keep me 
informed Of course, BM may argue  that my brother should  have  informed me of his 
arrears but first of all, the onus was not on him but on them to comply  with the 
authorisation mandate and secondly,  people with mental health issues  do not always  
act responsibly or, indeed, truthfully, when asked  for information. My brother was 
outwardly functional, holding down a responsible job in [redacted]  and behaving 
normally. It was not until 2018 that, through exceptional circumstances, I learnt of the 
extent of his dysfunctionality and mental illness via his GP and other authorities.
Im not persuaded that BM could, or should,  have identified Mr M1 as vulnerable or 
suffering from mental illness after March  2015.  Indeed, Mr M2 has acknowledged  
that he was unaware  of his brothers difficulties until 2018. In the circumstances, Im 
not persuaded that BM, which had no personal  relationship with Mr M1, could have 
realised this either.
conclusions
Ref: DRN96265925Im satisfied it was reasonable for BM to cancel the direct  debit  in early 2014. 
Thereafter it was engaging with Mr M1, and trying to put payment plans in place. 
Contact continued  with Mr M1, along with sporadic payments, until March  2015.
Im also not persuaded BM should  have  identified Mr M1 as a vulnerable customer 
after March  2015.  I think its unlikely, given what Mr M1 told the other finance 
provider in 2016 (as detailed above) and the fact that Mr M2 has accepted he was 
unaware of his brothers  illness after 2013 until 2018, that BM could, or should, have 
known that Mr M1 had any continuing  mental  health  issues.
But I do think that BM failed in allowing the account  to fall into limbo (BMs own 
words) for three years from March  2015 until May 2018. BM needs to do something 
to put this right.
what should  BM do?
I dont think it would  be fair, as Mr M2 has suggested, to write off all the arrears,  
interest and fees on this mortgage account  so that only the original £30,000 is 
outstanding. But I think BM should  remove interest,  fees and charges on the 
mortgage account from the day after the last payment  on 4 March  2015 (so from 5 
March 2015) until 9 May 2018, when  BM was contacted by Mr M1 about the 
mortgage.
responses to the provisional  decision
Mr M2, on behalf of Mr M1, accepted  the provisional  decision.  BM also accepted my 
provisional decisoin, but made some further points about why it didnt  think it had acted 
unfairly and about  the redress I intended to award.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reviewed the file again and Ive 
considered the responses to the provisional decision.
I confirm Ive taken note of all the points BM has made. I accept that BM was constrained  by 
the regulator from collections activity during the period from May 2015 when Mr M1 last had 
contact with BM. But Im not persuaded that the regulators requirements prevented BM from 
administering Mr M1s account in any way at all, which is what happened here for over three 
years. Im satisfied that if the account hadnt been,  as BM admits, put into the wrong queue 
there would have been some meaningful engagement with Mr M1 or Mr M2 which would 
have prevented the arrears from increasing to their present level.
In the circumstances, although Ive noted  everything  BM has said,  and taking  into account 
that BM says it accepts my provisional decision,  I remain of the view that the handling  of this 
account falls far below the standard I would have  expected. Given  this, and notwithstanding 
that Im aware that BM thinks this unfairly  disadvantages Mr M1,Im not persuaded to change 
my opinion from the conclusion reached  in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN96265926my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To settle the complaint, I order  Bank 
of Scotland Plc (trading as Birmingham  Midshires) to remove  interest, fees and charges from 
the mortgage account for the period  5 March 2015  to 9 May 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M1to  accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9626592