K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd failed to give her a correct settlement 
figure so her loan wasnt paid off as shed thought it would be and is now showing in arrears.  
background
Miss H had a loan with Creation. In February  2018 she went  online to pay off the loan early. 
She was given a settlement figure of £10,367.26 which she paid and she received a 
confirmation the loan had been paid off. But a direct debit of £291.23 was due the same day. 
This wasnt included  in the settlement  figure. Miss H cancelled the direct debit so this 
payment didnt go through and this left Miss Hs account in arrears.
Creation contacted Miss H in March 2018  to tell her there were  arrears on the account. But 
she said shed paid it off and had confirmation of that so she shouldnt  have  to pay any 
more. She made a complaint  but Creation rejected it because  it said she shouldve known 
the settlement  figure didnt include the direct debit that was due. So Miss H came to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld so Miss H asked for review by 
an ombudsman. I thought the complaint should  be upheld  in part so I issued a provisional 
decision. Creation  provided feedback on the provisional decision but as both Creation and 
Miss H accepted the decision overall, my findings have not changed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The figures on Miss Hs account show that a further £291.23 was due the day Miss H made 
her settlement payment though it wasnt taken because the direct debit was cancelled.  
However, when Miss H looked  at her account  online, she clearly  intended to pay off the loan 
and paid the settlement amount she was given. She wasnt  told the settlement figure didnt 
include the direct debit that was pending. And she was given a confirmation shed paid off 
the loan. 
Creation said she shouldve known she owed more  because  a higher figure was quoted 
when shed consulted  her account previously. But when she contacted  Creation  earlier,  she 
was just enquiring  about her interest  rates so I dont think she wouldve  noticed the 
settlement figure was higher.  I think Miss H acted in good faith when she cancelled  the direct  
debit as she believed  the account was settled but the information Creation gave her wasnt 
clear.
In the circumstances, I think Creations poor communication led to Miss H paying less than 
she shouldve to settle the debt.  But this created a problem for Miss H as the account then 
went into arrears.  This was worrying for her as she believed shed paid the debt off but her 
credit record  was showing the account  in arrears. Credit records  are designed to provide an 
accurate picture  of the way a person manages their finances.  But in this case, I find any 
arrears have arisen because of Creations poor communication about the settlement figure,  
not because Miss H failed  to make payments on her account.  Therefore, to put things right,  I 
find that Creation  should write  off the arrears  and amend Miss Hs credit record  so it reflects 
her intention to pay off the loan in full in February  2018.
Ref: DRN91829282my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is upheld in part as 
Miss Hs account went into arrears due to poor communication from Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should write off the outstanding debt and 
amend Miss Hs credit file to show that the debt was settled in full in February 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9182928