K820x#14complaint
Miss F has complained that Complete Cover Group Ltd. (CCG) didn't give her enough 
information about the motor insurance policy it sold to her.
background
Miss F was looking for motor insurance quotes online and she rang CCG to complete the 
purchase of a policy. A couple of months after she did so she was in an accident with a 
parked car. The cars owner  claimed  against  Miss Fs policy.  Her motor insurer,  which  is a 
separate business to CCG, settled the third partys claim for the repairs to their car. But it 
told Miss F that as her policy had a £3,000 all sections excess, she would have to reimburse 
it for the cost of the claim which was around  £2,500.
Miss F complained that CCG hadn't given her enough information  about the excess and 
other things  when she took out the policy. It said that and if it had she wouldn't have bought  
it. Our investigator didn't think CCG had done anything  wrong.  Miss F didn't agree so her 
complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Miss Fs made  a number  of points but in this decision I will focus 
on what I see as the key issues. Also Im aware  that Miss F has also complained  about  the 
actions of the insurer but as that's a separate business I don't intend to comment on that 
matter in this decision.
Amongst other issues Miss F complained  that CCG hadn't  explained:  the level of cover 
provided; that it was provided by a different insurer; or how the £3,000 excess would apply.
I've listened  to the call when CCG sold Miss F the policy.  And in that call it explained that it 
was selling her a fully comprehensive policy and told her the name of the insurer  that 
provided the cover. I've also heard CCGs call handler explain to Miss F that the excess 
applied to all sections  of the policy and that meant  that, if a third party made  a claim against 
her policy,  she would still be liable  for an excess of up to £3,000. The call handler  specifically 
asked Miss F to say whether or not she understood that, and Miss F said she did. So having 
listened to the call I think CCG gave Miss F all the information she needed to decide  whether 
or not she wanted  to go ahead with the policy. And she said that she did.
I understand that English  isn't Miss Fs first language and shes  said that she struggled to 
understand the information CCG gave her. But I don't think  thats  CCGs fault. And as I've 
said above it specifically  asked her if she understood how the excess  would apply and she 
said that she did. If she hadn't understood then she should have said so. But as she didn't 
its not fair to hold CCG responsible for anything Miss F didn't understand.
Also CCG  sent Miss F a link to a portal from where  she could access  the policy documents. 
All those  documents refer to the excess applying to all the sections of the policy. Miss F told 
us that she did see those documents. But shes since said she thinks they might have been 
changed since she looked at them. But I'm not sure what information she thinks has 
Ref: DRN92545952changed as the documents repeat the details that CCGs call handler gave over the phone. 
So I don't think  they have  been amended.
Miss F said that there was another call where  CCG  said that the excess  would only apply to 
claims for repairs  to her own car. But CCG has no record of that call. So I can't know  exactly  
what was discussed  in it. But given that all the policy documents  are clear that the excess  
applied to all sections  of the policy, Im not persuaded that CCG would have  misled  her as to 
how the excess would be charged.
It follows that I don't think CCG did anything  wrong  when it sold Miss F her policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9254595