K821x#15complaint
Mr W and Miss Y have complained about Amtrust Europe Limiteds decision to decline their 
claim under their new home building warranty.
background
Mr W and Miss Y bought  a house  which had been built just over three years earlier. The 
house was covered by a new home building warranty  provided by Amtrust.
Shortly after moving in, Mr W and Miss Y found  that the kitchen floor tiles were cracking. 
They believed the problem was with the screed on which the tiles were laid. They  contacted 
Amtrust to make a claim under the policy. Amtrust advised them to obtain a report from a 
suitably qualified person to confirm  the screed  was defective.
Mr W and Miss Y obtained a report from a building company which  Ill call A. The report  
noted the cracks in the tiles and unevenness in the soft flooring elsewhere  on the ground 
floor. It concluded that the likely problem was that the screed  was laid to an insufficient 
thickness and/or it had not been given  enough  curing time before the covering was applied 
and the underfloor heating became operational. It said the entire  ground  floor screed needed  
to be stripped and replaced.
Amtrust advised Mr W and Miss Y that the report only provided a suspected  diagnosis  and 
was therefore  insufficient to prove their claim. It invited them to obtain  further  evidence,  
including an analysis  of the screed,  to determine  the root cause  and the true extent of the 
affected area.   
Mr W and Miss Y obtained a second  report from a screed specialist which Ill call B. This 
report confirmed that the screed had been  laid to a sufficient thickness. However,  it said the 
screed was yellow  and sandy, and very easy to break through. It noted  that the cracks in the 
floor tiles very clearly  followed  cracks in the screed.  It thought the screed  was probably 
failing due to its composition.
Amtrust advised that this still wasnt sufficient to prove Mr W and Miss Ys claim. It asked 
them to provide a chemical analysis of the screed.
Mr W and Miss Y obtained a report from a third company, which  Ill C, which  analysed  the 
screed composition.
Amtrust considered that the report  from C didnt show any abnormality in the screed 
composition. It therefore continued to decline the claim.
Mr W and Miss Y were unhappy at Amtrusts  position. Amtrust therefore agreed  to send its 
surveyor to look at the damage.
The surveyor concluded that, while the screed  had cracks, this was normal and due to 
thermal shrinkage and expansion. He considered there was no evidence the screed had 
failed to support  normal loads  and that the cracks  in the tiles were likely due to inadequate 
preparation and technique of the tiler, combined with shrinkage.  On this basis, Amtrust 
maintained its decision  to decline the claim.
 
Mr W and Miss Y referred their complaint to this service.
Ref: DRN91252612I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
My findings  were as follows:
 
Mr W and Miss Y made their claim more than two years, but less than ten years,  after the 
house was built.  This was within the policys Structural Insurance Period. This meant  the 
policy provided cover for the following:
 
The cost of complete or partial rebuilding or rectifying work to the Housing Unit 
which has been affected by Major Damage 
The policy defines  the Housing Unit as comprising, among other things,   the Structure.
The policy defines  the Structure as comprising, among other things,  floor decking and 
screeds, where these  fail to support normal loads.
The policy defines  Major Damage as:
a) Destruction of or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit for which a 
Certificate of Insurance has been  issued  by the Underwriter; 
b) a condition requiring immediate remedial action  to prevent actual destruction of or 
physical damage  to any portion of the Housing Unit for which  a Certificate  of 
Insurance has been issued by the Underwriter; 
in either  case caused by a defect in the design, workmanship, materials  or 
components of the Structure.
What this means is that for Mr W and Miss Y to have a valid claim, they at least  need  to 
reasonably show  that the screed  in their property fails to support normal  loads and that this 
is as a result  of a defect  in design,  workmanship, materials or components.
It is usually up to the policyholder, in the first instance, to show they likely have a valid claim. 
What that will involve  will vary from case to case.  Here, when Mr W and Miss Y first made  
their claim, I think it was reasonable for Amtrust to ask them to provide substantiation.  The 
kitchen tiles were cracked but the tiles themselves dont form part of the structure for the 
purposes of the policy and it wasnt  necessarily the case that the problem was related to the 
screed. Amtrust  advised  them  to obtain  a report from a suitably  qualified  independent 
Chartered Building Surveyor or a Chartered Civil or Structural Engineer.
In the event, Mr W and Miss Y obtained a report  not from one of these people but from a 
builder. The report  by A suggested that the problem was with the screed and said that 
therefore the entire ground floor screed would need to be stripped and replaced. However, 
no destructive investigation  had been  carried out and, while  the report speculated on the 
possible root causes of the problem, I dont find it persuasive in showing  that the claim was 
valid. I therefore consider  it was reasonable for Amtrust to ask Mr W and Miss Y to provide 
further evidence.
The report  by B was written after it had removed a floor tile to examine the screed. The 
report showed that one of the concerns raised  by A, namely that the screed might be laid to 
an insufficient thickness,  was unfounded. However,  Bs report noted that the screed  was 
Ref: DRN91252613very easy to break through and raised a concern  about whether the screed had the proper 
mix of materials.
Amtrust continued to decline  the claim following this report. I agree with Amtrust that the 
claim still hadnt been proven. However,  I consider that the report  was sufficient to indicate 
the potential validity  of the claim. I therefore consider that Amtrust should have taken over at 
this stage and arranged any further investigations  which were necessary.  Amtrust didnt do 
this. It instead asked Mr W and Miss Y to obtain a chemical analysis of the screed.
 
The report  by C confirmed  that the composition of the screed was within acceptable limits.  
On that basis, Amtrust  continued to decline the claim. I consider this was reasonable. Mr W 
and Miss Y still hadnt shown that the screed was defective.
Following further correspondence, Amtrust agreed  to send a surveyor to inspect the 
property. I consider this was reasonable, though  I think it should have done so at an earlier 
stage, ideally before asking  Mr W and Miss Y to obtain  the report  from C.
The surveyor examined the screed under  the floor tile in the kitchen and also under the 
carpet in the living room.  He considered that, contrary to Bs finding,  the screed was hard to 
break. He noted  there were cracks in the screed  but he believed these were normal  and due 
to thermal shrinkage and expansion. He noted  that the kitchen tiles were not well adhered to 
the screed and considered the cracking  in the tiling was due to the preparation and 
technique of the tiler, combined  with the shrinkage.  He considered a very slight depression  
under vinyl flooring  in the hallway could  be because  of a number of reasons, including  that 
the screed had not been properly levelled,  but that this was not significant. He considered  
that a crack in the screed  under the carpet in the living room  was not a structural concern. 
Overall, he was satisfied that the screed  in the property was able to support a normal  load.
Following its surveyors report, Amtrust  continued to decline the claim. I consider this was 
fair. It had been established that the screed  was laid to an adequate depth and was of a 
suitable mix. There is no evidence to show that it has failed to support a normal  load. There  
is a problem with the kitchen tiling but this is not covered under the warranty.
While I consider that it was fair for Amtrust  to decline Mr W and Miss Ys claim,  I consider it 
didnt handle  the claim as well as it should have done. I consider that, having received the 
reports from A and B, Amtrust should have taken over responsibility  for further  investigations 
rather than ask Mr W and Miss Y to obtain  a further  report.
I therefore am minded to uphold  this complaint  in part. I think  that Amtrust should reimburse 
Mr W and Miss Y the cost of Cs report,  plus interest. I also think that Amtrusts failure to 
take responsibility for the claim at an earlier  stage  will have caused Mr W and Miss Y a 
degree of distress and inconvenience for which it should pay them  £150 compensation.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision.
Mr W and Miss Y didnt accept my provisional decision. They reiterated the report  findings  of 
A, B and C. They also made further  comments  which I summarise below:
both the technical director of C and another screed specialist to whom Mr W has since  
spoken had recommended  that the most  appropriate test to measure the screeds  
suitability was an impact test;
Ref: DRN91252614Amtrusts surveyor, by his own admission, was not a screed  specialist and therefore his 
opinion shouldnt be relied on;
photos taken  by Mr W show  that Amtrusts surveyor was wrong when he suggested the 
problem with the kitchen tiles might  be due to the poor technique of the tiler;
Mr W and Miss Ys house is one of 14 in the particular development and the fact it is only 
their house and that of their semi-detached  next-door neighbour which  has experienced 
a problem with the tiled flooring lends support to the theory that the screed was mixed  
and/or laid incorrectly  at the time of installation;
the owner of the company which laid their carpets and vinyl flooring had visited  their 
property and expressed the opinion that there were problems with the screed; and
another local builder  had visited  their property and, after undertaking thermographic 
imaging of the underfloor heating, had expressed the view that the screed may have 
failed.
Amtrust accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that this complaint should be upheld in part.
Mr W and Miss Y have reiterated  some  of the findings of the reports issued  by A, B and C. 
However, I have already  considered those  reports and dealt  with their findings in my 
provisional decision.
Mr W and Miss Y have highlighted that Cs technical director  and another screed specialist  
believe that an impact test is the most  appropriate  way to measure the screeds suitability. 
Mr W says that when  he raised this previously  with Amtrust, it said that such a test would not 
be useful and advised him instead to obtain  a chemical analysis of the screed.  In the end, it 
is up to Mr W and Miss Y to demonstrate the validity  of their claim if they disagree with 
Amtrusts conclusions. If they believe that an impact test would do this, it is open to them  to 
arrange such a test. However, I consider  that they should initially bear the cost of this. If the 
findings show that their claim is eligible then I consider it would be reasonable for them to 
request reimbursement  of this cost from Amtrust.  I note that, according to Mr W and Miss Y, 
the other screed  specialist also said that cracking  in the screed  could be caused by a 
number of issues, many of which would not be detected in an impact test. 
Mr W and Miss Y question the expertise of Amtrusts  surveyor. However, I still find his 
opinion persuasive.  The reports  of A, B and C do not provide a compelling case that the 
screed is failing  to support normal loads.
Mr W and Miss Y have referred  to the opinions  of the owner of a flooring company and a 
local builder in support  of their case.  They have  also expressed their own opinion  based on 
the visual evidence  (as shown  in a photo) and on the experience  of their next door 
neighbour. However, I do not find the reported  opinions of these other people, nor the 
opinion of Mr W and Miss Y, persuasive. Mr W and Miss Y have not provided new written 
evidence from an independent  expert  to show why their claim should succeed. This means  
Ref: DRN91252615their case  still relies  on the reports of A, B and C. And I have already explained in my 
provisional decision, and reiterated  above, why I consider  this evidence is insufficient.
In light of this, and bearing  in mind that Amtrust  accepted my provisional decision including 
the award I made  against it, I see no reason to amend that decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I require Amtrust Europe Limited to reimburse Mr W and Miss Y the cost of Cs report  and to 
add interest to this sum, at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from the date they paid 
for the report to the date of settlement.* I further  require Amtrust  Europe Limited to pay Mr W 
and Miss Y £150  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Miss Y 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If Amtrust  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr W and Miss Y how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W and Miss Y a 
certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN9125261