K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) returned his contributions to his pension 
made since 2013, but didnt share  the investment growth on those contributions  so he didnt 
get any benefit from them.
background
Mr S took out an individual retirement plan with Zurich  in late 2001.  In late 2007 he emailed 
them to say he was moving to Spain.  He enquired  about stopping payments and transferring 
the plan to Spain. Mr S then said he would  continue payments until he was settled.  In 2013 
he made further contact  and asked again about stopping  payments and other queries. He 
made further contact  in 2015 and updated  his Spanish postal address. In mid 2018 he 
contacted Zurich and confirmed he didnt  have any UK net relevant earnings and hadnt 
been a UK tax payer since 2007.  He said Zurich told him it would need to refund the 
contributions paid since April 2013.
Mr S wasnt  happy. He felt Zurich  had collected payments and made charges but he 
wouldnt benefit. He said it knew hed been in Spain  since 2007.
Zurich said Mr S made contact in mid 2018 concerned about the impact of Brexit  on his 
pension. Hed confirmed  he wasnt a UK tax payer. In the light of this it said it could only 
accept contributions made up to 5 April 2013 and would  need to refund all contributions 
made since then. It agreed  that Mr S had made  contact in autumn 2007 to say he was 
moving abroad and they had held an overseas address since  then.  It said Mr S had asked  
about stopping  payments  and transferring the pension abroad.  He was told he could stop 
payments and a transfer was possible depending on the receiving scheme. Mr S replied to 
say he would continue  payment and reconsider when he was settled. He didnt advise them 
that he would no longer  be a UK tax payer.
Zurich said its annual  papers asked Mr S to confirm if he ceased  to be a relevant UK 
individual which includes ceasing  to be chargeable to income  tax in the UK. It only became 
aware that Mr S ceased to be a UK tax payer in 2007, when he contacted them  in mid 2018. 
It said it had to refund contributions made after April 2013 as HMRC regulations meant it 
wasnt permitted to keep  the money invested.  It had put him back in the position he wouldve 
been in had it not accepted the money.  
The investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said when he took out the plan he signed a 
declaration confirming he needed to advise Zurich if he ceased to have  relevant  earnings. 
This was also referred to in his annual statements and the plan terms. She noted the rules 
said that contributions  paid while  ineligible  would be refunded but due to costs these would 
be without interest. Although Mr S made contact in 2007 he didnt say that he would cease to 
be a UK tax payer  or UK relevant individual. Even though he had notified Zurich of his move 
she didnt think this was enough to say his status  had changed as it was possible to live in 
Spain and still pay UK tax. She didnt think that notice was enough to prompt  them  to stop 
taking contributions. As soon as Zurich was aware  it took the necessary steps. She felt it 
wasnt unreasonable for Zurich to refund the contributions.  
Zurich agreed with the conclusions of the investigator and had nothing  further  to add.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he notified  Zurich of his move in 2007  in the same way as he had 
notified his bank, building society,  HMRC and friends and family. But Zurich was the only 
Ref: DRN95933822company that assumed he was still a UK resident. Secondly when Zurich realised he wasnt 
a UK resident they sent a letter of apology and refunded his payments to close the case. But 
he said the refund took no account  of the fact the money had been invested  and he felt that 
should be shared  equally  between them. He felt saying  he shouldve read the small print for 
someone with basic  to average  knowledge  of financial products wasnt  fair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether Zurich  has done anything wrong.
I have reviewed the rules  and note they say that incorrect payments will be refunded without 
interest. I note also that the original scheme applications required Mr S to sign a declaration 
confirming he would  tell Zurich if he ceased to have relevant earnings.
I have also seen copies  of his annual review  papers  issued each year since  2006.  I can see 
that from 2012 onwards the yearly  statement contained a very clear statement on eligibility 
to receive tax relief  on payments. Prior to 2012 the yearly statement attached a form to 
increase pension application which included a declaration about relevant earnings.  Mr S 
may not have had reason  to read the increase papers but from 2012  onwards the reminder  
about being a relevant UK individual was in my view clear  enough  to understand the need  to 
notify his changed circumstances around tax relief.
It seems  therefore that the pension scheme rules permit Zurich to return incorrect 
contributions without interest, which is what it has done. I think the original declaration and 
the reminders in the papers since 2012  shouldve enabled Mr S to understand that he was 
not eligible  to make contributions to the scheme and he shouldve  made  notification  to Zurich  
as set out in his annual  statements.
I have considered what Mr S says about  notifying  his change of address. But as Zurich says 
it is possible to have  a non UK address  but still have UK relevant earnings. While Zurich 
couldve asked further questions when he updated  his address it wasnt up to it to do so. 
I dont think Zurich was relying on Mr S understanding  technical rules, or reading  small print 
or expecting  more than average understanding of the rules. I think that from at least  2012 he 
received a clear  reminder of his obligations to notify Zurich  if he stopped being a relevant 
UK individual.
I note also that he says his bank wrote  to him 2013  to check  his status.  However that doesnt 
mean that Zurich should have undertaken a similar  exercise nor did it relieve  him of the 
obligation to notify Zurich  of his changed position for UK earnings.  It was up to Mr S to notify 
them of changes in his circumstance and he is the person best placed to understand the 
need to do so.
I can understand Mr S feels Zurich  benefited from the investment return  and charges on his 
contributions from 2013 onwards. But I have concluded that Zurich has acted in accordance 
with its rules and provided Mr S with regular reminders of the requirements re his status.  So 
it hasnt done  anything wrong  and I cannot  therefore  make an award against it. 
Ref: DRN95933823my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.  
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9593382