K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card Mr B holds with The Co-operative  Bank  Plc (Co-op). 
Mr B is unhappy that Co-op reduced  his credit limit.
 
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide,  and if I dont mention something, it wont  be because  Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt  think it was material to the outcome  of the complaint.  This approach  is 
consistent with what our enabling  legislation  requires  of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome.
In January 2019, Co-op debited Mr Bs account with its annual  fee of £24. When that fee 
wasnt paid by the due date, Co-op reduced the credit limit to £500,  charged 40p interest on 
the outstanding amount, and applied a late payment fee of £10. 
Mr B believes this is unfair; our investigator  didnt agree,  and so the case  has been  referred  
to me to review. 
my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Its also our judgement to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion.
One other point Ill make  is that Mr B alone  is Co-ops customer here;  in the case of credit  
card accounts, other authorised card-holders are not party to the underlying  agreement  and 
therefore not customers of the bank. Under our rules, only Mr B himself  is eligible to bring 
this complaint, and so my decision refers solely to him. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its apparent that this 
complaint is an awful  lot simpler than its been made to look.  
The £24 that was debited to Mr Bs account  in January 2019 was an annual fee, and an 
underlying term of the contract between Mr B and Co-op. It had been applied  in previous 
years, was a legitimate debit to the account,  and one that Mr B was required to pay. The 
account terms also required that he pay it by a certain date, and he didnt. 
Ref: DRN99799772When he didnt do so, Co-op had the right to charge interest, apply  the late fee, and review  
Mr Bs credit  limit. Mr B may find that an unwelcome response but it wasnt  an unfair one, 
which is the test I have to apply. It really is that simple, and there really is nothing else I need 
to say.
Mr B doesnt  have to accept my conclusions, and if he doesnt, then neither he nor Co-op will 
be bound  by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions  a court  might 
impose, Mr Bs right to take legal action  against Co-op over the subject matter of this 
complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint or make  
any order or award against The Co-operative Bank  Plc. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9979977