K821x#15complaint
Mr S and Ms M say Yorkshire Building  Society  (YBS) mis-sold  them  two payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr S and Ms M took out PPI to protect their mortgage repayments in September  2001 and 
December 2002.  Its most  likely the sales took place in a branch. The cover was in Mr Ss 
sole name and gave him protection  against accident, sickness  and insurance. They  paid a 
monthly amount  for the cover.
 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint about  the 2001 sale saying at that time Mr S wasnt  
eligible for the cover then,  but not about the 2002 sale.  Yorkshire Building Society disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
the 2001 sale
Ive decided to uphold this part of Mr S and Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S wasnt  eligible for the policy. The policy document sets out that for cover  to apply the 
applicant must meet  a number of conditions  on the start date.  One of which  is that you must  
be working and have been  in continuous  employment for six months immediately  before  the 
start date . And Mr S had recently changed jobs with a gap of 7 working days  between 
employers. So he wasnt eligible. 
This means  I dont  think YBS should have sold the policy to Mr S and Ms M.
YBS didnt recommend the cover  to Mr S and Ms M so it didnt have  to check  if it was right 
for them. But it had to provide clear and fair information to Mr S and Ms M so they could 
make an informed decision about whether to buy it, or not. And it had to make sure that the 
eligibility criteria  were  made clear  to Mr S and Ms M, before they were given the option to 
take out the policy. I dont think it did this. 
The eligibility criteria were  listed  as part of a declaration Mr S signed  on the reverse  of the 
PPI application  form but it was YBSs  responsibility to point them out in a clear  and fair way. 
And I dont  think it did enough.  I say this because had the situation been  properly explained  
to Mr S and Ms M I dont think they wouldve taken  the risk of paying for something they may 
not potentially  have ever been able to claim upon.
Ref: DRN93879472YBS argues  that the insurer would not have  had any concerns about the gap of 7 working 
days and Mr S would  have been  eligible. But this is not what the policy terms and conditions 
say. It seems this is just its view, with no supporting  evidence from the insurer.  The policy 
makes clear  that the insurer  would consider anyone who was on holiday  or on statutory 
maternity leave as continuously employed. But it doesnt carve out any other exceptional 
circumstances, such as a break in employment  of less than a certain number of days. So I 
dont think YBSs view is reliable evidence that Mr S was eligible.  
It follows I think Mr S and Ms M lost out because of the problems with this sale. I will set out 
what YBS must do to put this right later in my decision.
the 2002 sale
Ive decided not to uphold  this part of Mr S and Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S and Ms M say they were told they had to have PPI to get the mortgage.  I cant  know  
what was said in the meeting but Ive looked at the paperwork available  from the sale.  Mr S 
completed a separate PPI application form selecting  the level and type of cover he wanted, 
and they both signed this. There was nothing on the form that I think could reasonably  have 
led them  to believe it was mandatory. Ive thought carefully about their comments  but I also 
have to take into account how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what  they 
recall. On balance, I think its most  likely YBS made it clear  to Mr S and Ms M that the PPI 
was optional and they chose to take it out for Mr S.
YBS didnt recommend the policy to Mr S and Ms M so it didnt have to check the policy was 
right for Mr S. However, it had to give clear,  fair and not misleading information about  the 
PPI so they could  make  a properly informed choice.
There might  have been areas in which YBS didnt give Mr S and Mr M as much information  
as it shouldve done. But I dont think better information wouldve put them  off taking out the 
PPI. I say this because:
By the date of this sale Mr S was eligible for the cover, and wouldnt have been affected 
by any of the main  things not covered by the policy.
Mr S told us he was entitled to statutory sick pay but the policy paid out in addition to 
this and for up to 12 months for successful accident and sickness claims. And it gave up 
to 12 months redundancy cover. He said family would have helped but thats not 
suitable alternative protection, its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can 
change. He also said they had life insurance but that covers different events and 
wouldnt help with monthly mortgage payments in the same  way as PPI. Mr S and Ms M 
were borrowing quite  a large amount of money over a number of years, secured on their 
home. The impact of missing repayments would have  been  significant for them. So 
I think the PPI wouldve been  useful for them if Mr S was sick or lost his job.
I dont know at what stage during the sale the cost was made clear but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently  affordable.
It follows I dont think Mr S and Ms M have lost out because  of any problems with the sale in 
2002.
Ref: DRN93879473putting things right
YBS should  put Mr S and Ms M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  out the 
PPI policy  in 2001. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and 
YBS should:
Pay Mr S and Ms M the amount they paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr S and Ms M made a successful  claim under the PPI policy, YBS can take off what  
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires YBS to take off tax from this interest.  YBS must give 
Mr S and Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint in part. Yorkshire Building  Society  must pay 
compensation to Mr S and Ms M as set out above.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9387947