K822xcomplaint
Miss N complains that a vehicle she was purchasing through a conditional sale agreement  
financed by Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance was 
mispresented to her and is not of satisfactory  quality so she wants  to reject it.
background 
I issued my provisional decision on18  March 2019  a copy  extract  of which  is attached  and 
forms part of this decision. In my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing  to 
uphold Miss Ns complaint  in part.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision. Santander Consumer Finance  accepts my provisional decision. However, Miss N 
doesnt think £100 compensation is sufficient. The issue of the rear light has still not been 
resolved and shes provided  information to show shes  tried to contact the warranty provider 
to resolve the issue, but to no avail. She thinks Santander Consumer Finance is in 
dereliction of its duty of care to resolve the issue due to the substantial  time shes been  
inconvenienced by the issues  shes had with her car.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  I thank Santander  Consumer Finance and 
Miss N for their responses to my provisional decision.
Im not persuaded by Miss Ns response to my provisional decision.  It follows  that Ive 
reached the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision. So Ill explain why.
I appreciate Miss Ns concerns that the rear headlight has still not been  fixed so I remain  of 
the opinion that a fair and reasonable  resolution  is to require Santander Consumer  Finance  
to arrange for this to be fixed at no cost to Miss N. However, Santander  Consumer Finance 
will only be required to do so should  Miss N choose  to accept this final decision. And due to 
the poor service  Miss N received I remain of the opinion that she should be paid £100 in 
compensation.
However, following  her initial complaint to Santander Consumer Finance, Miss N brought  
further problems  to the attention of Santander  Consumer Finance  namely that the air 
conditioning light illuminated  intermittently; the stop-start fails intermittently and the headlight 
still hadnt been supplied by the dealership. Santander issued a final response in respect of 
these issues. It said the dealer had ordered a new headlight but hadnt  been able to agree a 
time for it to be delivered  Miss N says this isnt the case and they havent been in contact.  
With regard to the other issues Santander Consumer Finance directed Miss N to the 
warranty provider because the dealership is an unreasonable distance away  from her.
Im afraid I cant consider the additional  issues Miss N has raised as part of this complaint as 
they didnt form part of the original  complaint to this service. But I understand these issues 
are being  dealt with separately.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require Santander  Consumer 
UK PLC to arrange for the rear light to be replaced  within 30 days  of Miss Ns acceptance 
Ref: DRN90011362of this final decision and to pay £100 to her for the distress and inconvenience caused  to 
her due to the poor customer  service  she has received.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN90011363COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Miss N complains  that a vehicle she was purchasing  through a conditional  sale agreement  financed  
by Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading  as Santander  Consumer Finance was mispresented  to her 
and is not of satisfactory  quality so she wants to reject it.
background
Miss N entered into a conditional sale agreement in February 2018 to purchase a used vehicle. The 
vehicle was first manufactured in September  2014.
Soon after shed collected the vehicle  she complained it had a damaged rear light,  the petrol  cap 
was missing and the odometer reading  was higher than on the sales invoice. She also 
complained that the cash price on her finance  documents was higher than the market value of 
the vehicle. So she told Santander Consumer  Finance  she wanted to reject the vehicle.
Santander Consumer  Finance didnt agree to Miss N rejecting the vehicle. It said it wasnt 
proportionate for her to reject it based on the sorts of issues shed experienced.  Santander Consumer 
Finance considered the damage to the rear light to be cosmetic and something that Miss N was aware 
of when at the point of sale. It also said the vehicle didnt have a petrol cap because the particular 
model of vehicle supplied to her had a cap-less system.
With regard to the discrepancy in mileage Santander Consumer Finance  said the mileage recorded 
on the sales invoice was the mileage recorded when  the vehicle was acquired by the dealership. But 
the mileage increased whilst  in the dealerships  possession. And when the MOT  was carried out the 
correct (higher)  mileage  was recorded.
Santander Consumer  Finance couldnt comment on the discrepancy in price  as it wasnt party  to the 
discussions between  Miss N and the dealership. But it noted  that Miss N had signed the terms and 
conditions of the finance agreement  and this included details of the price  for the vehicle.
Miss N wasnt  happy  with the response from Santander Consumer Finance so she brought her 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Santander Consumer  Finance had acted unfairly when it didnt allow  
Miss N to reject  the vehicle.
The investigator concluded  that the damage to the tail light was discussed  at the point of sale 
and the dealership ordered  a new light and arranged for a repair  to take place. And he was 
satisfied that the vehicle model supplied to Miss N didnt  come with a petrol  cap.
With regard to the additional  mileage recorded he was satisfied that the value  of the vehicle  wouldnt 
have been impacted by this. And he didnt think Miss N would have rejected  the vehicle at the point 
of sale, even  if shed  known the mileage was slightly higher.
Miss N disagrees with the investigators  view. She says the investigator imputed his own view 
about what she would  have done had she known about the higher mileage. And now shes 
experiencing further  problems: the air conditioning light goes on and off intermittently as does the 
start and stop function and other electrical  issues. She also says the repair to the light still hasnt 
been done despite her asking the dealership and Santander Consumer Finance to fix this. So she 
wants to reject  the vehicle. So shes asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN90011364my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering  what  is fair and reasonable,  I need to have regard  to the relevant  law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice  and (where 
appropriate) to what  I consider to have been good industry  practice at the relevant  time.
The finance  agreement, that is the conditional sale agreement, in this case  is a regulated 
consumer credit  agreement. As such, this service is able to consider complaints relating  to it. 
Santander Consumer  Finance is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, 
and is responsible for a complaint about  their quality and for misrepresentations  made by the 
credit broker about the goods.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply  goods,  there is an implied term that the 
quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant law says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet  the standard  that a reasonable 
person would  consider satisfactory taking into account (amongst other things)  any description  of the 
goods, the price and all the other  relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  involving a 
car, the other relevant circumstances  a court would  take into account might include things like the 
age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality  of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance  and finish, freedom from minor  defects, 
safety, and durability.
Under the relevant law if goods are not of satisfactory quality consumers have a right to 
reject them within 30 days. They also have a further right to reject the goods later on if 
repair is unsuccessful. However, a customer cannot reject goods if the defects have been  
drawn to the buyers attention, or should reasonably  have been noticed during examination  
or at collection.
rear light
Its not in dispute  that the rear light was cracked at the point of sale.  But I dont think  this, alone, 
means the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality. I say this because Miss N was aware of the problem 
with the rear light before she acquired  the vehicle and arrangements were  made  at the point of sale 
for the dealer to order a new light and for it to be fitted.  And theres  no suggestion that the light itself is 
faulty or that the car would fail its MOT due to this problem. So I dont think Santander Consumer 
Finance acted unfairly in not agreeing to Miss N rejecting the vehicle.
But I think Santander Consumer Finance  should arrange for the repair of the light.
Miss N says the repair to the rear light has been  unsuccessful so she now wishes to reject the 
vehicle on the basis that the repair she was promised hasnt happened. However, based on the 
information Ive seen  I dont agree the repair  has been unsuccessful - rather the repair hasnt taken  
place at all.
As the repair hasnt yet been  attempted,  I think a fair remedy is to ask Santander  Consumer Finance 
to arrange with the dealer for this to be fixed.
Miss N has told Santander  Consumer Finance that the problem with the rear light still hasnt been 
fixed. I think it should have done more to help fix the problem. So in the circumstances Im of the 
opinion that a fair resolution is for Santander  Consumer  Finance to pay £100 compensation  for Miss 
Ns distress and inconvenience due to the poor customer service she received.
Ref: DRN90011365odometer reading
Under the relevant law Santander Consumer Finance is responsible for misrepresentations made by 
the dealership.  So if I find that the dealership made a false statement that induced Miss N to enter 
into the contract then I would find it fair and reasonable  for Santander Consumer Finance  to sort this 
out. But I would have to find that the misrepresentation  was material, in other words it would have 
made a difference  to Miss Ns decision  to contract.
Where the information is incomplete or inconclusive (as some of it is here) I make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities   in other words what I think is most likely  to have happened  in light of the 
available information  and wider circumstances.
Miss N says she wouldnt  have acquired  the vehicle had she known itd done more  miles  that shed 
been expecting. I can see that the mileage recorded on the MOT is higher than that on the sales 
invoice issued  by the dealership to Santander Consumer  Finance.
But Im not persuaded that this induced Miss Ns decision to acquire the vehicle. There  is a 
discrepancy of approximately 400 miles.  But the vehicle was approximately three and a half years 
old at the time and already  had significantly above average mileage. So Im not persuaded  that 
there was a material misrepresentation for which  Santander Consumer Finance is liable.
missing petrol cap
Im satisfied that the model of the vehicle  supplied  to Miss N used a cap- less system so the petrol  
cap wasnt missing. It follows that I wont be asking  Santander Consumer Finance  to do anything 
further about  this.
sale price
Miss N thought shed agreed to pay £7,350 for vehicle  which she understood to be its market 
value. However, the cash price detailed on her conditional  sale agreement  is £7,995.
Whilst I have no way of knowing what was discussed  at the time between Miss N and the dealership  
Ive not seen  anything  to suggest there was any misrepresentation by the dealership. I say this 
because Miss N entered into and signed her conditional sale agreement. This clearly states that the 
cash price  for the vehicle is £7,995. If Miss N thought the price shed agreed was less than this then 
Id have expected her to question this before she signed  the finance documentation.
summary
In the circumstances I consider a fair resolution is for Santander Consumer Finance to arrange  for 
the light to be fixed at no charge to Miss N. I also consider it appropriate for her to be paid £100 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience due to the poor customer service  she received  
due to her continuing to contact the dealership and Santander Consumer  Finance  about  fixing the 
rear light.
I appreciate Miss N is now experiencing further problems but unfortunately  Im not able to look 
at these new issues because  Santander Consumer  Finance will first need  to investigate these  
and provide its response.
Ref: DRN90011366my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to partly uphold this complaint and I provisionally  intend 
Santander Consumer  UK PLC to arrange for the rear light to be replaced  within  30 days of Miss 
Ns acceptance of any final decision and to pay £100 to Miss N for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to her due to the poor customer service she has received.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9001136