K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about the way he was treated  by Black  Horse Limited when  he tried to
voluntarily terminate his hire purchase  agreement.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 12 July 2019.  A copy is attached  and forms part of this
final decision. I said I was minded to uphold the complaint.  I considered   that Black Horse 
should waive the outstanding sum due for the warranty given the way that it has treated 
Mr R over an extended period of time.
Black Horse  should unwind the agreement from the point of termination. It should  clear any 
arrears balance that has accrued for the car and cancel  any sums due for the cars 
warranty. Black Horse  should update Mr Rs credit file to show the agreement was 
terminated when  he sent in the voluntary termination request. It should  also remove any 
subsequent negative information from his credit file. Black Horse  should collect  the car from 
Mr R at no cost to him, and pay him £300 for the distress and inconvenience this has 
caused. Black Horse should arrange  for its legal  department to contact  the court to apply to 
discontinue the court proceedings against  Mr R. Black Horse  should indemnify Mr R for any 
costs arising against  proceedings  against  Mr R. Black  Horse s him as a result of the court 
proceedings.
Black Horse  accepted the provisional  decision.  It pointed out that Mr R had brought a 
counter claim against it. Black Horse has discontinued the legal proceedings against  Mr R. 
Mr R accepted the provisional decision  in part. He replied through solicitors who made  the 
following further submissions.
I am happy to note from reading  the decision of the ombudsmans  decision that the 
ombudsman has found in favour  of my client, indeed  in my view this is the right decision 
save for one important point.  My client has raised the question  of damage to his credit 
reputation, there is supporting evidence  that the default which  plainly  was placed  negligently 
by Blackhorse has caused  considerable damage to my clients credit reputation. The 
ombudsman has suggested an award  of £300 to compensate my client, however case  law 
gives a clear guide on damages for injury to credit reputation, the case  of Kpohraror v 
Woolwich Building Society  [1996]  4 AER 119 confirmed that such  damages were available  
and set the level at £5,500, the further  case of Durkin v DSG  retail confirmed the decision of 
Kpohraror and confirmed  that the damages rise with inflation,  Mr Durkin was awarded  £8000  
damages in 2004, the supreme court looked at Durkin and upheld  the decision of the sheriffs 
court. On todays  value,  Durkin would equate to £12,000 for injury to credit reputation.  
Therefore, Mr R ought to have been  awarded  a considerably higher sum than £300.
In fact the counterclaim advanced  by my client seeks damages in line with the above 
decisions. To accept the ombudsmans decision as it stands would leave my client with costs 
to pay my firm and would arguably  leave him with a damaged credit file and credit score, 
while I accept the score will improve  over time it is clear that my client  has suffered  restricted 
credit lines, credit limits,  and refusals  to grant  credit, these cannot be rectified  by Blackhorse,  
and thus £300 is an extremely low amount of compensation in these circumstances. The 
decision to award £300 appears to have  overlooked the case  law authorities, and I note that 
in Clarke v In-focus Asset management  the ombudsmans legal team submitted to the Court 
that they do have  regard  for case law when considering decisions.
Ref: DRN98834392Accordingly I would ask the ombudsman to reconsider this decision on damages,  it seems 
the decision has failed to take account  of the above authorities, if it has taken account of the 
authorities then it is arguably  irrational, as £300  cannot be considered a fair or just sum to 
compensate my client for the damage to his credit reputation  caused  by Blackhorses 
unlawful default ( see Grace v Blackhorse  Court of Appeal) 
I would be grateful if the decision  on damages could be revisited by the ombudsman,  if the 
ombudsman.  
Mr Rs solicitor sent in a letter to show the credit limit on one of Mr Rs credit  cards  had been 
reduced to £1,700.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. This includes all of the submissions made 
by Mr Rs solicitor  since I issued  my provisional decision. 
Mr R agrees with my provisional decision save for the damages I recommended.  This was in 
the sum of £300  for distress and inconvenience.  Mr Rs solicitor  has said the compensation 
should be much higher  in line with sums ordered by the courts in other cases.  
In the light of this I think it might be helpful  if I explain our approach to trying  to resolve the 
complaints we deal with. And I should  make it clear  that this service is an informal 
resolution service and not a like for like alternative to a court.  We are required to make 
decisions on the basis of rules  laid down in statute and by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). In particular under the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP).
DISP 3.6.1: The ombudsman will determine  a complaint by reference to what  is, in 
his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
DISP 3.6.4 In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, the ombudsman will take into account:
(1)       relevant:
(a)       law and regulations
(b)       regulators rules, guidance  and standards
(c)       codes  of practice and
(2) (where appropriate)  what  he considers  to have been good industry practice  at the 
relevant time.
 
Our awards  are not intended  to find or punish a business. This is the job of the regulator.
I take on board Mr Rs point that this matter has affected his credit  rating. I have asked 
Black Horse  to remove any adverse credit information from Mr Rs credit file so this problem 
will be resolved  going forward. I have considered our published guidelines on non-financial 
loss in the decision. I consider that the facts  of this case  come  within  the substantial section. 
I increase the proposed award for distress  and inconvenience to £800. Mr R has sent in a 
Ref: DRN98834393letter showing his credit card limit was reduced, and I note he could not hire a car on 
holiday. 
I have  considered the cases referred to by Mr Rs solicitor. The first is Kpohraror v Woolwich  
Building Society [1996] 4 AER 119. This case concerned a business man who imported and 
exported products. He bought goods  and paid by cheque. The cheque was incorrectly 
dishonoured. The mistake  was correctly the next day. The business man brought a claim for 
loss of business reputation. The court awarded  him £5,550. I have not however seen any 
evidence that Mr Rs financial reputation has been affected  in respect of a business he 
carries out. As such, I find this case of limited relevance to the facts  before me in Mr Rs 
complaint. 
The second case referred to by Mr Rs solicitor is Durkin  v DSG2014  UKSC 14. This case 
concerned a faulty product bought under  a debtor  creditor supplier agreement. The 
complainant had refused to make payments under the agreement  and his credit record was 
affected as a result. The complainant was awarded  £8,000 for damage to his credit  rating by 
the sheriff court. This compensation award  was not challenged in the Supreme Court case. 
In this case, the adverse  credit information was on Mr Durkins  credit  file for seven years. He 
had numerous applications  for credit refused. This meant Mr Durkin  incurred charges and 
interest payments on his loans in the sum of £6,880. He lost a house he was buying in 
Spain. I find this is a different  case to that of Mr Rs. I have only seen evidence of a 
reduction in his credit card and Mr R says he could  not hire a car on holiday. The adverse 
information on Mr Rs credit file has been on for a shorter  period  of time since  2018.
 
In Grace v Black Horse 2014 EWCA 1413 , the court considered if it was appropriate for a 
debtor to register  a default where the credit  agreement  is unenforceable.  This is not the 
position here. Again  the adverse credit information remained on the credit file for a number 
of years.  The information on the credit file was inaccurate. 
The cases cited by Mr Rs solicitor do not persuade  me to increase the compensation above  
the £800 I have recommended  above.  
I note that Mr R has had to pay a solicitor to defend the court proceedings. I have 
recommended that Black Horse pays for the reasonable legal costs Mr R has incurred in this 
respect. 
It remains open  to Mr R - if he does  not accept my decision - to take such  further action  as
he sees fit. And as he is now represented  by solicitors I assume  he will be guided by them.  
But - irrespective of whether it is accepted  or not - my decision brings to an end the
involvement of this service in this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint. In settlement of it, Black  Horse Limited should:
    Cancel the agreement  with effect from the date Mr R requested 
voluntary termination.
    Clear any sums it has asked Mr R to pay under the agreement  for both the 
cost of the car and the warranty.
    Update Mr Rs credit  file to show the agreement was terminated when he sent 
in the voluntary termination request.
Ref: DRN98834394    Remove any adverse information  from Mr Rs credit file since  he asked to 
terminate the agreement.
    Collect the car at no cost to Mr R at a date and time convenient to him if this 
has not already  been done.
    Pay Mr R £800 for the distress  and inconvenience caused to Mr R since he 
tried to end the agreement.
    Apply  to the court  to discontinue court proceedings it has lodged against  Mr R, 
and indemnify Mr R against any costs  arising  out of the court proceedings.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Rosemary Lloyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9883439