K820x#14complaint
Mr R and Miss F complain about  the way that Aviva Insurance Limited had handled a claim 
under a legal  expenses  policy.
References to Aviva  include the actions of its agent that handled the claim.  This is because 
Aviva, as principal, is responsible for the acts of its agent that handled the claim on its 
behalf.
For ease Ill refer just to Miss F throughout this case instead of both her and Mr R.
background
There is a detailed background  set of circumstances which  the parties are aware of but Ill 
outline a summary  only.
Miss F had a Home  insurance policy with Aviva  and added legal expenses cover. A dispute 
arose over the removal of Miss Fs boundary wall by a third party. Miss F made a claim for 
legal assistance  help, ultimately wanting the other party to reinstate the wall or pay the 
money to enable this to happen (circa £4,000 - £5,000).
Miss F feels that Aviva  initially  accepted  her claim but then rejected it for reasons that the 
policy didnt allow. Briefly,  Miss F says that once Aviva accepted her claim it should have 
appointed a qualified lawyer but did not. She doesnt think the policy allowed Aviva to reject 
her claim on the basis of it being  proportionate to court costs incurred. And Miss F believes 
her legal case enjoys  prospects  of success and feels Aviva is acting unreasonably. She 
thinks if the policy is as restrictive as Aviva  is saying it is then it was mis-sold  as its not 
worth the paper it is written on.
One of our investigators  looked into this complaint but didnt think  Aviva had acted outside 
the policy terms and had handled Miss Fs claim fairly. He explained that lawyers instructed 
by Aviva had concluded  the claim had low prospects of success  and the costs of pursuing  it 
werent proportionate to the value of the claim. And he said if Miss F was unhappy with the 
service from the lawyers then she could  take that matter  to the legal ombudsman. 
The investigator said the policy required Aviva to appoint a panel solicitor  which  it had done. 
He referred to a section  of the policy which said Avivas lawyer would assess  the evidence  
and if it is more likely than not that Miss F will recover  damages or obtain any other legal  
remedy Aviva has agreed to, then it will fund the case. But the legal advice didnt support 
there being reasonable prospects of Miss F winning her claim at court.  He didnt think it was 
unfair of Aviva to rely on the evidence it had been given and the responsibility  of obtaining 
further evidence  remained with Miss F. 
On receipt of further information the investigator  noted that the legal adviser thought  a claim 
in trespass might enjoy  better prospects and asked Aviva for additional funding  to carry out 
more work.  This was authorised and the lawyers  wrote to the other party  involved in the 
boundary dispute  but didnt receive a reply. In the absence of a means to negotiate the 
lawyers said the only option  was to go to court. However, it wasnt  felt the costs of this were 
proportionate to the claim amount.
The investigator referred to another part of the policy  that, in effect,  said the lawyer dealing 
with the case;
Ref: DRN93399552had an obligation  not to waste court time and keep costs  to a level that the court 
would consider reasonable
will estimate the likely costs of the case and consider if they would be acceptable to a 
reasonable person who was paying the costs themselves
will agree  with Miss F, where  possible, a course of action where incurring further 
costs and expenses  would not be reasonable.
He said that the evidence  in the case showed  Miss F could take mitigating action that would 
be low in comparison to taking legal  action. So, taking  the case to court would be 
disproportionate in cost. And finally  the investigator didnt think  the policy had been mis-sold. 
Miss F disagreed with the investigator and asked for the case  to be reviewed again  so it has 
been referred to an ombudsman.  Miss F has provided a detailed reply  but in summary 
includes the following  points;
the claim wasnt declined it went ahead initially
letter of claim sent to the other  party was only done after Aviva had confirmed she 
had a genuine claim
the deeds are clear  that the wall belonged to her
a surveyors report was unnecessary as other information was clear the boundary 
was present before the properties  were built
she wasnt asked to provide like for like quotes and thought she was doing the right 
thing by minimising costs
only a non-qualified lawyer thought her claim didnt have prospects of success
she cant see how any claim would be pursued under principles of cost 
proportionality
there has been a failure in customer service from day one
she wasnt referred to a lawyer but a paralegal
she proved the claim 100% and it should  have been funded
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Fs claim began in 2017  and shes provided  a copy of her policy  wording effective from 
August 2016.  I wont detail the entirety but will cover some of the wording relevant to this 
complaint.
The policy sets out that Aviva  is the insurer and that another firm handles  claims. And it 
defines lawyer  as a suitably  experience legal professional.  Prospects of success is defined  
in some detail and also gives details of what will be required  in the event of a claim.  Part of 
this includes Miss F providing  as much information as possible to support her case, which 
could include expert reports. The policy sets out what will happen with the lawyers 
assessment, and if it is more likely  than not that Miss F will recover damages  or obtain any 
other legal remedy, which  Aviva has agreed  to, then Aviva will fund her case. Im satisfied 
that more  likely than not can be interpreted in percentage  amounts. If prospects are 50% / 
50% then theyre  balanced, and so neither winning nor losing is more likely than not. But if 
49% / 51% in favour of success  then Im satisfied that meets  the phrase more likely than 
not. 
Ref: DRN93399553In addition when  considering Miss Fs case,  the lawyer will take certain issues  into account, 
including the likely  costs.  If in the lawyers  opinion Miss Fs claim has reached a point where 
incurring further  costs and expenses would  not be reasonable,  then Aviva  will not pay any 
further costs and expenses towards the claim. I accept that the wording doesnt specify the 
word proportionate. But that being said the policy clearly states that where  incurring further 
costs and expenses  would not be reasonable, Aviva  will not pay anything  further  towards the 
claim. 
Im also mindful that this part of the policy immediately follows a part that specifies the 
lawyers obligations  to the costs issues. In thinking about whats fair and reasonable, a 
reasonably prudent privately paying litigant financing their own case  is very unlikely to 
pursue litigation  where  theyve received  legal  advice that their case has a less than 51% 
chance of winning.  And equally, that prudent litigant  is unlikely to spend money on a court  
case where they might be awarded less than the costs of pursuing that action, or the costs 
outweigh the value of the outcome  theyre seeking. And because of this Im not persuaded it 
would be fair or reasonable to demand  the same of an insurer in similar circumstances.
Its correct that Avivas policy covers property  boundary disputes. However, that is subject to 
prospects of success,  the assessment of likely costs and the reasonableness  to incur  these. 
Before moving on to discuss these points I will deal with the issue of a paralegals  
involvement in the assessment of the claim. Where a legal opinion  is given I think its fair to 
expect a properly  qualified lawyer, being a person entitled to practise law as a solicitor, 
barrister or chartered legal executive, is responsible for that advice. 
In an email to Avivas claim handling  agent in September 2017 the panel solicitors 
acknowledge the instructions for Miss Fs dispute. The email  is a letter format and explains 
that the matter  will be dealt with by a paralegal  on a day to day basis but under the authors 
supervision. The author is a named  partner  at the panel solicitors. So its the partner who 
has responsibility for the case and any decision made by the law firm on Miss Fs case is 
done under  his supervision. While the paralegal has signed the legal opinion on Miss Fs 
case, Im satisfied that a senior lawyer has overall supervision and responsibility for that 
legal opinion. Had there been no supervision  from a qualified lawyer  then my opinion  on this 
part may well be different.
The legal opinion on Miss Fs case is detailed and covers whether the claim has reasonable 
prospects of success and the relationship between the costs  of pursuing the matter to trial, 
losing same and recovering costs if successful. The letter sets out the relevant stages 
involved in pursuing  the matter together  with a range of estimated costs  involved. That range 
is set out as being from £26,500 - £56,000 plus VAT (20%) with recovery,  if successful, at 
around 80% of the costs incurred. 
The reality  of the legal assessment is that Miss Fs claim didnt have reasonable prospects of 
success. Miss F raised issues with the lawyers and claim handling agent and after a short  
period the lawyers requested further  funding to do more work. This was granted and the 
lawyers wrote to the other party but didnt  receive  a reply. And so they were left with a 
decision to make about whether there  were  sufficient prospects to continue  and also taking 
into account the legal costs. The lawyers  invited Miss F to provide further  information  such 
as a chartered surveyors report on the legal  boundary but Miss F didnt feel she should have 
to do this. At this point  the legal costs  incurred were almost £1,500 and an expert report  
could cost between  £1,000 and £5,000  (exc. VAT). Given  the financial circumstances and 
the fact that the proposed  action against  the third party, in the lawyers opinion,  didnt have 
prospects Im persuaded  that Aviva acted fairly in relying on the legal advice and refusing to 
Ref: DRN93399554fund Miss Fs case further. It has been  left open to Miss F to provide  a legal opinion that 
shows her claim  does  have prospects of success and the matter  would  be reviewed again. 
Im satisfied thats a fair approach.
Miss F has raised  issues with the way her claim was handled  and having to deal with 
different companies.  The policy is clear  that different firms would be involved in different 
ways. The initial legal  opinion  was given in around  six weeks  and within the next seven or 
eight weeks further  issues had been raised  but the legal opinion remained the same that 
there werent  prospects of success.  Further funding was requested by the law firm and a 
letter sent to the other  party. A reply  was chased but nothing received. Where Miss F had 
concerns about  the law firm it was reasonable for the claim handling agent to refer her back 
to that firm. I appreciate  this caused some inconvenience  but the law firm was best placed to 
address Miss Fs concerns. Any issues Miss F has with the law firms service or the legal 
advice provided  then those issues are best directed to the legal ombudsman. This is 
because the legal ombudsman is the correct body to look at the service  and advice provided 
by the law firm.
Having considered Miss Fs case carefully  Im not persuaded by the evidence that Aviva has 
acted outside  the policy terms. Im persuaded that the claim was handled fairly and Aviva 
has offered to review  the matter again  if Miss F provides  further information to support her 
claim. 
Miss F believes  Aviva mis-sells this policy. She articulates  this belief, in the main, on the 
basis that the policy contradicts itself and so she has bought a policy thinking she has 
protection but doesnt and the policy misrepresents the cover. I appreciate Miss F doesnt 
think shes had any benefit  under  the policy. However, Aviva has covered legal costs to 
around £1,500  in payments to the law firm that considered Miss Fs claim and wrote to the 
third party. If Miss F didnt  have this policy she would  have  had to instruct lawyers  on a 
privately paying basis. Miss F received cover in accordance with the policy  terms and I 
appreciate shes  extremely unhappy  that her case didnt get further  than it did. But Im not 
persuaded the policy contradicts itself.  It details the types and level of cover and similarly 
details the restrictions  and exclusions.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Miss F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9339955