K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains that a used car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement  with 
RCI Financial  Services  Limited (RCIFS)  wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background 
In February 2018  Mr J test drove  a used  car he was thinking about buying  from a 
dealership. The car was just over one year old and had a mileage of 7,802.  During  the test 
drive the car showed some symptoms  of lurching and misfiring. Mr J says the salesman 
informed him this was due to the low petrol level but that the car would be checked  and any 
issues would  be sorted out before collection.
Mr J agreed to acquire the car via a 48 month hire purchase agreement.  He used  his 
original car in part exchange and paid a total deposit of £3,700.
Two days after acquiring the car it exhibited the same faults as it had on the test drive. Mr J 
called out a roadside assistance company at the recommendation  of the dealership. 
Warning lights were illuminated on the dashboard and the roadside assistance company 
took the car back  to the dealership.
After five days Mr J was told the car was fixed and so collected it. Unfortunately  the car 
exhibited the same symptoms on the way home and so Mr J returned the car to the 
dealership. A few days later Mr J was informed the ECU needed to be replaced. This 
repair was undertaken under the warranty.
In March 2018 Mr J discussed  with the dealership the option of swapping the car with 
another and starting a new hire purchase  agreement. The following day the engine 
management warning  light (EML)  illuminated and Mr J says he contacted the dealership  
but says he was told that as he was going  to exchange the car he could continue to drive  
it.
However, when Mr J received the figures for swapping  the car for another he 
decided against  it due to that option  resulting in a financial loss to Mr J.
Mr J says he asked to reject the car within the first 30 days  of the agreement.
But his was declined by the dealership as it said there wasnt proof  the car had a fault.  And 
in May 2018  Mr J received a formal letter from RCIFS also declining  his request to reject  
the car. This letter said that the EML issue was a separate repair  to the earlier one, which  
had been accepted by Mr J. Following this letter Mr J arranged to take out a bank loan to 
pay off the hire purchase agreement and took the car back to the dealership  for a 
diagnostic test on the cause of the EML illuminating.
Mr J was told that the cars  catalytic convertor  needed to be replaced. Mr J says the 
dealership offered to buy the car back but the price  offered was significantly lower than the 
book price for the car and so he declined  it. Mr J again asked to reject  the car. Mr J says 
he was told that this request was again declined  but had waited to get the reply  in writing.
In June 2018 Mr J was told the car was repaired and ready for collection.  He said that he 
wouldnt be collecting the car and hadnt  authorised a repair.  He made a complaint to 
this service.
Ref: DRN90989422Our investigator recommended that Mr Js complaint should be upheld.  She said looking at 
the age and mileage of the car it wasnt acceptable that the car had required repairs  so 
soon after being acquired. The investigator  said this suggested the faults  with the car had 
been present  at the point  of sale. She said Mr J was within his rights to reject  the car as 
even after the first repair the car continued to show signs of a fault.
The investigator recommended  that the car should be rejected  and the agreement  brought 
to an end. Any deposit and payments made under  the agreement should  be repaid.
Both Mr J and RCIFS agreed with the investigators recommendation but there was 
some confusion between  the parties  as to what this settlement meant. RCIFS intended 
to repay £3200 while Mr J wanted  the full amount hed paid for the car returned.
RCIFS asked that the matter be passed  to an ombudsman  as it didnt think  it would be fair 
for Mr J to receive  the full cost of the car back. It said Mr J had now had the car for nine 
months so an amount  for usage  should  be deducted. Mr J says he has hardly used  the 
car.
As the parties  were  unable to agree  the complaint was passed to me. I issued  a provisional 
decision along the following lines.  
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (The Act) goods that are supplied  must be of 
satisfactory quality, fit for purpose  and as described. When deciding the meaning of 
satisfactory condition for a used car then account needed to be taken of its age and 
mileage. Id seen  this car was nearly new and had a low mileage.
And when  a cars acquired via a credit agreement then it was the credit provider, in this case
RCIFS, who was responsible if there are then problems with it.
The Act sets out that if a fault is discovered  within the first 30 days then the consumer  has 
a right to reject the goods. Mr J had agreed for the car to be repaired and so I didnt  think  it 
was unfair  that he wasnt able to reject the car because of that first problem. However 
shortly afterwards a second fault had developed which required further repair.
Theres a presumption that if faults  develop within the first six months then they were 
present at the point of sale and I hadnt  seen  any evidence that rebutted  this presumption.  
Under the Act if a fault develops after the first month, but within  the first six months, then 
there should be one opportunity to repair by the retailer.
However, I was unclear  why the two faults  were  considered as separate repairs. Mr J said 
he was told that the problem with the catalytic convertor was probably due to the earlier 
fault. And I thought that would appear to be more likely than not, which meant that the first 
set of repairs hadnt been successful in fully fixing the car. I also thought  for this car to 
need two repairs  within such a short space of time meant that most  people wouldnt have 
considered it to have  been of satisfactory quality  at the time Mr J took possession  of it.
So I thought  it wouldve been fair and reasonable for Mr J to have been able to reject  the 
car and return it when hed asked to. However he wasnt now able to do so as he had sold 
it on. So the issue for me now to decide was whether it was fair and reasonable for RCIFS 
to pay Mr J compensation for any financial loss that had arisen from that sale.  RCIFS said 
Ref: DRN90989423that Mr J shouldnt  receive the full cost of the car back as he had benefited  from using it 
for several months.
According to the agreement Id seen Mr J paid a total of £16,084  for the car. This was made 
up of a deposit of £3700 and credit  of £12,384. The interest on the credit was fixed  at 9.9% 
and Mr J was due to make monthly payments of £215.30 for the length of the agreement. By 
the end of the four year agreement Mr J wouldve paid a total of £19,636.89  (car cost plus 
interest).
However, Mr J said that his deposit was later reduced by £250 due to not all of the cars 
service history being available. So this meant the deposit was £3450  and the total paid for 
the car was £15,834.
To clear the agreement  in May 2018  Mr J paid £12,534. On top of this payment Mr J 
had paid the March and April instalments under the agreement meaning hed paid a 
total of £16,414.60 for the car. Hed received £12,100 when hed sold the car on in 
December 2018.  So the difference between these  two figures  was £4314.60.
The cars mileage when Mr J sold it on was 9,477 meaning in the time Mr J had owned the 
car hed driven  it for 1,675 miles. He says around  1,000 of those miles was him driving it to 
work and the remainder  of the mileage was due to taking the car backwards and forwards 
to the garage  and it being test driven. The average monthly use for a car is considered to 
be 1,000 miles.
Mr J was clear  hed wanted to reject the car and I thought he was entitled to do so from
March 2018 when the second fault arose. Id also seen that Mr J had to make frequent  trips 
to the garage  while the first repair was sorted  out. So looking at the evidence I didnt think it 
was reasonable  that Mr J had to cover  the depreciation  of the car which had occurred since
March 2018. And as Mr J had only had the equivalent of one months usage, I didnt  
think it was reasonable  he paid more  than one months payment for the time he had 
the car. This amounted  to £215.30.
So I intended to uphold Mr Js complaint and I asked RCIFS to reimburse  Mr J a total
of £4099.30  together with interest at the rate of 8% per year simple  from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
Mr J agreed with my provisional  decision but RCIFS said it was unfair not to take into 
account the length of time that passed before Mr J had decided  to sell the car even though 
he had settled the finance much  earlier in June 2018. This meant there  had been a seven 
month depreciation in the cars value which RCIFS now had to cover. It said it would be fair 
for a deduction to be made from the settlement of the difference  in price the car wouldve 
fetched had it been sold in June  rather than December 2018.
RCIFS also said that the deposit figure was incorrect as it had made  a £500 finance deposit 
contribution towards  the cost of the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN90989424Ive spoken with Mr J about the deposit and he agrees  that £500 should  be deducted from 
the deposit figure of £3450 as there was a contribution of that amount paid by RCIFS 
towards the car. So the deposit to be reimbursed is £2950.
RCIFS say that by selling the car when  he did Mr J has removed its right to dispose of the 
vehicle and mitigate its losses by settling and disposing  of the vehicle. It says the cars sale 
price should  be taken as what wouldve been achieved  in June 2018 as if Mr J had wanted 
to reject the car he wouldve been  able to sell it on once hed settled the hire purchase 
agreement. He chose to sell it when he did.
I dont agree with RCIFS. Mr J was very clear he didnt want  to keep the car and RCIFS 
declined his request to reject it. Mr J had looked  at whether exchanging the car was an 
option but found that at that time it wasnt  economically viable. 
Ive seen that Mr J decided to pay off the finance agreement  early. He says this was due to 
his loss of confidence with RCIFS and that he wanted to end his dealings  with the company. 
I think that was a decision he was entitled to make. I thinking taking out this second  loan is 
likely to have been to Mr Js financial detriment as there would be interest added to the 
amount hed had to borrow to clear the hire purchase agreement.  So I cant  say this second 
finance agreement  was to Mr Js advantage. However, I think  its fair that I havent  asked  
RCIFS to reimburse Mr J for any the additional costs as he chose to take this action.
As set out above Ive seen that Mr J didnt use the car in the months  that he had it before he 
sold it on in December 2018. Mr J says he had to sell it as it was untenable having  to 
continue to pay for a car that he couldnt  use. He says he kept it as long as he could. Ive 
seen he sold the car on while his complaint was still being considered by this service.  
While I accept Mr J couldve  sold the car on in June 2018 I dont think I can fairly say it was 
unreasonable for him not to have done so. Mr J was actively pursuing a complaint about 
RCIFS and the quality of the car. And he was concerned about the financial impact of selling 
the car on as whenever he sold it the price  would be less than the price hed paid.
So I dont  agree that Mr J has benefitted from keeping  the car until December 2018 or that 
he acted unreasonably in not selling it on earlier. Ive also seen from the figures presented  
by RCIFS that Mr J sold the car for an acceptable  amount in December (it was in line with 
the suggested value given  for a car of that make, model and age). 
So I havent changed my view. I think Mr J was entitled to reject the car in March 2018 for it 
not being of satisfactory quality. I think its fair and reasonable that RCIFS reimburse Mr J a 
total of £3,599.30. This figure has been reduced by £500 from the settlement  figure  in the 
provisional decision to reflect  the £500 contribution  made by RCIFS to the deposit amount.
Interest is to be paid on that amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
This figure is calculated  as follows:
Total paid to RCIFS to clear credit for car = £12,534
Two instalment payments  made = £430.60
Deposit paid = £2950
Total received by RCFIS = £15,914.60
Total received by Mr J when car sold = £12,100
Difference = £3815.60
Ref: DRN90989425Usage of car to be paid by Mr J = £215.30
Amount due to be reimbursed to Mr J = £3599.30
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Mr Js complaint.  I require RCI Financial Services  
Limited to pay Mr J £3,599.30 together with interest at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement.
If RCI Financial Services Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
withhold income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr J a tax deduction  certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9098942