K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the way that Allianz  Insurance Plc handled a fire damage 
claim under their let property policy
background
In late June 2018 Mr and Mrs L suffered a fire at their let property. A wooden  hut in the 
garden was completely destroyed and the nearby shed, fence panels and gate were also 
badly damaged. Allianz made a site visit and appointed contractors to carry out the 
necessary repairs. Mr and Mrs L paid the excess  at the end of July. However the works  took 
a long time to be completed, partly  because of delays in obtaining the necessary parts.  
Mr and Mrs L were  particularly  concerned for their tenants as they had a child with special 
needs and were concerned about  security  for the rear garden and the replacement of the 
gate. This wasnt replaced until February 2019.  The work was essentially complete  by 
March 2019 although Mr and Mrs L say they havent  received a final sign-off from the 
contractors.
Allianz agreed that matters hadnt  progressed  as quickly as desired and agreed to arrange 
for their excess of £100 to be refunded by the contractors. Mr and Mrs L werent  satisfied 
with this.
On referral to this service,  our investigator  proposed that Allianz  pay a further £150 
compensation. Mr and Mrs L werent happy  with this, pointing  out that they had spent a great 
deal of time in writing  emails and making phone calls chasing matters up. They pointed out 
that the excess cheque was sent to the let property rather than by BACS  transfer. They  felt 
that a payment of £1,500  to reflect their time spent would be appropriate.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This matter took around nine months to complete. I accept that that is a long time, 
considering that damage was to buildings/items in the garden.  Ive considered  a timeline 
provided by the contractors. The works were initially due to start on 3 August; a new shed 
was ordered and fitted at around the end of August. Further works  were identified and works 
were extended into late September,  then the timeline sets out that the contractors would be 
on site in early November. Delays after that appear  to have been caused by the ordering of 
parts for the new gate which were  having to be built from scratch  by the manufacturers.  The 
gate didnt get installed until February 2019. Its unclear though when the parts for the gate 
were ordered.
I think there were unexplained, and therefore unreasonable,  periods  of delay. In so far as the 
contractors were awaiting parts, the chasing up for this had to be done by Mr and Mrs L.
Mr and Mrs L say they had to spend a considerable amount of time chasing matters  up, and 
they have kindly supplied a list of emails  sent.  As our investigator said in insurance claims 
some inconvenience  on the part of the policyholder can be expected. And a number of the 
Ref: DRN97451552emails were about approving work to be done. I appreciate  that also a number were 
responses to chasing emails from Mr L. 
It is for the delays and the inconvenience  Mr and Mrs L suffered, especially in having to do 
chasing up, that compensation  was thought appropriate.  This was firstly through the 
refunding of the excess of £100 and then the further £150 proposed by our investigator.  I 
should explain that our awards take into account  the circumstances and awards we have 
made in similar cases. We dont usually make  awards at an hourly rate for time spent. 
The other factor in this case is that Mr and Mrs L werent themselves living at the property, 
so wouldnt have suffered inconvenience themselves in the repairs not being completed. As 
our investigator explained,  we dont have any power  to make awards for tenants  
inconvenience as they arent parties to the insurance.
Additionally we cant consider whether any inconvenience  was suffered due to any delays in 
the complaint  handling, which includes the refund of the excess. So we cant  award 
compensation for that either. That is because Allianzs handling of the complaint isnt a 
regulated activity so again we dont have the power to make awards for this.
I think, taking into account  the factors Ive mentioned that total compensation of £250  
(including the £100 refunded excess)  is fair and reasonable in this case.
Im not sure what Mr and Mrs L need by way of sign-off. They  should approach Allianz 
directly about this.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Allianz  Insurance Plc to pay to Mr and Mrs L £150 
compensation (in addition to the excess already  refunded).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9745155