K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E say that Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Alliance and Leicester) mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in March  2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr and Mrs Es complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mr and Mrs E or Santander  sent me anything  further  to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions     
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Es to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
                                          copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Alliance  and Leicester)  mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs E took out a PPI policy  in 2009. Santander arent sure if the policy was taken with joint 
borrowing or as a standalone policy separate to any further borrowing. 
Ref: DRN91922292Mr and Mrs E paid a monthly amount  for the policy.  Mr E was the only person  covered  by the policy.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,   so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es case. 
Ive currently decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Es complaint because:
On balance,  I think that its more  likely than not that Santander made Mr and Mrs E aware 
that they had a choice about  buying the PPI, and they chose to take it out. 
I say this even  though  I dont know what was discussed  at the time of sale or how the PPI 
was presented. In my opinion, Mr and Mrs Es main complaint point  is that the PPI was added 
without their knowledge.
But if this is the case, I think that Mr and Mrs E would  reasonably have questioned with 
Santander  much sooner  than they did, why they received  a PPI welcome letter (addressed  
to Mr E) dated 23 July 2009 detailing the level of cover,  potential benefit  and price per month.  
But the evidence is that PPI remained on the account for some time after it was taken  out. Ive 
also considered that Santander have told us that a separate direct debit mandate form would  
have needed to be signed to authorise the direct debit for Mr and Mrs Es PPI premiums. 
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs E didnt take PPI with their initial mortgage in 2004.  This again 
suggests that they would have been reasonably aware that PPI was separate  to their 
mortgage or any further borrowing that they may have taken out. 
Ive considered that Santander recommended the PPI to Mr E. This places  more responsibility 
on Santander as it means that they had to take reasonable steps to check that the policy was 
right for Mr E as well as giving him good enough information about  the policy.
Based on everything  Ive seen and been told, it does seem to have been right for him based 
on his circumstances at the time. 
As I dont  know what was discussed, Ive assumed that Santander couldve explained the cost 
of the policy better than it did. But even if it had, I think Mr and Mrs E would still have bought 
it.
Its possible  Santander didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But   Mr E 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Es comments, but these points dont currently change  my 
provisional decision.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Ref: DRN91922293If either Mr and Mrs E or Santander UK Plc (trading  at the time as Alliance and Leicester) have 
anything further to add, they should do so by 27 April 2019. Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9192229