K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) has wrongly calculated  
what he owes on his credit card.
background
Mr M received refunds on his credit card account.  But instead of crediting the amounts to his 
balance, Mr M says Barclaycard wrongly debited them, which increased  what  he owed.
Barclaycard said it had made a mistake with the direct debit amount it took in May 2018. 
It refunded the discrepancy of £9.99 and paid £100 for the inconvenience caused.  
But during  the course of this complaint, Barclaycard said the payment it had taken was 
correct. It didnt intend to reverse  the refund or compensation it had paid.
Barclaycard said it hadnt made a mistake in connection with the October  and November 
2018 statements  Mr M had complained  about.  But it paid £25 as a gesture of goodwill, in 
recognition that it couldve  been  quicker  to deal with Mr Ms complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  From what hed seen, he 
wasnt persuaded that Barclaycard had charged  Mr M more than what he owed on his account. 
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions  and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the available evidence, I can see why there  has been some  confusion over 
the transactions recorded on Mr Ms credit  card account. I can also see why he will have  lost 
confidence in Barclaycards explanations for how the account balances have been reached.
Overall, from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Mr Ms refunds have been incorrectly  
allocated, or that hes been overcharged. Ill explain why.
At the top of Mr Ms October statement, previous balance is shown as £962.32. Mr M then 
received a £19.99 refund  on 10 September. I think its likely that this was deducted from Mr 
Ms previous  balance,  leaving  a balance of £942.33.  This amount  was cleared by direct  debit 
on 1 October.
Mr Ms remaining transactions for October 2018 added up to £1,696.70.
On the November 2018 statement previous  balance  is shown as £1,696.70. Mr M then 
received two credits  of £109.99 in total on 23 October. This reduced what  he owed to 
£1,586.71 and this amount was cleared by direct  debit  on 29 October.
His remaining transactions for November 2018 added up to £436.24.
Ref: DRN98833262Mr M provided a copy of his annual  Barclaycard  statement for the period 7 June 2018 to 6 
June 2019. This suggested that Mr M had paid an overall amount that was more  than his 
total transactions. But Barclaycard has explained that the timing of statements and payments 
means there  can be a trailing balance that will be included in the annual  statement  which is 
why Mr Ms total payments appear to be more than his total transactions. But having 
considered what  Barclaycard has told me, I dont think Mr M paid more  than he shouldve 
done for the June 2018-19 period.
Overall, from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Barclaycard  incorrectly applied refunds 
to Mr Ms account, or overcharged him.  
But I think Barclaycard  couldve done  more to explain the position to Mr M. During the 
course of this complaint its told us a mistake  with the May 2018  direct debit was, in fact, 
correct. Its also said that the apparent discrepancies in the October and November 
statements were interest  amounts caused  by underpayments  which was wrong. 
When I take all of this into account, I can see why Mr M to lost faith in what Barclaycard had 
told him. In the circumstances,  I consider  it reasonable  for Barclaycard to pay £75 in addition  
to the £125 it has already paid Mr M for inconvenience. 
my final decision
My decision  is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard)  should  pay £75 to Mr M, 
in addition to the £125 it has already  paid him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9883326