K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain AXA Insurance UK Plc gave them incorrect  information  about their 
policy excess when they made two claims on their home insurance policy. They say they 
suffered a loss because  of this.
background
Mrs C contacted AXA about two separate incidents which had caused water damage to their 
property. She explained  that rainwater had entered their property via a crack in their above 
neighbours front step, and damaged  their hallway and bedroom; and a few months  earlier, 
the same  neighbours washing machine had leaked  and damaged their kitchen. AXA 
confirmed the two incidents  were  separate claims,  each with a £100 policy excess.
AXA authorised Mr and Mrs Cs quote  for the repairs. However, it deducted  £1,000 from the 
settlement, rather than £200.  Mr and Mrs C contacted  AXA to query the deduction, and they 
were informed the washing machine leak was an escape of water claim,  which  had a £500  
excess. However, AXA noted  the rainwater ingress  was an accidental  damage claim, and 
this only had a £100 excess. As such, only £600 should have been deducted from the 
settlement  so, AXA sent Mr and Mrs C a further  £400.
Mr and Mrs C explained they wouldnt have gone ahead with their kitchen claim if they had 
been told about the escape of water  excess.  Instead, they say they would  have done  the 
work themselves. AXA acknowledged it had told Mrs C the wrong excess,  and its mistake  
wasnt put right when it spoke to her to authorise  the repairs.  However, it said there wasnt 
anything to support  Mr and Mrs C would have completed the kitchen repairs  themselves, 
and it highlighted  they hadnt done so in the months  between the incident  and the claim 
registration. AXA also explained the applicable  excesses  are set out in the policy 
documents, and it said Mr and Mrs C had a duty to be aware of this information.  
Nonetheless, AXA offered them £150 for the upset its mistake had caused.
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy, so they referred their complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators has considered the matter, but she didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. 
She wasnt persuaded Mr and Mrs C would  have completed the kitchen repairs themselves  
due to the time that had passed between the incident and the claim without the work being 
done. She was more  persuaded  they would have  still gone ahead  with the kitchen claim if 
they had been told about the escape  of water excess. Mr and Mrs C disagreed, so their 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in January 2020.  I explained I was persuaded Mr and Mrs C 
had suffered a financial  loss by being  told the wrong  information,  so I intended to uphold  
their complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Ref: DRN98367972Mr and Mrs Cs invoice shows the kitchen  repairs cost £634 and were  decorative.  They say 
a family  member would  have done the work  had they known  it would have cost them  £500 
by going through their insurance.  So, their only costs would have been materials.  On 
balance, given the decorative  nature of the repairs, I accept what they say. 
Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have done the work themselves simply because 
they hadnt yet done  so. In my view, the repairs werent urgent and only a few months  had 
passed between  the incident  and the claim. Likewise, Im not persuaded they would have  
claimed for just £134. Im more persuaded they wouldnt  have considered this worth  the 
impact on their claims history and policy premiums.  
Although I acknowledge Mr and Mrs C have a responsibility to be aware of their excesses 
outlined in their policy  schedule, Im satisfied it was reasonable for them to have relied on 
the information Mrs C was given when she registered the claims.  
In conclusion, Im persuaded Mr and Mrs C suffered  a financial loss by being told the wrong 
excess for their kitchen claim. To put matters right, I intend to decide AXA should  cover the 
difference between  what  Mr and Mrs C paid for their kitchen repairs, and the costs they 
would have likely incurred  had they not gone  ahead with the claim but done the work 
themselves.
Ive seen from AXAs records  that it spoke to Mr and Mrs Cs contractor before it authorised 
his quote, and he advised his labour  was roughly £400 for each room. That would mean the 
materials for the kitchen  cost about £200. As such, I consider it reasonable to conclude      
Mr and Mrs C would  have incurred £200 material costs had they completed the work 
themselves.
Therefore, I intend to decide AXA should settle  the kitchen claim by paying  Mr and Mrs C the 
difference between  £634  and £200,  i.e. £434. AXA has already settled £134 and paid £150 
compensation. This leaves a further £150  to be paid.
Based on AXAs internal  notes, I understand it only registered one claim but deducted two 
excesses for the separate incidents.  However, if two claims were registered, Im satisfied 
that would  remain  fair. I say this because, if my final decision follows  what  Ive said here,
Mr and Mrs C will have  received £434 for their kitchen  claim. On balance,  Im persuaded 
they would  have gone ahead with a claim for £434,  rather than completing the works 
themselves  just as they were going  ahead with a claim  for £534.
AXA accepted my decision.  But Mr and Mrs C thought the £434  kitchen  claim settlement 
should be in addition to the £150 compensation AXA had already offered, rather  than 
inclusive of it.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions I reached in my provisional decision,  for 
the same  reasons. I appreciate AXA had given Mr and Mrs C £150 for the upset the situation 
had caused them, but that was on the basis they would only receive £134 for their kitchen 
claim, rather than the £534 they expected. Im not bound by anything  AXA previously 
decided, and its for me to decide  what outcome is fair overall.
Ref: DRN98367973I acknowledge this matter  has been  upsetting and inconvenient for Mr and Mrs C. They have 
also suffered a loss of expectation given £434  is still less than £534. But on the other hand, 
settling the kitchen claim for £434 places Mr and Mrs C in the financial position they would 
have been in had AXA told them about  the escape  of water excess, and they havent  had 
the inconvenience of completing  the work themselves. In other words, had they been told 
about the excess they would have likely paid about  £200 for materials and completed the 
kitchen repairs themselves, but instead  its only cost them £200 to have  the work done  
professionally. So, AXAs mistake has also avoided them a fair amount of trouble.
Taking everything into consideration, overall, Im of the opinion that settling the kitchen claim 
for £434 reflects a fair and reasonable outcome for both parties.  I dont consider a further  
award to be merited. 
my final decision
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C may remain disappointed. But for the reasons Ive set out above 
and in my provisional  decision, I uphold this complaint.  
My final decision is AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay Mr and Mrs C a further £150 to settle 
their kitchen claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 March 2020.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9836797