K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds  decision to settle  a 
claim he made under his car insurance policy as a fault claim.
All references to the underwriter Advantage include its agents.
background
Mr R was involved in an incident with another car in February 2018  and he reported it to 
Advantage. 
Advantage investigated the claim and in March 2018  told Mr R it would settle the claim as a 
fault claim.
Mr R complained. He wanted Advantage to reimburse him for the excess he paid and 
reinstate his No Claims Discount (NCD).  But Advantage said its decision was correct. 
Our investigator thought Advantage had reached its decision reasonably. Mr R didnt agree. 
So hed like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done, I dont intend to uphold  it. Ill 
explain why.
Our investigator explained that we dont  decide  liability as this is the role of the courts. But 
we can look at whether  an insurer has reached  its decision  reasonably  and in line with the 
policy. 
Mr Rs policy  with Advantage has a very common term which says it can take over control  of 
a claim and settle it as it sees fit. We dont  disagree with this term in principle  provided  the 
insurer can show it treated its customer fairly  when  applying  it.
Both parties  gave a different  account of what happened to cause  the collision. There  were 
no independent witnesses or CCTV footage. Mr R said that he was correctly travelling on the 
left hand side of a road. He said the other  driver was parked  in the opposite direction on their 
left hand side.  But he said she then swung her car over to the right  in order to reverse her 
car into her drive  on his right  and as she swung out she collided into the side of Mr Rs car. 
The other driver said she was stationary in the middle of the road about to reverse  into her 
drive when Mr R collided into the front left side of her car. 
Advantage considered both accounts  and reviewed engineer reports and photos  of the 
damage to both cars. It also referred the case to its liability team for consideration. 
Advantage said that based on previous similar cases and the evidence it had, it wouldnt be 
able to hold the other  driver at fault. The reasons it gave were:
The damage to both vehicles suggests that the third party  vehicle was established  in 
their manoeuvre  when  the incident  occurred.
The damage on Mr Rs vehicle starts behind the wheel which would  imply that 
Ref: DRN95657552Mr R tried to squeeze  past the third party, rather than the third party  driving into his 
vehicle.
Mr R confirmed that he saw the third party  in the road but he has failed to take
appropriate action  and the collision occurred.
Mr R has reiterated his account which is that the other driver drove into his car. When its one 
persons word over another, the insurer has to consider  what most likely happened  based on 
the other evidence available  - such as the area of damage to the cars. In this case, I think  
Advantage reached its decision reasonably.  I think it would have been difficult for Advantage 
to support Mr Rs claim that the other driver  was at fault - because the damage to the other 
drivers car indicated she was already established  in the road in her manoeuvre when the 
collision happened. 
I know Mr R is upset about  Advantages  decision.  But I think it properly  investigated the 
claim and reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy. This means the excess  
is correctly payable as the first part of the claim Mr R made. And I think  Advantage has 
correctly registered  the claim as a fault claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9565755