K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that after exercising his right to voluntarily terminate a hire purchase  
agreement with Honda Finance Europe  Plc (Honda Finance), the entries it put on his credit  
file have adversely  affected his credit rating, contrary  to what it told him.
background
In October  2015 Mr B entered into a hire purchase agreement with Honda Finance in 
respect of a car. In April 2018  Mr B exercised  his right under the agreement to voluntarily  
terminate the agreement.  Honda Finance acknowledged that a small balance would remain  
owing by Mr B but he didnt have to clear this until it sent him a letter confirming  the amount 
of his final liability.
Mr B was concerned that this gap in payment might affect his credit file. So Honda Finance 
wrote to him on 27 June  2018 confirming that it had received his final payment of £641.47, 
which cleared the remaining liability in full. It said while a balance  had remained owing for a 
short time, it was aware that arrangements were in place to clear it on receipt of a final 
liability letter.  It went on to say:
In the circumstances  and for the avoidance  of doubt, we would make  you aware that Honda 
Finance will not allow  for this to adversely impact your credit profile. 
However, as a preventative measure, should an anomaly appear on your credit profile, we 
would ask that  you contact us at your earliest possible convenience, we will, in turn, make 
any necessary manual  amendment with the relevant  credit  reference agencies.
Unfortunately, the gap in payment on Mr Bs hire purchase agreement did appear  on his 
credit file with two credit reference agencies (CRAs) as one payment being  in arrear for two 
months. Mr B pointed this out to Honda  Finance on 21 September 2018.
Honda Finance  apologised  for this which it said was an administrative error on its part. It 
arranged for the CRAs to correct their records, which was done within 7 days. It paid Mr B 
£50 compensation  as a gesture of goodwill. It confirmed Mr Bs credit profile had been 
impeccably run, and said it was happy  to continue  liaising with Mr Bs bank, from which he 
was seeking credit facilities, as long as Mr B deemed necessary.
In November 2018, Mr Bs bank  emailed Honda  Finance.  It acknowledged  that the payment 
gap had been corrected, but said what was preventing it finalising facilities  for Mr B was the 
fact that the hire purchase agreement was recorded  on his credit  file as voluntarily 
terminated. It asked if Honda Finance  could  amend  or remove this marker.  Honda Finance 
said it couldnt as the entry correctly recorded what had happened.
Mr B complained to us. He said the information left by Honda Finance on his credit file was 
contrary to its promise  in its letter to him dated 27 June  2018 that his credit file wouldnt be 
adversely affected.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said Honda 
Finance had acted  promptly  to get Mr Bs credit  file corrected in the records of the two 
CRAs. It had apologised and paid him £50 as a gesture of goodwill. There were no negative  
markers on his credit  file, and the finance  was shown as settled. It had also offered to liaise  
with Mr Bs bank if further issues  arose.
Ref: DRN92038542One of the CRAs reported a voluntary termination flag, with text next to it saying:
If it is a mortgage account it indicates repossession. For other  accounts  it indicates 
surrender of the asset. NB Further payments may be due. 
The adjudicator said the CRA had confirmed this was generic text added by it (not Honda 
Finance) that purely served as a description of Voluntary Termination. He wouldnt expect 
Honda Finance  to be aware of the text included within  the CRA report, so he wouldnt ask it 
to do anything regarding  it.
He said that no such statement  was showing on the other CRA report. He would have 
expected the same  thing to appear on both reports if Honda Finance had included  the 
negative statement itself.
In an email to Honda Finance, Mr Bs bank said, referring to the voluntary termination entry, 
that whilst  it shows as a repossession/surrender we cannot approve  any further facilities.
This indicated to him that it was the banks reading of the statement that was causing  Mr Bs 
applications to be manually declined, not the result of any reporting by Honda  Finance.
The adjudicator had checked  one of the CRA websites to see what it said about  voluntary 
termination. It said:
The lender may add a voluntary termination  flag to the record of the credit  agreement on 
your credit report, to explain to other  lenders why the agreement was settled early. But as 
long as you have  paid all of your monthly payments on time up to the point you hand the 
keys back, your credit history should  not be damaged by this Ive seen no evidence to 
suggest that exercising  this consumer right in any way damages credit scores.
Because of this, once the missed payment marker  was corrected and removed,  the 
adjudicator didnt think the voluntary termination flag had negatively affected Mr Bs credit 
file.
Mr B didnt accept the adjudicators recommendation, and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed. He thought the compensation should be increased to £100, Honda  Finance 
should acknowledge its error, and the CRAs should  be asked to explain why he now had a 
low credit score. He thought the entry Honda  Finance had made  on his credit file was 
causing him to be rejected for credit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The promise  Honda Finance made to Mr B in its letter of 27 June 2018 was that it wouldnt 
let the payment gap until his agreement was settled adversely affect  his credit file. In error, 
the gap appeared in his credit file as a payment having been missed  for two months. 
When this was pointed  out to it Honda Finance quickly  corrected the error, paid Mr B 
compensation of £50, and liaised with Mr Bs bank to make  true position  clear. So I think 
Honda Finance  has done  what  was necessary to carry out its promise.
Ref: DRN92038543Honda Finance  did nothing  wrong by reporting  the voluntary  termination  to the CRAs, 
because this is what actually happened. Honda Finance never told Mr B it wouldnt report  
the voluntary termination to CRAs, so it isnt in breach of any undertaking to Mr B.
A voluntary termination is a legal right which consumers  have  under  a hire purchase 
agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974, and it seems that most lenders dont 
consider this negatively affects a consumers credit  score. Nevertheless, for whatever 
reason, Mr Bs bank  seems to take a different view.
Its up to each lender  to decide the categories  of people it will lend to. Mr Bs bank isnt a 
party to this complaint.  But even if it were,  we wouldnt normally  overrule this type of decision 
by a lender.
The CRAs arent party to this complaint  either. But again, we wouldnt require a CRA to 
disclose why it had arrived  at any particular credit score.  However if the CRAs are now 
giving Mr B lower credit  scores  than they have  in the past, they may be willing to give him 
general pointers  as to why this is the case.
All in all, I think Honda Finance has treated Mr B fairly after its original error, and dont 
require it to do anything  more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against Honda Finance 
Europe Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9203854