K821x#15Complaint
Ms B says AXA France IARD (AXA)  has not properly compensated her for the mis-sale of a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA has accepted responsibility for the 
sale and this complaint.
So Ive referred  to AXA during this decision.
Background
Ms B opened a store card account  in 2003, at the same time she was sold a PPI policy.
Ms B complained to AXA about the sale of the PPI. Unhappy with its response she asked 
this service to step in.
In August  2019  AXA agreed to uphold  Ms Bs complaint and offered £351.41 compensation.
This was made up of PPI premiums totalling £146.18 and associated interest of £205.23. 
AXA did not add any compensatory  interest  normally calculated at 8% simple for the time 
Ms B was out of pocket.  AXA said it had sold the account to a third party  in March 2007 when 
the outstanding balance  was £2,619.90.  So AXA says Ms B was never  actually out of pocket.
Ms B doesnt think AXA has fully compensated her. In particular Ms B has questioned  how 
AXA calculated the premiums when it says it doesnt  hold details of her account from before 
August 2005.  Ms B also thinks  AXA should pay her compensatory  interest. 
An adjudicator from this service thought AXA had not fairly compensated Ms B. The 
adjudicator showed AXA evidence that Ms B repaid the outstanding  balance to the third 
party in September 2012. The adjudicator  asked  AXA to make Ms B a new offer with 
compensatory interest  added from September 2012.
AXA has not told us why it disagrees  with the adjudicators findings but has asked  for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
AXA has agreed to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the policy.  So I wont look into 
how the PPI policy came to be sold to Ms B. In this decision Ive looked  at the compensation 
AXA has paid Ms B to see if it calculated  the redress fairly.
Having done so I dont think AXA has fairly compensated Ms B and needs to do something 
different. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN92910012Premiums and associated interest
Where a PPI policy has been  mis-sold Id expect the business  to, as far as is practical, put 
the consumer  in the position theyd be in if the policy hadnt been  sold.
When a business  compensates a consumer for mis-sold PPI on a store  card, wed normally  
expect it to reconstruct the consumers account as if they hadnt taken out PPI. Wed  then 
expect the business to refund to the consumer all the extra they paid because  of the PPI.     
Id also expect a business to add interest  calculated at 8% simple  for the time theyd not had 
use of the money.
To do this a business  ideally needs to know  the actual amounts the consumer spent on the 
store card as the PPI premiums are linked to the outstanding monthly balance.
In this case AXA has detailed records of all the PPI premiums that were charged to Ms Bs 
account from August  2005. But between August 2003 and July 2005 it doesnt  hold detailed, 
monthly records of the account. I dont find this unusual as businesses  are not required to 
keep detailed records indefinitely.
AXA does however know that in total Ms B was charged £146.18 for PPI over the whole 
term of the policy. From  this AXA was able to estimate how much  Ms B was charged for PPI 
before August 2005. 
AXA has used this information to carry out a reconstruction of Ms Bs account from August 
2003 until March  2007 as if she hadnt  been sold the PPI. And its calculated  that Ms B was 
charged £205.23 interest because of the PPI premiums.
So AXA refunded all the PPI premiums Ms B was charged for the PPI (£146.18)  and the 
extra interest shed  been charged  because of the PPI (£205.23).
Having looked  at this part of the calculation I think AXA has made  reasonable assumptions 
about the period before  August  2005  and has calculated the premiums and associated  
interest fairly  and in the way Id expect it to.
Compensatory interest
Id usually expect  a business to also compensate  a consumer  for the time theyd been out of 
pocket. This would involve paying the consumer 8% simple interest for all the time theyd 
have been in credit but for the addition of the PPI.
In this case AXA has told us it sold the account  to a third party  in March 2007 when the 
outstanding balance was £2,619.90. This balance  included the costs of the PPI as these 
costs are deemed to be the last paid off the balance. AXA says Ms Bs account was never in 
credit when it was active. 
Ive thought about this but Ms B has provided us with evidence that the account was cleared 
with the third party in September 2012.
We sent this evidence to AXA and asked  it to recalculate its offer with 8% compensatory 
interest included  from September 2012.
Ref: DRN92910013AXA has not responded in detail to the adjudicators  findings but has said it disagrees.
In my view it is clear  that from September 2012 Ms B has been out of pocket for the full 
costs of the PPI  and  should be fairly compensated for this. So AXA needs  to recalculate its 
offer with the inclusion  of compensatory interest calculated  at the rate of 8% simple interest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct  AXA France IARD to recalculate its offer to Ms B and add 8% simple interest from 
September 2012 to compensate her for the time shes been out of pocket.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9291001