K820x#14complaint
Miss J had a motor insurance  policy with Sabre Insurance Company Limited. She 
complained that they wanted  to settle  personal  injury claims against her.
background 
Miss J had an accident when her car bumped the one in front. The driver of the other car 
(the third party) and their passengers made  personal injury claims against Miss J. Sabre 
said that they intended to settle the claims. But Miss J believed  those  claims to be 
fraudulent. 
Sabre said that they were  legally obliged to deal with the claims, and they thought  that it was 
reasonable to settle them.   
The investigator didnt  recommend that Miss Js complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought 
Sabre had reviewed  the evidence fairly. 
Miss J didnt  agree and so her complaint has been passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss J said as follows. Her car went into the back of the other car when it stopped  at a 
junction. The third party and passengers told her at the scene that they were  not injured. 
Later that day their brother confirmed that. Miss J is a health professional and had a duty to 
check and recommend medical attention,  if shed  felt that was necessary, but she didnt. In 
any event, she had been going  at no more than 5 miles per hour and neither car had much 
damage. So she didnt think that such a low impact could have caused the injuries claimed.  
She said that Sabre  didnt  act on her concerns. 
But Sabre wanted  to settle the injury claims for about £9,000. They  said that Miss J had 
accepted that the accident  was her fault, even  a low impact  could  cause injury,  and the third 
parties had provided  independent medical evidence in support of their injuries that were  
consistent with that impact. 
The adjudicator has already explained  to Miss J that we dont decide whether or not a third 
partys claim  is fraudulent, as this is the role of the courts. Instead  our role in complaints of 
this kind is simply  to investigate whether the insurer acted fairly and reasonably, when  they 
made the decision to settle the claim. 
The accident  happened  while Miss J was commuting but her policy  didnt cover  that due, she 
said, to an oversight. This meant  that Sabre wouldnt indemnify her for the claims against  
her. However they remained legally obliged to deal with the personal injury claims.  They  
wanted to settle  them  and for Miss J to reimburse them  the settlement amount. But Miss J 
felt that that it was unfair for Sabre to decide  that without taking her concerns  into account or 
letting her see the evidence on which theyd based their wish  to settle the claims.  When  our 
investigator became  involved  she arranged for Sabre to show  Miss J that evidence and for 
Sabre to postpone any action to recover any costs  from her until this Service  had considered  
Miss Js complaint.
Ref: DRN90881102Miss J has mentioned that she would may take legal advice regarding taking the third parties 
to court.  She or her advisers may also wish therefore wish to ask Sabre to seek that the 
terms of their settlement  with the third parties dont prevent or prejudice that. 
What this Service does  is simply to look at whether Sabre made a reasonable decision 
based on the information available to them. I can see that Miss J feels  that she has been the 
victim of a fraud and that Sabre  havent done  enough to investigate  this. But I think  that 
Sabre did properly listen to Miss Js account  of the incident. However  the third parties had 
provided medical reports showing their injuries,  attested by a doctor  who had examined 
them. Sabre had also assessed the engineer reports which  showed  that both cars had 
damage needing repair. Sabre explained that, in their experience,  injury  can arise from that 
type of impact,  and so the level of injuries  claimed was not inconsistent. 
So overall, on the evidence that Sabre had, I dont think it was unreasonable  for them  to 
want to settle the claims rather than try to defend them, and so I dont ask Sabre  to do 
anything else. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above it is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss J to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2019.  
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9088110