K821x#15Complaint
Mr C complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) was irresponsible to lend him 
money.
Background
Mr C took out nine loans with Cashfloat  between April 2016 and March  2017. A summary of 
the loans is set out below:
Loan Date of Loan Date  Repaid Amount InterestNumber of 
repayments
1 07/04/2016 27/04/2016 £200 £32 1
2 28/04/2016 27/05/2016 £250 £55 1
3 09/06/2016 27/06/2016 £200 £29 1
4 30/06/2016 27/07/2016 £250 £54 1
5 29/07/2016 26/08/2016 £300 £67 1
6 26/08/2016 23/12/2016 £1,100 £684 4
7 05/01/2017 27/02/2017 £300 £90 2
8 26/03/2017 27/07/2017 £800 £497 4
Mr C wants Cashfloat to refund the interest  and charges that he paid together  with interest 
on the refund.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld in part. In summary, 
he thought that Cashfloat  should not have agreed  loans five to eight.
The adjudicator asked Cashfloat  to remove any negative information about  loans five and six 
from Mr Cs credit file. He recommended  that Cashfloat remove loans seven and eight 
entirely from Mr Cs credit  file. The adjudicator also recommended that Cashfloat refund the 
interest and charges that Mr C had paid on the affected loans.
Cashfloat didnt  respond to the adjudicators recommendation so the complaint has come to 
me for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
Ref: DRN97743062the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish  
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Loans one to four
Mr C hasnt objected to the adjudicators recommendation  not to uphold loans one to four so 
my decision  will focus on loans five to eight.
Loans five and six
Cashfloat has told us that before agreeing loan five, it asked Mr C for details of his income  
and outgoings.  But it was Mr Cs fifth loan in around four months.  I think  that Cashfloat 
shouldve been  doing more than it did to make sure that Mr C could afford to repay the loan.
If Cashfloat had carried out the kinds of checks that I think  were proportionate, it seems  
likely that it wouldve discovered that as well as all of the expenses that Mr C declared, he 
was due to repay other short term lenders more than £1,000. 
This meant that Mr C was left without any disposable income. So I agree that Mr Cs 
complaint about  loan five should be upheld.
Ref: DRN97743063Mr C was in broadly the same financial situation when he applied  for loan six. It follows  that I 
uphold Mr Cs complaint  about this loan as well.
Loans seven and eight
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Cashfloats  lending history with Mr C, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen  that further 
lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Cashfloat should  have realised that 
it shouldnt have given  Mr C any more  loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
seven. I say this because the overall  pattern of Mr Cs borrowing suggested  that hed 
become persistently reliant on short term loans.
By loan seven, Mr C had been  borrowing  from Cashfloat for around eight months. And it had 
been less than two weeks since Mr C had repaid a £1,100 instalment loan.
I think that this was an indication that Mr C might  be having difficulties managing his money 
and was using  short term loans for everyday living costs rather than one-off expenses. 
Although the amounts that Mr C borrowed sometimes  fluctuated, he never asked for less 
than £300. So Mr C wasnt making  any real inroads into what  he owed Cashfloat and his 
indebtedness was being prolonged. This meant  that Mr C had been paying  large  amounts of 
interest to, in effect; service a debt to Cashfloat  over a long period.
I consider that Mr C lost out because Cashfloat provided loans seven and eight because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time he owed Cashfloat money was likely to have had 
negative implications on Mr Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him 
in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Cs complaint about  loans  five to eight.
Putting things  right  what  Cashfloat needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr C paid on loans five to eight;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
remove any negative information  about loans five and six from Mr Cs credit file; and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan seven means that any information about  
loans seven and eight is negative. So all entries  about loans seven and eight  should  be 
removed from Mr Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Mr C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Ref: DRN97743064My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part and direct Western  Circle Ltd 
(trading as Cashfloat)  to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.  
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9774306