K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1998. Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr B says that the optional nature of the PPI policy wasnt  made  clear  to him, and he didnt 
need to take out PPI. Lloyds has provided a copy of his credit card application, and I can see 
that in the section optional features that the PPI has been selected. Mr B has then signed  
the application, agreeing  to the information  on it. So taking everything  in to account,  I think  
Lloyds made  it clear that Mr B didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it out  
although I can understand why he cant remember this as it was over 20 years ago.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including what he have  said about having  good 
sick pay in place he couldve  used  to make his repayments  but the PPI couldve paid out 
on top of, and for longer  than hes receive full sick pay for. So this point doesnt change my 
decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN91633432The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9163343