K820x#14complaint
Mr L says he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint.
Mr L has been represented throughout his complaint.
background
Mr L applied for a store card in 2002.  At the same  time he was sold PPI. 
Mr L complained that the PPI policy had been mis-sold. FICL disagreed. 
The policy cost no more  than £1.00  per £100 Mr L owed on his store  card and it protected  
Mr Ls store card monthly  repayments if he couldnt  work because of an accident or sickness  
or if he lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr L says he was asked  by the shop assistant if he wished to sign up for a store card which 
would give him 10% off his purchase  that day. Mr L says the assistant just handed him the 
store card and took his details such as his name and address and he left the store. 
During this interaction  with the store assistant, Mr L says PPI was never mentioned.   
FICL has provided a copy of Mr Ls credit agreement. On the credit  agreement there is a 
section for PPI, amongst other optional features. There was a box Mr L could sign if he 
wanted PPI, or which he could leave blank if he didnt want  it. Mr L has signed for PPI, 
separately to signing  for the agreement as a whole. 
I also have to consider  that Mr L was signing a legal credit agreement,  so there  was an onus 
on him to check what he was signing for. If PPI was something that Mr L wasnt sure of  
given that the other features hadnt  been  chosen, I think  it would have been reasonable that 
it is something that he would have queried  at the time if he didnt want it. 
Overall, I think it was clear Mr L had a choice  about buying the PPI, and he chose to take it 
out.
It was up to FICL to provide Mr L with clear information about the policy  so he could decide if 
he wanted to take it out. Mr L was eligible for the policy  and it doesnt  look as if he was 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. 
Ref: DRN98381832Mr L has told us, that at the time of taking out the store card he cant remember  what  sick 
pay he would receive from his employer if he was unable to work because of an accident or 
sickness. But Mr L says he was in full time employment  and was living  at home  so didnt 
need the PPI.
The PPI policy would  have paid out a benefit  if Mr L couldnt work as a result of accident,  
sickness or unemployment. It would have covered 15% of what Mr L owed on the card at the 
point of claiming  and would have carried on paying this amount each month  until Mr L 
returned to work or the outstanding balance had been cleared.  It would  also pay out on top 
of and alongside any sick pay Mr L did receive.  All things considered the PPI could have 
been a useful benefit at whats  likely  to have been  a difficult time if Mr L needed to claim.
I dont know if FICL  explained  the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mr L to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for him. But I think if Mr L had properly understood the 
cost and benefit provided he still would  have thought the policy potentially useful. Ive seen  
nothing to suggest that paying for the PPI was a problem for Mr L  and Im satisfied that its 
likely he took it out when he didnt have to. 
Looked at overall, I dont  think having clearer information would have put Mr L off taking out 
the policy, given  his situation at the time.
This means  that, even if FICL didnt give Mr L all the information it should  have done  when it 
sold him the policy, I dont  find that Mr L has lost out as a result  of anything  that FICL did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9838183