K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that Close Brothers Limited  didnt treat him fairly when he contacted  them 
about a fault with a car he purchased. The car was financed by Close Brothers Limited  at the 
time of the fault.
background 
Mr L bought a car in April 2017. The car was financed by a conditional sale agreement 
provided by Close Brothers. 
In June 2017 Mr L reported to Close Brother  he was having  some issues with the car.
Close Brothers arranged  an independent inspection of the vehicle which took place  in June 
2017. The report explains  there were a number  of issues when  they turned on the vehicle. 
As a result of the issues the inspector  wouldnt carry out a road test. The report  says that the 
car needed a new timing  belt.
It was agreed,  following  a number of calls and emails that the car would  be collected and 
brought to a local garage. The garage replaced the timing belt. Close Brothers agreed to pay 
for the timing belt under the Consumer Rights Act 2015. On further inspection at the garage 
a gearbox fault was discovered. This new fault was raised with Close  Brothers.
On 7 August  2017, Mr L wrote to Close  Brothers and said he would like to execute  his right 
to reject the car. He says as one attempt had been  made to repair  the vehicle he believed  he 
had the right to reject  the car as another fault had been found  and the car was not of 
satisfactory quality. 
On 24 August 2017, Close  Brothers  explained to Mr L that the gearbox issue  was a new fault 
and they had the right to repair that fault first. They  also explained that a repair  might  not be 
financially viable so they are reviewing their options. And they werent currently in a position  
to proceed with a rejection of the case.  
Mr L was contacting the dealer and Close Brothers to chase payment for the repairs  on the 
timing belt. During  this time Mr L was telephoning the independent  inspector  and Close 
Brother for an update on his case.  
Mr L needed to use a car during this period. So, he took a decision to get insured on his 
partners car. He said he wasnt clear on what was happening with his car and so he 
collected his partners car and used this during this period.  Mr Ls partners car was kept in 
another part of the country at the time the faults  were found with his car. So, in order  to use 
the car he had to make a trip to collect and drop off his partners car. 
Close Brothers considered their options  and decided  to make a commercial decision to take 
back the car and settle the agreement. They also refunded Mr L the three monthly  
instalments he had made towards the loan. 
On 29 September  2017 Close Brothers settled  the agreement in full. Mr L was unhappy with 
the way he was treated by Close Brothers  and did not accept the offer they made  to him. He 
explained as a direct result of all the issues he incurred additional unexpected costs.  
Ref: DRN93583332Our investigator considered the case  and felt Close Brothers shouldve done more  to 
compensate Mr L. She asked Close Brothers  to:
pay Mr L the difference  between the refunded monthly loan repayments and the  
additional costs  he incurred. The specific costs she asked Close Brothers to consider 
were the cost of the insurance he had to take out on his partners car for the period of 
time his car was in the garage  and the fuel costs Mr L incurred having to collect  his 
partners car; and 
pay £50 Mr L the distress and inconvenience.  
Close Brothers Limited disagreed with the investigators recommendation. Mr L was 
concerned about  the figure  which the investigator reached as he felt the insurance and fuel 
costs should be refunded  on top of the monthly loan repayments. 
The case  was passed to me to consider. I did initially contact Close  Brother and Mr L with 
my initial thoughts on this case. I explained  that I broadly agreed with the investigators view 
but considered  that Close Brothers  should  pay Mr L £150 for the distress  and inconvenience  
caused. Close Brother disagreed. I also provided clarity on the calculation  of the award.  
relevant legislation
The car was sold in April 2017 and the agreement was settled in September  2017. So, of 
particular relevance  in my decision about  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint is the Consumer Rights Act 2015 which applied at that time. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
repair of faults
There were two faults identified with the car. I appreciate Mr L is of the view that Close 
Brothers shouldve  allowed him to reject the car when the second fault was flagged. I 
disagree with Mr L on this point. The evidence confirms there  were  two separate  faults  with 
the car. Mr L did have  protection under the Consumer Rights  Act 2015. 
In this particular  case the additional  protection outlined  in the Consumer Rights  Act 2015  
meant that Close Brothers had to take steps  to help Mr L with the issues he was having with 
the car. The legislation allowed Close Brothers the opportunity to repair  the car for Mr L. Im 
satisfied Close Brothers  Limited were  entitled  to attempt to repair the two faults.  
decision not to repair the second  fault
I do appreciate Close  Brothers  were  concerned  about the costs  of the repairs on the car. I 
think it was reasonable  for Close Brothers  to consider their options when the second fault 
was raised. The second fault was going  to cost Close Brothers  a significant amount of 
money to repair. So I think it was fair for them to consider  the options of settling the 
agreement. 
Ref: DRN93583333Mr Ls options while Close Brothers decided whether to repair  his car
During the period June to September 2017  Mr L didnt know whether the car was going  to be 
repaired or whether  the Close Brothers  would  settle the agreement.  As a direct result of this 
uncertainty he needed access  to a car but had limited options. This is because there was a 
possibility that Close Brothers would attempt  a repair of the car.  
Mr Ls options were to rent a car or collect  his partners car. Mr L decided  to get insured on 
his partners car and use that car while Close Brothers decided what to do with his car.
I cant say it is unreasonable  that Mr L collected  his partners  car because he didnt know  
what was happening with his car and the timescales  involved  and whether it was going to be 
repaired. Because he wasnt clear  on the timescales it wouldve been challenging to rent a 
car over this period. In my view renting a car over this period would have  incurred high costs  
and inconvenience  to Mr L. I say this because  he wouldve needed to update the rental  
company on a daily basis as he didnt know when  his car would be repaired or the 
agreement settled. 
communicating the decision not to repair the car
I need to consider how Close Brothers  communicated with Mr L during this period and the 
impact this had on Mr L.
I can see Mr L made a number of calls and it wasnt clear to him what was happening with 
the car and finance agreement from June to September 2017. I appreciate during this period  
Close Brothers were considering whether  to pay for the repairs  or settle  the agreement. But 
while this was being decided Mr L was left without a vehicle. It wasnt until 26 September  
that Mr L was given a meaningful update on his case. Mr L had to chase Close Brothers 
during this period and I do think he was inconvenienced. As explained in my emails  to Close  
Brothers Im asking them to increase the amount of compensation to £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused to Mr L. 
When Close Brothers decided to settle  the agreement they refunded Mr L the monthly 
repayments he had made.  I do think this is fair because Mr L didnt have use of the car 
during this period. However,  Im of the view that Close Brothers  took too long to 
communicate their decision to settle the agreement. 
additional costs  incurred
As Close Brothers agreed to refund the loan repayments I need to consider whether Mr L 
incurred additional  costs as a direct  result of the delays in Close  Brothers communication.  I 
would only fairly award Mr L the additional costs  if they exceed the amount Close Brothers  
refunded for the loan repayments.  
Ive explained  that I dont  think  it was unreasonable for Mr L to get insured  on his partners 
car. Given the evidence,  I dont think Mr L wouldve  reasonably expected to incur the 
additional cost of fuel to collect and return his partners  car. His alternative option was to rent 
a car on a daily basis which wouldve been  more  expensive. But Im mindful that Close  
Brothers have agreed to refund  the loan repayments.  
So, I dont feel it is reasonable to ask the business  to refund the cost of the additional 
insurance premiums and the fuel in additional to the loan repayments. I feel a fairer option  is 
Ref: DRN93583334to ask Close Brother to pay Mr L the difference between the additional costs incurred and 
the loan repayments. In practice this means refunding Mr L: 
the fuel cost he incurred to collect and return his partners  car; 
the cost Mr L incurred to insure his partners car from the date he was added to the 
insurance policy to the date the finance  agreement was settled  by Close  Brothers 
Limited; 
minus £252.48 from the above calculations as Close  Brothers has already refunded  
the monthly repayment Mr L made  on the car. 
The reason  Im asking  Close Brothers  to refund the cost of the additional insurance 
premiums until the date the agreement was settled is because Mr L couldve cancelled  the 
policy at this point.  And if he decided to continue with the arrangement  to stay insured on his 
partners car then I think it isnt reasonable to say that Close Brothers  should  pay for the 
additional months premium. This is because Mr L had been  released from the finance 
agreement. So he wouldve needed  to either get new finance or continue  with the insurance 
once the finance was settled. 
my final decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold  Mr Ls complaint against  Close  Brothers Limited. I 
require Close Brothers Limited to pay Mr L £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
In addition to this I recommend Close Brothers Limited refund Mr L:
the fuel cost he incurred to collect and return his partners  car; 
the cost Mr L incurred to insure his partners car from the date he was added to the 
insurance policy to the date the finance  agreement was settled  by Close  Brothers 
Limited; 
minus £252.48 from the above calculations as Close  Brothers Limited has already 
refunded to Mr L the monthly repayment  he made on the car.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Tracey Nugent
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9358333