K820x#14complaint
Miss M says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2006.  The policy was added  to 
Miss Ms credit card account when she applied for the card in person, at a meeting with the 
bank.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
 Ive seen a copy  of the credit agreement that Miss M signed.  It includes a box to tick if 
the applicant wishes to take out PPI. The box is ticked. And Miss M signed specifically 
to indicate that she wished  to take PPI, in addition to signing the form overall. I think  
Bank of Scotland made Miss M aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it  although  I can understand why she may no longer remember this.
 Miss M applied for the credit card at a branch of Bank  of Scotland, and it 
acknowledges that it recommended the PPI to her. This means it had a responsibility  
to check that it was suitable for her. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on 
what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time.
 Miss Ms told us she cant remember whether shed have been entitled to any sick pay 
from her employer  at the time.  And she didnt have any other means  she could have 
used to make her monthly  credit card repayments if shed  been  off sick or lost her job. 
The policy would have helped with Miss Ms monthly credit card repayments for up to 
12 months per successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.  Whats  more, 
it would have  paid out in addition  to any payments Miss M received from her employer. 
So she could have  used  those  to meet other day-to-day expenses  at what would have 
been a difficult  time.  Taking everything  into account, I think  the policy could have been 
useful for Miss M.
 Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should  have  been.  But Miss M chose  to take out the policy.  So she appears  
to have wanted  this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten  this, so many 
years later. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  or limitations  and the policy  
was competitively priced.  
Ref: DRN96112252 I acknowledge that Miss Ms told us she was only earning the minimum wage  at the 
time, but Ive seen nothing to suggest  that she couldnt afford  the premiums for the PPI. 
Ive also borne  in mind that the premiums were shown clearly on Miss Ms monthly 
credit card statements. And as she was paying  for the PPI monthly, she could have 
cancelled it without any further cost if she decided she didnt want it after all, or if her 
situation changed.
 Taking everything into account,  I think its unlikely Miss M would have made  a different 
decision if better information had been provided. On balance  I think  shed still have  
taken out the policy.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because  Bank of Scotland  
didnt tell Miss M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Miss M any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9611225