K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are in business  partnership  and complain that HSBC  UK Bank  Plc did not 
assist them  when they were under financial pressures and this also exposed that their 
business loan had been mis-sold to them.
background
Mr and Mrs S had business borrowing with HSBC. From late 2017 Mr S was seriously ill and 
this led to financial problems for the business.  Mr and Mrs S dont think HSBC did enough to 
help them in 2018 and say that it provided  poor service. They found out that personal 
security for the borrowing  was then held in error and think  this means  their loan was mis-sold 
to them.  And further problems happened  later in the year. HSBC has offered to pay 
compensation but they dont think it has addressed the core issues  of their complaint.
Our investigator did not recommend that it do anything more.  He considered HSBC had 
provided assistance to Mr and Mrs S but that the service and communication  could have 
been better.
Mr and Mrs S did not agree and wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 April 2020. I set out below what I said.
I explained that I was looking at the position  overall but that it has been raised in a number of 
individual complaints to HSBC which continued  after the first referral to this service. There 
are a number of overlapping issues and I decided to issue  a provisional decision so that I 
could bring all of these together into one place.  And then to give Mr and Mrs S the 
opportunity to comment specifically on what Id said and the reasoning Id given especially 
as I wasnt asking HSBC  to do anything further. I appreciated their patience  while  this 
complaint has been investigated. I needed  to make  clear that I wouldnt be considering  any 
other complaints or complaint points now as part of this review but I would consider any new 
evidence and comments about the existing  ones.
timeline
I started  by setting out what I saw as the key dates here  this was not meant to include  
every event but it is designed  to give a context to my assessment and findings. This is 
complex and I said it may be that Mr and Mrs S or HSBC will want  to clarify any points of 
detail here to ensure that I have  a correct summary.
February 2013- a flexible business  loan facility letter for £40,000 is issued and which  Mr and 
Mrs S accept. This refinances existing borrowing and relies on an existing second charge  
over their home.
Although I had some information about  what happened in the intervening period this does 
not assist me with the issues here.
November 2017   HSBC issues an overdraft renewal letter  for a £7,000  limit.
27 February 2018  the overdraft balance is over the limit due to a payment to their 
commercial card account. Mrs S was contacted and sets out Mr S serious  health  issues  
which have prevented him working for the past three  months. She discusses restructure  of 
loan and wants an increase in the overdraft to £12,000.
Ref: DRN9090710228 February 2018  a review between a business  specialist  and the partnership  about the 
borrowing takes place.  Mrs S did not want  the application to continue  due to the potential 
impact on their credit rating and concerns about  affordability. That day HSBC sends a letter  
of concern about the account  excess and as the current account has not been in credit for 
12 months. It gives details of where  Mr and Mrs S might be able to access  independent  
money advice.
March 2018- an informal limit of £9,850  has been marked until the end of the month and 
then to the end of April.
April 2018  towards the end of the month  HSBC tries to contact the partnership  about the 
limit as planned and is aware that Mr S is back in hospital. It again  discusses  consolidation 
and applying  for an overdraft but says this may not be agreed.
30 April 2018  a member of staff emails the partnership and says that options would be 
reviewed for the business and says that it may not be able to support additional borrowing 
and that a referral  to its collections  team  may be necessary. A call is promised at 12 noon 
the next day.
1 May 2018  - the call does not happen but by email after 5pm it is confirmed that the current 
excess on the account with a balance  of £10,768  is agreed to 21 May 2018 but that by this 
date the account needs  to be brought within the limit. The commercial credit  card is blocked.
2 May 2018  - HSBC sends Mrs S a £50 gift voucher as the member  of staff did not call her 
when agreed the previous day. That member of staff had identified  that HSBC  should not be 
holding the security over their home  under current regulations. That day HSBC also writes to 
confirm the current  informal overdraft interest  rate.
9 May 2018  - HSBC writes and says the account  remains at the informal limit, that overdrafts 
are repayable on demand and that it is likely to decline any further requests for informal  
overdraft.
11 May 2018 - an insurance premium for £9.93  is returned unpaid.
14 May 2018 - the loan payment is returned  unpaid (but later re-debited on 21 May 2018 as 
the account balance is by then is within limit.)  
15 May 2018 - Mrs S says she was ridiculed  by staff in a call  there  is no recording of this 
call available
16 May 2018 - a referral to the financial guidance  team is made and emails later sent to Mr 
and Mrs S on 21 and 22 May 2018  saying contact by then had been  attempted.
18 May 2018 - telephone banking access was blocked  temporarily  due to a log in issue.
23 May 2018 - Mr and Mrs S complain about the lack of co-ordination  and the selective 
return of items including the insurance  premium and state  that they asked the loan payment 
not be re-debited.  They say they will maintain the account within the limit. They complain 
about the company card being  blocked.
25 May 2018 - the insurance  premium is re-debited by the originator.
30 May 2018 - HSBC  writes to say the legal  mortgage has been  released.
23 July 2018 - HSBC  issues a final response offering compensation of £250  and said that 
there had been  miscommunication about  when the block  on the commercial card would be 
removed and that the legal charge was removed. It said that its process  is to attempt the 
loan payment again if there are funds  in the account.
29 October 2018 - the account  goes  over the limit.
31 October 2018 - Mrs S calls about  the excess on the overdraft. She says the business is 
back on track but has been  affected by Mr S illness. She asks about options and is told that 
if they make  a credit application it could affect their credit score.  She declines to do so 
without talking to Mr S first. She is offered a referral  to the financial guidance team which  she 
decides against at that time.
5 November 2018 - Mrs S tries to call a named  member of staff about  the account.
Ref: DRN909071036 November 2018- Mrs S complains he had not called her back (but this is before the 
deadline). On the same date she is paid £100  for having not being told how to close  the 
flexible business  loan when the balance was zero. That is then actioned.
15 November 2018 - there is a final response  letter issued about her not being called back 
but it is said an attempt  was made  and that Mrs S had the member of staffs  direct number.
27 November 2018 - a final response  letter about  delays in sending statements for the 
commercial card is sent with compensation of £50 credited to the account.
my provisional assessment
I considered the complaint points grouped under what I saw are the issues that will help me 
assess them
the business loan was mis-sold
Mr and Mrs S have  questioned the legality of this loan as the facility letter was addressed to 
them personally and as a legal charge over their property was relied upon. I said I wouldnt 
be resolving legal points  but considering things on a fair and reasonable basis.  I saw no 
issue in the way the loan facility letter was addressed as it was clear  to me what this was for 
and as they were  the partners. I noted that on the cover page  it said that this loan was  for 
the purpose of restructure of existing HSBC  borrowing  and that The bank  recommends that 
the Borrower seeks independent advice before accepting the offer. 
There was existing security over their home (which I could see was referred  to in an earlier  
facility letter  from 2012). HSBC has told this service  that its policy  not to take security  for 
regulated mortgage  contracts was not in place then. So I didnt see it acted outside policy.
Mr and Mrs S have  also said that this loan cost them thousands of pounds  as it was not fit 
for purpose.  They refer to being put under undue pressure to take this by a member  of staff.  
Id seen documentation from HSBC indicating the loan was offered after a review  of their 
business. I wasnt persuaded based on what theyve said that the loan wasnt  operated in 
line with the terms  and conditions, that they did not benefit from it and that there  are grounds 
to find that it was mis-sold. 
the security should  have  been released  earlier
HSBC has accepted that this should have happened after 2013. I understood why Mr and 
Mrs S were  unhappy only to find this out at a time of difficulty for them. But this also meant 
that they then knew that their home was not directly at risk as security. There  is no indication  
they had any concern  about this security  before then or that there was an actual impact on 
their business that they had brought to the attention of HSBC.
HSBC did not help them during a difficult time
Mr and Mrs S have  referred to this as our main  complaint  and dont think  HSBC has 
addressed this.
I knew that due to the serious, unexpected and ongoing health issues  of Mr S this was a 
very difficult time personally for them. As he was a key individual  in the business it affected  
trading and cash flow. And Mrs S describes understandably not being able to think clearly 
and take in what she was being  told by different members of staff at that time.
Ref: DRN90907104I needed to assess  how HSBC responded overall and then think about its process.  Mrs S 
has described that she and Mr S have very strong  credit scores which helped them operate 
their business. So she has expressed  reluctance  for a credit check  as part of any application 
for additional finance. I understood that  but I didnt think it was an unreasonable  request 
from HSBC. So this limited at the outset the agreement of any formal new facility and meant  
there was greater uncertainty for them.
I said I was going  to be frank and said that I think the informal overdraft (albeit at a much 
higher rate of interest) was a fair alternative  in my view and I noted it is described by HSBC 
as exceptional.  This allowed the business  to avoid  default and was in place  for over two 
months. Any overdraft  is repayable on demand  and I didnt think  Mr and Mrs S could expect 
an informal overdraft to persist. My chronology  above  set out the concerns raised by HSBC 
in early May and that further  items  might not be paid. The loan payment was returned and so 
was an insurance  policy  payment  and that was down  to the discretion of HSBC.  Both of 
those seemed to be rectified and I didnt see it was unreasonable for HSBC to take the 
payment of the loan a few days later as it was due and there were then funds.
A point  which  I returned to below is that there was no one relationship manager ever offered 
and provided by HSBC  for the partnership.  So Mrs S did need to speak to different 
individuals about the current facility say and about any new application. HSBC didnt provide 
one point of contact even within individual teams. And Mrs S did not take up the offer of a 
review by the financial guidance  team as far as I could  see which might have been able to 
help consider all the aspects  of the borrowing. She also clearly did not want  to be referred to 
its collections department  for payment difficulties which  would impact  on the business credit 
standing.
problems in October 2018
For Mrs S the problems shed experienced earlier seemed to be starting again  later in the 
year. Id listened  to a recording of a call she had with a member of staff on 31 October 2018. 
I thought the options for the business were  set out reasonably clearly and again she did not 
want to consent  to a credit check and wanted to speak to Mr S first. She was also offered a 
referral to the financial guidance  team. 
There was clearly a problem when she tried to contact a named member of staff about the 
overdraft and a letter about the excess over the limit. HSBC has said he did try to call back  
and by the time a complaint was reviewed the excess was corrected. It mentions again  that it 
does not guarantee a single point of contact.
Mr and Mrs S had also been in a position to repay the loan and HSBC accepts were not 
given all the information they needed  so that this could be closed. They received 
compensation for this.
service
There are a number of service complaints Id referred to above.  Some come from there not 
being a single point of contact. I was clear HSBC  never offered  that or to provide financial 
advice. I was satisfied  though that financial guidance could have been available.  There  are 
clearly times when it has accepted it made  mistakes  and has not communicated clearly in 
these difficult circumstances. I thought it has responded  to all the complaints about those 
points reasonably and so I said I wouldnt  be asking  it to do anything more.
Ref: DRN90907105It has paid some elements of the compensation as set out above  already. My understanding 
was  that it did not pay the £250 offered in July 2018 as Mr and Mrs S did not accept it. That 
remains open to them. I didnt find Mr and Mrs S have had a financial loss due to HSBCs 
actions and Im afraid I think on balance  that the overall compensation offered for poor 
service and the distress  HSBC specifically caused during what was already a very stressful 
period is reasonable. I knew how disappointed Mr and Mrs S will be by my provisional 
findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC said it did not have any further  points  to make.
Mr and Mrs S made additional comments and provided more  evidence.
I want to deal with that evidence  first. It is a two page deed of postponement dated 11 
October 2013. In that HSBC confirms that the first charge holder  Mr and Mrs S residential 
mortgage lender   has priority over their property with its legal charge. And to me it seems 
generated by that lender  and with a view to it says regularise its lending. Mr and Mrs S 
point is that HSBC has told our investigator  that it stopped taking a charge over regulated  
mortgage contracts in November 2013.  And so the cost of taking all the security could have 
been avoided  as it must have known in October 2013 that this would no longer be required.
I set out in the timeline above that they took this loan in February 2013 and that loan 
documentation referred to an existing second charge. So I dont see evidence  that this 
charge was only agreed to and taken in October  2013. This document seemed to be 
regularising the position for another lender. Im not looking  into what that lender  did but Im 
satisfied that HSBC had agreement for a charge long before its related product was taken off 
sale. So I dont agree any of the related costs should be refunded.
Mr and Mrs S ask why they werent  offered alternative advice about the loan and a better 
product especially during  a period of low interest rates.  I dealt with the sale of the loan in the 
provisional decision and I stand by that reasoning.  It was up to them whether to accept what  
was offered for the business. And I am not considering in this complaint what  happened 
between 2013  and 2017.
They are unhappy  that I said in my provisional  decision I would not be resolving  legal issues 
and they say that it is our duty to investigate the working practices of the banking industry 
and they want  to take this further.  I need  to explain that this service is not a court  and we 
provide informal dispute  resolution. If Mr and Mrs S dont accept my findings they are free to 
pursue this in court  subject to any relevant time limits. Ive looked at what  I think  is fair and 
reasonable for their complaint. But we are not the regulator and dont look at banking  
practices generally.
Mr and Mrs S have  given more detail about  when Mr S was ill, his medical condition and the 
time he was in hospital. I dont intend to set out this very personal information here. But I 
accept that he was seriously ill at the times Mrs S was in contact with HSBC,  that she kept it 
fully informed and I have taken that distressing situation for her into account.
Ref: DRN90907106Mr and Mrs S say that they were given no support from HSBC. I have to disagree with that. 
I know they wanted an extension to their overdraft on current  terms without any assessment 
or credit score. Ive explained what  I think about  that and why the alternative which was an 
unauthorised overdraft on an exceptional basis was a reasonable response. That was a 
more expensive option and the cost was set out for them in a letter as I mentioned  above.  I 
appreciate that HSBC  might not have  agreed an increase  in an authorised overdraft and that 
this together with the impact on their credit score was a reason  for them  not to make  an 
application. But that was their choice  and I cannot deal in what  ifs and what  HSBC might  
have otherwise agreed and what support could have then been  available  from its collections 
team or financial guidance team. I fully understand Mrs S says she felt harassed  at this 
difficult time. Her husband was seriously ill and the business was obviously struggling. But 
subject to what I accept  was some poor communication I remain  of the view that HSBCs 
response was reasonable. I know that Mr and Mrs S are not accepting  of that but Im afraid I 
still take a different view for the reasons  I gave  in my provisional  decision.
They finally state  that there is a pattern of a lack of support from HSBC   here during Mr S 
illness, at a different  time when they were affected  by flooding, and now during the current 
coronavirus pandemic. I made clear above  that I can only look here at the events theyve  
already complained about and I have  done so in detail.  I set out my conclusions about this 
and above the compensation offered and paid.  As I said the remaining action as I 
understand it is that HSBC pay Mr and Mrs S the compensation  of £250 offered on 23 July 
2018 if they choose to accept it. I appreciate that they will remain disappointed by this 
outcome.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that HSBC  Bank  UK Plc need 
do no more that it has already  offered  to and which is now to pay the remaining £250 to Mr 
and Mrs S. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9090710