K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about Santander  UK Plc charging  him for an unpaid  direct debit. 
background
Mr K set up a direct  debit  to pay one of his bills, hed asked for it to be taken out on a 
specific day of each  month. The bill provider asked for the direct  debit early, at a time when 
Mr K didnt have enough  funds  to pay for it. This meant he was charged a £10 fee by 
Santander. 
Mr K complained to Santander, he said he felt the charge was unfair  and it was taken  
unlawfully. He said he wasnt notified of the charge and it was taken many weeks  later. Mr K 
wanted the charge refunded.
Santander said its charges are set out in the account terms and it didnt think it had done  
anything wrong. It said Mr K needed to complain directly to the bill provider, because it 
couldnt control what date they collected  the direct debit. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint, he thought the charge had been correctly applied  
and didnt find that Santander had made  any mistake. Mr K disagreed he said he didnt think 
the charge was right as the direct debit was collected on the wrong  date.
The complaint has come to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A direct debit instruction gives a bill provider permission to apply for a payment directly  from 
its customers account. The date the direct debit  should be taken is also a separate  
agreement between the bill provider and their customer. In this case, the bill provider 
collected the direct debit  early. Santander  didnt  have any influence over this and, because 
of this I dont think Santander did anything wrong  here by dealing with the payment request 
in its normal way.  
Banks are allowed to charge customers if their account isnt being used in line with the 
agreed limits. In this case, Mr K didnt  have an agreed overdraft on his account. On the date 
the direct  debit was collected, Mr K didnt have  enough money to pay it, so Santander 
returned it unpaid to the bill provider. 
The terms and conditions  on Mr Ks account  say that Santander  can charge customers  a fee  
for each  unpaid transaction, in this case £10. It also says hell be notified before the charge 
is taken. From looking at Mr Ks bank statements, I can see the charge has been applied  in 
line with Santanders  terms  and conditions. Mr K was notified of the charge on his March  
account statement  and it was taken out in April. As the charge has been  correctly applied,  I 
havent found grounds to tell Santander  to refund it. Mr K was also made aware of the 
charge and it was taken  out in a timely  manner.
Ref: DRN94403502Mr K has said he didnt  get the separate letter Santander sent him telling him about the 
charge. Santander  has sent me a copy of the letter it says it sent to Mr K, I have no reason  
to doubt it was sent. The letter is correctly  addressed to Mr K so I cant see any reason why 
he wouldnt  have received it. Even if he didnt receive it, I dont think  this would mean the 
charge shouldnt apply. 
I can appreciate Mr Ks frustration with the situation he has found himself  in, but I havent 
found that Santander did anything wrong  here or it applied the charge  incorrectly. Should 
Mr K remain  unhappy about  the issue he could speak directly to his bill provider as 
suggested by the investigator. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint against  Santander UK plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9440350