K821x#15Complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that LCC Trans-Sending  Limited (trading as Small World  Financial
Services) allowed someone  else to make an electronic  money payment using her
identification.
Background
On 22 September  2017, someone made a cash payment  in Mrs Ks name  using her Small
World account. Mrs K discovered this and contacted  Small  World to complain because she
was concerned someone was able to use her account.
Small World  responded  to say that it had looked into the transaction and didnt  think  it had
been made fraudulently. It said it had a signed  receipt for the transaction.  And it had spoken
to its agent who confirmed Mrs K had made  the transaction  and had also spoken to the
beneficiary who said he was Mrs Ks nephew. But it said it would put Mrs Ks account on a
watch list so that she would be contacted to confirm any future transactions.
Mrs K wasnt  happy with this response, maintaining she hadnt made the payment and that
she didnt know the beneficiary. So she referred  her complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mrs Ks complaint. He said,  in summary, that although  Small
World had said it wasnt fraud   he didnt think the signature on the receipt matched Mrs Ks.
And so he thinks Small World couldve done more to make  sure it was Mrs K sending  the
money and if it had, it likely wouldve established  that it wasnt  Mrs K. Small  World couldve
stopped the payment before it was made. He also noted that Small  World had since  ended
its relationship with the agent in question. He recommended that Small World pay Mrs K
£100 to recognise  the inconvenience and worry shed been caused.
Small World  agreed to pay Mrs K £100  in resolution of the complaint. Mrs K didnt think £100
was enough though. She said that this situation  has caused her to have family problems,
because someone  believed shed sent money  to someone she hadnt.  And because  of the
family problems its caused,  shes now suffering from mental health problems and is unable
to work. As Mrs K didnt agree, the complaint  was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 January 2020. An extract  from that provisional decision 
is set out here:
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear how difficult Mrs Ks circumstances have been  since this incident. And Im
sure it was very worrying for to her to discover  that a payment  had been  made  in her name.
I agree  that the signature on the receipt  for the transaction looks  different to the one that
appears on Mrs Ks passport. Mrs Ks address information is also incomplete  on the receipt.
As there were discrepancies in the customer information provided, I think Small  World
should have done more  to make sure the transaction was being  made  by Mrs K. And if it had
made enquiries with Mrs K, it could have stopped the transaction from happening.
Ref: DRN96889742The payment was made in cash, so it wasnt Mrs Ks money  that was used so theres  been
no direct  financial loss to Mrs K. But Mrs K has told us that the payment going ahead has
had some serious consequences for her and caused significant distress and inconvenience.
Mrs K has said that when a member  of her family discovered this transaction,  they thought
shed sent money  to someone when she hadnt.  She says this caused problems within the
family. She says these  problems led to her suffering  from depression and now being  unable
to work.
Although initially  Small  World didnt think the transaction had been made in Mrs Ks name
fraudulently, it said it would put her account  on a watch  list straight  away.  Im pleased to see
that it took this step straight  away and explained  to Mrs K that it would contact her about  any
future transactions that were attempted in her name.
But since  then, Small  World  has told Mrs K its ended  its relationship  with the agent where
the transaction was carried out and apologised for any inconvenience  thats  been  caused.
And has now agreed to pay her £100  in recognition of this.
Mrs Ks particularly  unhappy that Small  World keep saying the beneficiary was her nephew
when she says she doesnt know him. But I dont  think this makes a difference, the fact is
Small World  say when it spoke to the beneficiary he said he was Mrs Ks nephew. So I dont
think its unreasonable to report what the beneficiary  told it in those terms.
It seems  to me that that Mrs Ks real concern, quite understandably, is that Small World
allowed this payment to go ahead despite the clear  discrepancies  between the information it
held for her and the information  provided  as part of the transaction.  And that because  of this,
shes been caused a significant  amount  of distress.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs K has told us about what  happened  after the
transaction was discovered. Having done so, I dont think the compensation the investigator
recommended is enough  in recognition of the impact Small Words mistake had.
But I dont think I can fairly say Small World  are responsible for all Mrs K has said happened
as a result  of the payment  going  ahead. I have to consider  the extent to which its
reasonable to say that the consequences  for Mrs K, as she describes, were  foreseeable as
arising from the actions  of Small  World. 
Taking everything into account,  including in particular what Mrs K has told us about the 
impact on her relationship  with a family member, I think a payment of £250  is more reflective 
of the impact  Mrs K suffered as a result of the transaction being allowed to take place.
Mrs K didnt respond. But Small World did. It said, in summary,  that it was no longer willing 
to pay Mrs K compensation  at all because Mrs K didnt cooperate with its investigation and 
hadnt reported the matter  to the police. 
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Small World  said in response to my provisional decision that it had changed  its mind  and 
wasnt willing to pay Mrs K any compensation,  despite previously agreeing to pay her £100. 
It said this because Mrs K didnt reply when  it asked her for more information and hadnt 
Ref: DRN96889743reported the matter  to the police. Small World also said its not the Financial Ombudsman 
Services role to investigate data breaches. 
Its not clear why Small  World  hadnt raised any of these  points  previously, if it felt it was 
important. But while it might be the case that Mrs K didnt respond  to the request for 
information or report the matter to the police. I still think Small World couldve stopped this 
transaction going ahead for the same reasons I explained in my provisional  decision. 
Because Small  World didnt do this, Mrs K was caused distress and inconvenience.  
So I think Small World did make  a mistake in allowing  the transaction to go ahead  and it has 
now ended  its relationship with the agent who carried out this transaction. It also apologised 
to Mrs K for the inconvenience  caused  in a letter to her dated 11 January 2018.  So I think  at 
least at this point,  it agreed  there was more it couldve done. The Financial Ombudsman  
Service can, and does, investigate complaints involving breaches of customer data, usually  
to establish the impact  its had on the individual. But what  weve investigated here is a 
transaction made on Mrs Ks account  which  she says wasnt made  by her. 
So irrespective of Small Words change of heart about whether its willing to pay Mrs K any 
compensation, Im going to order it to pay £250 to Mrs K as set out in my provisional 
decision and for the same  reasons.  
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that LCC Trans-Sending Limited must 
pay Mrs K £250 in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9688974