K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  about issues shes experienced with a car purchased with finance from 
Walker & Co Securities  Limited (trading as Trax Motor Finance) (Trax).
background
In September  2018 Miss B was supplied with a car and entered  into a hire purchase  
agreement with Trax. She experienced a number  of issues including:
Gearbox malfunction  warning
Battery draining
Drivers door not opening  with fob
Back window wouldnt close
Fuel cap wouldnt open
The car was returned to the dealer and repairs were carried  out under warranty.
When the car was returned to Miss B she experienced a new issue of a grinding noise which 
hadnt been there before.  She complained to Trax.
Trax arranged for an independent inspection  of the car. Based  on the findings of the report, 
Trax said the grinding noise wasnt a fault which had been  present at the point of supply.
Miss B wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.  Since  then, Trax has 
repossessed the car due to missed  payments.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint and was persuaded that the grinding noise was 
due to wear and tear. The investigator said the car was of satisfactory quality when  it was 
supplied.
Miss B didnt agree. She said she disputed the findings in the independent inspection. She 
felt that the car hadnt been inspected properly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Trax has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres  an implied term 
that the car is of satisfactory  quality. Cars  are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person  would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances 
such as (amongst other things) the age and mileage of the car and the price  paid. I would 
expect a second hand car, such as that supplied to Miss B, to have a degree of wear and 
tear. So in order to uphold  this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply due to an inherent defect as opposed to general 
wear and tear.
Miss B and Trax disagree about  whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In order  to 
reach a decision  I need  to look at all of the available evidence and determine, on the 
balance of probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ref: DRN95927542Miss B experienced issues with the gearbox together  with some other minor issues.  These 
were repaired  by the supplying dealer. Miss B has said that the grinding  noise began in 
January 2019.
An engineers report can help in deciding whether or not a fault was present at the point  of 
supply. The independent report in this case diagnosed a metallic  rattling  noise which was 
thought to be coming fro the torque converter/back plate area.  The engineer concluded  that 
this wasnt an inherent fault and that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Based on what Ive seen,  Im persuaded that theres  an issue with the gearbox. But based 
on the findings of the independent  report, I dont think  its likely  that this fault was present at 
the point of supply. I can see that Miss B has covered over 6000 miles since  the point of 
sale. If the fault had been present at the point  of supply I would have expected the grinding 
noise to have  presented  itself much sooner.
I appreciate that Miss B doesnt accept the independent report and feels  that the car wasnt 
properly inspected. Ive thought about this but Ive seen nothing  in the report  which suggests 
that it wasnt carried out to a professional  standard. 
Taking everything into account,  Im not persuaded that the fault was present at the point of 
supply. I think the car was of satisfactory  quality and that the current issues are as a result of 
general wear and tear. Because of this I wont be asking Trax to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to a Miss B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9592754