K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc refused  their claim against their travel
insurance policy.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated
15 November 2019, an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. So, I 
wont repeat  that information here.  
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt intend to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I 
said that segway  riding  isnt a permitted sport or activity  under the terms of the policy  and 
AXA doesnt  offer cover  for it. So, AXA isnt obliged  to settle the claim for emergency 
medical or additional  travel costs following Mrs Cs accident on a segway. I said that 
compensation of £100 AXA had previously offered in relation to its provision of incorrect  
information was fair.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs C said that they very disappointed with the provisional decision.  She said that the 
investigators view was fair to both parties. 
AXA said it accepted  my provisional decision  and asked  whether Mr and Mrs C want the 
compensation of £100 it had previously offered. 
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate that Mr and Mrs C are disappointed  with my provisional decision and I note 
that they preferred the investigators view. Im afraid  that there are no grounds on which to 
direct AXA to settle their claim  in whole or in part. In order to direct AXA to do so Id have to 
find that it had done  something  wrong  and I dont think it has.
Given that neither  Mr and Mr C nor AXA have  provided anything  further on the complaint, I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision.  So, for 
the reasons I set out in my provisional  decision,  I dont think  that AXA acted unfairly in 
declining the claim.  I think that the compensation of £100 AXA has already offered in relation 
to incorrect information  is fair. 
Ref: DRN99792332my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint as the compensation of £100 AXA has already  offered  is 
fair. I leave  it to Mr and Mrs C to contact AXA direct  if they wish to take up that offer.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 January  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99792333extract of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc refused  their claim against their travel  
insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C have the benefit of multi-trip,  worldwide travel  insurance as part of Mrs Cs 
bank account.  They were on holiday in Australia in March  2019 and Mrs C fell from a 
segway. She broke her arm and injured her hip. Mrs C had surgery  in Australia. 
Mr and Mrs C upgraded  their existing flights home so that they had business class  seats.
Once they were  home, Mr and Mrs C made  a claim against their travel  insurance for 
medical expenses  and the cost of the upgraded flights. Initially,  AXA said that it would cover 
the claim but later said that it wouldnt. It said that segway riding isnt a permitted sport or 
activity under the policy. AXA offered Mr and Mrs C compensation of £100 in relation to 
poor service, which they didnt accept.
Mr and Mrs C want AXA to settle  their claim. They  say that the policy AXA directed them 
to says that segway riding is a covered activity as long as a helmet is worn.  Mrs C says 
she wore a helmet and has provided  the booking  information from the segway company to 
say that helmets must  be worn and will be provided.
One of our investigators looked  at what had happened. She said that the policy terms 
dated July 2018 are the relevant ones here. Under  those terms, riding  a segway isnt a 
permitted sport or activity but other,  more dangerous activities  are covered. So, the 
investigator thought  that AXA was acting unfairly  in declining Mrs Cs claim for medical 
costs. But the investigator didnt think it was fair to ask AXA to cover  the cost of the flight  
upgrades, as the documentation doesnt  show that the upgrades  were  medically 
necessary. The investigator thought that AXAs should deal with Mrs Cs claim for medical 
costs and that its offer of £100 compensation in relation to poor service  was fair.
AXA didnt agree  with the investigator.  It said that the list of permitted sports  and activities  is 
clear, as is the fact that Mr and Mrs C needed  to contact AXA for an upgrade  if they want  to 
take part in an activity thats  not listed. AXA said its not for this service to decide which 
risks it should cover,  even if we think that certain  risks are comparable. It said that riding a
segway is excluded unless the upgrade is purchased.
Mr and Mrs C initially indicated that they accepted  the investigators view but later said that 
as AXA is maintaining  its position,  they would like to pursue  their claim in relation to the 
flight upgrades.
As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed  to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN99792334Im conscious that Ive condensed what I dont  doubt was a very worrying time into a short  
narrative. That reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal.  But Im 
satisfied that Ive captured the essence of what happened. I trust that Mr and Mrs C will 
not take as a discourtesy  the fact that I focus  on what  I consider the central  issues.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
Theres been confusion  about which terms apply. The document  dated 1 July 2018 in 
relation to Mrs Cs bank  account benefits  include the terms that are relevant here.  
The summary of the cover includes the following:
Additional Exclusions you need  to know
[]
    Cover may be excluded for certain  hazardous  sports  and activities  (see Permitted
Sports and Activities).
In the policy  itself theres a long list of permitted sports  and activities.  Segway riding isnt 
in that list. At the end of the list of permitted  sports  and activities, it says:
To upgrade Your existing  cover call 
[].
Under the heading Upgrades, it says: 
Sports and Activities
The sports and activities which are covered as standard are listed  under the 
Permitted Sports  and Activities definition. If You wish to participate  in any activity 
not mentioned  under  this definition then please  call Us and We may be able to extend 
Your cover.
And under the heading, General exclusions relating to all sections  of the policy  it
says:
We will not pay for claims arising directly or indirectly 
from: []
7. Your engagement in any sport or activity that is not in the list of Permitted Sports  and
Activities unless You have received Our prior agreement in writing.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that AXA shouldnt  reject a claim 
unreasonably. I dont think that AXA treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly  in declining  the claim. Ill 
explain why:
Segway riding  isnt a permitted sport or activity under the terms of the policy.
AXA now says that it doesnt offer cover  for segway riding. So, even if Mr and Mrs C
had asked for an upgrade  to cover it, cover wouldnt have been extended.
So, AXA isnt obliged  to settle  the claim for either  emergency  medical  or additional  
travelling costs  following  Mrs Cs accident on a segway.
Ref: DRN99792335Some of the other  permitted sports and activities may be more dangerous than 
segway riding but I dont  have evidence about the relative risks of each of those 
activities. In general  terms, its for AXA to determine the risks its willing  to cover.  In 
the particular circumstances  of this case, I think AXA set out what  was and wasnt  
covered and it wouldnt have offered cover for segway  riding  if Mr and Mrs C had 
asked for an upgrade to the policy.
The earlier, May 2018, terms to which Mr and Mrs C refer arent  applicable here. But 
segway riding isnt a permitted  sport  or activity under  those terms either. That policy  
says that a claim where the individual isnt wearing a helmet  whilst on various modes  
of transport, including a segway,  isnt covered.
Its common  ground that AXA initially said that it would cover the claim. I dont doubt 
that Mr and Mrs C were distressed when AXA later told them  that it wouldnt do so. I 
think the £100 compensation AXA has previously offered in relation  to that is fair.
my provisional decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs C but, for the reasons  Ive explained, I dont propose 
to uphold their complaint  as I think that the compensation of £100 AXA has already
offered is fair.
Ref: DRN9979233