K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS") mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1997.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Bs credit  card account when he applied for the card by filling in a paper  application.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
Mr B mainly  told us he wouldnt have needed  PPI. And if RBS had made  him aware of the 
PPI at the time he wouldve  declined it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint because:
I think RBS made Mr B aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. 
I say this because  it  appears  that Mr B signed in the PPI part of the card application  
form to say he wanted to take out PPI to protect  his credit card repayments. If he 
hadnt wanted PPI Mr B couldve  left this box blank. He also signed the completed 
application at the end indicating that he agreed  with the information on the form. 
RBS didnt advise  Mr B to take out the policy. So it didnt  have to check if it was 
suitable for him.
Mr B was eligible  for the PPI cover. He mentioned that he wouldve got full sick pay 
for 6 months followed by 6 months' half pay from his employer. But the policy 
wouldve paid more  than his minimum credit card repayments for up to 12 months 
per claim in the event  of accident or sickness  on top of any work benefits.  As Mr B 
mightve also had some additional  costs if he was too unwell to go back  to work or 
disabled, I think this couldve  been  a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially as 
hed only have  got half his usual pay after 6 months off work. 
And the policy wouldve also protected Mr Bs credit card repayments  if he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. So I think  he couldve benefitted from the policy. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look as 
if those applied in Mr Bs case. So, I dont think having more  information about things 
the policy didnt  cover wouldve affected his decision to have  PPI.
Ref: DRN95744652I dont think its likely  that RBS properly explained the policy cost, or what it might pay 
out if Mr B made a claim.  But Mr B chose to take out the policy  when he didn't have 
to and so it appears to me that he did want this type of cover at the time - even  if hes 
forgotten this now. And, looked  at overall,  given  the benefits PPI offered Mr B, I think  
it unlikely he wouldve made a different decision if better  information  had been  
provided. 
On balance I think hed still have taken out the policy. So even if there were some  
failings in the way RBS sold this policy to Mr B I dont find hes any worse off as a 
result. 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9574465