K822xcomplaint
Mr E complains that AWP P&C SA (AWP) declined his travel insurance claim.
background
Mr E was due to fly abroad  to N on 31 October  2017. Arising out of this trip, he made  three 
key claims to AWP. These are set out below  along with our investigators view on each  claim.
curtailment
Mr Es mother, who was resident in N at the term of her date [sic], passed away some  time 
before Mr E was due to fly, so he changed his flight dates so that he could  go to N earlier 
than he originally planned. 
Mr E moved his outbound flight to 25 October and delayed his return flight  from 28 
November to 1 December 2017.
Mr E claimed under the curtailment section of his policy  for the costs  he paid to do this. 
AWP declined Mr Es claim because he hadnt  yet started his trip, so he couldnt claim under 
the curtailment  section which usually applies where  a trip has been brought to an end sooner 
than planned.  Mr E said he chose to change his flights after speaking to a claims agent at 
AWP in early October.  
When our investigator looked  into this aspect of Mr Es claim, he thought:
Curtailment was specifically discussed  during the call with AWPs agent.
Given that the call notes dont suggest a disagreement between  Mr E and the agent, 
and Mr E says the agent gave him helpful  advice,  it was likely that AWPs agent told 
Mr E something that led him to believe he could amend  his flights and would be 
covered by his insurance policy. 
Mr E was eligible  to make a cancellation claim because his mother had passed  away.
Mr E couldve then chosen to re-book his flights with the proceeds of the insurance 
claim, if thats what he wanted to do.
So it was his view that AWP should  re-assess Mr Es claim under the cancellation  section of 
his policy  on the basis that his mother had passed  away. However, our investigator 
explained that this may involve AWP asking Mr E for further evidence to support his claim. 
And that, even if the claim succeeds,  he didnt  think itd be fair for AWP to refund the full 
flight costs  because  Mr E amended his flights instead of cancelling them. 
medical expenses
While in N, Mr E fell ill and required medical  treatment. He says he was admitted to hospital  
on 29 October 2017 and discharged on 3 November 2017.  
Mr E asked AWP to cover his costs related to this - medical and those costs  he incurred to 
delay his return flight. AWP declined Mr Es claim on the basis that his policy  came into force 
on the date he was due to go abroad - 31 October - and his admission to the hospital was 
two days before this.
Ref: DRN95238112Our investigator looked into this issue. Having thought about the definition of the period of 
insurance and journey  in the policy, he thought that the cover  under the policy  began  at the 
start of Mr Es journey. And because Mr E had brought his outbound flight  forward,  his 
journey began on 25 October 2017  and so he was covered from this date. As a result, he 
recommended AWP re-assess Mr Es claim for medical expenses in the usual way.
stolen items  and cash
On his return home, Mr E also claimed on his travel  insurance for stolen items  and cash.  
Mr E told AWP that on 15 November hed been the victim of an assault  and robbed.  He 
claimed for £500  cash sterling, approximately £45 in local currency  and items including  an 
iPhone, camera, tablet,  watch, necklace, suitcase,  clothes  and shoes, with a total value of 
about £5,600. In the claim form he said he reported this to the police in N on the day of the 
incident, 15 November,  and that these  items  were  in a car and on his person. 
AWP had concerns about inconsistencies in what Mr E had told it generally as well as what 
the police  report  said about how the theft happened and what was stolen. AWP asked Mr E 
a number of questions about  this and also for evidence  to support what  he said happened.  
Ultimately AWP  declined  the claim. It said it couldnt  validate the claims as there  were  
inconsistencies and contradictions  with what Mr E has said.  This includes the following 
points:
On the claim form, Mr E said hed reported  the incident to the police on 15 
November. But the police report says Mr E reported the matter to it on 18 November 
at around 6pm.
Mr E failed  to report the matter  to the police  within the 24 hours, as required under 
the policy. 
The police report listed an iPhone 5S was stolen but the receipt  submitted was for an 
iPhone 6.
Mr E failed  to notify it that hed been  admitted  to the hospital for medical treatment, 
as hes required to do under the terms of the policy. And AWP wouldve expected 
him to do this at the time or, at the latest,  when he had to change  his return  flight  to 
wait to be declared fit to return to the UK.
Mr E wasnt able to send it original receipts or other evidence to prove  ownership  of 
the items  such as instruction manuals and photographs or confirmation  that the 
handset had been blocked. 
AWP asked Mr E for his late mothers  death  certificate but this hasnt been sent to it.
Mr E said hed bought  three watches, iPhone  and camera from the same seller on 26 
October in cash.
Mr E says he had his suitcase with him at the time of the incident. And the reason  he 
was carrying all items with him to the site where the incident  took place was because 
he intended to travel from there to another area. But AWP says hes submitted 
invoices for a hotel  which spans the period when the incident took place - 10  21 
November.
The police report Mr E submitted wasnt clear  in the way it had been photographed 
and had spelling  errors throughout.  
Mr E says he lost the original police report when he moved so he couldnt send AWP 
a clearer copy or the original. But AWP says hes used  the same  address since  
submitting his claim form for the stolen  items  and so it questions how it couldve been 
lost during a move when he hasnt moved.
Ref: DRN95238113Given the circumstances Mr E described, AWP was surprised  he hadnt sought 
medical attention  either in N or on his return to the UK for the injuries sustained 
during the assault.  And it asked Mr E to explain why he didnt report this to the police 
sooner given the extent of his injuries and loss.
In the police report it said Mr E went to the disputed area of land and a group of 
young men numbering about  50 in number attacked  him and stole  a number of items 
and cash from him. At no point in the report did it refer to other people also being 
assaulted which is something that Mr E has mentioned as being significant  to him 
and why he wasnt able to report the matter  to the police in time.
The police report said the watch had been bought in dollars ($500) but Mr E said hed 
bought the watch on arriving in N and paid for it using local currency,  which is what 
the receipt hed sent it showed.  But the claim form he submitted said £500.
During the claims process, it also highlighted to Mr E that the policy limits under his policy 
mean that the maximum sum insured is £1,750 with a £300 single article limit and £400 
maximum for valuables.
Mr E responded to these concerns at various points. This includes the following points: 
He suffers with PTSD and was badly affected by the robbery and this prevented him 
from contacting  the police sooner. Hes also said that witnessing his companions  
being brutalised (with serious injuries and bleedings) was more than sufficient to 
trigger severe PTSD symptoms.
Even if he had wanted to report it to the police,  he wouldve had to do it by a written  
petition by a solicitor.  However, as there was already an ongoing investigation into a 
dispute Mr E had about a plot of land  which is where the assault and robbery took 
place, he says he just needed to contact  the investigating officer. And he says he 
made unsuccessful attempts to do this on the phone although no evidence  is 
available for this.
He also said he couldnt just walk into a police station to report  the matter without:
oa written petition by a solicitor;
opaying a bribe  to get the petition  approved for investigation; or
owaiting at the police station for a long time due to lack of personnel and 
inefficiency.
But these  options  werent possible as hed lost all his money  and was physically  and 
mentally unwell to withstand  a long wait at the police station.
He was staying  in hotel accommodation  and the first thing that came to mind  after the 
incident was to avoid further  attack  by not going out.
The reason  the police report wasnt structured  like a typical  police report is probably 
because his property  wasn't the primary issues being investigated. 
He was still feeling traumatised  by the incident  when  his things were stolen several 
weeks afterwards.
Mr E sent AWP court documents and says these  show  that the incident is being 
investigated. But also that other  people  who accompanied him were  seriously  injured 
and hospitalised  and didnt report the matter to the police until 16 November.
Cash purchases  the cash for these purchases  was provided by a friend who is a 
local trader in N. The cash was generated from sales of goods  three cars Mr E 
shipped to N - and so no evidence  of this exists. But he sent evidence to AWP that 
three cars had been shipped to N and says he was paid for this in cash when he 
arrived, in local currency, worth approximately  £3,500. It was this money that he used 
to pay for the items bought in N on 26 October, his mothers  funeral and medical 
treatment.
Ref: DRN95238114Cash stolen - He explained  that he arrived in N with about £3,000 cash on him. This 
was from his ex-partner as hed given it to her to keep for him over several  months. 
And it was this cash that was stolen from him on 15 November.
He had access to a substantial amount of money that dwarfs the £600 he claims as 
stolen cash. And, in support of this, he sent us documents to show numerous  
transfers and cash  withdrawals by his ex-partner and a third party as well as a 
settlement agreement for a court claim which had a payment to Mr E.
Clothes and shoes   hes not able to give a full breakdown  of the clothes  and shoes 
in his claim form as he bought many of the items  several years ago but his estimate 
is that the value  is £3,000.
He wasnt able to blacklist  his iPhone  but tried to do so.
Ns police arent  efficient in accepting assault  complaints and issuing incident reports. 
Theres a huge difference  between the way things work in developed countries like 
the UK and in developing countries like N. N is a predominantly  cash  based economy 
and this is how most transactions are conducted.  Theres  corruption in N. And he 
sent us articles about inappropriate  conduct by the army and other security 
operatives. And AWPs persistent requests  for irrelevant and unavailable information 
are a display of ignorance about this.
Its not a requirement  of the policy for him to prove how and where he obtained the 
money to pay for his medical treatment.
Our investigator thought AWP could fairly decline the claim for stolen items and cash on the 
basis that Mr E had failed  to report the incident  within 24 hours,  as required by the policy. He 
also explained that he didnt feel he should award  compensation to Mr E for the time it took 
to look into his claim or the queries  it raised.
Mr E disagrees  he says our service has an unreasonable and uninformed  expectation of 
what he shouldve done after the incident.  He also feels  our service has failed to recognise 
the impact of the assault on his existing mental  illnesses  including PTSD - and has sent us 
information from the NHS about some of the symptoms of his mental illnesses which  he says 
includes hypervigilance, withdrawal, isolation and avoiding situations  thatd  remind  him of the 
traumatic experience. So he feels these are exceptional circumstances that should  apply  to 
allow him to make his claim even  though  he failed  to report the matter  to the police within  24 
hours of the incident. 
Mr E also feels  he should be compensated for how hes been  treated by AWP. He says 
AWP delayed matters  before declining his claim and then, as a result of unreasonably 
declining his claim, AWP acted in bad faith by asking for evidence  of his medical expenses  
when it actually declined  his claim on basis that the policy hadnt started. So he feels AWP 
didnt need to request evidence from him as it always knew  it wouldnt uphold his claim on 
the basis that the policy hadnt started.
Mr E and our investigator communicated  about these issues but this didnt change  our 
investigators view on this matter. 
AWP responded to the investigator  to say that its prepared to meet  Mr Es curtailment 
claim and medical expenses claims. It seems to me this leaves the issue of Mr Es claim for 
the stolen items and cash as well as compensation which AWP didnt  offer to pay.
This matter was then passed to me for a decision.  I issued a provisional decision on 19 
August 2019 and an extract  of my provisional  findings is below.
Ref: DRN95238115I have to tell Mr E that I think the investigator  has reached a fair outcome here 
overall. 
I currently intend to uphold the parts of his complaint relating to curtailment and 
medical expenses  claims.  As AWP has said it is prepared to meet these claims, I 
havent gone into these points in any further  detail.
However, I dont currently intend  to uphold the part of his complaint about  the stolen 
items and cash.  And I wanted to explain this in some further detail. 
I have to decide whether AWP fairly  and reasonably  declined Mr Es claim for stolen 
items and cash,  and I think it did. Under  ICOBS 8.1, AWP must:  (1) handle claims 
promptly and fairly;  (2) provide reasonable guidance  to help a policyholder make a 
claim and appropriate  information on its progress; (3) not unreasonably reject  a claim 
(including by terminating  or avoiding a policy);  and (4) settle claims promptly once 
settlement terms are agreed.
Mr E failed to report the matter within 24 hours  of the incident, as required by the 
policy terms. And I dont think the reasons hes given for this are sufficiently 
consistent or adequate to allow me to reasonably or fairly say that his failure to 
comply with this term doesnt  matter.  So I think AWP is entitled to decline Mr Es 
claim as a result. However, even if I thought the reasons were  enough  to say that Mr 
E didnt  need  to comply with the term of the policy,  I still think  AWP is entitled  to 
decline the claim. Ill explain why.
Ive taken into account all the information Mr E and AWP has given us. I understand 
that N can be dangerous, that the system  in N is different to that in the UK and I dont 
think some  of the concerns AWP raised  are sufficient for it to have declined  the 
claim.
Notwithstanding this, I do think there are a number of key inconsistences  that AWP 
can reasonably  be concerned  about.  This includes:
1.inaccurate claim form - the claim form Mr E completed says that he reported  
the incident to the police the same day of the incident, 15 November, only a 
few hours after it occurred. The police report shows the matter was reported  
to it after a few days, 18 November.
2.inconsistent evidence  - the police report says an iPhone 5S was stolen but 
the receipt submitted was for an iPhone 6S. 
3.Mr Es explanation for the delay in reporting  it to the police  in time  this 
includes a detailed  explanation about  the three ways matters can be reported  
to the police and that he wasnt able to do any of these. Hes also said his 
automatic response was withdrawal  and isolation from people  and avoidance 
of matters thatd remind him of the traumatic event such  as reporting the 
incident to the police.  But he also says that, as there was an ongoing 
investigation, all he needed to do was call the investigating officer to tell him 
about the new incident and he did this but wasnt successful  in getting 
through. All three explanations cant be true.
4.the other people  assaulted  - the police  petition and affidavit from one of Mr 
Es companions  assaulted during  the incident  gives a detailed  description of 
the incident and the assault on himself. It says that over 30 hoodlums  
attacked members of the land committee - who were there  to assist Mr E  
Ref: DRN95238116with a shovel,  a stone, mould of rock and rod - and stole  the community  bus 
as well as cash that was going to be used by the land committee to pay 
workers on the site. It doesnt detail any assault on Mr E or mention the items 
or cash stolen from Mr E or the car from which he says the suitcase was 
stolen. The affidavit does  say that Mr E had pleaded for assistance from the 
community to go to his land as hed ran out of cash as a result of his mothers  
burial. In contrast, Mr E says he had a lot of cash on him that day as well as 
all his belongings including valuables and his police report mentions only 
himself. It doesnt describe in detail the incident or that there were any other 
people at the scene other  than about 50 hoodlums who assaulted  him with fist 
blows and bamboo  sticks. Instead, a significant  part of the police report  for Mr 
E is focused on the stolen items  and their value.
The policy says if a claim is in any way exaggerated AWP  can cancel the policy  and 
wont pay any part of a claim. Given the contents  of the police report and 
inconsistencies in this matter, I dont think its unreasonable the claim  is declined  by 
AWP under  the policy terms.
Further I think its important to say that I think AWP has valid concerns about the 
evidence supplied by Mr E to support this claim. When making  a claim on an 
insurance policy, its for the insured,  here Mr E, to demonstrate hes suffered a loss 
covered by the policy. The terms of Mr Es policy say that for all claims Mr E must 
provide:
 as much evidence as possible  to support  your claim
Ive looked at the claim forms  submitted  by Mr E in December 2017 and January 
2018. I note that Mr E had only given quite limited  details to AWP. I know  that Mr E 
complains about  AWP and the questions it asked him. But I dont think  it is 
unreasonable for AWP to ask for more information about the various claims he raised 
as well as seek evidence  of the incident and the items and cash  he was claiming for. 
Mr E has provided receipts  for some of the items and expenses he incurred. But a 
number of these  were copies rather than the originals. AWPs policy terms say 
original receipts must be provided. And, in the circumstances,  I dont think this was 
an unreasonable request. Mr E hadnt said he no longer had these, but I dont think 
its treated Mr E unfairly by asking for them. 
The receipts for some of the items were in cash and were from the same  seller on 
the same  day  26 October  when he arrived in N. This includes three designer 
watches, an iPhone 6S and a digital camera. Mr E was also claiming  for stolen cash. 
So I dont  think AWP has been  unreasonable in asking for further  evidence  to support 
this to be satisfied  Mr E has suffered a loss thats covered by the policy.
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  consider  that Mr E has been  able to provide 
adequate or accurate evidence of his loss. In relation  to this, his policy states:
We have the right to do the following
1.Cancel the policy if you tell us something  that is not true, which influences 
our decision  as to whether cover can be offered or not.
Ref: DRN952381172.Cancel the policy and make no payment  if you, or anyone acting for you, 
make a claim under this policy knowing it to be dishonest, intentionally 
exaggerated or fraudulent in any way, or if you give any false  declaration  
or deliberate mis-statement  when applying for this insurance  or 
supporting your claim. We may in these instances report  the matter to the 
police.
As I believe there to be reasonable doubts as to the cogency of what  evidence has 
been provided in support of Mr Es claim,  and as Mr E appears  to have provided 
inaccurate information on his claim form, I dont  believe that AWP is acting 
unreasonably in declining his claim for the stolen items and cash. Under his policy, it 
isnt required to pay any claim in such circumstances.  Further,  based on everything 
Ive seen, Im satisfied that AWP has complied with industry standards.  Im therefore  
not going to require it to do anything further  in relation to this part of Mr Es claim.
compensation
Although there was a lengthy  investigation of the claim, I think  this was reasonable in 
the circumstances. Mr E completed  a claim form on 14 December 2017 for the 
curtailment claim and one on 10 January  2018 for the stolen items and cash. 
Taking everything into account,  including the various  elements of Mr Es claim, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for AWP to investigate the matter, referring to Mr E and 
other parties  for information about the claim and it sent Mr E its final response letter 
in April 2018. I wouldnt always  expect  an insurer  to know the reason a claim or part 
of it will be declined when its still investigating the matter as a whole.
So I dont  feel that its appropriate for AWP to pay compensation  to Mr E for this.
provisional decision 
For the reasons  set out above, my provisional decision is that I:
uphold Mr Es complaint that his claims for curtailment and medical 
expenses have  been unfairly  declined  for the reasons stated by AWP P&C 
SA. 
dont uphold Mr Es complaint that his claim for stolen items  and cash  has 
been unfairly declined by AWP P&C SA. 
To put things right in relation to the two parts of Mr Es complaint that I intend to 
uphold, AWP P&C SA should  reconsider Mr Es claims under the terms and 
conditions of the policy in the usual way. If accepted, these claims will still be subject 
to:
1.ensuring the payment due to Mr E for curtailment reflects  the fact that he 
amended his flight rather than cancelled it. Therefore,  if successful in 
claiming, I think itd be fair for AWP P&C SA to pay to Mr E the difference in 
price between  his old and his new flights, plus any amendment  fees;
Ref: DRN952381182.AWP P&C SA deducting any applicable excess(es) ;
3.AWP P&C SA paying 8% simple  interest  on each claim made  from the date it 
was originally declined  to the date of settlement.
If AWP P&C SA considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  (HMRC) to 
take off income  tax from the interest,  it should tell Mr E how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr E a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HMRC, if appropriate.
Mr E hasnt responded to the provisional decision.  AWP responded to say it didnt agree that 
it should only be liable for interest up to the point it agreed with the investigator's view to 
meet some parts of Mr Es claim.  It says this because it was not AWPs fault that Mr E 
rejected the adjudicator's view.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also given careful  consideration to all 
of the submissions made before  arriving  at my decision, including  those in response  to the 
provisional decision.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision 
and for the same  reasons.  Ill now address  the specific point AWP has raised in response to 
the provisional decision in relation to interest.
Generally speaking, we require  businesses  to pay 8% simple  interest  up until the date a 
settlement is paid. This is regardless of whether the consumer accepts our investigators  
view. This is to compensate the consumer for being  deprived of the money they shouldve  
had. And, as a general principle, a consumer  shouldnt be discouraged from seeking our 
opinion on their complaint  or asking for an ombudsmans decision.
I note that AWP is required to reconsider Mr Es claims under the terms and conditions of the 
policy in the usual way. It hasnt been directed to make a settlement of a particular amount. 
If, having done so, either or both of Mr Es claims are successful, then Mr E will have been  
without this money for a time longer  than the date AWP  accepted the investigators view and 
should be compensated for this.
Whilst I understand what AWP has said, in the facts of this particular case  I havent seen any 
compelling reason  to make me depart  from what wed usually require a business  to do in 
relation to the interest it needs to pay on a settlement when its required to reconsider a 
claim.
Ref: DRN95238119my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I:
uphold Mr Es complaint that his claims for curtailment and medical expenses have 
been unfairly declined for the reasons stated by AWP  P&C SA. 
dont uphold Mr Es complaint that his claim for stolen items  and cash  has been  
unfairly declined  by AWP P&C SA. 
To put things right in relation to the two parts of Mr Es complaint that I have  upheld,  AWP 
P&C SA should reconsider Mr Es claims under the terms  and conditions of the policy in the 
usual way. If accepted,  these  claims will still be subject to:
1.ensuring the payment due to Mr E for curtailment reflects  the fact that he amended 
his flight rather than cancelled it. Therefore,  if successful  in claiming, I think  itd be 
fair for AWP P&C SA to pay to Mr E the difference in price between his old and his 
new flights, plus any amendment fees;
2.AWP P&C SA deducting any applicable excess(es) ; and
3.AWP P&C SA paying 8% simple  interest  on each claim made  from the date it was 
originally declined  to the date of settlement.
If AWP P&C SA considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  (HMRC) to take off 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr E how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr E a certificate  showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC, if 
appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9523811