K821x#15complaint
Miss K is unhappy with the level of customer service  provided by Lloyds Bank PLC which led 
to her personal loan being defaulted. Miss K wants Lloyds to remove the default from her 
credit file. 
background
Miss K has a loan with Lloyds which she took out in August 2016. But by the following year 
she was having  trouble  keeping up with the repayments. By the end of 2017 Miss K was in 
regular contact with Lloyds about  her loan repayments. 
In January 2018, the bank  sent a default  notice to Miss K due to the arrears on her loan 
account. She spoke  to Lloyds the following month and arranged  a three month payment plan 
on her loan. The bank  also agreed to freeze the interest. 
Miss K spoke to Lloyds  again towards the end of April 2018  as the arrangement  on her loan 
was nearing its end. The bank agreed to move the payment due on 2 May 2018 to the end of 
that month.  It also agreed a further payment  plan with payments becoming due on the 
28 June and 28 July. The payments were  to be made by direct debit. 
Miss K called Lloyds  again on 27 July 2018  to discuss her payment arrangement.  She told 
the bank she couldnt make  the next payment  due on her payment plan and shed cancelled 
the direct  debit. Lloyds  discussed various things  with Miss K including setting  up a new 
payment plan and the possibility of refinancing her loan. The bank agreed to contact her to 
discuss the available options if the refinance team couldnt help her.
Miss K called Lloyds  again on 3 August 2018  chasing the outcome of her previous 
discussions. But it seems  no one was available to talk to her. There wasnt  any further  
contact between Miss K and Lloyds until it wrote to her on 20 September 2018. This was a 
formal demand for repayment of the loan due to the arrears, which now stood at around 
£500. It gave her 14 days to sort things out and said that a default may be registered against  
her. 
When Miss K got this letter she told us that she checked her loan account  on-line. She said 
she could see from this that a payment was due on 28 September so she assumed a new 
payment plan had been  put in place. 
But nothing had been put in place. No payment was made at the end of September.  So 
Lloyds defaulted  her account  and passed  it to an external  debt collector. Miss K complained 
about this. Lloyds upheld her complaint in part. The bank accepted  Miss K had received poor 
customer service  and offered her £30 for this. But it said the default  on her loan had been 
correctly applied. 
Mrs K wasnt  happy with this. She referred  her complaint to us. One of our adjudicators 
looked into this for her. He agreed  that Lloyds had failed to call Miss K back  as agreed. But 
he thought the bank  should pay her £150 its poor service. The adjudicator  also thought  the 
account had been correctly defaulted.  
Miss K didnt agree with the adjudicator. She said Lloyds has admitted some  form of fault. 
But she maintains  she didnt think she needed  to contact  Lloyds.  Miss K wants  the default 
removed. 
Ref: DRN97653412Initially Lloyds didnt  agree that it should  pay Miss K more than £30. But after further 
discussions, it agreed to pay £150  as recommended by our adjudicator.
As Miss K didnt agree  with our adjudicators view. her complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree that Lloyds 
should pay Miss K £150. But I dont think it needs to remove the default. Ill explain why. 
But first, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly  and in my own words.  No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think is the key issue  here:  
was it fair and reasonable for Lloyds to default Miss Ks loan account? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  point or argument  to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Its not disputed  that Lloyds  failed  to call Miss K back  after speaking  to her at the end of July 
/beginning of August 2018. The bank has accepted it should  have done this and has agreed 
to pay Miss K £150  for failing to do so. 
But Ive also thought about  Miss Ks actions  during  this period. She made a payment  on  her 
loan account in early  July. This was after the direct debit in June had been  rejected. When  
Miss K spoke to Lloyds  on 27 July, I can see it was confirmed that the direct  debit  had now 
been cancelled.  
I can also see that following this call, Miss K was expecting Lloyds to contact her to discuss 
payment arrangements  going forward. She called the bank on 3 August but wasnt able to 
speak to the relevant person. 
It seems  nothing  then happened until Miss K received a final demand  from Lloyds dated  20 
September 2018. The arrears figure  quoted on this demand was more  than three  monthly 
payments. The demand said that a default  could be registered with the credit reference 
agencies. But instead of contacting Lloyds to talk about this, Miss K checked  her account 
details on-line. 
Theres been a lot of discussion between our adjudicator, Miss K and Lloyds about what  
information she would have seen when she checked her account  on-line. Miss K is adamant 
that it showed that a payment was due for £180 on 28 September  2018.  She says she took 
this to mean a new payment plan had been  agreed  and that she didnt need to do anything 
else. 
Lloyds on the other  hand, says that her account details would just have shown what  the 
monthly instalment  was on her loan and when  the next payment was due. It says there was 
no indication  that a new payment plan had been  agreed. 
But whatever Miss K says she saw when she checked her account on-line, Im not satisfied it 
was fair and reasonable for her to rely on this. The final demand  letter  quoted an arrears  
Ref: DRN97653413balance of around £500. A payment of £180 a few days later wasnt  going  to clear the 
arrears. 
I think Miss K should have  been aware  that the last payment shed  made was at the start of 
July  some  two and a half months earlier. I dont think it was realistic  for her to expect a 
payment of £180  to resolve the situation. Also, as everyone knew,  the direct debit had been  
cancelled on 27 July. Its not clear to me how Miss K thought this payment was going  to be 
collected. 
If Miss K , after checking her account  on-line, was expecting a payment to be made  on 
28 September  by whatever means   I think its reasonable for her to also have checked 
that this payment had actually been made.  If Miss K had done this, she would have seen 
that no payment  had been made. This would have given her time to call Lloyds to try and 
resolve the situation. 
But Miss K didnt do this. The account was then defaulted and passed to external debt 
collectors. I think it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to do this given the level of the arrears  
and the lack of contact  from Miss K following  its final demand for payment. 
I accept, as does Lloyds, that it didnt call Miss K back  after their discussions at the end of 
July 2018. But she should have also been  aware  that she wasnt making the repayments on 
her loan. So Im not satisfied that the banks failure  to call Miss K back  was the reason her 
account defaulted. 
I can also see that Lloyds  have refunded interest  to this loan that was wrongly charged when 
there was an interest freeze on the account.  But Im satisfied this didnt affect the amount  of 
the payments  that Miss K was due to pay. 
In summary,  for the reasons outlined above, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for 
Lloyds to default Miss Ks account. Also, in the circumstances  of this complaint, I think £150 
is a fair and reasonable amount for Lloyds to pay her for the poor customer service. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should  pay £150 to Miss K. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March  2020.  
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9765341