K821x#15complaint
Mrs T has complained about advice  she received  from Personal  Investment Planning  Ltd 
(PIP) to transfer benefits she held in a former employers  occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) into a personal pension plan.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision which  is attached 
below and forms part of this final decision. I explained why Id decided  that this service could 
consider this complaint and why I felt that it should be upheld.
Mrs T accepted the provisional decision.  
PIPs solicitors acknowledged receipt  of the provisional decision but did not make any 
substantive response.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that there have  been no substantive responses to my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change  my provisional conclusions. I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mrs T, as far as possible,  
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider she would 
have remained in the occupational scheme. PIP must  therefore  undertake  a redress  
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Ts acceptance of the decision.
PIP may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Ts 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ts pension  plan.  The payment should allow for the effect  of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
Ref: DRN94066542taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%. So, making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs T within 90 days  of the date PIP 
receives notification  of his/her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes PIP to 
pay Mrs T.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about Personal  Investment Planning Ltd. It must calculate and pay 
redress as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 January 2021.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN94066543Extract from provisional decision
complaint
Mrs T has complained about  advice she received  from Personal  Investment Planning  Ltd to transfer 
benefits she held in a former employers  occupational pension scheme (OPS)  into a personal pension  
plan.
background
jurisdiction
PIP disputes that this service has jurisdiction to consider this complaint. I previously issued a 
jurisdiction decision explaining why I considered that the complaint was one which  this service could 
consider. Essentially, I was satisfied that Mrs T had expressed  dissatisfaction  about the advice she 
had received within six years of the advice.
I relied on a statement made by PIP in its letter to this service in November 2018.  That letter  said that 
Mrs T had:
made it clear during our meeting on 23 January 2015 that she had cause for concern regarding  
whether she had done  the correct thing by transferring her pension" 
I explained that there  was no expectation that a consumer will utter the exact words that are set out 
set out in the glossary  definition when expressing dissatisfaction and that it was implicit from the 
words attributed to Mrs T that she may not have done the correct  thing  that she was worried she 
may be worse off. or that she may suffer a loss because of the transfer. Its not clear  to me what else 
those words could reasonably have been understood to mean.
That expression of dissatisfaction stopped the clock and there should have been a response to the 
complaint which included referral rights to this service but there wasnt.
PIPs representative responded and said that a strained  emphasis has been placed on a non-
existent complaint. Mrs T didnt communicate dissatisfaction  or that she has suffered a loss.
Ive reconsidered but I dont agree. I remain  satisfied that there was an expression  of dissatisfaction 
made in January 2015. In support of this conclusion I refer further to the submissions  made by PIP 
when it first raised the time-bar issue. And I quote again from its letter of 30 November  2018 which  
was addressed to this service, it said:
Mrs T made it clear  during our meeting on 23 January  2015 that she had cause for concern 
regarding whether  she had done the correct thing  in transferring  her pension.  Accordingly,  by that 
date at the very latest (when Mrs Ts concerns  were clearly raised with me) Mrs T clearly was 
considered to have understood that there was a problem  at that time.
The context of this statement is important. It was made to support PIPs  argument that this complaint 
was made too late. It was arguing, in effect,  that Mrs T had cause for concern in 2015  and that PIP 
knew she had because she told them so. This is PIPs own statement about  what  was said.  It says 
Mrs T had concerns and that these were expressed clearly. It goes on to say that she must have 
understood there was a problem.  Im satisfied that PIPs own evidence is that there was an 
expression of dissatisfaction made to it in January 2015.  As that was made within six years  of the 
advice, it was made in time and we can consider  this complaint.
Merits 
 
Ref: DRN94066544Mrs T was recommended to contact  PIP to consider her options for her OPS pension  which was a 
defined benefit scheme. She wanted to transfer this OPS  into another OPS  she held with her current  
employer. However, she was told that this was not possible and so she asked PIP for advice on how 
best to utilise it.
PIP prepared a fact find and analysis report was completed  which noted the following about Mrs T;
Mrs T was in her early  forties, she was with dependent children.
She was in good health.
Along with her residential property, she owned two buy-to-let properties with interest only 
mortgages.
Her OPS had a transfer value of £28,983.65 and could provide  an annual income of 
£1,547.64, with the option to take tax free cash with a reduced income.
In the event of Mrs Ts death, her husband  would receive 50% of the pension. 
The pension  had a retirement date when she reached 62.
Mrs T was employed and had 12 years of service at the time of advice. There was no 
indication her employment would change. Mrs Ts OPS from her current  employment  would  
be the main source  of her retirement funds.
She was the higher  earner in her household  and her husband didnt have a pension,  so her 
income in retirement would be strongly relied on.
Mrs Ts attitude to risk was balanced. She has explained  that she understands that some risk 
is necessary to see growth but isnt reckless.
A priority was to secure her retirement and regular  income is very important.
The fact-find listed three main considerations for Mrs T, securing  her retirement, ensuring her 
dependants were financially  secure in the event of her early  death, and repaying outstanding  debts at 
retirement.
A TVAS report was completed which showed that the personal pension would have to
achieve a growth rate of 8.5 per cent to replace the benefits the OPS  would provide. The report also 
showed that the personal  pension recommended to Mrs T would  be subject to charges  totalling  1.67 
per cent per annum.
PIP sent a suitability report to Mrs T which said, amongst other  things:
To match the income the OPS  provided, Mrs T would have to take a high-risk approach when 
investing her personal  pension. PIP explained  that Mrs Ts income was therefore likely  to be 
reduced.
The personal pension recommended  would offer greater flexibility to repay outstanding debts  
such as her buy to let mortgages.
The personal pension would  also allow  her to make provisions for her dependants in the case 
of her early death.
Mrs T agreed  with the recommendation and the transfer went ahead.
Mrs Ts complaint was referred to this service  where  it was considered  by an investigator. She 
decided that it should be upheld. The investigator said:
Mrs T wanted to ensure  that this OPS was fully utilised and relied on PIP to provide her with 
the best options.
Mrs T was the higher household  earner  and her husband didnt have any pensions to support 
their retirement, so her income  would be very important. She had also previously  tried to 
transfer this OPS  to her current OPS  scheme (which is also a defined benefit  scheme), which 
was an indication that she valued  the secured benefits.
The regulator had set out that in these circumstances an adviser  should  assume the transfer 
was not suitable. A transfer should only be recommended when it could be clearly 
demonstrated that the transfer was in the clients best interests.
Ref: DRN94066545The investment return (critical yield) required  to match the OPS  benefits at retirement was 8.5 
per cent per year. This compared with the relevant discount rate of 6.6 per cent per year.
This meant that it would  have  been very unlikely  for Mrs T to match the income she would 
receive from her OPS.  Mrs T would have had to be more adventurous in her investments, 
which would pose very high risk. This doesnt match her balanced attitude to risk.
The OPS and its spouse benefit were also subject to increases in deferment  and payment, 
which makes the OPS  more valuable and would  make  the personal  pensions growth  even 
more unlikely to exceed  its income.
Mrs T didnt have the capacity for loss in her pension income. She was the higher  earner and 
her husband  had no pension provisions. They had a small amount of savings but no other 
investments. 
Mrs T also said now that the revenue from her buy to let properties was to be used to pay off 
her residential  mortgage, so this cannot  be considered as a provision  for retirement. 
The charges for the personal pension were  higher than standard fees, which would erode  the 
pensions growth, making it even less likely to match the income of the OPS. 
The investigator concluded  that PIP should have advised against this transfer, as it was clear her 
income would be reduced. She was in good health and the need for flexibility shouldnt have been 
prioritised over retaining a secure income.
The investigator set out how redress should be calculated. 
Mrs T accepted  the view,  but PIP didnt. Its solicitors  responded  and said,  in summary:
The transfer met Mrs Ts objectives.  This pension was a small fraction of her pension 
provision. She clearly preferred to utilise the OPS  to deal with an issue that did concern  her, 
namely the outstanding mortgages on the two buy-to-let  properties.
She also wanted the funds to go to her dependants in the event  of her early death and not 
simply to have a 50 per cent spouse's pension payable to her husband.
The view ignored two of the three stated  main  objectives,  repaying borrowing and providing 
for her dependants, and focussed solely  on the third (providing for a secure  retirement).  
The very modest pension  payable from the OPS should not be characterised as crucial to Mr 
and Mrs T as they had over 20 years to go to retirement and had the benefit  of two buy to let 
properties. Although the income from these was being used to repay  the main  mortgage,  the 
expectation would be that the mortgage on that residence would be paid off at the point of 
retirement.
Even if no capital were  repaid on the buy-to-let properties the mortgages were  such  that a 
significant capital sum could be generated towards pension provision.
Mrs T's main pension  would  generate  multiples  of the modest sum from this OPS  and they 
would have  state pensions.
These aims and objectives for the small secondary pension provision did justify departing 
from a starting point of remaining in the scheme, because the transfer would  be in Mrs T's 
best interests, as per COBS 19.1.6.
Mrs T had persisted  and sought further advice  after PIP said the OPS  was probably best left 
where it was.
The investigator didnt change  her view. As no agreement was reached the case has been referred to 
me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator and I currently  intend to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN94066546PIPs representatives say that the view ignored two of the three stated main objectives, repaying 
borrowing and providing for Mrs Ts dependants. It says these objectives  were  met but the view 
focussed solely on the third objective, providing  for a secure retirement. Ive noted all that PIPs 
representatives have said, but I dont agree. Im not satisfied that these two objectives  were  met and 
even if they were, I dont think this means that the advice  Mrs T was given was suitable or in her best 
interests.
With regard to the death  provision, I can agree that the personal pension  did provide Mrs T with an 
asset in the event  of her death when  the OPS  she left would provide only a spouse pension.  So, in a 
sense an objective was achieved, but the primary  purpose of a pension  is to provide income in 
retirement, not a death lump sum. And there is no evidence of any discussion  between the adviser 
and Mrs T to demonstrate that there was any real consideration of whether this objective was a 
genuine objective. By that I mean there doesnt seem to have been any assessment of whether Mrs T 
had an actual  need to increase her potential estate. Also, the argument has been made for PIP that 
the buy-to-let  properties would provide  capital for retirement,  and if that is right, these  properties 
would also probably be valuable assets in the event of Mrs Ts death.  
But even if there was a need to increase  Mrs Ts estate, there  is no evidence of any consideration of 
whether this objective could have been  achieved  by other means and without giving up the 
guaranteed pension  benefits. For example, could  life assurance  have been secured cheaply and 
easily instead  of giving up the valuable  pension benefits? There  is no evidence that this fairly  simple 
and straightforward option was considered.
With regard to the mortgage  repayment,  I agree  that there are circumstances where the personal 
pension may provide greater tax-free cash  than the OPS. But it seems to me that this came with a 
significant cost. Mrs T had to give up the higher guaranteed annual  pension from the OPS and even 
then, higher TFC from the personal pension  was not certain  as it would depend on investment 
performance. The TVAS included a projection of TFC from the personal pension  of £23,972 with an 
assumed growth rate of 7 per cent at age 62. But the illustration for the actual personal  pension 
product seems to have been less favourable. It suggested a much lower amount of TFC,  £13,210 
(although this was at 60, not 62) with the same assumed growth rate (7 per cent).  I dont think this 
differential can be entirely explained by the extra two years of growth  and I think it must reflect  the 
impact of charges on the actual personal  pension  product. 
I think  the charges  for the personal pension  were  actually  higher than the investigator suggested.  It 
seems to me that the charges were 1.85 per cent to the pension provider  and an additional  1.67 per 
cent in fund charges, so, a total of 3.52 per cent.  This means that to achieve net growth  of 7 per cent,  
the actual growth had to be over 10.5 per cent per year. That would require a high-risk approach, and 
theres no evidence that was what Mrs T wanted. Her attitude to risk was recorded as balanced. 
The suitability report said that the OPS would provide  TFC at 62 of £8.822 along  with a projected 
pension of £3,863. So, at first sight the TFC from the personal pension  is more attractive, but only by 
around £4,400 (£13,210  - £8,822). And the TFC from the personal pension at this level appears to 
have been dependent  on investment growth of over ten per cent per annum, not something that would 
be considered  likely  alongside a balanced approach. 
Mrs T would also be giving  up a substantial proportion  of the annual pension, £3,863 from the OPS 
compared with £1,422 from the personal pension. So, any gain in TFC could have been made  up in 
just over two years by the higher annual  pension from the OPS.
I think  that if the true differential between the TFC from the OPS and the TFC from the personal  
pension had been explained to Mrs T, she wasnt likely to have considered the potentially  higher TFC 
being worth  sacrificing the additional annual  pension from the OPS. The comparison was for a one-off 
of additional TFC of around £4,400 against  additional  pension of £1,966 for life. 
I agree with the investigator that the transfer recommendation wasnt suitable or in Mrs Ts best 
interest. The personal pension arrangement was expensive and potentially  provided only marginally 
Ref: DRN94066547advantageous TFC.  This was offset by a substantial loss of annual pension.  There is no evidence that 
Mrs T needed to increase  her potential estate  and nor is there evidence  of any consideration of other 
means to achieve this.
I intend  to uphold  this complaint.
Putting things right. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mrs T, as far as possible, into the 
position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.  I consider she would  have remained in the 
occupational scheme. PIP must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance  as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October  2017.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most  recent 
financial assumptions  at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this 
should be undertaken  or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following  receipt  of notification 
of Mrs Ts acceptance  of the decision.
PIP may wish to contact  the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain Mrs Ts contribution 
history to the State Earnings  Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should  then 
be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which  will take into account the impact of 
leaving the occupational  scheme on Mrs Ts SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation  should if possible be paid into Mrs 
Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications,  it should be 
paid directly to Mrs T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction  to allow for income  tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. Typically,  25% of the loss could  have been  taken as tax-free cash 
and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely  income tax rate in retirement   presumed to 
be 20%. So, making a notional deduction  of 15% overall  from the loss adequately reflects  this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The compensation  
amount must  where possible  be paid to Mrs T within  90 days of the date PIP receives notification of 
his/her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must  be added  to the compensation amount 
at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess  of 90 days, that it takes PIP to pay Mrs T.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean  that the actual time taken to 
settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of time where 
the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 
90 day period in which  interest  wont apply. 
Ref: DRN9406654