K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the lack of information  he has received about  his reviewable whole of 
life policy  from Phoenix Life Limited.  
In particular, hes unhappy hes not received a proper response to his key questions:
can you confirm that this policy  assuming  that the underlying  growth rates you have 
used in your calculations are achieved  should:
1acquire sufficient value so that the Premium  Suspension clause (Option  6) could be 
activated, if required, from the fourth  policy anniversary. 
2perform so that the Loyalty Bonus (Special Provision 6) would become effective from 
the fifth policy  anniversary.  
background
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, she said:
The information that Mr M requires  about  the full factors the business takes into 
account and whether  or not the benefits will be available in future  the business is 
unable to provide,  because  of its commercially sensitive nature. So, the business 
isnt able to disclose all the information  requested. 
Although Mr M was provided  with a comparison of two policies, he should note that 
the businesses  will work in line with its internal procedures and will have  their own 
fund managers  and actuaries to complete calculations. 
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions  and has asked  for an ombudsmans 
decision. In summary,  he made the following key points:
Hes identified the flaw in the business defence: hes not asking the business  to 
confirm future performance. It would be completely stupid to expect it to confirm 
future performance.  
Since all unit linked whole of life providers have  to adopt growth projections in order 
to calculate future premiums, its beyond him that the business doesnt fully 
understand his two questions. 
The business is deliberately avoiding answering his questions  and being misleading.
Theres zero chance of meeting the specified  benefits. 
In 2014, the business  chief actuary  admitted to him that the business had been 
levying a 6% Bid/Offer spread  to his policies instead of the contractual  figure of 5%, 
as supported by the press cuttings.   
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN94341052Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. On 
the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr M says I cant  say that the 
business has done wrong in this instance.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling  about this matter.  
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by him and the business, and reach what I think  is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Given the way that reviewable whole of life polices operate  I dont think theres any reason 
to repeat its workings  in any detail  its not possible for the business to confirm  expected  
future performance. I note Mr M says this isnt what he was asking, and accepts that the 
business cant do this. 
I have to consider  if the business  is unable  to confirm future performance and isnt being 
asked to do so why cant it answer  Mr Ms questions? In short, it seems to me that it may not 
be able to do so to Mr Ms satisfaction  given the restrictions of commercial  sensitivity.  
So, is the information requested by Mr M commercially sensitive?  The business suggests  
that it is. On the face of the evidence Im persuaded that its more likely (than not) to be 
commercially sensitive   given the nature of the actuarial calculations and considerations. 
Im certainly unable to safely say that it isnt commercially sensitive. 
If thats the case, is the business wrong to refuse to handover / provide information that is 
likely to be commercially  sensitive, even  if it might satisfy Mr Ms questions? On balance  I 
dont think that it is. In the circumstances, I cant safely say that it has done anything wrong 
by not providing  all of the information requested by Mr M, because  of the commercial 
sensitivity. 
Whilst the issue isnt about confirming future performance, I think that in order  to answer 
Mr Ms questions  the business would still have  to guarantee a level of future performance, 
which it simply cant do. 
Otherwise the short answer  to Mr Ms two part question as alluded  to in the correspondence 
dated March 2018  based on the assumptions about the underlying growth  rates  is 
probably that it isnt possible  the suspension would be activated  but its possible therell be  
loyalty bonus, but not until after five years. I dont think  the business  is being disingenuous 
when it says the answer to Mr Ms question depends  on investment performance.  
Im conscious that Mr M feels the business has provided answers  to entirely  different 
questions, but I think its endeavoured  to provide  a reasonable answer.  And despite what 
Mr M says, I dont  think the answer  to his question is as simple as he might  think.  There  may 
Ref: DRN94341053be any number of variables that the business would have to guarantee before it can provide 
a definitive answer.  This is not to say Im being dismissive of Mr Ms points. 
Im satisfied that the business has endeavoured to provide all the information that it can, 
without disclosing commercially  sensitive  material. If the information  wasnt  sensitive, or 
unlikely to be, then I think  the business  would be unjustified in refusing to provide it in 
response to Mr Ms response. But as Ive said I dont  think that situation  applies here.   
I appreciate Mr M feels the business  is deliberately trying to avoid his question  and being  
misleading because  there  was a zero chance  of meeting the specified benefits. But Im 
unable to say this is the case. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to 
say that it the business was deliberately trying to avoid or mislead Mr M. 
I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion  as the adjudicator.  
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what he wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require  the business to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr M 
what he wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9434105