K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained about esure Insurance Limiteds handling of his car insurance policy.
background
Mr Cs car was insured  with esure.  In July 2018,  he had an accident  and his car was 
damaged. His car was stationary  in the outer lane of a two lane road at traffic lights. A coach 
in the inside lane turned left causing  its rear right hand side to swing out and hit Mr Cs car. 
The accident  was recorded on Mr Cs dash cam.
Mr C said the driver  of the coach admitted being  at fault. Mr C said the coachs insurer also 
twice accepted liability over the phone before changing their position and saying Mr C was to 
blame. In August 2018, the other  insurer contacted esure and claimed  against  Mr Cs policy.
esure paid the other drivers claim and said Mr C was to blame for the accident because he 
failed to give the coach enough space as is required by Rule 221 of the Highway Code. Mr C 
complained about esures liability decision as well as various aspects of their service.  Esure  
said their decision that Mr C was to blame  for the accident was correct.  But they said 
because of some delays they would pay him £200  compensation.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators felt Mr C and the coach 
driver were equally to blame  for the accident. But later one of our investigators looked  at the 
matter again.  She felt that esure had dealt with Mr C fairly and their decision to hold him at 
fault for the accident was reasonable.  As Mr C didnt agree with our investigator,  the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 17 April 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold 
this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
liability decision
Under the policy, esure have the discretion to settle  claims  as they feel appropriate 
without the need to get Mr Cs agreement.  But I expect them  to exercise  that 
discretion in a fair and reasonable way. Especially  given a decision to accept liability 
has serious consequences for Mr C for years to come.
esure said had the dispute over liability gone  to court, Mr C would have been found 
at fault for the accident. Thats because  he didnt allow the coach extra  space 
knowing it was going to turn left, which is what he was required to do in line with the 
Highway Code. esure later asked  their solicitor to view the dash cam footage  and to 
provide their opinion, which they did. The solicitor said:
As the traffic  begins to move [Mr C] moves up alongside the bus. As the bus 
makes its manoeuvre the rear end swings  out and collides with [Mr Cs] 
vehicle. The highway code clearly  states  at Rule 221: Large vehicles. These 
may need extra road space to turn or to deal with a hazard that you are not 
able to see. If you are following a large vehicle, such as a bus or articulated 
Ref: DRN96645202lorry, be aware that the driver may not be able to see you in the mirrors.  Be 
prepared to stop and wait if it needs room or time to turn.
[Mr C] can clearly see that the bus is indicating to turn left and should have 
been aware that it may need extra space to turn. [Mr C] should have been  
prepared to stop and wait to allow it room to turn. [My emphasis]
As such we would not have litigated the claim as [Mr C] has put [himself] in a 
hazardous position and was ultimately the author of [his] own misfortune. A 
Judge would  be very unlikely  to attribute negligence to the bus driver as they 
are simply carrying out a left hand  turn. The onus is on other road users  to 
allow large vehicles  time and space to do so.
The road on which the coach and Mr C were driving  had two lanes. Its correct that 
the coach initially  had its left indicator on but I dont think at that stage Mr C could 
have known whether  the coach was going to park on the side of the road or turn left. 
Mr C was initially behind the bus but in the footage Ive been provided  he was in the 
outer lane.  But Mr C accepted that he was initially in the inner  lane behind  the bus. 
But he said he had to move over to the outer  lane as the inner lane had a sign 
indicating left turn only. Ive seen photos  of the road which corroborates this. So Mr C 
was complying with the road markings by moving  into the outer lane. But Mr C 
stopped at a red light at the junction  before the coach turned left. And its clear  from 
the photos Mr C provided that he left a large  gap between his car and the coach. And 
Mr Cs car was completely stationary before the coach started its turn.
I therefore think both esure and their solicitor based their views  on incorrect facts. Mr 
C was stationary in a separate  lane to the one the coach was in. I therefore think it 
was inaccurate for the solicitor to say he should have been prepared  to stop and 
wait because he had stopped. Rule 221 of the Highway Code makes specific  
mention of following a large vehicle and that the driver (of the large  vehicle) might 
not be able to see the vehicle behind. And the illustrative picture provided for that rule 
shows a lorry on a single lane road trying  to turn left while  a car is directly behind  it. 
But the circumstances in this case were different. Mr C wasnt  behind the coach on a 
single lane road. He was stationary and adjacent to it on a two lane road. And 
importantly Mr C was visible to the coach driver.
Mr C said the coach  driver misjudged the turn and that there was a white car that 
restricted the coachs  turn. The white  car Mr C mentioned is seen in the footage. It 
was travelling in the opposite  direction on the road the coach  was turning into. And 
its clear that the white car overshot the traffic lights by more  than two car lengths 
which meant it was obstructing a section of the road which the coach would have 
ordinarily used to give it sufficient space  to complete the turn. In fact a second car 
can also be seen in the footage which also overshot  the traffic lights  but as the coach  
was completing the turn that other  car can be seen reversing to get out of its way. 
And I think both those cars reduced  the space available  to the coach  to complete its 
turn, which I think caused the coach to make  a sharper turn than its driver had 
intended and which Mr C couldn't  have  anticipated, which  is why I think  its rear 
swung out into Mr Cs car. The footage shows the coachs rear left hand wheel 
partially mounts the curb which I think supports Mr Cs belief that the coach  driver  
misjudged the turn. I also note the account given by the independent witness. He 
said he spoke to the coach driver immediately after the accident.  He said the coach 
driver wasnt aware that his coach had struck Mr Cs car. As Ive mentioned  above,  
Mr Cs car was adjacent to the coach and from the footage I think  if the coach driver 
checked his wing mirror  he would  have seen Mr Cs car. And Mr C has made  the 
Ref: DRN96645203point that the coach  driver, being familiar with his vehicle, should have known how 
much the rear of his coach would have swung out when completing  the turn. So, had 
he looked to see Mr Cs car and realised  he couldn't make  the turn without hitting Mr 
C's car then he shouldnt  have turned. The Highway Code  requires  drivers  to check  
their mirrors frequently, look around where  necessary and to be aware of other road 
users.
Mr C provided  me with a copy  of the Driver & Vehicle Standards  Agency  National 
Standards for Driving  Buses and Coaches. That document details the standards  
expected of coach drivers. It explains  in detail what precautions coach drivers should 
take. They include: assessing the amount of space needed to complete a turn; the 
possible blind spots and how to check them; what clearances are necessary for the 
vehicle during different manoeuvres and activities; how to select a suitable position 
on the road; how to turn left and right safely and responsibly; positioning  the vehicle 
correctly; and being aware of and predicting  the likely actions of other road users.
Ive seen no convincing  evidence that esure, in reaching their decision, took into 
account the coach drivers actions, namely  that he: misjudged his turn; was careless;  
failed to adhere to the Highway Code; and didnt  comply  with the National Standards  
for Driving Buses and Coaches.  So, I don't think esure have considered all the 
information relevant  to reach a liability decision fairly. I therefore think esures 
decision to hold Mr C responsible for the accident  wasnt reasonable and I intend to 
uphold this part of the complaint.
I intend to require esure to amend the fault claim to non-fault on all internal and 
external databases,  including  the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE).  esure 
should also reinstate  Mr Cs no claims bonus (NCB) by awarding  him a NCB year, 
provided he had no other  open or fault claims during that policy  year. If Mr C 
renewed his policy with esure in the subsequent policy years, esure  should  
recalculate those premiums on the basis that Mr C had a non-fault claim and with his 
NCB reinstated. If after that recalculation a refund is due, esure should pay that 
together with simple  interest at 8% a year from the date Mr C paid his premium(s) 
until the refund is made. If Mr C didnt renew his policy with esure  and went  
elsewhere, esure should provide him with a letter  confirming the accident  has been 
amended to non-fault and his NCB  reinstated. Mr C can then show  that letter  to his 
new insurer(s)  and ask them to recalculate his premiums accordingly.
settling Mr Cs claim
Initially Mr C wanted to use his own garage  to have  his car repaired. But later he said 
he wanted esure to pay him the cars market value  and to take the car off his hands  
because he had lost out on selling it. esure said they wouldnt do that as the car was 
repairable. Under  the policy esure are entitled  to settle Mr Cs claim as they feel is 
appropriate. An insurer will usually only pay a cars market  value  if the car is a total 
loss or is uneconomical to repair. But in this case Mr Cs car is repairable  at a cost 
that is economical. So I wouldnt expect esure to pay its market value. I therefore 
think esures decision to not pay Mr C the cars  market value is reasonable.
Mr C obtained quotes of £2,146.07 and £2,207.32 from two garages for the repair  of 
his car. But esure found those quotes to be excessive. esure said they negotiated the 
price down to £1,411.44  with the garage that gave  the higher  quote. esure  offered  to 
pay that, after deducting the policy excess,  to Mr C to settle his claim. That figure  
Ref: DRN96645204doesnt include VAT. esure told Mr C that if he accepts the cash settlement and gets 
his car repaired by a VAT registered garage,  they will pay the VAT Mr C is charged 
provided he shows them a VAT receipt. I think thats  reasonable because  not all 
garages charge  VAT. So, esure want to avoid a situation where they pay Mr C the 
VAT amount where he isnt charged VAT. Mr C has referred to decisions made by 
other ombudsman on previous complaints  where  our service asked the insurer to pay 
the consumer  the VAT on the estimate  before the repair work was carried out. I have 
considered those decisions. But I should  say that previous decisions dont set 
precedent which later decisions must follow. Each  complaint is considered on its own 
merits and circumstances.  And having considered  all the circumstances of Mr Cs 
complaint, Im not intending  to ask esure  to pay the VAT amount on the £1,411.44 
until Mr C satisfies  them that he has had the repair work done  and paid VAT.
Mr C said esures  behaviour was unreasonable and they should have agreed to pay 
the original quoted amount. He said because of esures behaviour  the two garages  
were now refusing to do the work. But I think its reasonable for esure, like all 
insurers, to want to keep  costs down. So they are entitled to question  quotes and to 
negotiate the price  given  by a garage  if they think the quote is excessive. And that is 
something that is explained in Mr Cs policy. It says if Mr C wants to use his own 
repairer he must provide a detailed estimate and that esure  will only pay for 
reasonable and necessary repairs and we reserve  the right to say no to an estimate. 
Under the policy esure are obliged to cover  the costs of repair.  But that doesnt  mean  
they have to pay any cost without  questioning it.
Mr C has referred  to a 2013 Court  of Appeal decision  which  related to a third partys  
claim for repair costs. Mr C said even though he isnt a third party the case was still 
applicable to his circumstances. Mr C quoted the following  from a summary of that 
decision: The reasonable cost of repair was the cost the claimant could have 
obtained on the open market: it did not matter that his insurer might have been able 
to obtain a better rate through  its industry  connections. Mr C relies on this in saying 
esure should have  agreed to the original estimate he got from his own garage without 
negotiating the price  down. But I dont agree. The case Mr C has referred to also said 
the amount being claimed had to be the reasonable cost of repair. In other  words,  
the cost of repair claimed has to be reasonable and can be challenged if it isnt. In Mr 
Cs case, esure have  said the amount he has claimed, namely the amount detailed in 
the first estimate he obtained, was excessive and therefore not reasonable.
Another alternative available to Mr C, which esure offered, is to have  one of esures  
approved repairers  (AR) repair  his car. That has a number  of advantages: Mr C wont 
have to get an estimate; he will be provided with a courtesy car to keep him mobile 
while his car is being  repaired; and esure will guarantee the repair  work for five 
years. If Mr C uses his own repairer  esure, like most  insurers,  wont guarantee the 
repair work. But Mr C doesnt have to agree to one of esures ARs to repair the car if 
he doesnt want to. But that just leaves  the alternative which esure  have offered, 
namely paying Mr C a cash in lieu sum for his own repairer to do the work.
One other dispute  between Mr C and esure  is to do with what  Mr C described as 
emergency repairs to his car. He said that his front left wheel was scrapping against 
the damaged  wing which  he had to repair to be able to drive the car. He said he 
replaced the wing. Mr C later sent esure  an invoice dated 1 August 2018, for the 
amount of £247.20.  esure raised  a number of concerns with that. The first was that 
Mr C had this work  done without telling them. And esure referred to the policy  terms 
Ref: DRN96645205that said Well only be liable for the repair costs once we have agreed on the 
estimate. In other words,  Mr C should have first got esures authorisation before 
replacing the cars wing. Mr C said he didnt  tell esure about  the accident  or seek  
authorisation because the coach driver and his insurer admitted liability  and agreed  
to pay for the repair of his car. And given Mr C has never had an accident or claim  in 
almost 40 years driving, he didnt really  know what to do. But his policy  says he 
should have reported the accident to esure. And if he had any doubts he could have 
contacted esure for advice.
Another issue esure had was that Mr C initially said he wasnt  claiming for the 
emergency repairs but he later did. And he initially told esure he didnt have the wing 
replaced by a garage and that he did the work  himself. But he later changed his 
position and said he did have it done at a garage. esure also said they had concerns 
because the invoice Mr C provided included an element of VAT but the invoice didnt 
have the garages  VAT registration  number.  Mr C said the VAT registration  number  
wasnt on the copy he sent esure because of the format it was sent in and that he 
has subsequently provided esure with a copy that does have the garages VAT 
registration number.  esure said they spoke with the garage named on the invoice and 
they confirmed  that Mr C had brought them parts and they carried out work  on the 
car which I understand involved  fitting  the new wing and painting  it. I have  listened  to 
the calls and Mr C did say he had the wing changed  and he clearly said he didnt  
have the work done at a garage but I told you that Ive done that myself. Mr C later 
denied saying that but its clear from the call that he did say that. Its not clear to me 
why if he had the work done at a garage he said he had done  the work  himself.
Another issue esure had was the necessity of having the wing changed when it was. 
Mr C said it was necessary as the wheel was rubbing against the wing.  esures  
engineer having viewed  the photos said the damage  wouldnt have caused the wheel 
to rub against the wing so it wasnt necessary for Mr C to replace the wing at that 
stage.
But its clear from the photos that the wing would have had to have been replaced as 
part of the repairs  because it was damaged during the accident.  And both the 
estimates obtained by Mr C confirmed the wing needed replacing.  Mr C said the first 
estimate he obtained was the day after the accident in July 2018. But the second  
estimate is dated 9 November 2018.  The invoice Mr C provided dated 1 August  018 
was for the wing replacement. So its not clear to me why the estimate  dated 
9 November 2018 also itemised the wing replacement as being needed if it had 
already been replaced.
But in the interests  of resolving matters, I intend to require esure to do one of the 
following:
(1) Pay Mr C £1,411.44  (minus £500  for the policy excesses) as previously proposed. 
That is the repair cost esure have deemed reasonable to repair the accident related 
damage to Mr Cs car. And if Mr C has his car repaired and is charged VAT, on 
providing evidence  to esure and allowing esure  a reasonable  opportunity  to confirm 
that Mr C has paid the VAT, esure  should  reimburse  the VAT amount to Mr C. But 
the maximum VAT esure must  pay will not exceed the VAT chargeable on £1,411.44.  
What I mean by that is even if Mr C has the car repaired at a pre-VAT cost which  is 
over £1,411.44, esure only have to pay the VAT on £1,411.44. As the £1,411.44 
includes the cost of a new wing and ancillary  work, such as painting it, Im not 
Ref: DRN96645206intending to ask esure to pay Mr C the £247.20 he said it cost him to replace the 
wing. If I did, esure would  be paying  for the same  work twice.
(2) Have one of their own ARs repair the car. If that happens esure  should  pay Mr C 
the cost of the new wing. The cost of the new wing should be the revised amount 
included in the £1,411.44  estimate and not the £247.20  Mr C said he paid. Thats 
because Mr C didnt get esures authorisation before having  that work  done and its 
higher than what esure said was reasonable for the work.
the policy excess
Under the policy, Mr C must  pay a compulsory excess of £50 and a voluntary excess  
of £250 in the event he makes a claim. Thats a total of £300. There is also an 
additional excess of £200 in the event Mr C uses his own repairer.
Mr C said it was unfair to charge him an additional excess to use his own repairer. 
But I dont agree with him. That was a condition of the policy  and Mr C agreed to it. 
And if it wasnt  something he was happy  with he didnt have to take out the policy  and 
he could have looked for another policy with a different insurer that didnt have such  
a condition.
So, if Mr C uses  one of esures  ARs he will have to pay an excess  of £300.  If he uses  
his own repairer esure can deduct the total of £500 which is comprised of the claim 
excess of £300  and the additional excess of £200  for using his own repairer.
fraud suggestion
Mr C said esure insinuated that he committed fraud when they questioned his version 
of events surrounding the emergency repairs and the VAT registration  number not 
being on the invoice for those repairs.
I agree  that esure questioned Mr Cs version of events and it does seem to me that 
they had concerns about the accuracy  of what Mr C had told them. In October 2018, 
Mr C told esure that his garage had pulled out his cars wing (which had been pushed  
in during the accident)  to enable him to drive it. And in November 2018, Mr C said he 
had replaced the wing.  But it wasnt until December 2018, that Mr C provided  esure  
the receipt for the emergency repairs which was dated 1 August 2018. I think its 
understandable that esure would  question why Mr C, having replaced the wing in 
August 2018,  didnt  mention it in October  2018  when he told them  his garage  had 
pulled out the wing. In October Mr C knew his wing had been replaced  so esure 
found it strange  that he mentioned his garage had pulled out the wing but made no 
mention that it was replaced.
During the calls Ive listened  to, Mr C told esure  that he had replaced the wing 
himself and that it wasnt done  by a garage. But later Mr C said a garage  had 
replaced the wing and provided  an invoice. So, I can understand why that raised 
esures suspicions. esure later spoke with the garage who confirmed Mr C brought  
them parts which they fitted and painted. So, its not clear why Mr C said he had 
done the work himself.
Similarly, esure questioned why the invoice Mr C provided didnt have a VAT 
registration number  despite VAT being claimed.  Mr C later explained  that the number 
had somehow not been included on the copy he gave  to esure but he said he later 
Ref: DRN96645207provided a version  with the VAT number on it. But I think esure were reasonable in 
questioning the absence  of the VAT number.
I can understand that it must have been  unpleasant for Mr C to feel that he has been 
accused of fraud. But, for the reasons given  above, I think esure were  reasonable in 
questioning Mr Cs account. And I should say that esure havent accused Mr C of 
committing fraud otherwise I think they would have taken different action if they had. 
So, Im not intending to uphold this part of the complaint.
service and compensation
Mr C was unhappy with esures service.  He complained of unreasonable delays; poor 
communication; he had to keep chasing  esure; and that they failed to keep to 
telephone appointments.  I can see that Mr C had to provide the dash  cam footage  
several times because  there was a problem at esures end. esure  accepted their 
service could have  been  better which is why they paid Mr C £200  compensation.
But I agree  with Mr C that the amount paid by esure didnt go far enough  to address 
his distress and inconvenience. Given I intend  to uphold Mr Cs complaint about 
esures liability decision being unreasonable, I also intend to increase the 
compensation by £200 to a total of £400.  This whole matter has been a source of 
distress and inconvenience and Mr C has spent a lot of time and effort  dealing  with 
esure and our service. 
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. esure didnt provide any comments.   
Mr C said the following:
The two quotes  he got for the repair of his car only related to the bodywork  damage.  
Mechanical or hidden  damage wasnt taken into account at the time of those quotes. 
He is now concerned that the car might have mechanical problems resulting from the 
accident. He feels the steering rack is damaged  and he has been told it would cost 
over £2,000 to repair that.
His car is now worth less due to depreciation and the new Ultra Low Emissions  Zone 
(ULEZ) rules relating to diesel  cars.
It is uneconomical to repair his car so it should be deemed a total loss. The total cost 
of repairing the body work and any mechanical problems would be much  higher than 
the cars  market value.
The replacement wing fitted to his car during the temporary repair  was a temporary 
scrap wing.  That is why the two full estimates included a new wing.
He should  not have  to pay the standard £300  excess because  the accident  wasnt  his 
fault. esure should recover that from the coach drivers insurer. The additional £200 
excess for using his own repairer is unfair.
esures poor treatment was stemmed from racism towards him.
£400 compensation doesnt go far enough to address  the impact of the treatment  he 
has received. He has spent almost  15 days worth of time just writing letters and at 
the minimum wage that would equate  to £1,200.  The compensation should  be in four 
figures and should be in addition  to the time he spent dealing with this matter. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
Ref: DRN96645208same. But I would like to respond  to Mr Cs comments. Mr C has made  a number of detailed 
points most  of which re-emphasise his original position. So Im only responding to the points 
I feel are relevant to decide this complaint.
Mr C had the option of using one of esures  approved repairers. But he chose not to 
do that. He said he has done  his research  and feels esures AR wouldnt have done a 
good job. I cant see how Mr C can know that. As Ive mentioned in my provisional 
decision, the work done by esures  approved repairers is guaranteed. But it is Mr Cs 
choice if he doesn't  wish to use the AR. And under  the policy,  provided the terms and 
conditions are met, he is entitled  to use his own repairer. As is usual practice esure 
asked Mr C to obtain  a quote from his repairer. esure acted  on the estimates  
obtained and provided by Mr C. At that time the estimates didnt identify any 
mechanical problems  with the car arising from the accident. I would have expected 
the garages Mr C used to have  assessed the full extent of the damage to his car that 
was caused by the accident. And despite Mr C saying that the steering rack was 
damaged which  will cost over £2,000 to repair, I havent been  provided with any 
engineering evidence to support that. Im therefore not asking  esure to cover  
anything outside  of the initial repair work they deemed necessary.
I understand why Mr C feels his car is now worth less given the passage of time and 
the introduction  of the ULEZ system. But esure arent responsible for the changes  in 
how diesel cars are to be treated and any associated depreciation. There was an 
initial delay in the process because Mr C didnt  report the accident  to esure as he 
should have as required under his policy. He has explained  why he didnt report  the 
accident. He said the coach drivers insurer had agreed to deal with his claim but 
they later went back on that. That may be the case but esure  arent responsible for 
the actions of the other insurer. And while its correct that there has been  a passage  
of time from Mr C raising his complaint to my decision, I think esures offer to pay to 
have the car repaired was reasonable. And Ive not upheld that aspect of Mr Cs 
complaint. So, given they havent  done anything  wrong in that regard they cant be 
held responsible for any depreciation in the cars value.  The liability issue for the 
accident was a separate matter which could  have been looked  into after the car was 
repaired.
On the basis of the assessment esure made at the time of the claim and the 
reasonable cost of repair  of the car, esure decided  it was economical to repair  the 
car. And under the policy  esure  dont have  to pay for the total loss of the car where it 
can be repaired. Mr C may feel that now, almost  two years on from the accident, its 
no longer economical to repair the car due to its current  value. But that isnt how the 
process works. esure  agreed to pay an amount,  which I think  was reasonable, to 
repair the car soon  after the claim.  Had Mr C accepted that offer I think  his car would 
have been repaired  soon after that. But it was Mr Cs decision to not accept esures 
offer so I don't think esure is to blame  if Mr Cs car has depreciated since  then.
I said in my provisional decision that esure  dont have to pay for the replacement 
wing identified in the estimates Mr C obtained because  he had already got the wing 
replaced when  he carried out the temporary  repair. Mr C has now told us that the 
replacement wing was a temporary  scrap  one which was always going to need 
replacing with a new one. But that has never  been mentioned before and Ive seen 
no engineering  evidence to confirm that is the case. And Ive not been provided with 
any evidence to say the wing fitted  to the car isnt adequate and needs  replacing.
The policy says that if Mr C makes  a claim he has to pay an excess of £300. Even if 
the other driver  is at fault Mr C must pay that excess. The excess  isnt something 
Mr C is insured against so its not something  esure would have to cover under  the 
policy. And its not something esure  have to recover from the other insurer. That 
Ref: DRN96645209excess is what is known as an uninsured loss to Mr C and he can take steps to claim  
that from the coach  drivers insurer separately. And as Ive explained in my 
provisional decision, the policy said if Mr C used his own repairer  he would have to 
pay an additional £200 excess. Mr C agreed  to that when taking out the policy so its 
reasonable for esure  to ask Mr C to pay that.
Ive not come across  any evidence  whatsoever that esures  treatment of Mr C was in 
any way a result of racism towards  him.
Mr C feels  £400 compensation doesnt  go far enough. But that amount is in line with 
other awards our service has made  in complaints of similar seriousness so Im 
satisfied its reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require esure  Insurance  
Limited to:
To amend the fault claim  to non-fault on all internal and external databases, including 
the Claims and Underwriting Exchange  (CUE).
Reinstate Mr Cs NCB  by awarding  him a NCB year, provided he had no other open 
or fault claims during the policy  year in which the claim was made.
If Mr C said he renewed his policy  with esure  in the two subsequent policy years in 
2018 and 2019.  esure  should  recalculate  those premiums on the basis that Mr C had 
a non-fault claim  and with his NCB reinstated. If after that recalculation a premium  
refund is due, esure should pay that together with simple interest at 8% a year from 
the date(s) Mr C paid his premium(s) until the refund is made.1
Pay Mr C £200 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he experienced. 
This is in addition to the £200  they have already paid him. This should  be paid within 
28 days of us telling them  that Mr C has accepted my final decision. If they pay later 
than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
EITHER: (1) pay Mr C £1,411.44 (minus £500 for the policy  excesses). That is the 
repair cost esure  have deemed  reasonable to repair the accident  related damage to 
Mr Cs car. And if Mr C has his car repaired and is charged VAT,  on providing 
evidence that he has paid the VAT, esure should reimburse the VAT amount to Mr C. 
But the maximum VAT esure must  pay will not exceed the VAT chargeable  on 
£1,411.44; OR (2) if Mr C agrees, have  one of their own ARs repair the car. If that 
happens esure should pay Mr C the cost of the new wing.  The cost of the new wing 
should be the amount included in the £1,411.44  revised estimate.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If esure consider  that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr C how much they have taken off. They  should  also give him a certificate  
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN9664520