K820x#14complaint
Mrs B, represented by Mr B, complains that she was mis-sold a warranty when she entered 
into a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with FirstRand  Bank  Limited (trading as MotoNovo  
Finance). 
background
Mrs B entered into a HPA with MotoNovo in March  2016. She says that she was not 
provided with the terms and conditions at that time.  She says that the price  of the car was 
inflated by the dealer to include the cost of the warranty of £3,000, and that when she 
contacted MotoNovo it was not aware  of the warranty and believed the cost of the car 
equalled the amount of finance provided.
Mrs B says the warranty was not explained  by the dealer, and had the key terms been  set 
out she would not have  agreed to it. 
She also said she was not made aware that the warranty  would not be a separate  item on 
their finance  agreement and that in the event it didn't meet  her needs it couldn't  be 
cancelled.
MotoNovo says that after contacting the dealer it found Mrs B was provided with a 
breakdown of what the warranty  included and that the terms and conditions  were signed. So 
it did not accept  that Mrs B had been provided misleading information  or advice.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that although the warranty  may not 
have been explained in detail, information  was provided and it appeared that Mrs B was 
aware of some of the features. She therefore  did not think  that the warranty  had been 
misrepresented, and thought it more likely than not that Mrs B had signed the customer  
protect document which included some details of the warranty cover.
Our investigator noted that Mrs B had said the warranty did not cover diagnostics,  but said 
that the terms and conditions  set out that a claim could be made for one hour of diagnostic  
costs if there is a valid repair thereafter.  She noted  that the warranty  cost was added  to the 
finance agreement  and that it was non-refundable  - meaning if the agreement  was ended 
early this would  still need  to be paid.
Mrs B did not accept our investigator's view. Mr B said that although he accepted  not all of 
the warranty terms would be explained,  important ones should,  and that the limit of £40 per 
hour for labour was not fair as no quality garage  would have rates this low. He said that they 
were not provided  all of the paperwork at the time,  and that the warranty  was sold as a 
flagship product, with the only restriction being  that the total cost of repair was limited  to the 
purchase cost of the car. He also reiterated that Mrs B did not sign the customer  protect  
document.
Mr B said that it was not right that the dealer just added the warranty  cost to the agreement.  
He said that when he contacted the finance  company it believed the cost of the car was 
£22,995, when  it was actually £3,000 less, and that £3,000 was for the warranty  that the 
finance company  was not aware of. He accepted that the warranty itself stated it was non-
refundable, but said as this was mis-sold and not fit for purpose  it should  be cancelled.
Ref: DRN91439562my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
the warranty was not provided by MotoNovo, so I couldnt  say that it was responsible 
for the coverage,  limitations or operation of the warranty;
as the HPA included the cost of the warranty I thought it reasonable to accept  that 
the warranty formed part of the package Mrs B acquired - and noted that the 
Consumer Credit  Act 1974  sets out that in cases such as this the dealer is acting as 
an agent of the finance provider in relation to the 'antecedent  negotiations'. So I 
considered whether  I thought the warranty was misrepresented;
Mrs B was upset by the limitations of the warranty and that she was not made  aware 
of these at the point  of supply. I noted  that it would  be usual for a warranty  to include 
restrictions and thought it reasonable that Mrs B would have asked for further details 
before agreeing to take it;
the warranty did not provide the cover  Mrs B had expected but I did not have enough 
evidence to say that a misrepresentation had occurred;
in regard to customer protect document Mrs B said she did not sign, I did not 
consider this further as I had not upheld the complaint.
Mrs B did not accept my provisional decision.  She reiterated that the warranty  had not been 
explained at the point  of supply and that she had asked what they could expect in the event 
of a claim and was told that this was a flagship warranty, different from others,  and the only 
costs would be if the repairs cost more than the original cost of the car. 
She said that the first time she saw the terms and conditions  was when she raised this 
complaint. And she reiterated that the cost of the car had been inflated to include the 
warranty cost. She also said that Mr B was told when at the garage that the cost of 
diagnostics was not included and that had she been aware of the £40 per hour limitation on 
labour then she would not have gone  ahead  with the warranty.
Mrs B then said that the car recently  developed a fault and the warranty  company refused to 
cover any cost of diagnostics. She says she was told that this cost of diagnostics  is not 
covered in the features  of the warranty and so no claim could be made once the fault is 
known. She says the warranty company  says it relied on the terms issued to it from the 
dealer and that diagnostics werent included. She further says that she has been told the 
repair will not be authorised at the garage  they use despite it being a recognised  dealer and 
despite there being nothing in the paperwork to say she has to use a garage authorised by 
the warranty company.
She says all these issues support her complaint that the warranty was mis-sold.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
Ref: DRN91439563- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Under the regulations, MotoNovo is liable if the car provided was not of satisfactory  quality at 
the point of supply, or if the HPA was misrepresented. There is no suggestion in this 
complaint that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, so my decision is 
focussed on whether  there was a misrepresentation.
Mrs B first raised  her concern  about the warranty in September 2017, after she experienced 
an issue with the car. She tried to make a claim but it was not accepted. Mr B says that he 
was only then told that the labour cost was capped at £40 per hour,  which he said was 
unrealistic. Based on this, Mrs B says the warranty was mis-sold.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, MotoNovo did not provide the warranty and so I 
cannot hold it responsible  for its coverage, or limitations. However, I can consider  whether it 
was misrepresented to Mrs B by the dealer  as the cost formed a part of the total HPA 
amount.
I note Mrs Bs comment that Mr B was told about the diagnostics not being covered when he 
was at the garage when the first issue arose.  This issue has arisen  again  more recently. I 
have looked again at the terms and conditions provided as part of this investigation and 
these do include the information about  diagnostics that has previously been noted.  I have 
looked again at these  terms and note these refer to a platinum  warranty whereas Mrs Bs 
invoice notes a gold  warranty. Since  issuing  my provisional decision information  about the 
gold warranty has been provided and this sets out that the cost of diagnostics is not 
included.
I understand why Mrs B is upset that more issues have  arisen  while trying to claim under  the 
warranty (the diagnostics and the choice of garage).  However  I can only hold MotoNovo 
responsible if I find that the warranty was misrepresented. As I understand these issues 
were not discussed  at the point of supply I cannot say that incorrect information  was given at 
that time.  I also note that the brochure Mrs B was provided does not include any mention of 
diagnostics and that this is all Mrs B says she received at the time.  Given this, while I 
understand Mrs B may wish to raise her concerns with the warranty  provider, I do not find 
that I can say that the warranty was mispresented in regard to these issues.
In regard to the limit of £40 per hour for labour, I appreciate Mrs B noting where this is set 
out in the customer  protect document. I note her comment that this information  is not in the 
document she was given  to read through,  and that she did not sign the customer  protect 
document.
I can understand why Mrs B is upset that there  is a limit on the labour cost,  and her concerns 
about the £40 per hour not being realistic. However, this is a term of the warranty,  and the 
warranty was not provided by MotoNovo.  Also, this service  isnt a court, so I cannot hold it 
responsible for the fairness or reasonableness of this contractual  term. What I can consider 
is whether by not specifically drawing Mrs Bs attention  to this term the warranty  was mis-
sold to her.
On balance, I do not find that by not including this information in the initial  brochure meant 
that a misrepresentation occurred. I appreciate the comment that this should have been 
flagged up specifically, but precisely  because  the labour cost was not discussed at the time I 
Ref: DRN91439564cannot say Mrs B was given incorrect information  which then induced her to accept the 
warranty. 
I understand the comment that the only restriction Mr and Mrs B were told of related to 
repairs being carried out up to the total cost of the vehicle, but I do think  it reasonable to 
expect there  to be additional  limitations in a warranty and I think  it would have  been  
reasonable for Mrs B to have asked for further details at that time. Mrs B had acquired a high 
value warranty and clearly  wanted to protect herself  against any future costs and I think  it 
would have been reasonable to ask about the labour costs.
While I understand that the labour rate is limited, having looked at average  labour costs the 
£40 per hour does  make  a significant contribution to costs. 
The total repairs cost limit and the £40 per hour labour cost are set out in the customer 
protect document, of which a copy has been  provided to me with a signature for Mrs B and 
the date. Mrs B has been clear that she did not see or sign this document. So I have  looked  
at the signature  on it, compared to the others  signed as part of the transaction. However,  as 
I am not a handwriting expert I cannot say conclusively whether this is Mrs Bs signature or 
not.
On balance, I do not find that I have enough evidence to say that a misrepresentation of the 
warranty occurred, and because of this I do not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9143956