K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage in 1984.  Its unclear exactly  when they took out PPI  but 
Halifaxs records show that they first paid for PPI in 1994.The PPI covered Mrs F for 
accident, sickness and unemployment and protected Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage monthly 
repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with our 
adjudicator. Mr and Mrs Fs main complaint is that the cover  provided by the PPI policy was 
surplus to their requirements.  They dont feel they needed PPI as they had other means to 
rely on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Although the PPI was just in Mrs Fs name,  as Mr and Mrs F took out the mortgage  in joint 
names Ive looked  at both their circumstances when  the policy was taken out.  
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.  Heres  why I say this.
Mr and Mrs F took out their mortgage at a Halifax  branch.  Normally, Id expect the 
paperwork to show whats likely to have happened and how the PPI was likely to have  been  
presented. But its not surprising,  given  how long ago this sale happened,  that paperwork 
isnt still available. I wouldnt expect  Halifax  or Mr and Mrs F to have kept this. And it 
wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what Mr and Mrs F remember  about the sale after 
such a long time.  
I have to look at everything  and decide  what I think is most likely. 
Although Halifax  couldnt  provide any documents from when it sold PPI to Mr and Mrs F its 
records show that Mr and Mrs F first paid for PPI around 10 years or so after the mortgage 
was set up. This suggests to me that theyd probably taken out their mortgage  without  PPI in 
the first place. So I think they wouldve  understood  that PPI was an optional  extra.  
And Mr and Mrs F wouldve  had to fill in a separate PPI application if theyd decided  later 
that they wanted to take out PPI. So not knowing the exact date Halifax sold them  the policy  
doesnt make any difference to my overall  view. 
Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage was a major financial commitment, repayable  over a number of 
years. Their home  wouldve  been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
PPI provided dependable cover and better protection than they had otherwise. So, I can see 
why Mr and Mrs F mightve felt PPI was useful to have. 
Ref: DRN97721182On balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs F decided  they wanted  to protect their home by 
taking out the PPI offered  and it was added to their account when they chose to buy the 
policy.  
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs F. So Halifax  shouldve taken 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover was suitable for them.  And it had to give 
Mr and Mrs F important  information they needed  to know in a clear  way.
Halifax doesnt any longer have a policy document from when Mr and Mrs F took out PPI. 
But it has provided a policy  document which was in use soon afterwards  so I think its likely  
that in all main respects the policy that they took out to cover Mrs F wouldve had similar  
terms and conditions.
Mrs F was eligible  for this PPI. 
This policy covered  Mrs F for up to 12 months  per claim in the event she lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
And the policy wouldve also protected Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage repayments if Mrs F had an 
accident or was too sick or disabled to work. 
Mrs F couldve relied on getting 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months  half pay. But 
the policy wouldve  paid out on top of any work  benefits, and in full, for longer - up to 
12 months per disability claim. And Mrs F couldve made repeated  claims on the policy.  So 
PPI provided long term cover whilst Mr and Mrs F had to pay their mortgage.    
As the mortgage  was taken out when Mr and Mrs F were both in work, I think  its likely that if 
Mrs F couldnt work this wouldve had a significant impact on their joint finances. I think it 
mightve been difficult for them  to keep up with the mortgage payments if only Mr F was 
working  particularly as they mightve had to face additional costs if Mrs F was too sick or 
disabled to work. 
Redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped if Mrs F was off work sick. And PPI wouldve 
paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve got, giving Mr and Mrs F some 
additional financial security if shed lost her job.  
Overall, looking at everything Mr and Mrs F told us about their circumstances, I think  that 
PPI was suitable for them.   
Mrs F wasnt affected by any of the main  things the policy didnt cover.  So, I think  it unlikely 
that having better information about the policys exclusions  and limitations wouldve affected 
Mr and Mrs Fs decision to take out the cover for Mrs F.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs F when  they bought the policy.  
But they havent suggested  that they couldnt afford  the monthly premiums.
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  But I think 
Mr and Mrs F still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd  been  better  informed as the 
policy gave them useful  protection  in their particular situation. So I dont find theyve lost out 
financially as a result  of anything that Halifax mightve done wrong.
Ref: DRN97721183my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9772118