K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the provider of his building warranty, National House-Building Council 
(NHBC) in relation  to a claim he made to it in 2015.
background
In 2015 Mr M noticed a problem with the render at his home. NHBC considered the matter  
under section 3 of the warranty. An assessment of the property was under taken in
April 2015. There was some delay in a report being issued following the visit but it was 
ultimately decided  that the house needed  to be re-rendered.
Re-rendering work was completed in July 2016.  Mr M was unhappy with the completed 
work; there were various render splashes, the drive  hadnt been  cleaned and things hadnt 
been reinstated as they should have been.
Mr M began trying to get NHBC to complete work.  Some  agreements  were reached but 
then promises for contractors to call and do work were broken. In 2017  NHBC issued  three 
final responses to Mr M. It accepted there  had been delays and poor communication.  It 
offered a total of £1,150  compensation.
Mr M complained to us but he and NHBC continued  negotiating the outstanding elements of 
snagging. In November 2018  NHBC and Mr M agreed to settle for all but one area of repair  
in cash. NHBC also paid a further  £300 compensation for further upset that had occurred.
The area of repair left outstanding was cracked  render  around the window and door 
reveals. Mr M had noted after the re-rendering work completed in July 2016 that the render 
around the windows and doors was cracked.  He believes this was because it wasnt 
installed properly (no bonding agent  was used).  NHBC  accepted that the cracking needed 
resolving. Its technician said that the render wasnt so damaged it needed removing and 
replacing, and to do that would likely  entail  major  work to the render on the main  facades of 
the property too (because thatd be damage during  its removal).  The technician  said the 
render could be painted  with a specialist resin-based paint, from the render manufacturers,  
that fills and covers cracks.
Mr M didnt  believe that painting the render  was sufficient he said it was likely already 
damaged from having been susceptible, due to the cracks, to the elements for an extended  
period of time. He said the only way to resolve the issue, in his view,  was for the render to 
be removed and replaced. Mr M noted that the render  was coming away  from the wall in 
places and that some bits had fallen off.
Our investigator felt NHBC  had failed Mr M during the course  of the claim. He said a total of
£1,850 compensation was fairly due. He also felt that NHBC should re-do the reveal  render.
NHBC maintained that painting the reveal render, with specialist paint was acceptable.  
Mr M sent a photo to us showing a chip in an area of render around  either  the back  door or 
a window (with a security  light shown to the left of the opening).
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision to be made. I didnt think NHBC should  
have to re-do the render or pay any further  compensation. I issued a provisional decision to 
explain my initial findings, I said.
Ref: DRN94316332reveals
The remedial work to re-render the property completed (although  I appreciate there was a 
lot of snagging)  in July 2016.  Into early 2017  reference started to appear to issues with the 
render. It isnt always clear from comments made  whether  the issues  being discussed are 
regarding the window reveals (smooth render) or the faade finish (pebbled  render). In any 
event the most damage I see as accepted as being present at that time was cracking, 
mottling blemishes and minor blemishes. And Mr M was told at that time that this was only 
felt to be cosmetic, it wasnt  letting  water in or compromising the protective finish  of the 
render. Ive not seen any photos  from this time.
Into September a further review of the reveals  was undertaken and it was accepted that at 
least some  of the cracking was in breach of NHBCs technical guidelines, so it was felt that 
something needed to be done to resolve the issue. In October NHBC  put forward a solution; 
to paint the render. The paint chosen  was one specifically designed for filling  cracks in 
render (it is resin based). It is provided  by the same manufacturer that produced the render 
used on the reveals.  Details  of this were passed  to Mr M.
Into late November  I see that Mr M told NHBC that he was considering its plan for the 
render. A lot of communication occurred during October, November and December 2017 
but apart from this one letter  I dont see any further comment from Mr M regarding the 
reveals. All of his focus seemed to be on the other  snagging issues.  NHBC though,  in a few 
emails did reiterate the plan for the render  and stated that it had been put forward  following 
careful consideration. NHBCs  position was that this was appropriate and the best way 
forwards.
The next note I saw from Mr M regarding the reveals was in April 2018 when he told us 
there was a stalemate regarding the reveals.  In August 2018 Mr M said reveals (back door) 
are starting to come off the wall. Photos were  provided. But I cant  see in these photos that 
the reveals are starting to come away.
In October  2019 Mr M told us that bits of the reveal  render had started to drop off. A photo 
was provided. I hadnt seen this photo  previously  as part of either  NHBCs file submissions  
or any that Mr M had sent to us.
Ive included a lot of background detail here in my findings because I think  its relevant that 
in none of the earlier discussions  about  the reveals is it reported that the reveals  are 
coming away or that they are chipped  (for want  of a better phrase). I dont believe the 
chipping damage  in the photo Mr M has sent us this month is indicative of mottling or minor 
blemishes. And Ive seen  no early  reports about  bonding agents  not being  used  or any 
expert reports saying that such  should  have been and without it the render is likely to fail.
I fully understand  the concerns Mr M raised  in early 2017 regarding  cracking  leaving render 
susceptible to damage. I see cases relating  to freeze-thaw action of water  in render and 
cement and similar materials quite a lot. But, at the time the cracking was noted and 
accepted by NHBC as being an issue, there  was no sign (that I have seen) that the render 
was suffering the effects of long-term exposure to the elements. As I say nothing appears  to 
have been falling off at that time. And, following a few months of debate, before the next 
winter came  around, NHBC did put forward a plan for resolving the cracking.
Ive read the details  of the paint  product  put forward by NHBC.  Taking  everything  into 
account I think that it was a reasonable suggestion. And whilst I can understand that, at that 
Ref: DRN94316333time Mr M had doubts about its efficacy,  I dont think it was reasonable to refuse NHBC a 
chance to carry  out that work.  The work would have been guaranteed and if it didnt work 
NHBC would  have  had to resolve  the problem. Instead Mr M, having concerns about  the 
long-term effects of water  penetration, refused the option and left the reveal susceptible to 
more damage over time whilst  the reveal  and other  issues were debated. If other damage 
has happened since, such as the render starting  to chip, I dont think  I can reasonably 
blame NHBC for that.
If the reveals  as a whole  are coming away from the walls, and this, by expert opinion, is 
shown to be caused due to a de-bonding  agent not having been used during installation,  
then I think NHBC  should resolve  that problem. I cant  say what resolution  would  be needed 
in that respect   but I am satisfied it couldnt be sorted by painting the reveals, even using  
the product suggested. But based  on what Ive seen  here,  Im not going to make NHBC do 
anything at this time.
I do think NHBC should still arrange  to paint the reveals  unless  the debonding  issue is 
first proven  to it and then it will decide what needs to be done to resolve that. That is 
because the cracking  does  still need resolving. Im not clear at this stage whether the 
chipping is more extensive than shown on the one photo Mr M has provided (to 
demonstrate that issue).  If it isnt then NHBC may well be able to fill this (one chip) when it 
carries out the paintwork.  And the painting would cover the filled in area. If it is a bigger  job 
then NHBC may need Mr M to repair the chips before it carries out the paintwork.
compensation
I do think NHBC handled this claim poorly. It shouldnt have taken as long as it did to 
resolve. In saying that I note that in 2017 the same list of snagging works was in issue  as 
NHBC has only recently settled for with Mr M. And I think, considering the nature of the 
snagging, far better care should  have been  taken by the contractors during the initial works. 
I see there were broken promises and Mr M had to spend a lot of time to try and get things 
sorted; most  of which would have been avoided  if work had been  done more carefully.
That being  said I note that NHBC has accepted it failed Mr M during this claim. It has paid
£1,450 compensation to make up for the upset caused in that respect. Whilst I dont wish to 
disappoint Mr M, I think thats fair and reasonable. I dont doubt  that Mr M has been  
severely disrupted and frustrated by everything  that has gone on. But I bear in mind that he 
hasnt been put to financial  stress or had to move  out of his home,  and the living space  
within his home hasnt been materially affected  by the issues. I dont think  it would  be fair 
and reasonable to require  NHBC to pay anything more.
outcome
NHBC has been  willing,  since 2017,  to paint the reveals, and its paid £1,450 compensation 
for upset caused by delays. Im satisfied  that both are fair and reasonable responses to the 
issues at hand.  Therefore,  Im not intending  to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
NHBC said it had no comments to make. Mr M was unhappy with my findings. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN94316334Below Ive summarised  and set out Mr Ms responses to my provisional findings, and Ive 
provided my answers to each. For ease Ive numbered  the responses  from Mr M:
1)NHBC asked  for this case to be reviewed  because of another complaint by a different 
homeowner affected in the same  way as Mr M. Mr M, therefore, would like assurances 
that, as the cases  have been  found to be identical, any findings  about the render in the 
other home owners complaint be equally  consistent in his.
NHBC had said it felt the two cases should  receive  the same outcome. But Mr M said the 
only similarity was that the properties  are next door to each  other, the work was carried out 
at different  times by different contractors. Whilst I note Mr M has now asked to be assured 
that the findings on both complaints  regarding the render will be the same, even where  
complaints have similar circumstances,  I have to assess  the complaint before me on its own 
merits. Ive assessed  Mr Ms complaint based  on the submissions made  by him and NHBC 
about what happened at his property.  
2)I shouldnt have  asked  for further information,  such as up to date photos, as I was 
reviewing the decision  made by the investigator, so I should  only use evidence that had 
been available to him.
I understand Mr Ms concern but that is not how this service works. An ombudsmans 
review isnt a marking exercise carried out to ratify  the findings  the investigator made.  
When a complaint is passed for an ombudsmans decision the ombudsman  reviews the 
complaint from the top to reach their own findings  about what  is fair and reasonable in all of 
the circumstances. When  the complaint came to me, I felt during my initial review of it that 
I needed more  information to allow me to complete my findings, so I requested it. 
3)I hadnt reviewed matters thoroughly enough as I hadnt taken anywhere  near the 
amount of time the investigator had to complete my review.
I can assure Mr M that I reviewed his complaint, including all the submissions that both 
sides made, thoroughly  before making  and issuing my provisional decision.  The 
ombudsman and investigator roles are entirely different. I took what  time I needed to 
complete my assessment and issue my findings.
4)Mr M is staggered that I reached my provisional findings without speaking  to him, 
instead placing great worth on material provided  by NHBC and the developer.
I can assure Mr M that it is entirely within our normal process for an ombudsman to not 
speak with either party prior to a decision being  reached. Rather both sides  have ample 
opportunity to put their side of the case forwards and provide any evidence  they wish to 
support their position. All of that information and evidence  is then assessed  by the 
ombudsman prior to a decision  being  reached. Whilst I appreciate this may be different to 
the way other complaint bodies and the courts operate their processes, which Mr M may 
have familiarity with, this is how we work.
5)Mr M said he resents being called obstinate and demanding, a comment  which  was 
made in an NHBC report containing photos that was sent to Mr M after hed requested 
to see what photos I had seen.
Im sorry  Mr M saw those comments made by NHBC. But I can assure Mr M that I hadnt 
Ref: DRN94316335paid heed to them, or placed any reliance on them, when I reached my provisional findings. 
6)NHBCs reports contained  poor quality pictures  but contained comments favourable  to 
Mr Ms position, such as referring  to everything  needing to come off. Further, the 
original schedule also said all render should  be removed and replaced with render  of 
the correct thickness. A second  schedule commented specifically on the reveals and 
said where the render  is de-bonded,  replace  it. This direction  was then removed from a 
later schedule.  Mr M would like to know my thoughts  on what the reasons for the 
changing schedule  was.
I accept that NHBCs reports contained poor quality pictures but Im satisfied that reference  
to all render needing  to be replaced  with render of the correct thickness were made 
regarding the course  finish  render on the main walls. This finding lead to major work in 
respect of the external finish  of Mr Ms home.  It was only after this that cracking in the 
smooth render of the reveals was identified  as an issue.  NHBCs files show it did initially 
intend to check  for any areas of de-bonding of the smooth render and, where  such  was 
found, replace  it. A schedule was issued  in this respect. However,  the file also shows  that 
the contractor asked to complete that work  had reservations. The matter was further 
reviewed, and it was subsequently decided that removing  the render wasnt necessary. 
7)Regarding NHBCs expert  opinion  that the render didnt need removing and replacing, 
Mr M would like to know  who said this as he doesnt recall anyone  coming  to his 
property.
It was NHBCs  assessor who initially determined that the render didnt need replacing and 
that it could be painted.  The assessor had visited Mr Ms property in August 2017, during  
NHBCs review  of its initially intended repair mentioned above, and his report  which was 
issued shortly after was shared  with Mr M. I know Mr M doesnt trust this assessor  and has 
provided detail  about flawed findings  he feels he has made.  Whether or not those other  
findings are flawed, doesnt mean I can reasonably ignore this finding. 
8)All the expert  opinions Mr M has received about  the render said it is Bose. Mr M says 
his plasterer says it has to be replaced  and the investigator must have accepted it was 
letting water in or he wouldnt  have  found  as he did.
The photos  Mr M has provided clearly show the render is damp in the area around the 
cracks. That doesnt necessarily mean water is behind the render. Im aware  Mr M has said 
the render needs replacing and that he has received expert opinions in this respect.  But Ive 
seen no expert report to support these comments.  Whilst I know, as mentioned  above, 
Mr M doesnt trust NHBCs assessor,  I havent seen  any expert opinion that challenges his 
view and findings that the render doesnt need replacing and that painting it was a suitable 
resolution.
9)When the house was built the wrong type of brick was used  which necessitated that in 
order to successfully apply render, a bonding  agent would need to be used. An architect 
friend has said the house should really have  been demolished  and re-built  with the 
correct brick.
I havent seen  this argument raised  with NHBC previously. But nor I have seen expert  
evidence that says the incorrect type of brick was used. In any event, if Mr Ms expert is 
correct and the wrong type of brick was used meaning  any application of render needed a 
bonding agent to be used,  then it seems to me that the reasonable course of action is to do 
Ref: DRN94316336just that. Not to say the house must  be knocked down and built again.  Whether  NHBC did 
or did not use a bonding agent  remains unclear. 
10)A neighbor reported seeing  no empty bonding agent tins in the skip when Mr Ms home  
was re-rendered, but did see some being used at a house down the street  a few months 
later. Photos showing  the render of this house,  which is in good condition,  have been 
provided. As have  photos of the render on Mr Ms garden room, where bonding agents 
are also understood  to have been  used,  and which show  this render  is also in good  
condition. For comparison purposes  recent  photos were  provided of the render on 
Mr Ms home. Photos  were also provided  of various stages  of the re-rendering work 
carried out at Mr Ms home  with a view to me assessing them in order to determine  
whether or not a bonding agent  was used.
I accept that the photos provided show that there  is a significant difference in the state of 
the render on the reveals  of Mr Ms home and that in place in the garden room  and the 
home of Mr Ms neighbour. I can see why Mr M feels that the reason for this difference is 
that bonding agents werent used at his home.  However, I cant  tell from the photos 
provided whether  or not a bonding  agent  was used. And Ive seen no expert evidence to 
show that the lack of a bonding agent would most likely result  in damage like that showing 
in the reveals  at Mr Ms home.  
Looking at the photos of current  damage by themselves, I see that the render is very damp 
in places. Previous  photos showed  dampness too. But still I havent seen anything  that 
shows the render  is generally coming away from the walls  or that it is significantly 
chipping/chipped. Nor have I seen  an expert  opinion on the state  of the render or anything  
to make me think that any current damage  most likely stems from exposure which occurred 
before NHBC made its offer to repair the reveals  by painting them. 
11)NHBC  should be doing any and all work to restore the reveals   the reason nothing  has 
been done to date is because  of NHBCs and our delays. Including NHBC delaying its 
reply to our investigators findings.  On the note of NHBCs delays; there  should  be more  
detail in my background about  its delay  in issuing  its report. Furthermore, whilst its true 
that Mr M didnt  respond to NHBCs option regarding  painting  the reveals, that is 
because he was waiting for us to assess and answer his complaint. 
My background sets out a summary  of events.  Its purpose isnt to detail everything that 
happened. Nor is it a forum for me to set out my thoughts and views on pertinent  issues.  As 
I note in the background there was a delay in NHBCs report being issued. And I accept that 
the major  work to the exterior  of Mr Ms property wasnt completed until around a year later 
(July 2016). I noted in my provisional findings that NHBC could have handled  the claim 
better. But Im satisfied  that NHBCs delay at this time has no bearing on what happened 
later with the smooth render. The cracks  with the smooth render  werent identified  until after 
the major  work was completed  in July 2016,  the first mention regarding  further  problems 
with render being made in early 2017.
As I noted  provisionally,  the reveal render was considered in a report in September 2017. 
As also noted provisionally, this was not the only issue Mr M had with NHBC following its 
work which completed in July 2016. Mr M and NHBC  were  corresponding on all points. On 
4 October 2017 Mr M complained to us about  all the points in dispute with NHBC. On 
17 October 2017 NHBC put forward its suggestion  for resolving the render issue.  In 
November one letter was sent to NHBC regarding  the render, in this Mr M said he was 
considering its plans. Meanwhile various  correspondence occurred about all other issues  
Ref: DRN94316337outstanding at the property  and all these issues were later settled  without our 
involvement. So Mr M was prepared to pursue those issues  with NHBC whilst our 
processes progressed. Im sorry for any upset this causes Mr M but in all of the 
circumstances I dont  think  it was reasonable to do nothing regarding the render when 
winter was approaching  and a possible way of protecting the render from further weather 
damage was made available  by NHBC.  I cant fairly find that NHBC is responsible for any 
further damage which has occurred.
12)Hed asked that photos were  taken of the house before work commenced  and that 
these were filed with NHBC.  NHBC agreed  this should have been done.  The fact it 
hadnt had caused  the claim to become protracted, requiring our intervention.
Im not convinced that taking and filing of photos  alone would have avoided all of the 
disputes that have occurred. But, in any event, NHBC has accepted  the claim took too long 
and that it wasnt  progressed as quickly as it should have been. 
13)NHBCs assessor made a flawed  finding about the state of their lawn. This was just one 
clear example of NHBCs mishandling of things. But other shoddy work included: tiles 
on the garden room  roof were  fitted  poorly, gravel edging wasnt dispersed properly, the 
drainpipe wasnt  sealed, a hole in the porch roof wasnt  covered and the garden gate 
was poorly re-fitted.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M had real and justifiable  concerns  about  some of the findings 
NHBC made  during  their claim and regarding some  of the work that was carried  out. But 
those failures dont impact  on the issue of the reveal  render and the remedial offer NHBC 
made in this respect. Ive seen nothing to make me think this offer was flawed, even if other 
things NHBC said and did were  unfair.  And in my compensation assessment I have taken 
account of the poor work, the upset this caused  and the delays.
14)It is surprising that my view on compensation could be so different to that of the 
investigator. Mr M believes this might  be because  the investigator  knew what  stress he 
was under and that I perhaps  hadnt  known that. He also said that I didnt seem  to have 
taken account  of how his health  had been affected.
I can assure Mr M that I was and am aware  of everything thats occurred and how this has 
affected him. Im sorry for any upset that hes been  caused because my view on fair 
compensation differs from that of our investigator but that does happen  on occasion. As Ive 
explained I review  everything in order  to reach  my own view about what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint before me.
15)Photos were provided of damaged ceilings  they did have to move  out of their home 
for these to be resolved.
I did say provisionally  that the fact Mr M hadnt  had to move out of his home  was a factor Id 
taken into account  in assessing  my compensation award. Whilst I now understand that 
Mr M had to move out for the ceilings to be resolved, that wasnt part of this claim. So any 
upset or inconvenience that arose  as a result of moving out for a time isnt something I can 
hold against NHBC  within this complaint about  the claim for external render.
16)A note on NHBCs file suggests that £300 of the compensation  NHBC offered wouldnt 
affect any award made  by the ombudsman   so it was wrong for me to take this figure 
into account when  setting my compensation award. Mr M would like to know  why Ive 
Ref: DRN94316338ignored that file note.
Im sorry  if Mr M understood that the compensation NHBC paid in November 2017 wouldnt 
be taken into account by this service.  It is true to say that compensation offered by an 
insurer wont affect a complaint  being  made to and considered by this service. But my job is 
to determine whether  the insurer has acted fairly and reasonably and, if it hasnt what  it 
needs to do to put that right. If I feel an insurer should, for example,  pay £100, but its 
already paid £200, I cant fairly say it has to pay £100 because that would mean  the 
complainant is getting compensation totaling £300   an unreasonable amount when Ive 
determined £100  is due. 
overall
I realise that everything  that has happened has deeply upset Mr M. I understand that my 
findings on some key aspects will be upsetting  for him too. Im sorry for the upset my 
findings cause  but I am satisfied they reflect a fair and reasonable outcome for this 
complaint when taking into account  all of the circumstances. My provisional findings, as well 
as my findings set out above in regard to Mr Ms responses, now form the findings of this, 
my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against National House-Building 
Council.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9431633