K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc wont rectify problems that 
have arisen with some plasterwork which was replaced in their home in 2016 following their 
home insurance claim for damage  caused  by a flood. 
background
Mr and Mrs T made a claim under their home insurance policy in 2015 after their property 
had been damaged by a flood. RSA accepted  the claim and carried out repairs which  ran 
into 2016. These included drying  works  and re-plastering. 
In June 2018 Mr and Mrs T discovered  they had an issue  with the repaired  plasterwork - it 
had blown in places  and showed signs of mould  in others. Mr T contacted the loss adjuster 
that handled the 2015 claim and was told to contact the drying company which he did. It sent 
out a surveyor  who noted that there  were  high levels of ground salts in the kitchen area and 
on one wall in the bathroom. It was recommended that the plaster be removed  up to 1.5m 
and anti-sulphate  applied  followed  by new render mixed with more anti-sulphate.
After the surveyor came  out to look at the property, Mr and Mrs T were  directed by the loss 
adjuster to the contractor that had carried out the plastering. Mr and Mrs T said they felt the 
issue should be rectified under the 2 year warranty the repair  works  had come  with. The 
plastering contractor came out to have a look in July 2018 and noted that there were a 
couple of areas where dampness  was tracking  up the wall, that it was uncertain where it 
was coming from but felt it may be damp proof  course (DPC) related. It didnt think the issue  
had anything to do with the repairs itd done.  So it didnt recommend to RSA that it uphold  
Mr and Mrs Ts warranty claim. 
Mr and Mrs T also had a local plasterer look at the issue  and he told them that the walls 
obviously hadnt been treated, that a DPC  was un-necessary and wouldnt be needed if the 
plaster had been  applied  property. 
Mr and Mrs T referred the matter  back  to RSA. They said the three  experts that had looked 
at the plaster  felt that the issue was the result  of high levels  of ground salt having  penetrated 
it as a result  of the plasterwork not being correctly applied in the first place. After about a 
month, RSA indicated it was willing to offer them a cash  settlement. This was subsequently  
withdrawn after the matter was reviewed by the loss adjuster who felt that the propertys lack 
of a DPC  was the cause of the issue (which wasnt insured  damage/part of the claim) rather  
than it being anything to do with poor workmanship and so covered by the warranty.
The loss adjuster told Mr and Mrs T to have  a new damp proof course installed and if the 
issue reappeared  after doing so then their warranty claim  would  be reconsidered. 
Mr and Mrs T complained to RSA. They said the loss adjuster  had reached  his decision 
without ever visiting the house and by ignoring the expert opinions of those that had. They 
said none of the experts  that visited them had ever said there was any issue with the DPC.  
Mr and Mrs T also complained that theyd  been told their warranty claim would be upheld 
only to have the loss adjuster change his mind about it. And finally they felt RSAs 
communications had been poor and that the whole matter had taken far longer than was 
necessary. They said they had had to repeatedly chase  RSA to see what  progress was 
being made. 
Ref: DRN93830862RSA didnt respond to Mr and Mrs Ts complaint so they brought  their complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into their complaint and recommended that it was upheld in 
part. She thought  that RSA hadnt unreasonably  declined the claim  but she thought  that 
Mr and Mrs T had experienced some  trouble and upset by having  to continually chase RSA 
for updates  and by being told that their claim would be settled only to then be told it wouldnt. 
She recommended RSA pay Mr and Mrs T compensation of £150.
 
Mr and Mrs T disagreed with out investigators findings. They said their plasterer  thought that 
no inhibitor/anti-sulphate  had been  added to the plaster and the failure to do so led to the 
problems they were experiencing. 
Our investigator thought about  what they said and noted that the surveyor  that carried  out 
the first inspection hadnt said that the plaster had been incorrectly  applied but he had said 
the solution to fixing  the problem now would be to apply anti-sulphate to the wall. Our 
investigator said that anti-sulphate hadnt  been used originally because its only usually 
applied to a wall to stabilise damp  issues such as rising damp which  wasnt  a problem at 
their property in 2015/2016. Our investigator  noted the property  had been  fully dried out after 
the flood and that no damp was noted prior to the re-plastering. So she maintained  her view 
that RSA hadnt  incorrectly declined Mr and Mrs Ts warranty claim. 
Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy with our investigators findings and again said their 
plasterer had told them the plaster  had been  incorrectly applied. They also said the fact they 
had been told the claim was going to be upheld implied that the surveyor  mustve thought 
the works  were faulty. They said theyd seen no report which  stated the issues  were the 
result of rising damp so couldnt  understand how that couldve been determined from a desk-
top review of the file. 
Mr and Mrs T also said there was a breach between the plaster and the floor (where the 
plaster on the walls  actually touches  the floor instead of a gap being left) whichd allowed 
moisture to track up the walls. They said this shouldnt have happened  if the plaster had 
been correctly  applied. And they noted that the original schedule  of works had required an 
integral water proofer to be added to initial  render  coat. Finally, Mr and Mrs T said anti-
sulphate is used to treat damp, salt affected  masonry and is an essential  element of a 
basement tanking systems along with repairing flood damaged properties. 
Mr and Mrs T said they didnt accept the compensation  our investigator was recommending  
RSA pay. They said it would just absolve  RSA from any wrongdoing with regard to ignoring 
their complaint. 
RSA said it was willing to pay the recommended compensation. It also said that the integral  
water proofer was added to the plaster in 2016  as confirmed by the schedule of works. It 
said this was done as part of the flood repairs to provide  additional waterproofing. It said 
anti-sulphate wasnt the same thing at all and that it was used in situations where its 
necessary to prevent damp from tracking up through plaster when  theres a history of rising  
damp. As the property had shown no sign of rising damp, anti-sulphate had not been  used.  
Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy with our investigators findings. They repeated  that they 
had never  seen any report that the problem was caused  by rising damp/the  need for a DPC.  
The complaint was referred  to me and I issued a provisional decision in June 2020 
recommending that the complaint be upheld. I made  the following provisional findings:
my provisional findings
Ref: DRN93830863Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
the claim
I have to decide if RSA has fairly declined to carry our repairs  to the plasterwork at Mr and 
Mrs Ts property. I dont  think  that it has. Ill explain why. 
I can see from the file that the property was properly dried  out after the flood and that a 
water proofer was added to the plaster before it was applied  to the walls. There were  no 
issues with the plaster  drying after the works were completed.  I understand integral water  
proofer provides an additional  protection  to the plaster on the walls saturated  by flood water.  
Ive seen the photographs  of the issues with the plaster. Mr and Mrs T report  visits to inspect  
the issues by three separate individuals,  details of which they sent to RSA. These are: 
1.The surveyor appointed by the drying company. In an email to Mr and Mrs T the 
surveyor said, I did a visit this morning and noticed high levels of ground salts in the 
kitchen area. There are no signs in the front room but 1 wall in the bathroom has salts 
present. I also noticed that the wall with the units on would  also be contaminated but 
could [not] investigate without removing the unitsThe way to fix this problem Knock  off 
all plaster to 1.5m high treat with antisulphate  [sic] and leave overnight Next morning use 
a 50 50 dilute antisulphate [sic] and renderlite renovating plaster
2.The contractor that carried  out the re-plastering  in 2016. Mr and Mrs T say the contractor 
told them  that the high level of salts shouldnt have been present as the walls  had been  
treated and he remembered the large containers of anti-sulphate  being on site. A 
subsequent email from the contractor to Mr T appeared to suggest that anti-sulphate 
hadnt been originally recommended or applied. The same  contractor provided  a report 
to RSA after itd carried out its inspection visit. In the report  it says, Re-attended and 
found couple of areas  where  dampness  is tracking up, uncertain as to where this is 
coming from may be dpc related . [My emphasis]. The contractor also reported that    
Mr T had said that the surveyor  had told him that anti-sulphate shouldve  been used on 
the walls  when re-plastering. The contractor further commented that if the current issue 
with the plaster  was the result of not using anti-sulphate it had not been asked, at the 
time, to use it. The contractor further says that it was advised by Mr and Mrs T that the 
dampness was coming from the wrong plaster  being  used. 
3.A local plasterer. No written report was provided  but Mr and Mrs T have given an 
account of what  he said to them. He said the walls obviously hadnt been treated.  When  
Mr and Mrs T told him that the loss adjuster said the property required a DPC, they have 
reported that he replied this was totally un-necessary and wouldnt be needed if properly 
treated plaster  had been applied.
So the surveyor explained what the problem was  and whats needed to rectify it - but 
provided no comment about its causation. He doesnt say the absence of anti-sulphate is the 
cause of the issue but he does say its the solution.
The contractors only comment about  causation in the report  is that it may  be dpc related 
and that dampness  is tracking up. The comments about the use of anti-sulphate are 
confined to repeating what he was told by Mr and Mrs T about it and the fact it was never 
Ref: DRN93830864asked to apply  it. And its reasonable to think that by dpc related the contractor means 
either the absence  or failure of any DPC.   
 
Unfortunately theres no written report from Mr and Mrs Ts plasterer  but theyve relayed the 
comments he made. He said the walls obviously hadnt been treated. Presumably he 
means with an anti-sulphate. And he says that if it they had then there was no need for a 
DPC. I think  from these comments its reasonable to assume that the use of an anti-sulphate 
treatment in the plaster would prevent ground salts present  in the brickwork  penetrating the 
plaster in the same  way an effective DPC should  stop the salts entering the wall in the first 
place.
I asked our investigator to contact  the parties to ascertain whether it could be established 
whether the property had a DPC and, if so, whether it couldve  been breached  by the flood 
water. Mr and Mrs T replied to say they had no evidence  to show if/when  a DPC had ever 
been installed. They said theyd had the property since 2005 and hadnt installed one 
themselves. They said theyd paid to have  the plasterwork repaired (presumably using an 
anti-sulphate) since which the salting problem had not re-occurred. Finally they said thered  
been no discussion with RSA/the loss adjuster at the time of the flood about the presence, or 
not, of any DPC. 
The loss adjuster replied and said he was unable to completely confirm whether a DPC was 
present at the house but it would appear  that one wasnt.  He also said he thought the issue  
Mr and Mrs T had experienced in 2018  was due to the failure or lack of DPC.  Finally he said 
he was unable to confirm the condition  of the walls in the house prior to the flood. 
On balance, I think the evidence indicates  a likely absence  of any DPC  at the property. That 
being the case, RSA wasnt obliged to install one after the flood. But it was obliged to restore 
the property to its pre-flood  condition and to make  sure any repairs were effective and 
lasting. Theres no evidence that Ive seen that the walls of Mr and Mrs Ts home were 
suffering from damp issues  or that high levels of ground salts were penetrating and 
damaging plaster  before  the flood. But something has happened  between the house being 
declared dry in 2016 and the damage Mr and Mrs T reported in 2018  which  caused  the 
repair to fail. 
I think its reasonable to conclude  that the repairs  have failed because the walls  given the 
absence of a DPC  - werent treated with anti-sulphate as part of the repair. I also note that 
the flood waters came from a natural source,  rather than from a clean water system,  which  
wouldve had salts already dissolved in it. These would be left behind  in any submerged 
brickwork after drying. Whilst the lack of a DPC  hadnt caused Mr and Mrs Ts property any 
problems before the flood, the walls wouldnt have been dry in the same way they wouldve 
been if a DPC had been present. The lack of a DPC  doesnt necessarily cause problems as 
long as appropriate plasters are used for the walls. But it does  mean that if there are high 
levels of salts in the brickwork, those salts would  be transported by the moisture in the wall 
and could cause  problems. So its not unreasonable to think that the absence of a DPC was 
something that RSA shouldve  factored  into the repair.
Mr and Mrs Ts property  wasnt  returned  to the condition it was before  the flood and I dont 
think that RSA has shown that something other than a failed repair  couldve led to the issues  
they reported. That means I think that RSA has unfairly concluded that the damage  to the 
plaster wasnt related  to poorly conducted repairs. Its said it thinks  it was caused by rising 
damp caused by a lack of DPC. But the lack of a DPC shouldve  alerted it to the need to 
treat the walls with anti-sulphate so that the repairs would be lasting.  
Ref: DRN93830865That RSA unfairly  declined to rectify the problems  experienced by Mr and Mrs T is further  
reinforced by the fact that the repair they paid for themselves has lasted and has fully 
addressed the issue. I understand they havent installed a DPC but appear to have re-
plastered applying  an anti-sulphate in the process. They have reported  that no ground salts 
or damp are now present.  The fact their rectification works have lasted whereas RSAs  
havent means I dont  think  RSA fairly  attributed the problem to the lack of a DPC. Theres 
still no DPC but there are no longer any problems. 
So, for the reasons Ive given above, I think the decision  the loss adjuster  reached wasnt  a 
fair one in the circumstances. 
As Mr and Mrs T have had the repairs carried out, and as I think  RSA unfairly  declined  to 
undertake the works for them,  it follows  that I think it must now reimburse  them for the cost 
they incurred.  As theyve  been out of pocket for the costs for some  time I think it only fair that 
(upon proof of payment  being provided  by Mr and Mrs T) RSA add interest to the amount 
Mr and Mrs T paid at this services usual rate of 8% simple per year from the date they paid 
their contractors invoice  to the date RSA settles my award. 
poor customer service 
I can see that Mr and Mrs T were put to some inconvenience by RSA during  the course of 
their 2018  claim. I can see that Mr and Mrs T had to repeatedly chase RSA for updates  and 
when they made a formal complaint, RSA failed to respond.
I can also see that they were told by RSA, whilst it was in the process of investigating the 
issue, that it had, in fact, used the wrong plaster in 2016.  Having  reviewed the file, its clear  
to me, that this was a statement made in error by RSA as a consequence of an unfortunate 
internal misunderstanding. RSA should never  have told Mr and Mrs T that the wrong  plaster 
had been used because it was confident this wasnt the case. 
And I can see RSA told them the claim would be settled only later to say it wouldnt. 
All these  issues demonstrate poor customer service on the part of RSA and I can see that 
Mr and Mrs T were  caused trouble and upset as a consequence.  Where an insurer  causes 
additional, avoidable, distress and inconvenience above and beyond  that which is normally 
associated with making a claim, this service can make the insurer pay a consumer some 
compensation. When deciding what fair compensation is, I have  to have regard to this 
services approach to such awards.  I think an award of £150 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint and is line with awards made by this service in similar 
circumstances.
And my provisional decision was as follows:
My provisional decision  is that I intend to uphold  this complaint and to require Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance  Plc to:
reimburse Mr and Mrs T for the cost they incurred  in rectifying the issues  they had with 
their repaired  plasterwork.  
pay interest* to Mr and Mrs T at this services usual rate of 8% simple per year on the 
amount they paid their contractor from the date they paid it to the date my award is 
settled. 
Ref: DRN93830866to pay Mr and Mrs T compensation of £150  for the distress  and inconvenience they were 
caused by its poor customer service  and for having  their claim rejected after initially 
being told it was going to be accepted.
Mr and Mrs T replied  to say that whilst they were slightly disappointed I hadnt  given  more  
weight to the part of their complaint that related to the poor customer service  theyd received, 
they noted Id acknowledged it and they said they agreed with my provisional findings and 
provisional decision. 
RSA asked the loss adjuster to liaise with us. Our investigator  sent a copy  of my provisional  
decision to the loss adjuster whod handled  the claim. The loss adjuster asked our 
investigator for its reference  and the post code of the insured property both of which were 
forwarded by our investigator.
When the deadline for responding to my provisional  decision passed our investigator 
contacted the loss adjuster again and asked it if had any comments  to make in response to 
my provisional decision and before I issued my final decision. Our investigator received an 
email read receipt but no comments were forthcoming. 
The complaint was returned  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr and Mrs T have accepted my provisional  decision, and as RSA hasnt  provided  any 
substantive comment  in response to my provisional decision, those findings  and that 
decision remain unchanged. For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Im satisfied 
that this is a complaint that should  be upheld. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc 
to: 
reimburse Mr and Mrs T for the cost they incurred  in rectifying the issues  they had with 
their repaired  plasterwork.  
pay interest* to Mr and Mrs T at this services usual rate of 8% simple per year on the 
amount they paid their contractor from the date they paid it to the date my award is 
settled. 
to pay Mr and Mrs T compensation of £150  for the distress  and inconvenience they were 
caused by its poor customer service  and for having  their claim rejected after initially 
being told it was going to be accepted.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 August 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
*If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should  tell Mr and Mrs T how much its taken off. It should also give them a certificate  
showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN93830867
Ref: DRN9383086