K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  about Herts  Insurance Consultants Ltd, trading as Flux Direct (Flux),  and 
the charges they applied when she cancelled her insurance policy.
background
Miss S purchased car insurance with Flux 23 May 2018, with the policy  starting at 00.01 the 
following day. On 24 May,  Flux wrote to Miss S asking  for additional documents as there 
were some discrepancies  in the information  she provided. They explained that the policy 
would be cancelled if these documents werent provided.
The same day, Miss S e-mailed Flux cancelling the policy  within the 14 day cooling off 
period. Miss S spoke to Flux the day after to make sure theyd received the cancellation. 
Flux confirmed it had been and after a conversation, it was agreed the policy  would be 
cancelled.
Flux refunded Miss S £293.82, after deducting cancellation charges of £58.00. Miss S was 
unhappy that shed been charged after cancelling within  the 14 day cooling off period so 
raised a complaint. Flux responded  saying  they thought theyd  applied  the cancellation  
charges fairly, in line with their terms and conditions.  Miss S was unhappy  with this response 
so she referred her complaint to us.
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt  uphold  it. They  thought as the policy  had 
started, Flux were entitled to deduct  the cancellation charges in line with their terms and 
conditions. Miss S said she hadnt  been given a copy of the terms and conditions but the 
investigator felt Miss S had to have  agreed to them in order  to purchase the policy.  So, they 
didnt think Flux needed  to do anything further.  Miss S disagreed with this view so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator.
Im aware Miss S believes the policy wasnt in place as she hadnt  received the policy  
documents. So, she doesnt think the cancellation charges shouldve been  deducted.  But, 
Ive seen Flux wrote to Miss S on 24 May asking  for more documents. This letter explained 
there were discrepancies  in the information Miss S provided and that your insurer  cannot 
issue documents until theyd been  resolved. The letter also said if we are unable  to 
complete our verification checks in full, the policy will be cancelled.  
I think this makes it clear to Miss S that the cover  had already started  despite  the policy 
documents not being sent straight away. So, Flux were able to deduct cancellation charges 
in line with their terms and conditions. Ive considered these terms and conditions and 
whether Miss S was reasonably aware of what they contained.
Ive seen a screenshot of Fluxs website which shows  the information  that wouldve been  
presented to Miss S before she agreed to purchase  the insurance policy.  This page included  
a link to the policy wording of the insurance  policy terms and conditions. The page required 
Miss S to tick a box to say she agreed  to them.
Ref: DRN91073152Ive seen a copy  of these policy terms and conditions which explain if Miss S cancelled 
within 14 days the insurer would make a charge equal to the period of cover  you have had 
but this will be subject  to a minimum amount of £25 (plus insurance premium tax IPT) where 
applicable). While I cant say whether Miss S read these terms and conditions, I think  Flux 
made it clear  on this page that by ticking the box to proceed, she accepted them.
This page also needed Miss S to tick a box agreeing that she had the right to cancel within  
14 days without giving  any reason  on the understanding that she would be charged the 
Broker Arrangement Fee and the minimum insurer Fee to do so.
Miss S continued to purchase the insurance  policy and so ticked these boxes  to do so. Ive 
seen that Flux have  deducted a total of £58.00 which consists  of a £30.00 Broker 
Arrangement Fee and an insurer fee of £28.00 for the time the policy was in force.  These 
charges fall within the terms  that Miss S agreed  to so I think it was fair for Flux to deduct 
them.
Ive also listened  to the call Miss S had with Flux where the cancellation was discussed.  Flux 
made it clear  what the deductions would be, and Miss S confirmed  she wanted to continue 
with the cancellation as she couldnt provide the documents  Flux needed  to resolve  the 
discrepancies. So, I think Flux gave  Miss S the option to reconsider the cancellation when 
being aware of the charges and it was her own decision to continue and incur them.
So, while I understand Miss S was only insured for a short  period of time, I think  Flux have 
acted fairly  when deducting the charges and they dont need to do anything  further.
my final decision
For the reasons  outline above,  I dont  uphold Miss Ss complaint about Herts Insurance  
Consultants Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2020.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9107315