K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that he was mis-sold  a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy by 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading as NatWest,  in 1992.
background
Mr M took out a PPI policy to cover his mortgage  repayments. The policy covered Mr M 
against accident, sickness and unemployment  for up to 12 months in any one claim. The 
cost of PPI was around £11 a month.  Mr M thought PPI had been mis-sold as he said he 
was pressured  into taking out the policy.
 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and didnt think  it should be upheld.  Mr M disagreed, 
so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
In February 2019  I issued  a provisional decision as I came  to a different conclusion  to our 
adjudicator  I thought Mr Ms complaint should  have been  upheld.
As the sale took place in 1992  I explained  it was very difficult  to decide what  happened  
there werent  any documents available from the time of the sale to look at.
I noted that there were certain  things NatWest needed to do when the PPI was sold.  It 
needed to explain  to Mr M what the PPI covered so he understood what he was buying as 
well as drawing his attention to any restrictions or exclusions.
NatWest said in 1992 Mr M would have needed  to fill in a separate application and direct 
debit form for the PPI. And it said he would have  been provided with the policy documents 
after the policy started,  setting out the benefits,  exclusions  and limitations.
But I thought Mr M needed  to be given information  about the policys  limitations and benefits 
before he agreed  to take it out. And based  on what information there was available, I 
couldnt see that he was given everything  he needed. Importantly I couldnt see it was made 
clear to him that the PPI paid out for up to 12 months and after a waiting period of 60 days.
I thought that information would have been  important  to Mr M as he said he was entitled to at 
least 12 months of full sick pay from his employer.  Mr M didnt have  any documentary 
evidence of this, but I wasnt  surprised by that as the sale took place nearly  30 years ago so 
it was unlikely he kept employment records for that long. 
At the time Mr M worked for a formerly state-owned company and at the time of the sale had 
worked there  for around 17 years. Based on what I knew and had seen about employee  
benefits across a variety  of industries, I thought  Mr Ms level of sick pay was plausible. And I 
noted it was likely he was also entitled  to some  redundancy pay should he have been  made  
unemployed.
Based on everything  I had seen, I thought if it had been made clear to Mr M how the PPI 
paid out, he wouldnt  have taken it out as he already had good work benefits in place. So I 
thought NatWest needed to do something to put things right.
Mr M responded to say he had nothing further  to add to my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN96535822NatWest responded  to say it didnt agree with what Id said. It said its duty at the time of the 
sale was to give Mr M relevant information  about the policy  so he could make an informed 
choice  it didnt  need to consider his circumstances and make any recommendation to him 
about the policy.
NatWest said its normal  sales practice  was to provide  a customer with a PPI leaflet that it 
said set out the key terms and benefits of the policy. NatWest  pointed out that Mr Ms policy 
would have paid out on top of any sick pay if he needed to make a claim,  so it could still 
have been a benefit to him. And NatWest said that when  Mr M first complained,  he said he 
thought PPI was a good idea due to risks of redundancy and the economic climate at the 
time.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms complaint.
Having done so, I still think his complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
NatWest has referred me to a PPI leaflet  it says Mr M would  have been  provided at the time. 
It says this set out the key features of the policy, including the 60 day waiting period, cost 
and total level of benefits. But this leaflet talks about PPI paying out for up to 24 months in 
any claim, but Mr Ms policy only paid out for up to 12 months. So I dont think  this leaflet 
would have been provided  to Mr M when he took out PPI. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  Mr M had to be given information  about what the PPI 
covered so he understood what he was buying  as well as drawing his attention  to any 
restrictions or exclusions. NatWest has provided a copy of the full terms and conditions  of 
the PPI policy, but I think this would have been  provided to Mr M after he took it out. And I 
havent seen what information he would have  been  given before he decided to take out PPI.
In my provisional decision I found  that Mr M wouldnt have bought  the policy if the full 
information about the key parts  of the PPI had been given to him before he decided to take it 
out. And nothing NatWest  has said since  has made be change  my view about this. 
NatWest has said that when Mr M first complained  he remembered reasons  why he thought 
the PPI was a good idea at the time of the sale, including worries about  redundancy, 
meeting mortgage  payments and the economic climate.
Ive seen a copy  of NatWests notes from when Mr M first complained.  Its recorded  what  his 
complaint points were  and they included:
We were  never told we would have to wait 2 months for help,  nor did he bring  up the 
topic of sick pay. He never advised us that help would only be for 12 months. 
And the following has been  recorded  under Customer recollections:
What recommendation were you given?  
Ref: DRN96535823With the economic  climate at the time it was advisory to take the insurance  out
Were you aware of any impending unemployment  or hospital treatments at the time 
of the sale? 
Not directly but always a fear in the back of peoples mind 
Were there any foreseeable changes in your circumstances at the time of the sale? 
With the economic  climate you were never really sure if you were going to be made 
redundant- I never was but at the time it was worth your while  to take some form of 
cover.
But I cant see that Mr B ever said he wanted  to take out PPI due to his concerns about 
redundancy and/or the economic climate  at the time. In fact he has been consistent  
throughout this complaint that he wasnt given the right information about  the PPI policy.  And 
for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think he was given  the right information. So I think  PPI 
was mis-sold and NatWest needs to do something to put things right.
what the business should  do to put things right
I think NatWest  should  put Mr M in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI. 
NatWest should:
Pay Mr M the amount  he paid each month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, NatWest can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must  give Mr M 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint against The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc and direct it work out and 
pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9653582