K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that their term assurance policies were mis-sold by an 
adviser representing Intrinsic Mortgage Planning Ltd.
background
Mr G registered his details online and was contacted by an adviser by telephone who was a 
representative of Intrinsic to discuss his life assurance needs.  As a result, two individual 
level term assurance policies and one decreasing term assurance policy,  covering 
Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage, were  recommended.  These were accepted by Mr and Mrs G in 
May 2016 and are underwritten by a third party insurer who Ill call R. 
It appears the policies  were rewritten in August 2018  by the same adviser; however he 
wasnt a representative  of Intrinsic at the time. The policies were still underwritten  by R.
Mrs G sadly suffered a stroke in January 2018 and submitted a claim to the underwriter. This 
was declined as Mr and Mrs G didnt  have any critical  illness  cover under  the policies.  
Mr and Mrs G complained  to this service in February 2018. Mr G said that when he first 
spoke to the adviser he was told terminal illness cover included  critical illness  cover. He 
believes the policies  were mis-sold on this basis.  
Intrinsic responded  to Mr and Mrs Gs complaint in April 2018.  It said the recommendations 
made by its adviser  for level term assurance  and decreasing term assurance were  suitable 
as Mr and Mrs Gs had wanted  policies to protect  their mortgage and to provide  cover in the 
event of their deaths. It said the documentation  that was provided  to Mr and Mrs G was 
clear, fair and not misleading. It also confirmed the full policy  details, namely that the policies 
provided life cover only. Intrinsic concluded  there  was no evidence  to suggest that they were 
misled or misadvised. It added that it appeared Mr and Mrs G may have confused critical  
illness and terminal illness cover, the latter being  included in the policy. Mr and Mrs G were 
unhappy with the response from Intrinsic and asked  us to consider the complaint.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the documents completed at the point 
of sale showed  Mr and Mrs Gs priority for taking out policies was to have benefits payable in 
the event of death. She said Intrinsic fulfilled  its obligation to send clear information about  
what the policies  provided. She added that R had also sent a copy  of the application with the 
cover details. The investigator added that both Mr and Mrs G and the adviser  agree  that 
Mr G phoned the adviser  after the policy began to check if critical illness  was covered. But 
Intrinsic said the adviser told it that critical illness cover had been  discussed but Mr G 
decided against  it because of the cost involved. 
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with the outcome, so the complaint has been passed  to me to 
make a final decision. They said the adviser didnt carry out a fact find with them at all and 
they didnt receive  any paperwork. Mr G said they were on holiday on the date Intrinsic said 
the fact find was completed and the recommendation letter  contains  mistakes.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion our investigator did, for broadly  the same reasons. I know this will come as a 
Ref: DRN94133022disappointment to Mr and Mrs G and I appreciate its been very difficult  for them since 
Mrs Gs stroke.  I will explain how Ive reached my decision below.
The policy Mr and Mrs G claimed on following Mrs Gs stroke was set up when the adviser  
was a representative of a different company. So, I cant  actually consider the sale of those 
policies as part of this complaint against Intrinsic. But I understand that Mr and Mrs G 
consider the advice was wrong from the outset as the replacement policies were like for like. 
So, it seems  fair to consider whether the advice  was flawed  from the outset.
It was Mr G who spoke to the adviser by telephone to set up the three  policies. Intrinsic  says 
this took place on 5 May 2016.  Mr G disputes this as he says he and Mrs G were on holiday 
at the time. Its possible the date of contact  was recorded incorrectly by the adviser, but 
when Mr G first approached us about his complaint he said the adviser had contacted him in 
May 2016. And the documents  issued  by R (which included quotes  and a copy of the 
application form) were dated 5 May 2016. So, the conversation Mr G had with the adviser 
must have  taken place  by this date.
Overall, I dont  think the specific date is relevant given that Mr G has confirmed he spoke 
with the adviser  about this cover. The important point for me to consider is what  was 
discussed and whether  the adviser  recommended  a policy that was suitable  for 
Mr and Mrs Gs needs.
Mr G said he told the adviser  that he and his wife wanted to replace an existing policy  with 
life cover until the age of ninety and also cover for their mortgage  on a decreasing term to 
cover death  or illness. The recording of this conversation isnt available  because of the time 
thats passed since. So, the only record of this discussion is in the fact find document  and 
the recommendation letter produced as a result.
I know Mr G says the adviser didnt complete a fact find with him, but I think the conversation  
Mr G had with the adviser in May 2016 formed the basis of the fact find document. This 
shows that the only area of protection in scope of the review  was income on death and the 
repayment of their mortgage on death. Repayment of the mortgage  on diagnosis  of critical 
illness and critical illness cover to protect  Mr and Mrs Gs lifestyle  was specifically marked  
out of scope. Ive taken this to mean  that critical illness cover wasnt  established  as a need 
for Mr and Mrs G.
The fact find doesnt  include  any details of an existing policy. I asked Mr and Mrs G whether  
they could provide evidence of the policy  they had in place at the time but Mr G said he no 
longer had any information. But he remembered they were paying around £55 a month  for 
critical illness cover. Ive taken this account, but without  seeing evidence that Mr and Mrs G 
definitely had a critical illness policy in place at the time, I dont think I can say they lost this 
cover as a result of this advice. Theres also no evidence to show  they were advised to 
cancel any existing cover  in favour of these policies.
Mr G also said the adviser  didnt speak to Mrs G at all. While Mr G might  have expected  the 
adviser to also speak with his wife, in reality, he didnt need to. The information used to 
populate the application form suggests  Mr G provided the adviser with everything he needed 
to know about  Mrs G to complete the review.
Mr G has also made  us aware of mistakes  in the fact finding process, including that his 
income was recorded  incorrectly and that it said they had a dependent  child. Mr G said this 
was particularly distressing as they dont have any children. This issue appears to have 
Ref: DRN94133023arisen after the complaint was referred to our service as Mr and Mrs G hadnt seen the fact 
find until it was provided by the investigator. So, I cant consider any trouble and upset 
caused to them by this specific mistake. We can assist if Mr and Mrs G want  to refer this 
complaint to Intrinsic.
Im not persuaded that mistakes in the fact find explains  why critical illness  cover  isnt 
recorded as a need. Im also mindful  that the adviser  followed  up his recommendation with a 
letter dated  12 May 2016. This clearly stated  Mr and Mrs Gs needs  as:
To protect your funeral costs  and leave a legacy
To provide a lump sum to repay your mortgage and debts in the event of death
The letter went on to explain the benefits  the recommended policies provided. At no time 
was critical illness cover mentioned in the letter. I know Mr G says they didnt receive  any 
paperwork. But it was correctly addressed and I wouldve expected Mr G to have followed up 
with the adviser  if he didnt receive anything. Hes also confirmed he received the documents  
from R, which also didnt mention any critical illness cover. The policy booklet that 
accompanied this appears to have included information  about the critical  illness cover. But 
as the quote clearly stated that only life cover had been taken I dont  think Mr G shouldve 
thought critical illness  cover was included in his policies.
Mr G says this booklet had been highlighted  by the adviser, specifically  the page relating  to 
critical illness. So he was led to believe it was included.  But I havent seen enough evidence  
to say the adviser highlighted this document. It wouldve been unusual  for him to have done  
so, particularly as there  was no face to face meeting and no reference was made to him 
highlighting it in the recommendation letter.
Mr G said the adviser told him the terminal illness cover in the policy  also included critical 
illness cover.  Mr G told us he didnt know the difference between terminal and critical  illness 
cover at that point. He also said that if he had known  that critical illness cover wasnt  part of 
the policy then he wouldnt  have taken it out. Mr G added that he phoned the adviser when 
he received the documents from R that he needed to check and sign. He said he wanted  to 
check that what was sent to him was what he asked  for, including  critical illness cover.  He 
said he was told again that critical illness cover was included.  
This is at odds with what Intrinsic has said and it also conflicts with the information 
Mr and Mrs G had been sent by the adviser and R. When Intrinsic  investigated  the complaint 
it said the adviser didnt  have  a record of this conversation. Instead he had a record of 
receiving a call from Mr G some time after this policy had started (possibly  when the policies 
were rewritten in August  2018). It said the adviser  noted critical illness  cover was discussed 
but Mr G declined to add it to the policy as it was too expensive.  I asked Intrinsic  whether it 
could provide any evidence of this. It said by this time, the adviser  was no longer a 
representative of Intrinsic, but it would contact  him for this evidence. Unfortunately  it hasnt 
received a response from him.
The difficulty  here is that I have no way of knowing what was said during either of the 
conversations between Mr G and the adviser. For this reason, I have to make a decision 
based on whats most likely.
Having considered all of the evidence  provided,  I dont think Mr and Mrs G asked for critical 
illness cover  to be included in the policies,  nor do I think the adviser led them to believe the 
policies hed recommended  included critical illness cover. I say this because of the 
Ref: DRN94133024documentation Ive mentioned above.  In addition, I dont think the adviser wouldve had any 
reason not to sell critical illness cover  if it had been  requested. This is because critical illness 
cover is substantially more expensive and so the adviser wouldve benefitted from higher 
commission on the sales.
Overall, it seems more likely to me that Mr and Mrs G declined to take out critical illness  
cover because of the cost. The recommendation letter shows  the sum assured for the term 
assurance policies  for lifestyle protection was driven  by cost. So, it seems very possible that 
this was also the reason for not taking critical illness cover. The later conversation  the 
adviser said Mr G had about critical illness cover and deciding against it because  it wasnt  
affordable also supports  this. Its also possible Mr G misunderstood  the scope of the terminal  
illness cover.  But I havent  seen enough  evidence to say they were  misled about this.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 May 2019.
Hannah Wise  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9413302