K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund  £13,000 she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam.
background
Ms H met a man through an online social network in August 2017  and their relationship  
developed to the point  where they were communicating almost  daily via either  email  or 
telephone and Ms H felt they were romantically  involved. Ms H says the man  who we now 
know to be a scammer  didnt ask her for anything initially. But around three months after 
they met, he told her hed been offered a job in China  and then started giving her various 
reasons why she needed to send him money.
These reasons  included  paying to replace equipment thatd  been  lost while being shipped to 
China and paying to allow access to an off-shore  account so the man could pay Ms H back 
for the money shed sent. And over the following months, Ms H sent the man significant  
amounts of money  from accounts with several  other banks.
In around March 2018, the man told Ms H a security company was arranging to send  her a 
package of money to pay her back for the money she had sent him. But she was then told 
this package had been stopped at airport security and further  money needed to be paid to 
release it. Ms H then made two payments via her HSBC online banking, for £6,000  on 
16 August 2018  and £7,000 on 13 November 2018,  which she understood was to release 
the package of money.
Ms H continued to send  money to the man from accounts with other  banks until in around 
February 2019 she was told the man had been  injured and hospitalised in an armed robbery  
at an airport. As she couldnt  get in touch with the man, Ms H called local hospitals  and 
ultimately the local embassy.  The embassy told Ms H it had no record  of a man with the 
name she had been  given,  and it became apparent  the man was a scammer. Ms H then 
reported the scam to HSBC and asked  that the two payments be refunded.
HSBC investigated  but said it had made the payment in line with Ms Hs instructions and so 
wouldnt provide  a refund. And that it couldnt  do anything further to help recover the money. 
Ms H wasnt  happy with HSBCs response, so referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint and felt HSBC  should have been concerned 
that Ms H was at risk of financial harm and taken  steps to look into things further  before 
processing the payments. And that, if it had done  this, the scam wouldve been discovered 
and Ms H wouldnt have  lost out. So they recommended HSBC refund both payments, plus 
fees and interest.  HSBC  disagreed, so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that Ms H authorised the payments. She accepts she made them both 
using her online banking.  So, although she didnt intend for the money  to go to a scammer, 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017  and the terms and conditions of her account, 
Ref: DRN90944122the starting position  is that Ms H is liable for the payments and HSBC doesnt  have to refund 
them.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases  declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud.
Im aware that HSBC  considers too high a standard has been applied to what is expected of 
it in terms of identifying  payments  that might indicate  a consumer is at risk of financial harm;  
and it has referred to the Quincecare duty in support of its argument. I am mindful that the 
courts have  interpreted  Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this complaint are 
different to that case. Our fair and reasonable remit also enables us to take account of 
regulatory and industry  standards  beyond  the narrow legal duties considered  in that and 
other court cases.
In any event, I am not suggesting Quincecare  applies to this case, however the broad legal 
position that a bank  is expected to process payments that a customer  authorises is not 
absolute  and Quincecare (along with regulators rules and guidance,  relevant codes of 
practice and good  industry practice  at the time) is an example of that.
In this case, Ms H had only recently  opened her account with HSBC  and the payment of 
£6,000 was the first payment made  out of the account. This was also a relatively large  
amount of money,  was an international payment and was made to a payee Ms H hadnt sent 
money to before. So I think HSBC should have  identified that Ms H was potentially at risk of 
fraud as a result of this payment and carried out additional  checks before processing it.
I accept its not for this service to dictate  the checks HSBC should  do or the questions it 
should ask. But, particularly given the size of this payment, that Ms H hadnt  made  any 
previous payments out of the account  and that it was an international payment, I think  in 
these circumstances  it would be reasonable to expect these checks to include questions  
about who the payment was going to and the purpose of it. Ive not seen anything to 
suggests HSBC  asked questions like these. So I dont think  it took sufficient steps to check 
whether Ms H was at risk from the payment.
HSBC has said that, even if it asked questions about the payment, its unlikely this would 
have resulted in the payment not being made  as Ms H thought she was paying someone she 
knew and trusted and her explanation of the payment wouldnt have caused its staff any 
concern. But I dont agree.
Ref: DRN90944123Ms H had been communicating with the scammer  for some time and had sent a significant  
amount of money  to them already when she made  the first payment of £6,000. So I 
recognise she would likely  have  said she was sending  money  to someone she knew. But I 
think HSBCs  checks shouldve gone beyond just asking  who the payment was going  to and 
included questions about the purpose of the payment. And if shed been asked about this, I 
think Ms H wouldve given  HSBC  the explanation shed been  given by the scammer, which  
was that the payment was to release further  money that was being  sent to her. And as this is 
a known type of scam, I think this should  have at least  prompted  HSBC to ask further 
questions. And I think further questions about the purpose of the payment and Ms Hs 
relationship with the man she was sending money to wouldve made it apparent that she was 
likely the victim of a scam.
HSBC has sent us a call recording which shows that, when Ms H initially spoke  to it about 
these payments, she said they were sent to a business associate. And its suggested this 
means she wouldnt have  given honest  answers if it had asked her further questions.  But 
while she didnt tell HSBC  the payments were connected to a romantic relationship,  shes 
told us the explanation she gave  about  why the second payment had failed was what the 
scammer told her and what she understood had happened. So I still think, if HSBC had 
pushed for further  detail  about the purpose  of the first payment, Ms H would have answered 
honestly and the scam  wouldve become apparent.
And HSBC  is in a position of knowledge  and authority in financial matters. So, if it had 
warned Ms H that she was likely the victim  of a scam, I think this warning wouldve carried 
considerable weight with her and I dont think she would have continued to make  the 
payments.
So if HSBC  had taken  further steps to check whether Ms H was potentially  at risk of financial 
harm, as I think it should have done,  I think the scam would have become apparent, Ms H 
wouldnt have gone ahead with either of the payments of £6,000 and £7,000  and she 
wouldnt have lost the £13,000. So I think HSBC  should  refund the two payments plus the 
two transfer fees,  totalling £13,008, to Ms H.
As Ms H wouldnt have lost this money  if HSBC  had done more, shes also now been without 
that money for a period of time. I therefore also think HSBC should  pay her compensatory 
interest at the rate of 8% simple a year,  from the date of the payments until the date they are 
refunded.
Ive also considered whether Ms H should  bear some responsibility for her loss. But Im 
satisfied she was genuinely of the belief that she was in some form of relationship with the 
man shed been speaking to. This was a very sophisticated and long-term scam. Ms H had 
been speaking  to the man almost daily for nearly a year before these payments  were made 
and had been sent a number of documents, including  his driving  license, a letter  confirming 
his employment,  confirmation of his flights and communication from supposed third parties.  
And she had no reason  to doubt  that any of this was genuine.  So I dont think  Ms H acted 
unreasonably or that she should bear some responsibility for her loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Ms Hs complaint.  My decision is that HSBC UK 
Bank Plc should:
Ref: DRN90944124Refund Ms H the amount she lost from the two payments, plus the two transfer  fees, 
as set out above
Pay 8% simple interest a year on those amounts from the time of the payments until 
the time theyre  repaid
HM Revenue & Customers may require HSBC UK Bank Plc to deduct tax from the interest it 
pays Ms H. If it does,  and if Ms H requests it, HSBC UK Bank Plc should  provide her with a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off so that she may reclaim  it if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2021.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9094412