K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in 1995 and 2000. Mr and Mrs R say Newcastle  Building Society (NBS) mis-sold them the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Mr and Mrs Rs say that they thought the insurance  was a pre-requisite  of their mortgage  
applications being successful and would enhance  the applications. They say it wasnt 
mentioned the PPI was optional. But I think that in both 1995  and 2000 BBS made it clear 
that Mr and Mrs R didnt  have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out  
although I can understand why they cant remember this as both sales  were a long time ago.
I say this as Ive seen  the mortgage  applications Mr and Mrs R completed  in both 1995 and 
in 2000. Although the copy from 1995  isnt the clearest copy,  I can see that on both 
applications there was a separate  section for PPI and the option on both to tick yes or no 
to taking the cover. Mr and Mrs R have ticked the yes box on both forms and have signed 
the applications in agreement with their contents.  If they hadnt wanted  the PPI they could 
have ticked the equally prominent no box on either form.  I cant  see anything from the 
applications that suggest they needed  to take the cover or that they were more  likely to be 
successful if they did. 
Mr and Mrs R say they cant remember if they were advised to take the policies out. But NBS 
say they didnt recommend them to Mr and Mrs R and I think  thats  likely to be right as Ive 
not seen anything to suggest  a personal  recommendation was made.  This meant it didnt 
have to check if the policies were  right for them.  But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs R 
got the information they needed  to decide if the PPI was right for them  on both occasions. 
Its possible the information NBS gave Mr and Mrs R about  the PPI policies wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But I think they chose  to take them  out - so it looks  like they wanted this 
type of cover. I can see that both policies  were taken in Mr Rs name only and from what  Ive 
seen of his circumstances in both 1995 and 2000 it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. Although Mr R says he had sickness benefit from his employer   this 
policy would have paid out in addition to this and possibly for longer  than he wouldve 
received his full rate of pay. It also looks like the policies were  affordable.  So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put Mr and Mrs R off taking out the PPI cover. 
Which means NBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI policies to Mr and 
Mrs R.
But Ive also thought about  whether NBS needs to give Mr and Mrs R some of the 
commission they paid for the PPI policies back. 
Ref: DRN94257152The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreement   including those that ended before 6 April 2008. As Mr and Mrs Rs 
mortgage taken  in 1995 ended before  this date they dont apply and NBS doesnt  need to 
refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs R paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
But the rules do apply to the mortgage  agreement and PPI sold in 2000. So NBS will pay 
back some  of the cost of the 2000  PPI policy to Mr and Mrs R because: 
NBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs R about that. Because NBS didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs R, that was unfair.  
To put that right, NBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
NBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs R any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium (sold  in 2000). NBS should also pay back to Mr and Mrs R any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
NBS should pay back to Mr and Mrs R the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI (sold in 2000). NBS 
should also pay Mr and Mrs R 8%* simple interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs R can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Newcastle Building Society does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R. But Newcastle Building Society does have to pay 
back to Mr and Mrs R any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9425715