K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001 through a postal application. Mrs W says Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax 
(Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mrs W has said it wasnt clear that the policy was optional. Halifax has said the optional  
nature would have  been  clear. Where  theres  a dispute about what  happened,  I have to base 
my decision  on what  I think  is most likely to have happened, taking into account all the 
evidence that is available .
Halifax has provided a copy of the credit card application completed at the time. I can see 
PPI has been  selected and Mrs W has signed  the form which I think indicates that she 
agreed to and wanted the cover. I understand what Mrs W has said about speaking to a 
representative on the phone when completing  the form.  Halifax dont have a record  of the 
call taking place and Im not doubting Mrs Ws recollections. But from the evidence Ive seen, 
if Mrs W didnt  want the PPI she could have declined to take it by not ticking  for it. 
So having  taken everything in to consideration. I think Halifax  made  it clear  that Mrs W didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she 
cant remember this now many years  later.
Halifax didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs W got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Mrs W has said she didnt  need PPI as she would have received six months full sick pay 
from her employer at the time employer if she was too ill to work . But this policy would cover 
10% of the outstanding balance of her account  for up to 12 months if she was too sick to 
work or for 10 months if she lost her job. And this would be in addition  to, and potentially for 
longer than, any other pay she would receive. 
While I appreciate that Mrs Ws family  and friends  would have wanted  to help, their support 
cant be relied upon as their circumstances can also change, meaning  they are unable to 
provide such financial  assistance. 
Ref: DRN97249402So I still think the PPI would have been useful to Mrs W.
Ive thought about everything Mrs W has said but these points dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs W paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered to give Mrs W back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mrs W.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9724940