K820x#14complaint
Ms K says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
Ms K bought the policy  in 2001 at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms K disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ks complaint because:
 I think Lloyds made  Ms K aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose  to take 
it. I say this because she did tick the box on the credit card application form to say that 
she wanted the cover. The box to decline the PPI was next to the box that she 
completed.
 Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms K, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
 Its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Ms K would have  been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Ive taken into account Ms Ks comments, including what shes  said about her ability to 
understand what she was buying. But the difficulty I have is that I cant  be sure what  was 
discussed between  Ms K and Lloyds when the policy was sold. So I havent been  able to 
safely conclude that Lloyds didnt explain the PPI to Ms K, or make her aware  that is was 
optional.
I also consider it wouldve  been reasonable for Ms K to ask Lloyds to clarify anything  she 
didnt understand  before  she signed  the credit card application form.
So these points dont  change my conclusion about whether the PPI was mis-sold.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms K because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms K about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Ms K, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN95685592To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms K.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Ms K any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9568559