K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that NewDay  Ltd should  have defaulted her credit  card after she entered a 
Debt Management Programme (DMP) via a third party in 2011. 
background
Mrs W experienced financial  difficulties  which led to her entering a DMP  in 2011. The 
NewDay credit card was included in the DMP and a reduced payment was accepted. Mrs W 
maintained the payments during the DMP and paid off the remaining balance  in 2018. 
Mrs W checked her credit  file and found  that NewDay hadnt applied  a default. Mrs W 
complained and said that by continuing to accept  payments under her DMP without 
defaulting the credit card it had extended the period of time that adverse information will be 
shown on her credit file. Mrs W is concerned  that the DMP will remain on her credit file until 
around 2024 which could impact  her ability to get credit  in the future. To resolve  the 
complaint Mrs W asked  NewDay to backdate  a default to six months  after she entered the 
DMP. 
NewDay didnt uphold  the complaint or agree to backdate the default. NewDay  said a default  
wouldnt normally be applied if the borrower voluntarily enters a DMP and maintains their 
payments. NewDay said that the information shown on Mrs Ws credit file was correct so 
didnt agree to change  it. 
Mrs W referred her complaint to our service and an investigator looked at it. He said the 
information reported on Mrs Ws credit  file was correct and didnt ask NewDay  to change it. 
In response, Mrs W said she wanted  to appeal. Mrs W also asked for confirmation that DMP 
information and a default marker are treated differently  on a credit  file. As Mrs W asked to 
appeal her complaints been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs W entered the DMP in 2011 and why shes concerned  that information 
about the DMP will remain  on her credit file for six years after she repaid  the outstanding 
balance. But I dont  agree  that NewDay has made  an error by continuing to report 
information about the DMP  on Mrs Ws credit file and not defaulting her account.  
Mrs W has asked  for confirmation of whether DMPs and defaults  are treated the same.  I 
cant tell her how businesses will treat information about different types of adverse credit  
shown on a consumers  credit file. Its up to each business to decide. But generally 
speaking, a default is considered to have more of an impact on a consumers credit  file than 
a DMP. Thats because  a default reflects that the relationship between a borrower and 
lender has broken down. A DMP  indicates that whilst the original terms havent  been 
maintained payments have continued.  As I say, each lender will have its own criteria so I 
cant comment on what the impact  of a DMP will be. 
Ref: DRN92933502Ive looked at the guidance from the Information  Commissioners Office setting out how 
businesses should  report adverse information.  Im satisfied that the guidance allows a 
business to report  a debt as being subject to DMP if a third party debt advisor negotiates a 
repayment schedule  on behalf of the borrower.  In this case  I dont think  NewDay has treated 
Mrs W unfairly by continuing to report that she was making payments under a DMP until she 
repaid the outstanding balance. Im satisfied that accurately reflects what  happened.  
Mrs W has provided a copy of her credit file when  bringing the complaint and I can see that 
NewDay isnt the only business to show as being party to a DMP. So I cant fairly say that its 
solely the information reported by NewDay that may impact Mrs Ws credit  file. 
I understand Mrs W now feels it would have been  better to have defaulted the account in 
2011 instead of agreeing a DMP. While that may have meant the information  on her credit  
file would be different,  its also true that NewDay would have treated the debt differently and 
may have  taken steps to recover the amounts owed. By agreeing a reduced  payment under 
the DMP Mrs W was able to repay  the outstanding balance  at an affordable rate as 
negotiated by the third party. Im satisfied the information NewDay  has reported accurately 
reflects the arrangements  for the account so Im not telling it make any changes to Mrs Ws 
credit file. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9293350