K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains,  via his wife, that Metro Bank PLC has unfairly blocked his business  bank 
account and withheld  his funds.
background
Mr W didnt use his business  account  whilst ill, but once back at work he said he received an 
£8,000 deposit for a job to his personal account which he said the bank incorrectly marked  
as fraud,  and blocked access. His wife said shed provided Metro Bank with a note from the 
payee showing the transaction and requesting the money back, but Metro Bank refused.
Mrs W said Metro  Bank  hadnt been  in touch and will only say its investigating. She said she 
wants to know when  Metro Bank  will release Mr Ws funds and that this has caused them 
financial and health problem. Metro Bank said that when Mr W received £8,000  it placed  
restrictions on his account and requested information about  the funds. It said Mr W provided 
some information but it wasnt satisfied  and wrote to say it was closing his bank accounts.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld,  saying  Metro  Bank  had followed 
its terms and conditions  when closing Mr Ws account and acted as quickly  as it could. He 
said Metro Bank requested substantial evidence of Mr Ws entitlement to the funds, but said 
hed provided  limited information which  wasnt enough to show he was entitled  to the funds. 
The investigator said Metro Bank  had acted fairly  and he wouldnt ask it to do anything more.
Mrs W said it had taken our service  three  months  to find out nothing, and asked why Metro 
Bank didnt  think the money was her husbands, and what  would happen to it. Mrs W said 
they got a letter from the payee  and the payee  rang Metro Bank to say the funds  were  
intended for him. Mrs W requested an ombudsman review her husbands  complaint. 
Metro Bank  has contacted  our service to say that based on advice from the other  partys  
bank it no longer needs to dispute  Mr Ws funds and will allow him access  to his funds.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We have tried to contact Mr W on a 
number of occasions but have been  unsuccessful. Metro Bank has said it is also unable to 
contact Mr W.
Ive looked closely  at Metro Banks  actions towards Mr Ws transaction  and account to see if 
it has acted within the terms  and conditions of the account, and to see if it has treated him 
fairly. Having  said this, our role is limited in these  situations  as we can only check that Metro 
Bank has followed its procedures properly and met its regulatory responsibilities.
Concerning Mr Ws bank  account, Metro Bank are entitled to close  a customers account  just 
as a consumer  can end a relationship with a bank  and move an account  elsewhere. This has 
created difficulties for Mr W, but its an action that Metro  Bank  was entitled to take.
Mr W wants to know  why Metro Bank doesnt  think the money  is his. The answer was that 
Metro Bank  didnt think he had shown entitlement  to it. Metro Bank is required to question 
payments which  might  raise concerns and it has done so with Mr Ws transaction.  
Ref: DRN94274292Im pleased that Metro  Bank now accepts Mr Ws entitlement to the funds in his account and 
will give him access to his account and the remaining funds. I advise  Mr W to make contact 
with Metro Bank at his earliest convenience to gain access to his funds.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld  as Metro 
Bank PLC was entitled to act as it did. However, Im pleased it will now give Mr W access to 
his funds.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9427429