K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2009. Ms T says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ts case.
To be clear, I am only assessing the 2009 sale of PPI. Im aware that Ms T has raised  
another complaint about a separate PPI policy she took out with Halifax in 1992. But only the 
2009 sale is being assessed  in this decision.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Ms T says she was put under immense pressure to take out the policy  and that she thought 
it was a necessary  part of the mortgage.  Halifax  says Ms T took out the PPI during a 
mortgage review in branch. The PPI was part of a package of insurance  called Total  
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) that included PPI, critical illness and life cover. Ms T has 
only complained  about the PPI so this is what Ive considered. 
Halifax hasnt been able to give me all of the documents  Ms T wouldve seen when she took 
out the PPI. But from what we know  of how Halifax sold these policies  in its branches around 
this time and the documents  weve seen in the past, its likely the paperwork Ms T will have 
signed wouldve  made it clear that the PPI was optional. 
Halifax has given me a copy of a letter  it sent Ms T after the mortgage review  in which  she 
took out the PPI. This included the policy schedule, policy  summary,  demands and needs 
statement and important  information. I recognise  that this is from after the sale,  but I think it 
indicates what was discussed during the review  and how the PPI was positioned to Ms T.
The demands and needs statement set out what was established during the mortgage 
review. Looking at this, I think there was a discussion about  Ms Ts personal  circumstances  
in relation to the benefits of the PPI. And Im satisfied that Ms T agreed to take out the cover.  
The PPI is also described as optional on a number  of the documents, including the initial  
letter, the important  information document and the demands and needs statement. Taking 
everything available into consideration, I think its more likely Halifax made  it clear  that Ms T 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
Ms Ts representative has said she was put under pressure to take the PPI. They have 
pointed to the fact she was overpaying  for other insurance policies she didnt need and feel 
this shows she was badly  advised by Halifax. Theyve also provided a statement from a 
previous employee  from Halifax to support  their allegation of pressure.
I appreciate Ms T has said she was overpaying on different insurance  policies  and her 
representative has said this was discovered in 2015  when they reviewed her insurance 
policies. But I dont  think it follows that Ms T was therefore mis-sold or pressured into taking 
Ref: DRN98562582her PPI policy in 2009. Ive seen nothing that indicates  the way in which the separate 
insurance policies  were sold was linked to the sale of the PPI. 
Ms Ts representative has also gone  to the lengths of getting  a statement from an employee 
of the Halifax  branch  in which Ms T took out the PPI. I appreciate  the efforts that its made to 
gather information.  Having said this, I dont think the employees comments that the staff had 
sales targets therefore means Ms T was put under unfair pressure to take out the policy.   
Ms T hasnt gone into any detail  about how or why she felt pressured. And I havent seen 
enough to agree that she was.  
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Ms T so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms T about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. 
Ms T had 9 weeks of sick pay at the time of the sale as well as savings she couldve  used  to 
make repayments. But the PPI couldve  covered her for up to 12 months per claim if she was 
too ill to work, had an accident or was made redundant. And that wouldve been in addition  
to her sick pay. It also meant she could use her savings for other essential expenditure if she 
was unable to work.   So I dont  think better information about the PPI would  have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Ms T paid for it. But Halifax  has already  offered to give Ms T back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Ms T now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9856258