K821x#15complaint
Mr R says Global Kapital Group Ltd (trading as MyKredit) lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr R had seven loans  with MyKredit between January  and June 2017.  Our adjudicator  
thought MyKredit had acted irresponsibly  by approving all of these loans. This was because 
MyKredit had carried out an analysis of Mr Rs bank transactions  before lending  to Mr R. 
And this analysis showed substantial gambling expenditure as well as significant amounts of 
other high-cost credit. The adjudicator thought that the level of Mr Rs expenditure meant 
that hed be unlikely to be able to sustainably repay  the loans.
MyKredit didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr Rs case.
MyKredit was required to lend responsibly. Broadly, this means it was required to carry out 
proportionate checks before lending. One of the checks  MyKredit carried out was an 
analysis of Mr Rs bank  transactions  and I intend  to focus on what  MyKredit found out from 
this check.
In the month before the first loan it approved (December 2016) MyKredit was aware that 
there were a large  number of gambling  transactions on Mr Rs bank statements  about 50 
of which  were outgoing funds. Our adjudicator estimated that Mr Rs gambling expenditure 
for December 2016 was about £4,000. Having looked at the information MyKredit provided,  
the total amount spent is in my opinion closer to £7,000. Mr R appears to have  received  
about £3,500 back  leaving total net expenditure (or perhaps net loss) for that month of 
£3,500.
Its also notable that in December 2016 Mr R was spending a significant  amount of his 
income repaying credit, he was relying on a number of other (about five) high-cost lenders 
and was often  significantly overdrawn.  A reasonable estimate  is that Mr R paid other  high-
cost lenders about £1,000  in December. He also appears to have spent over £600 repaying  
other regular  creditors, including payments towards  credit cards and non-high  cost loans.
Ref: DRN94904342In a typical month Mr R received around £3,600 from what  appears to be his employer (Ive 
noted his pay in July 2016 was higher, but this seems to have been  a one off and is six 
month before the first loan was approved). On balance, I think Mr Rs monthly expenditure 
usually exceeded  his monthly income.
So in my view, it was clear from the information that MyKredit obtained that Mr Rs 
expenditure wasnt sustainable.  He was relying on credit to repay credit and using credit to 
meet ordinary living costs  as well as to fund his gambling expenditure. The gambling 
expenditure alone in December 2016 seems  to exceed Mr Rs regular income.
In response to the adjudicators view,  MyKredit said:
Gambling behaviour is of course  a big risk factor but we believe this must  be reviewed in a 
broader sense  and the account's general  status and repayment terms must  be taken into 
consideration too. And unfortunately "no risk"  does  not exist.  We are a short term creditor  
and the people we lend [to] are in the relatively risky part of the society  who need  financial 
help to get back on their feet.
I assume that when  MyKredit refers to the broader sense and repayment terms it means 
that it thinks the loan repayments were individually affordable, regardless  of Mr Rs broader 
circumstances. If this is what it means,  I dont agree. 
MyKredit was required to check whether the loans were sustainably affordable  the concept 
of sustainability was defined by the regulator in its consumer credit  sourcebook  (CONC). A 
number of parts of CONC are relevant in this regard,  but particularly CONC 5.3.1, paragraph 
6 of which said:
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means  the repayments under 
the regulated  credit  agreement can be made  by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:

(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;

(b)out of income and savings without having to realise security  or assets
If MyKredit  assumed (as I think it must have)  that Mr R was likely to be able to repay the 
loans without undue difficulty, without having to borrow again and out of his income,  I think  it 
was wrong to do so. Given all of the evidence it had from his bank transactions, it was 
particularly unlikely that he wouldnt have to borrow to meet the repayments and so it was 
unlikely the repayments would be made from his income.
I understand the comments MyKredit made about  the market  it serves. But in Mr Rs 
circumstances, I think  its unlikely the lending would have helped  him get back  on his feet. If 
anything, in his circumstances, it would  likely  have  the opposite effect and only serve  to 
increase his indebtedness in an unsuitable  manner.
MyKredit had a fairly clear picture of Mr Rs financial circumstances. In my view, it ought  to 
have realised from the information in its possession that it wasnt  appropriate to lend to him. 
So Im upholding  Mr Rs complaint about  all of MyKredits lending.
Ref: DRN94904343putting things right
MyKredit should refund  all of the interest  and charges Mr R paid on all of his loans.  It should  
add interest at 8% simple per year to this refund, from the date Mr R paid the interest and 
charges (if he did), to the date of settlement. It should also remove any adverse information 
it has recorded about the first six loans from Mr Rs credit history.
I understand that the last (seventh) loan was sold to a third party  and was repaid. MyKredit  
will need  to liaise with the third party to obtain  the appropriate figures for the above refund of 
interest and charges. It will also need to ask the third party to remove  the loan from Mr Rs 
credit history.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MyKredit  to take off tax from this interest.  MyKredit must  give 
Mr R a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I uphold this complaint  against Global Kapital Group Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9490434