K820x#14complaint
Mr L complained complaint about how esure Insurance Limited  handled his car repair  after 
he claimed on his motor insurance  policy.
background
After Mr Ls car was damaged in an incident  esure  arranged for it to be repaired by their 
approved repairers  (esures garage).But  he said that when they gave him his car back  it 
had a new fault as his windows and mirrors didnt work. 
Esure said the damage wasnt related to the accident and wasnt the fault of their garage 
either, but was due to wear and tear.  
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  As the available 
expert evidence didnt link the cars faults to the incident damage or the garages  repair, she 
thought that esure had acted fairly on the evidence  they had. Mr L didnt agree and so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator  explained, we dont  assess whether or how damage  to a car would be 
caused, as this is a matter  for the experts  in these situations, insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these matters  is to determine  whether  an insurer  has considered all 
the available  evidence and whether they can justify  their decision  to not pay for additional 
repairs.
Mr L said that as soon as the garage returned his car, the windows and mirrors didnt work, 
though there  been nothing wrong  with them before. Esures engineer reviewed the issue  and 
thought that the problem was an electrical  fault,  related  to a faulty switch on the drivers  side. 
But the garage had no reason to work on that part of the car, and the main  incident damage 
was to the left hand rear of the car, the opposite side to the faulty  switch.  So in his view it 
wasnt incident or repair damage  but a fault which was a common one and which was due to 
wear and tear, given  the cars age and mileage.
Esure also had Mr Ls car reviewed by a manufacturer garage and their report too suggested 
that the electrical faults were unrelated to the incident damage or the repairs,  and were more 
likely than not due to wear  and tear. 
Mr L said that his own garage,  who were not manufacturer approved,  supported his view.  He 
also took his car for manufacturer diagnostic tests  but they couldnt say what was wrong, 
and needed to have his car for few days to work it out. Mr L also showed  us a photograph  he 
said was taken six weeks before the incident  which showed the drivers window open. He felt 
that this showed that the windows  had worked  before  the garage repairs. But, as the 
adjudicator explained, at most that would show that the window  did work then, not that it 
worked just before the car went into the garage. So, it still didnt prove  that the cars 
electrical fault was related to the incident  or the repairs. 
Ref: DRN94098332Esure were unwilling to accept liability for the electrical problem as there  was no expert 
evidence to link it to the incident.  But they said that if Mr L got an independent engineers  
report which showed that the incident damage  or their garage caused the problem, they 
would review things  and refund him the cost of that report. But Mr L didnt want to risk being  
out of pocket, and lacked  confidence about the possible result,  because  he felt that the 
manufacturer specialist  hadnt properly diagnosed the reason  for the fault the first time. 
I can see that this situation  has been very frustrating  for Mr L and hes worried  that the cars 
faults make  it dangerous for him and his family.  But I think  that esure  are entitled to rely on 
the expert evidence they have, and so I dont think they acted unreasonably in deciding  as 
they did. And, as theyve  offered to review the matter if Mr L gives them  expert evidence 
supporting his view,  I dont think that they can be expected to do any more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9409833