K822xcomplaint
Company I is represented by its trustee, Mr P. Its complaint is about Financial Administration 
Services Limited (known as Fidelity),  its investment  manager in 2016  and in 2017 during 
which Mr P says:
Fidelity did not follow  his instructions, on behalf  of Company I, to execute a change of 
funds in its portfolio  on 1 July 2016. [issue 1]
Fidelity made a series  of unauthorised investment switches in its portfolio between  
September 2016 and January 2017 and it is not clear that this has been redressed. 
[issue 2]
In addition, the unauthorised switches resulted in a loss of access to the portfolio during 
the same  period.  [issue 3]
background
Company Is pursuit has been ongoing  since 2016 and in addition  to Fidelitys  role as the 
investment manager  a third party adviser  features in the matter.  Mr P has also sought to 
recover the costs of the pursuit.
Four complaints  from Company I and Mr P in a personal capacity,  against  each of the two 
respondent firms  have  arisen from or around the matter. The other  three complaints are 
being addressed separately.  To date and within this service, all four complaints have been 
considered in a somewhat collective manner.  Over  time, this led to well-rehearsed  and 
sometimes revised submissions by the parties and also to revised  views  by the investigator 
who considered  the complaints. The summary  below  captures the current state of the 
present complaint:
Issue 1 is about instructions to execute specific investment switches on 1 July 2016.  The 
investigator concluded that the third party adviser is responsible for the execution delay 
up to September  2016 when Fidelity received the instructions,  and from then onwards  
Fidelity is responsible. Fidelity agrees and says it has redressed the issue  by applying 
corrections/adjustments to the funds from 12 September  2016  (when  its responsibility 
begins). The matter appears to remain unsettled because the third party adviser  says 
Fidelity should have more responsibility in the issue.
Fidelity has conceded  issue 2, which relates to unauthorised investment switches it says 
it mistakenly made in late 2016  in an initial attempt to repair the effect  of issue 1. The 
investigator concluded that redress  for issue 1  beginning from 1 July (under the third 
party advisers responsibility),  continuing from 12 September (under Fidelitys 
responsibility) and calculated thereafter  until March  2017   already caters for issue  2 as 
the period of unauthorised  switches is within the redress period for issue 1.
Fidelity also appears to concede issue 3. The same issue  applied  to the complaint by 
Mr P in his personal capacity and overall  Fidelity  offered Mr P £500  on a goodwill basis  
for the inconvenience  caused to him. The investigator concluded that the offer was fair in 
that respect. Beyond  this, she did not consider that there was enough evidence to 
identify what Mr P or Company I may or may not have done with the funds if there was 
access at the time.
The investigator explained, with reasons, that this service does not normally make 
awards for costs  and why she did not uphold  Mr Ps request for such an award.
Ref: DRN90978772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Issue 1
I affirm Fidelitys  responsibility for this issue from 12 September  2016 onwards, which  it 
concedes. I considered the dispute over responsibility for the period between 1 July 2016 
and 12 September  2016 in a separate decision related  to the third party  adviser. I concluded 
that the third party adviser is responsible for that period. It follows  that Fidelity is not 
responsible for that period. I note that redress for this issue, to Company I, appears to have 
already been applied  by Fidelity for its responsibility from 12 September 2016 onwards.
Issue 2
I affirm Fidelitys  responsibility for this issue, which it concedes. I agree with the 
investigators conclusion  that the redress applied for issue  1 (covering the period between 
September 2016 and March 2017) also incorporates redress for issue  2 which  relates to the 
same portfolio for the period between September 2016 and January  2017.
Issue 3
The relevant  loss of access does not appear  to be in dispute, however in terms of a financial 
loss arising from this issue I too do not consider that there  is enough evidence  to say what 
Mr P/Company I would have done with the portfolios investments but for the loss of access  
at the relevant time.  I also do not consider that there is a basis  for compensation for financial 
loss arising from the loss of access issue. I am satisfied that the trouble and upset caused, 
by this issue, to Mr P in his personal  capacity includes his capacity as a trustee and that it 
has been fairly reflected in Fidelitys offer of £500 to him. A separate  compensation for 
Company I in this respect does not apply.
Cost Award
I have reached the same  conclusion as the investigator in this respect,  and for the same 
reasons. I do not consider there should  be an award to cover  the costs Mr P has referred to.
Conclusion
All of the issues in Mr Ps complaint have been upheld.  Issues  1 and 2 appear to have  
already been redressed, otherwise the redress agreed between  the investigator  and Fidelity  
applies. Issue 3 has been addressed in the complaint by Mr P in his personal capacity and 
no separate compensation applies for Company  I in relation to issue 3.
Ref: DRN90978773my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Company Is complaint. Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Company I to accept or reject my 
decision before  25 February 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9097877