K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  about the level of service he received under his home emergency policy with 
British Gas Insurance Limited. 
background
Mr L had home emergency cover  with British Gas. In July 2018, a British Gas engineer came 
to his house to service  his boiler. About a month  later,  Mr L came  home  to find his carbon 
monoxide alarm had been set off. An independent  engineer went to Mr Ls property to turn 
the gas supply  off, and found  that the flue cap had been left off the boiler,  causing  a carbon 
monoxide leak. British  Gas subsequently  turned the gas supply back  on.
Mr L complained to British  Gas.  He believed the sound  of the alarm had caused his dog to 
urinate on the furniture,  causing him cleaning costs, as well as childcare costs  of 
approximately £300. He also explained  that hed had to take his young  son to hospital  as he 
wasnt sleeping or eating and hed been  worried that hed been affected by the carbon 
monoxide. 
Whilst British Gas accepted it hadnt  provided the level of service  it should have, it didnt 
think that the leak had lasted long enough to fill the house with a dangerous level of carbon 
monoxide. It also said that there was no evidence Mr Ls son had been  at risk of harm.  
Nonetheless, it recognised that Mr L had been  without gas or hot water for three days  and 
offered him £350 compensation for the inconvenience this had caused.
Mr L wasnt satisfied, so he referred the case to us. Our investigator agreed  that the £350 
wasnt sufficient compensation for the trouble and upset Mr L had experienced. Mr L couldnt 
provide evidence of the money  hed spent to have his furniture cleaned and for childcare, so 
she didnt think she could  make British Gas pay for that, but she recommended that British  
Gas should pay him £500 compensation.
Mr L agreed with our investigators assessment, but British Gas disagreed.  It maintained that 
there wasnt any evidence  that anyone in the property had been affected  by the leak.  It 
asked for an ombudsmans decision,  so the case has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator, for broadly  the same reasons. Ill explain why.
From what  its said I think British Gas accepts its error caused Mr L some  unnecessary  
inconvenience, but it maintains that £350 compensation is appropriate. 
I accept theres no medical evidence  of Mr L or his family being  harmed  or having been at 
risk as a result  of the gas leak, but its reasonable that Mr L was concerned  his son could 
have been affected by the leak and I accept that he did take him to hospital to be checked. I 
have no doubt  the experience was very upsetting and worrying  and Ive taken this into 
account in my assessment of the impact British Gas failings had on Mr L. 
Mr L spent three days without gas or hot water  and this, along with the worry associated  with 
his son persuades me that £500  compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN90285552my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited 
needs to pay Mr L a total of £500 compensation, inclusive of the £350 its previously paid.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9028555