K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that, when she applied for a personal loan, HSBC UK Bank  Plc carried out 
a soft and a hard credit check on her. This meant that, when she was turned down for the 
loan, it was reported on her credit  file. She says that she didnt know  that this would happen 
and wants her credit file amended to show no check being carried out. 
background
Miss A applied for a personal loan with the bank in February 2019. She says this was to 
refinance a car loan as the bank  were offering better  rates.
On 8 February 2019, the bank sent Miss A an email asking her to provide  bank  statements.  
Miss A says that she called the bank on 9 February  2019 to ask if a soft or a hard credit 
check would  be carried out. She says that she was told that it would be a soft credit  check 
that wouldnt affect her credit file. 
On 13 February 2019, the bank wrote to her turning her down for the loan. They  advised her 
to get a copy of the information  that the credit  reference agencies  held before making any 
further applications.
Miss A discovered that a hard credit check had been done and that this had been reported  
on her credit  file. She says that her credit went from excellent to fair. She complained to the 
bank as she had thought  that the check  wouldnt be recorded on her credit file. 
In their final response letter dated 18 February  2019, the bank didnt uphold  Miss As 
complaint. They said that the online process  clearly  stated  that the application would be 
subject to a full credit scored assessment. They had reported this accurately. But the bank  
did acknowledge that they couldnt find the recording of the phone call on 9 February 2019. 
They apologised for incorrect information  given and offered £50 compensation. 
Miss A wasnt happy with this outcome so she came to us. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found that the application process  warned  
Miss A that a full credit check  would  be carried  out so they were entitled  to do this. She felt 
that the bank had accurately recorded  information on the credit file. 
She accepted that Miss A had been given incorrect information on what checks would be 
given in the phone conversation on 9 February  2019. But she thought that the £50 offered 
was fair compensation. 
Miss A wasnt happy with this outcome so it has now come to me. In particular:
Miss A says that she doesnt remember the online application process saying that a 
full credit check would be carried  out and that the information  would  be recorded by 
the credit  reference agency. 
She says that the bank carried out two searches rather than one. 
She doesnt think that the £50 offered rectifies  the situation and thinks  that her credit 
file should be amended. 
Ref: DRN90854692my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Miss A wont be happy  with my decision. I dont think  that the bank has made 
the wrong decision. I will explain why. 
Ive looked at the online application form. The bank has provided information that it states  
the following: 
To give you a decision about  your Personal  Loan  HSBC is about to contact  credit  reference 
agencies for a full credit  check that will use details of your credit history to assess  your ability  
to meet  your financial commitments.
The credit reference  agencies will record the search  which will form part of your credit 
history, this could impact  your ability to obtain  credit elsewhere for a short  period of time. If 
your Personal Loan is opened a record of how you manage your borrowing,  your account 
limit and payment  performance may be kept with the credit reference agencies,  this 
information can be accessed and may be used by others. If you do not wish HSBC to 
perform these checks at this time, you can choose to Cancel the application.
I note that Miss A doesnt remember  reading  this before she went ahead with the application  
form. But, I have seen  nothing from her to say what  was written when she signed.  So, I can 
only conclude that the wording above  is what was included in Miss As application. And she 
wouldnt have been able to proceed  with the application had she not agreed to this. So, I 
think that the bank  were  entitled to carry out the credit checks that they did  both the soft 
and hard checks.  
Miss A was unhappy  that the recording of the phone  call on 9 February 2019 hasnt been 
found. But, I dont  think that this is relevant because the bank has accepted her version of 
what she was told in the conversation. They have apologised for giving her incorrect 
information regarding  what checks were going  to be carried  out. I think  that the £50 
compensation offered for this is fair and reasonable. This is because the checks had already 
been carried out by the time that Miss A had the conversation so wouldnt have affected 
anything at all. Miss A had already agreed  to go ahead  with the application. 
I have seen the letters produced by Miss A from Experian and I can see that they mention 
two checks being  carried out. Whilst this may have happened, I can only see one check  
reported on the credit file so I cant see what else can be done by the bank as there isnt a 
second check that needs removing. 
I am sorry  that this isnt the outcome that Miss A was hoping for. But I cant see that the bank 
were wrong in carrying out the full credit  checks and reporting them.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont require  HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything other than 
pay Miss A £50 compensation for the incorrect information given regarding the check, if not 
already paid. 
Ref: DRN90854693Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9085469