K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Ms R says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
BoS had to make Ms R aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding 
the policy to her card. BoS has provided a copy of the application form that Ms R completed  
when she applied for her card and PPI. The application form has a separate  section  for PPI 
where the option to take the policy has been selected. Ms R has also signed in acceptance  
of taking the policy in addition to signing in agreement  with the card itself. With this in mind I 
think BoS made it clear  that Ms R didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out 
 although I can understand  why she may not remember this.
BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Ms R so it didnt  have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Ms R got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Ms R about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI knowing  the other means she had of making  
her repayments, which included sick pay, savings  and help from her partner. But the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to Ms Rs sick pay and for longer than she would have 
received full pay. The PPI would also have helped to protect Ms Rs savings so they could 
be used toward other essential expenses. And while Ms Rs partner would have  wanted  to 
help their ability to would have been dependent on their circumstances  at the time, which  
could have changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Ms Rs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms R.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms R because:  
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Ms R about that. Because BoS didnt tell Ms R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms R has said, but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN94275562my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms R.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Ms R any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9427556