K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the advice he was given by Cowley & Miller Independent Financial 
Services Limited to transfer  his pension into a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP) and 
invest in an unregulated investment. Mr Bs representative says the advice didnt comply 
with Mr Bs low attitude to risk and was negligent. 
background
Mr B met with an adviser at Cowley & Miller in 2012. At the time Mr B was unemployed and 
had two dependent children. Whilst not noted in Cowley  & Millers record  of his 
circumstances, he was receiving disability benefits. He had no disposable  income. It was 
noted that Mr B would like to retire at age 55, and this was quite important to him. His main 
financial goal was better growth.  He was also noted to be happy to accept risk, but needed 
to have good potential at the end of the term. 
Mr B held two pension plans. One was being maintained  by the waiver  of premium  facility 
and had a transfer value  of around  £23,000. The other had a transfer  value of just over 
£19,000, and was no longer receiving any contributions.  He was advised  to transfer the 
second plan into a SIPP. The majority  of the pension fund was then invested in carbon 
credits through  the Carbon Advice  Group plc  an unregulated  investment. 
Mr B complained to Cowley  & Miller in February  2017. Cowley & Miller didnt uphold the 
complaint. It said Mr B was referred  to them by a third party as he potentially wanted  to use 
his pension to invest in carbon credits. Cowley & Miller had explained that the investment 
was high risk, and there was a real potential for partial or complete loss. But despite these 
warnings, Mr B decided  to proceed with the investment. 
As he remained unsatisfied, Mr B then referred his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators 
considered the matter,  and thought the complaint should succeed.  Having  taken account  of 
Mr Bs circumstances, she didnt think investing in an unregulated collective investment 
scheme (UCIS) was suitable for him. So he shouldnt have been advised to transfer his 
pension in order to make the investment.  
Cowley & Miller didnt agree. In summary, it said:
It was Mr Bs desire and express  wish to invest in carbon credits using his pension as 
he had no other  investible  assets.
Its suitability report and supporting documents clearly detailed the risks involved in 
this type of investment. Mr B acknowledged  this and confirmed he wanted  to go 
ahead.
The adjudicator  has classified carbon credits as a UCIS. But it disputes  this and 
understands its a tradable investment commodity.
Although Mr B was classed as a balanced investor, he clearly  stated that he wished 
to invest in carbon  credits. 
Only one of Mr Bs pension plans  was transferred, and the one that wasnt  was 
invested in a with-profits fund. So there was a spread  of investments over his two 
pension plans.
It had recommended that only 10% of his transferred fund should be invested in 
carbon credits.  It was Mr Bs insistence that 100% his entire fund should be invested.  
The complaint has now been passed to me for review. 
Ref: DRN94713282my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B was referred to Cowley & Miller  by a third party  who had told him about  
the possibility  of investing in carbon credits through his pension fund. But while  this concept 
may have  been  introduced to Mr B by another business, Cowley  & Miller had a duty to 
provide him with suitable advice. On balance, I dont think  the advice Mr B was given was 
suitable, and Ill explain why. 
Cowley & Miller sent Mr B a suitability report in August 2012.  It said that carbon credits 
wasnt an authorised  fund under the Financial  Services  Authority (FSA)  remit. This meant  
that if the fund failed  there was no Financial  Services Compensation Scheme protection. It 
had therefore  suggested that the maximum of his total pension fund invested in carbon 
credits should be 10%. But Mr B had insisted on transferring his pension because  he was 
unemployed and felt this was his best chance  of making something  of his pension  as it was 
going nowhere. While Mr B was aware  that he could  lose his entire  investment if the fund 
failed, he wanted  to invest all the transfer value in carbon credits.  
Cowley & Miller recommended that Mr B transfer  his pension plan into a SIPP.  Its clear  that 
while Cowley & Miller had proposed that only 10% of Mr Bs total pension  fund should be 
invested in carbon credits, it was aware  of his intention  for all of the transferred plan to be 
invested in this way. It then arranged the transfer and sent the SIPP application to the 
provider. The application noted that the SIPP was to be invested 100% in carbon  credits.
Im mindful that the FCA has issued alerts  in respect of advising on pension transfers with a 
view to investing pension  monies into unregulated products through  a SIPP. One was 
published on 18 January 2013 and a further one published on 28 April 2014. These alerts 
didnt make any changes  to the regulations.  They simply re-stated the principles that already 
applied, and which were  in place in 2012 when the advice  was given.
The regulator made its position clear  when it said the following in the alert issued in 2013:
The FSAs view is that the provision  of suitable advice generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes.  It should  be particularly clear to financial advisers  that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing  a wider  investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating.
I dont think investing  in carbon credits was suitable for Mr B. I note he was assessed as 
having a balanced attitude  to risk. Im not convinced this was an accurate assessment. As 
noted above, Mr B had relatively little in the way of pension  provision. While one of his 
policies was still receiving  contributions  by way of the waiver of premium,  I think the potential 
for Mr B to increase his provision was fairly limited. In the circumstances, I dont  think  
investing in carbon credits was suitable,  even if this was for a proportion of Mr Bs pension  
fund. 
Ref: DRN94713283I note Cowley & Miller  disputes the adjudicators reference to the investment as a UCIS. But 
I dont think whether or not the investment fulfilled the criteria of what  is a UCIS is material  to 
the outcome of this complaint. Theres no doubt this was an unregulated investment, as 
noted in the carbon credits documentation. I also think this was a high risk and speculative 
type of investment, into non-mainstream assets without any track record.  
Its possible that Mr B was disappointed with the investment  performance  of his existing 
plans. But I dont think this justified recommending a transfer into a SIPP.  Ive not seen 
evidence there was any exploration that performance could  potentially  be improved by 
switching funds within the current plans.
 
The transfer value  being considered was just under half his total pension fund. I dont think 
Mr B was in a position to incur a significant  loss to this money,  which in reality  is what  has 
happened. As I understand  it, Mr Bs investment is currently illiquid and cant be realised.
Also, Mr B was reasonably close to retirement, particularly if he retired at age 55 as was 
noted to be his preference. So he had a fairly limited period in which to achieve  significant 
growth, or to recover from a fall in the fund value. 
In the circumstances, I think Mr B should  have been  advised to give greater priority to 
conserving the pension fund hed already  built up. In saying this Im mindful that Cowley & 
Miller wrote to Mr B a year after the transfer confirming the current  fund value of his SIPP  
was £14,775.  It said this reflected the charges taken out of the plan at the outset.  So as a 
result of the transfer  the pension fund had to overcome this deficit before it could start to 
achieve any real growth.  
Cowley & Miller has suggested that Mr B was an insistent customer. Im not convinced  this is 
correct. While Mr B may have been  keen to invest in carbon credits through his pension, he 
was entitled to receive appropriate financial advice on his aims.  
Further, Ive not seen evidence Cowley & Miller undertook the required process so as to 
treat Mr B as an insistent customer  that is, someone who wants  to act against the advice 
they are given.
The regulators handbook  (which contains  the Conduct of Business rules that firms must
follow) doesnt refer specifically to insistent clients. But the regulator issued a factsheet 
more recently (on 18 February  2016) following  the pension reforms introduced in 2015. 
Although the factsheet was issued after Mr Bs advice, it simply restated the existing 
position and didnt reflect any change in the regulators rules.
As far back as 1994 a former regulator  (FIMBRA)  published guidance (about pension
transfers and opt outs)  which included the following:
The investors decision to override the advisers recommendation should also be credibly 
evidenced. Disclaimer forms and pre-printed letters using  stock phrases should not be used 
since they cast doubt  upon the genuineness  of the process. A note from the customer in his 
own words is best.
Compliance officers will be expected to record the number of cases in which the investor 
overrides the advice of financial advisers  within the organisation and to investigate 
thoroughly those cases where  there  may be doubts  about the credibility of the actions 
taken by the investor.
Ref: DRN94713284The (more recent) factsheet says there are three key steps when advising an insistent client:  
The adviser must provide advice that is suitable  for the individual  client,  and this 
advice must be clear to the client  that is the normal advice process.
It should be clear to the client that their actions  are against the advisers advice.
The adviser should be clear with the client what the risks of the alternative course of 
action are.
There is no rule to prevent an adviser from transacting business  against advice if the client 
insists. And, as its up to firms to decide  what services they wish to offer,  a firm can give 
advice but decline  to carry out the transaction.  
I appreciate the suitability  report  included warnings about the risks involved in investing  in 
carbon credits,  including  the possibility  of total loss. But the report  also made positive 
comments about this type of investment.  For instance, it said investments in carbon credits 
resonate with three global themes   reducing poverty, fighting climate change  and promoting  
corporate social responsibility. 
The report  also said that the market for carbon assets continued to be attractive. Over  the 
longer term the market  would benefit  from greater  price  transparency,  decreasing 
transaction costs  and increasing liquidity. It said market volumes  for this type of carbon 
credit were  forecast  to grow significantly between 2012 and 2010. 
In all, I think the risk warnings within the report were diluted by such positive statements, and 
Mr B was led to believe investing  in carbon credits  was an attractive prospect. 
But for the reasons Ive explained,  I dont think the advice was suitable, and exposed  his 
pension to a level of risk which was too high for him. Cowley & Miller should  have  advised  
Mr B not to transfer  his pension. But it didnt do this. Instead, it recommended that Mr B 
transfer his pension.
I appreciate that the concept  of using his pension to invest in carbon credits had been 
introduced to Mr B by a third party. But as hed been  referred to Cowley & Miller for financial 
advice, I think its likely  he would have followed the advice  he was given. So if hed been 
advised that he shouldnt transfer  his pension, as the proposed  investment wasnt  suitable, I 
think hed have agreed to retain his existing plan. If hed insisted on proceeding anyway, 
Cowley & Miller should then have recorded this was against its advice. 
Ive given consideration to how Mr B should be compensated. While I think  its likely he 
wouldnt have transferred his pension, its not clear how he would have invested his plan 
going forward. This is because he seems  to have become dissatisfied with the way his 
pension was performing. Im also mindful that it may be difficult  for the former pension 
provider to now be able to calculate a nominal value, several years after the plan was 
transferred. So Ive set out below what I think is a fair way of calculating  Mr Bs loss, in the 
circumstances of this case.  
Ref: DRN94713285fair compensation
My aim is that Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably  
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr B would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr B's circumstances and objectives when he invested.  
what should  Cowley & Miller do?
To compensate Mr B fairly,  Cowley & Miller must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment  with that of the benchmark  shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Cowley & Miller should add interest  as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Cowley & Miller should pay into Mr B's pension  plan to increase its 
value by the total amount  of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Cowley & Miller is unable to pay the total amount  into Mr B's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct  to him. But had it been  possible  to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B would  
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mr B £300 for the trouble and upset he's been caused  by the loss of his pension.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Cowley  & Miller deducts  income  tax from 
the interest it should tell Mr B how much  has been  taken off. Cowley  & Miller should  give 
Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN94713286investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Cowley  & Miller should take ownership of 
the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. 
This amount should be deducted from the compensation  and the balance  paid as I set out 
above.
If Cowley & Miller is unable to purchase  the investment, the actual value should be assumed 
to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Cowley & Miller may require that Mr B provides an 
undertaking to pay Cowley  & Miller any amount he may receive  from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Cowley & Miller will need to meet any costs  in 
drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Cowley & 
Miller should  use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  
maturity as published by the Bank  of England.  The rate for each  month is that shown as at 
the end of the previous  month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Cowley & Miller totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Ref: DRN94713287why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr B wanted capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr B's risk profile  was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr B into that position.  It does  not mean that Mr B would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some  kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr B could  have  obtained  from investments  suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Cowley & Miller  Independent Financial Services  
Limited should pay the amount calculated  as set out above.
Cowley & Miller Independent Financial Services Limited should  provide details of its 
calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9471328