K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that A-Plan Holdings failed to take reasonable care when 
arranging their contents and valuables cover  which had led to their insurer  voiding their 
home insurance policy (treating it as though  it had never existed) after they made a claim for 
loss suffered in a burglary.
background
Mr and Mrs J took out a home insurance policy through A-Plan. In November 2017, A-Plan 
wrote to Mr and Mrs J with a renewal quote  from their existing insurer.  This was based on 
contents cover of £80,000 with a maximum valuables limit of £0.
On 14 November 2017 Mr J spoke to an adviser from A-Plan. They  asked him whether  he 
had any changes to make to his cover.  He replied that everything was the same. But he 
wasnt happy with the amount of the premium. So A-Plan said it would look at other insurers. 
They told Mr J theyd found a quote  from another insurer  which was less than he was 
currently paying for the same cover. Mr J said hed think about it.
On 24 November Mr J told A-Plan  hed had a quote from a different insurer  for an even lower 
premium. A-Plan said its insurer could offer a premium of £334 for the same cover. It asked 
Mr J whether cover of £12,500 for valuables and a single article limit of £2,000 was enough. 
He said it was.
 
Mr J agreed to proceed with the revised  quote  from A-Plan and it set up the policy.  Under it 
contents were insured  for £80,000. Cover for high risk items or valuables  was limited under 
the policy to 30% of the contents  cover, being  £24,000 but to £10,000 for stolen jewellery or 
watches unless the items were stolen from a safe.
Mr and Mrs J made  a claim to the insurer after their home was burgled in October 2018. A 
considerable amount of jewellery and cash was stolen from their property. After investigation 
the insurer said the total value of their jewellery  was over £124,000 and the rest of their 
contents would cost between £50,000  to £55,000 to replace. Mr and Mrs J said they thought  
their jewellery was worth £70,000 and that the rest of their contents were worth  £10,000.  
The insurer  said if it had been  aware  how much their jewellery  was worth,  it would never 
have offered them the policy. So it decided  to void the policy.
Mr and Mrs J complained  to A-Plan. They said they werent asked what their contents were  
worth, they werent told about the limit of cover for valuables  and they didnt receive the 
policy schedule. They wanted A-Plan  to reimburse  them for the value of the items stolen 
from their home and pay for the damage  caused to their property  during the burglary.
A-Plan said Mr and Mrs J had been  provided  with sufficient information to know  that the 
policy theyd purchased had a contents  sum insured  at £80,000 including a limit of £10,000 
(based on not having a safe) or £24,000/30% of the contents sum insured (based on having  
a safe),  for total valuables. It thought  they should have known that the cover wasnt suitable 
for the £124,000 of jewellery they had. It also said, when asked, prior to the policy  cover  
starting, theyd confirmed to A-Plan  that £12,500 would be sufficient to cover their valuables.  
Mr and Mrs J brought  their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold  it. He 
thought A-Plan  had asked Mr and Mrs J clear questions. He also thought Mr and Mrs J 
Ref: DRN96414132probably had been  sent the schedule. As Mr and Mrs J didnt  agree,  the matter  has been 
referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs J are unhappy  that their insurer has voided their policy. In this 
decision Im only looking at whether A-Plan  made  sure that the policy was suitable for their 
needs. It had a duty to do that because  it advised  them regarding the insurance policy and 
recommended the policy  to them.  
On renewal A-Plan obtained  a quote  from an insurer based  on contents cover  of £80,000 
with a maximum valuables limit of £0. This was the same as the contents cover Mr and Mrs 
J already had. So I assume A-Plan simply used the previous amounts insured. In the letter  it 
wrote to Mr J enclosing  the quote  it said:
Important Notes
Please make  certain  your sums insured are adequate. 

For contents the sum should  be high enough  to replace everything at todays prices 
(except for clothing,  furs and household  linen). If you would  like a checklist  to help you 
review your sums  insured, please  contact us.
If you have any jewellery or high value watches, you should carefully reconsider the 
replacement costs of such items as values have  increased very considerably in recent 
years. We strongly  recommend that items  of jewellery and watches are revalued at least  
every three years.
The quote  was based on information set out as questions and answers. These  included  the 
following:
Does the full contents sum represent the full replacement amount? Yes
Do you have a safe installed? No
Mr and Mrs J were asked  to notify  A-Plan straightaway if any of this information was 
incorrect. Mr J did contact A-Plan after receiving  the quote but didnt say that any of the 
above information was wrong  although  hed clearly  read it as he corrected and queried the 
answers to some of the other questions.  He said he was happy with £80,000 cover for 
contents. He didnt tell A-Plan  they had a safe.  So I think it was reasonable for A-Plan to 
work on the basis that Mr and Mrs J were  satisfied that they were insuring their contents for 
the full replacement amount and that they didnt have a safe.
However Mr J wasnt happy with the premium. So A-Plan obtained another quote. Ive 
listened to a recording of a call Mr J had with A-Plan  to discuss that quote. A-Plan told him 
the total contents limit was £80,000  and £5,000 for items away  from home. Then  it went  on 
to say that the total valuables limit was £12,500  with a single article limit of £2,000. Mr J was 
asked Is that enough, do you think? He answered  yes. 
Ref: DRN96414133Mr J said he interpreted the question  as asking whether £12,500  was enough  as a limit on 
valuables lost outside the home. But hed just been  told that the limit for items away  from 
home was £5,000. So I dont think it was A-Plans  fault if Mr J didnt understand that it was 
referring to valuables generally.
Mr J also feels  the question was vague.  The question taken in isolation can be interpreted in 
different ways. It could  be taken as asking how much Mr and Mrs J wanted to insure  their 
valuables for or how much their valuables were  worth  questions  which  could give rise to 
two entirely different but correct answers. But in the context of the earlier  correspondence 
mentioned above  I think it was reasonable for A-Plan to expect that Mr J would have 
understood that it was asking whether £12,500 was enough to replace all their valuables in 
full. A-Plan wasnt to know, and in my view couldnt reasonably have  deduced based  on 
what it knew from the contact it had had with them, that Mr and Mrs J had jewellery they 
thought was worth £70,000.
The policy actually issued had different limits  for valuables. Under the standard policy limits  
for valuables  it said that Mr and Mrs J could claim Up to 30% of your total contents 
maximum claim amount (The most you can-claim for stolen jewellery  or watches  from your 
home is £10,000 unless stolen from a fixed and locked safe).  Mr and Mrs J did have a fixed  
and locked safe although A-Plan wasnt aware of that at the time.  So their limit for valuables  
was actually a more generous £24,000.  I dont think these different limits are important since  
in any event Mr and Mrs Js valuables were  worth significantly more than the highest limit.
Mr and Mrs J accepted  the quote and took out the policy.  A-Plan sent them  the policy 
documentation by post before the policy was due to start. It asked  them to check  the 
documentation. It enclosed a statement of insurance. At the top of that document it said:
Your policy is based  on the answers on this statement of insurance.  You must tell us of any 
changes to the answers stated on this form as soon  as possible. Failure to advise of a 
change to your answers may mean that your  policy is invalid  and claims may not be 
paid.
One of the questions was:
Contents  Insurance
Maximum claim limit to be insured £80,000
Is this amount sufficient  to cover the full replacement  cost of all the contents in the home?  
Yes
A-Plan say that included  with the policy documentation it sent Mr and Mrs J was the policy 
schedule setting out the limits of cover. That stated:
Please note: The following individual limits apply:
Maximum cover for all your valuables inside 
the home30% of the maximum claim  limit for contents
Single item limit for valuables £2,500
Maximum total for all jewellery & watches in 
the home unless  stolen  from a fixed locked 
safe£10,000
Ref: DRN96414134A-Plan say that another document  was also included with the letter which  was a summary of 
their cover. That document set out the limit of cover  for valuables  mentioned  above  apart  
from the single item limit.
Mr and Mrs J say they didnt receive the schedule with the other documents A-Plan sent 
them before renewal. I can see that the covering  letter was correctly  addressed  and refers 
to the policy  schedule. Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs J didnt receive the schedule but 
even if they didnt, I think they should have noticed it was missing and asked A-Plan  for 
another copy.
A-Plan told Mr and Mrs J:
that it was their responsibility to ensure the limit of the contents cover, including  the limit 
for valuables was sufficient to replace  them;
that if they didnt  insure for the full replacement  cost,  their policy  might  be voided and their 
claim not paid.
I think it did this sufficiently clearly.  That means, unfortunately for Mr and Mrs J, that it isnt 
A-Plans fault that their valuables were under-insured  and their policy voided.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 August 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9641413