K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  cancelled his caravan insurance  policy  when it 
found out that his motor home had been  a previous  write-off. He wants a refund of his 
premiums.
background
Mr M had been insured  with Aviva for three  years when he found out that it didnt cover 
previously written-off vehicles. He contacted Aviva and his policy was cancelled with a partial 
refund of premium. It said it would  have covered any claims made  whilst Mr M was insured. 
Aviva didnt put a cancellation marker  on Mr Ms record. But Mr M wanted a refund of his 
premiums. He said hed told Aviva about the previous write-off when he took out the policy.  
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. Aviva had relied 
on an exclusion about modifications to cancel the policy. But this wasnt  defined in the policy 
and she didnt think it could be interpreted to mean a previous write-off.  She thought Aviva 
hadnt asked Mr M about any previous write-off or modifications when he took out the policy. 
The investigator thought Aviva  had reasonably refunded Mr Ms unused  premium and not 
recorded the cancellation. She thought it didnt need  to refund his premiums in full as it 
would have covered Mr M in the case of a claim.  But she thought it should pay Mr M £150 
for his avoidable inconvenience.
Mr M replied that he didnt think he would have been  covered in the case of a claim. He 
thought he had told Aviva about the previous write-off. He wanted £400 for the way he was 
treated and his inconvenience. Aviva replied that it accepted the investigators view.  It 
thought Mr M hadnt told it about the previous write-off. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has now accepted that when Mr M took out his policy  it should  have asked  him 
specifically if his motorhome had been  a previous write-off. It said it had now added  this to its 
script for new business. It said the exclusion need  not be added to the policy as it wouldnt 
offer cover if it knew  about  the previous write-off. I think thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Aviva thought Mr M should  reasonably  have  known that it didnt offer cover  for previous 
write-offs. But I havent seen any evidence to support  this. Mr M contacted Aviva 
immediately he found out from a family member about the exclusion.  I think  this shows  that 
he hadnt known  about it earlier. And, as the investigator has pointed out, theres nothing 
about it in its policy  documents  to warn consumers.  
Mr M thought hed told Aviva that his motorhome had been a previous  write-off. But Ive 
listened to the new business call between  Aviva and Mr M and I didnt hear any discussion 
about previous  modifications or previous write-offs.  When Mr M told Aviva about this, it 
cancelled his policy with seven days notice. So I havent seen any evidence  that Mr M told 
Aviva that the motorhome had been a previous write-off. 
Ref: DRN91807282So I think Aviva  made  a mistake by not making  it clear to Mr M when he took out the policy 
that it didnt cover previous write-offs. When a business makes a mistake,  as Aviva has done 
here, we think it should restore  the consumers position as far as its possible to do so. We 
also consider the impact  of ant error. So what remains for me to decide  is what  level of 
compensation Aviva should pay Mr M for the trouble and upset this mistake caused him. 
Aviva said it would have  covered  Mr M in the event  of a claim. Mr M doesnt  agree that it 
would have. But Ive seen evidence from its underwriters that it would  have offered indemnity  
as it had provided a policy.  So I dont think it would  be reasonable for Aviva to refund all of 
Mr Ms premiums  as he had benefit from the policy and because he would have had to take 
out cover  elsewhere  if he hadnt insured with Aviva.
Aviva refunded Mr Ms policy premiums  for the unused  portion of his current policy.  It didnt 
record the cancellation and it said it wouldnt affect Mr Ms premiums going forward. I think 
thats fair and reasonable as this is what Id have required Aviva  to do in these 
circumstances. 
The investigator thought Aviva  should also pay Mr M £150  compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by him having  to take out alternative cover  elsewhere. Mr M said this 
had cost him more,  but I cant hold Aviva responsible for that. I cant  see that the 
cancellation had any other impact  on Mr M. So I think £150 compensation is fair and 
reasonable as its what Id recommend  in similar circumstances. I dont require Aviva to 
increase this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Aviva Insurance Limited  to 
pay Mr M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service, as its already  agreed to do. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9180728