K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mrs L says Capital One (Europe)  Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs L took out the credit card and PPI online.  And from what  weve  seen of these types 
of sales, I think she wouldve been presented  with a fair choice to buy PPI. Capital One 
has also given me a copy of Mrs Ls signed  credit agreement that was sent to her after 
the online application. And on it I can see that shes ticked a box next to where  it says I 
wish to purchase Optional Capital One Payment Protection Insurance .  Shes also 
signed for PPI separately to the credit card. 
So I think Capital One made it clear  that Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs L got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look likely 
that she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would 
have likely been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put her off taking 
out the cover. 
In saying the above Ive carefully  considered what Mrs L has said about  her sick pay 
benefits. But PPI gave her cover  for up to 12 months. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because:  
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs L about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mrs L, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN93640502Ive thought about everything Mrs L has said  including that her employer provided her with 
private health care. But PPI gave her cover if she found herself  unable  to or out of work.  So 
these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does  not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs L any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9364050