K820x#14complaint
Miss H says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold her a payment protection policy  (PPI) 
policy.
background
Miss H took out PPI in one of Nationwides  branches in 2002  at the same time as she was 
applying for a mortgage. The policy covered her for accident, sickness  and unemployment.  
She paid a monthly amount  for it.
The adjudicator didnt recommend Miss Hs complaint should be upheld. Miss H disagreed 
so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is contradictory  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely to have  happened in the light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss H says she is certain she wouldnt have voluntarily taken out PPI, she was led to 
believe she had to have  it for her mortgage  to be approved  and Nationwide  pressured her 
to take it out. Nationwide disputes this. I cant know what  was said in the meeting but Ive 
looked carefully at the available paperwork. Miss H completed a separate application  form 
for the PPI, answering a number  of eligibility questions and selecting the benefit level she 
wanted. And theres nothing on the form that I think could reasonably have led Miss H to 
believe she had to have  it. 
Whilst its possible that Nationwide said something to make  Miss H think  the PPI was 
mandatory for her, I have  to reach  a conclusion  about what I think  is most likely, based  on 
the balance of the evidence. And Ive found nothing in the paperwork  from the time of the 
sale that indicates the PPI was presented to her as mandatory. I have thought  carefully 
about Miss Hs comments but I have  to take into account how long ago the sale was and 
how that might impact what she recalls. 
On balance, I think its most likely that Nationwide made  Miss H aware that she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. 
Nationwide has said it didnt recommend the PPI to Miss H, and from what Ive seen I think  
thats probably right. Theres no evidence that it reviewed  her individual  circumstances as 
part of the sales  process.  So it didnt have  to check if the policy  was right for her. But it did 
have to make sure Miss H got all the information  she needed to decide  if the PPI was right 
for her. 
Ref: DRN95565682Its possible the information wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont  think  she 
wouldve been put off taking out the policy if she had received better  information.  I say this 
because:
Miss H was eligible  for the policy given her circumstances at the time and the policys  
terms and conditions.
Miss H wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, 
such as those affecting people with pre-existing medical conditions. As she couldve 
benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely better  information  about 
the policys exclusions and limitations would have changed  her decision to buy it. 
Miss H was entitled to six months  full pay and six months half pay if she was sick 
but PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months for each successful accident and 
sickness claim. Shes told us she would  have received redundancy pay too but the 
PPI gave her up to 12 months  cover. I think its likely this would have been much  
more than any payment from her employer as she had only been  in her job for a 
year. Given the consequences for Miss H of defaulting on a large and long term debt 
secured against  her home, I think the PPI would have been useful for her if she was 
sick or lost her job.
I dont know when  the cost was first made  clear  to Miss H but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And she could cancel it without 
further cost if at any stage she no longer wanted it.
So, it follows  I dont think Miss H has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9556568