K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about the advice he was given  by Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited  to 
contribute to a personal pension with Sanlam when he was eligible to join an occupational  
pension scheme. He requests that Sanlam  calculates if he has suffered  a loss through  this 
unsuitable advice.
background
In 1990 Mr D met with a Sanlam financial adviser. He was recommended  to take out a 
personal pension  when he could have joined the NHS pension scheme.  
Mr D complained to Sanlam but as it was uncertain how to resolve the complaint it 
recommended that the complaint be referred  to this service for resolution. 
An adjudicator at this service  considered  the complaint. She thought that any loss should be 
calculated using the Pension  Review methodology but updated  using the, as yet not 
published, new FCA guidance. Sanlam agreed to this. 
When the updated guidance was published Sanlam changed its view of the complaint and 
said that it should not be upheld. It declined to carry out the redress  calculation.
The adjudicator reviewed the complaint. Her view was that it should  be upheld. She said that 
the SIB guidance for reviewing pension transfers set out that such  non-joiner and opt out 
situations should be treated as unsuitable  unless  there were compelling reasons  not to do 
so. She did not believe there were any such compelling reasons. She suggested that 
Sanlam calculated and paid redress. Sanlam did not agree and so the complaint has been  
passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The fact find update of September  1990 did record that Mr D had access  to the NHS 
scheme. Sanlam has said that it is indicated that Mr D did not intend  to work for the NHS for 
long. It has also said that Mr D was happy  to proceed with the personal pension,  understood 
that the benefits were not guaranteed and that the personal pension was chosen for 
flexibility, costs and changing business. 
However there is no evidence of Mr D being  given a balanced comparison between the 
personal pension  and the NHS scheme. The NHS  provided guaranteed benefits  in terms of 
income linked  to his final salary and guaranteed increases to those benefits. This was as 
well as providing dependents  benefits.  The pension Mr D was advised to take does not have  
those guarantees  or additional benefits. 
Mr D only had to pay 6% of his pensionable salary  to the NHS scheme so it does not seem 
to me that cost was an issue. It was written  on the update that Mr D did not foresee working 
as an NHS  dentist for longer than 10-15 years. That is actually quite a significant period to 
be able to build up valuable NHS  benefits and Mr D should not have  been  advised to opt out 
based on an assumption that membership would not be worthwhile. 
Ref: DRN96886652Mr D would have been more suitably advised to participate in the NHS scheme until such 
time as he was no longer a member.  If his membership ceased then at that point his option  
to take out a pension such as Sanlams could have  been explored.  I also believe that if Mr D 
had been given a full and balanced comparison between the NHS scheme and the Sanlam 
scheme he would have most likely  opted  for the NHS scheme.  
my final decision
My  decision  is that I uphold the complaint,  and that a fair and reasonable outcome would be 
for Sanlam  to put Mr D, as far as possible, into the position he would now be in but for the 
unsuitable advice.
Sanlam must undertake  a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review  
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017. This would  be for 
the period from the start of the plan in 1990  until 4 April 1992  when a new business  took 
over liability.  
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions published (at the date of that decision). In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision. 
Sanlam may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions  (DWP)  to obtain  Mr Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to his likely  income  tax rate in retirement   presumed 
to be 40%.  So making a notional deduction  of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects  
this.
In addition, Sanlam  should pay Mr C £250  for the upset and inconvenience caused  by the 
unsuitable advice.  
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr D 
within 90 days of the date Sanlam receives notification  of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Sanlam to pay Mr D this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
Ref: DRN96886653period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9688665