K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK Limited  misrepresented  the 
finance agreement  when she bought a car.
background
Miss B bought  a car using a Personal  Contract  Plan (PCP) from Mercedes-Benz  Finance in 
February 2018. She says she told the sales representative that she was planning on moving 
abroad within the next one to three years and wouldnt  then need  the car. Miss B says she 
was told she could  return the car and terminate the finance  agreement,  with no further 
payments, when the time came. However, now Miss B is moving  abroad  shes  been told 
there will be a charge to terminate the agreement. Miss B adds that she had no adequate 
guidance or information about the finance  agreement and now feels she was tricked into the 
contract.
Mercedes-Benz Finance says Miss B initially contacted it in January 2019  to discuss  the 
termination of her agreement. It says she was given  her contractual options  but Miss B said 
she wouldnt  be paying that amount under any circumstances. Mercedes-Benz Finance went  
on to say Miss B also complained that she hadnt received promised call backs, but that, 
when it listened  to the calls, it could not agree any such commitments  were made. 
Mercedes-Benz Finance adds that the retailer also confirmed it didnt say Miss B could 
return her car, free of charge, at any time. Indeed, the retailer  said that when Miss B made 
contact in early January  it provided her contractual options and also a contact number  for a 
used car buyer. The retailer says that Miss B made no comments  about mis-selling during  
this interaction.
 Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said that, in the 
absence of any evidence  as to what was said during the sale process, hes looked  at the 
paperwork. Our adjudicator said that the agreement states what payment is required to end 
the agreement  early and that Miss B would have had the opportunity  to question  why that 
was different to what shed been  told before signing the agreement.  He said that on the 
balance of probabilities, and taking  into account the terms  outlined in the agreement, he 
couldnt agree that a false statement of fact was made, so couldnt agree  that the finance 
agreement was misrepresented.
Miss B responded to say, in summary,  that she was persuaded to buy the car based on what  
she considered  to be a lie. She also questioned  whether Mercedes-Benz  Finances 
processes were in line with the Financial Conduct  Authoritys guidelines. Miss B says 
Mercedes-Benz Finance spent far longer convincing her to buy the car than it spent 
explaining the finance agreement and that she had no personal interaction with any financial 
specialists. She adds that she wasnt given enough time to read the documents, but was 
simply asked to sign.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  or contradictory, as some of it is here, I must make my 
decision based on the balance of probability.  That is, what  I consider is most likely to have 
happened.
Ref: DRN99356672Miss B says she raised the question  of moving abroad at the point of sale and was told if she 
did so, she could return the car with no further  payments.  The retailer has spoken to the 
sales advisor concerned  who categorically  denies saying this.
As I was not present  during this conversation, and Mercedes-Benz Finance has not provided 
a written record of what was discussed,  I need to look at any other  evidence  I have to decide 
whether I consider it likely  that the finance agreement was misrepresented.
Ive seen the finance agreement which says if Miss B wishes to terminate the agreement 
Mercedes-Benz Finance would be entitled to the return  of the vehicle and to half the total 
amount payable under this agreement (£18,962.46). Given this contradicted what  Miss B 
says she was told at the time, Id have expected her to question this before signing  the 
agreement. I acknowledge Miss B says she wasnt given enough time to read the 
documents, but she also had the right to cancel the agreement  within  14 days  so could have 
contacted Mercedes-Benz Finance once shed had a chance to review the paperwork. Ive 
seen no evidence that any such cancellation  request was received.
When Miss B found out she was moving abroad  in early 2019, she contacted  the retailer in 
the first instance. She spoke to the same sales advisor who had sold the car and he says he 
gave her the options for terminating  the contract, alongside a contact number for a used car 
buyer. Mercedes-Benz  Finance says that at that point Miss B made no comments  about mis-
selling or that the information provided differed to her previous understanding.
When Miss B subsequently  contacted  Mercedes-Benz Finance, Mercedes-Benz  Finance 
says she made it clear that she would not be paying  the termination  fee and said shed been 
told there would  be no charge  for this during the discussion  at the point of sale.
Based on all the available evidence, I cant conclude  the finance agreement  was 
misrepresented to Miss B. I say that because:
The finance agreement is clear about the costs associated with termination;
Miss B made no attempt to cancel the agreement;
Had the finance agreement been misrepresented,  I consider it more likely than not 
that Miss B would have raised this with the sales advisor when she contacted him 
again in January 2019 to tell him she was moving  abroad.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9935667