K820x#14complaint
Miss V and Mr M complain National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) allowed them to 
proceed with a mortgage application on a property which  it would never have lent on. 
Theyve said this caused them to lose out financially and delay the purchase of the property 
with another lender. Theyre also unhappy  with the overall service provided by NatWest   
and that they felt pressured into using their credit card to make a payment.  
background
Miss V and Mr M contacted NatWest in January  2019 to enquire  about applying for a 
mortgage as theyd made an offer on a property which had been  accepted.  They spoke to a 
mortgage advisor who took them  through  an application  that day over the phone.  The 
mortgage illustration  which  was sent to them shows the mortgage was for £148,500 plus 
fees to be repaid over 35 years. The payments for the first five years were fixed  at a rate of 
2.68% after which the mortgage reverted to a standard  variable rate (SVR).  The monthly 
payments were around £548.
Miss V and Mr M applied  for the mortgage on an advised basis. That means NatWest was 
responsible for checking the borrowing would be suitable for them   and that they could 
afford the repayments.  
During the application process, Miss V and Mr M say they told the advisor  the property was 
made of non-standard  construction  (concrete).  But theyve said it had been rebuilt over a 
decade prior  so it was, at the time, made of standard materials. Following the application,  
a homebuyers valuation  was instructed on 25 January 2019. Miss V and Mr M say the 
surveyor contacted  them by phone to discuss the property before the valuation took place. 
And during this call, they were told NatWest wouldnt  lend on a property of non-standard 
construction unless  the customers had a pre cast reinforced concrete (PRC)  certificate. 
Concerned about  paying  for a valuation if it was unlikely theyd get the borrowing, 
Miss V and Mr M have  said they spoke to a NatWest advisor. Theyve said the advisor 
initially told them they wouldnt  need  the PRC certificate as long as the surveyor was 
satisfied with the property - so the valuation  went ahead. Following the valuation, the 
surveyor said the property  needed  a PRC certificate  for the lending to be granted.  So 
Miss V and Mr M have  explained, on the advice of NatWest they arranged for the seller of 
the property to obtain a PRC  certificate  for around £850. The certificate  wasnt the original so 
NatWest didnt accept  it or approve  the borrowing. Theyve said NatWest knew which type of 
certificate theyd be obtaining so shouldve  let them know it wouldnt be sufficient. As the 
property didnt have  the relevant PRC repair scheme certificate which  shows the property 
had been fully inspected,  the mortgage was declined. 
Miss V and Mr M are unhappy they werent told either during the initial  application  or when 
they called  NatWest to query what the surveyor had said  that the property and certificate 
wouldnt meet the requirements of NatWests lending criteria. Theyve also said they were 
misled into believing  if the property wouldnt be suitable, the surveyor  wouldnt complete the 
valuation but they did anyway. The valuation was downgraded to a standard valuation which 
meant Miss V and Mr M were given  a partial  refund of around £194. 
Ref: DRN96353152Miss V and Mr M have  said they paid for the valuation using Miss Vs credit card as they felt 
pressured into making an immediate payment. Theyre unhappy about  this  and that the 
refund of £194  was paid to the credit card account as Mr M had already used his savings to 
repay the credit card. 
NatWest didnt think the advisor had done  anything wrong  as NatWest would need to rely on 
the valuation to decide whether to lend  and the advisor couldnt have known what theyd 
say. Its said if Miss V and Mr M had obtained the correct type of certificate, the application 
outcome wouldve been different  and that was their choice. But it accepted  there was a 
delay in sending  the PRC  certificate  to the surveyor of a few days  and in refunding  the 
valuation amount to Miss Vs credit  card. So in total,  it offered Miss V and Mr M £200 to 
make up for this. It also offered to reimburse them the amount they paid in interest on the 
credit card if they could  show how much  that was. 
Unhappy with NatWests  response,  Miss V and Mr M approached our service.  Our 
investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. So the case has been passed to me to reach a 
decision on. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Miss V and Mr M feel very strongly 
about their complaint and have taken a lot of time to give us as much  information as 
possible. But for broadly the same  reasons as the investigator, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Ill explain  why. 
payment by and refund  to credit card
Miss V and Mr M have  said at the time of the application, they didnt want  to use Miss Vs 
credit card to make the payment for the valuation  and instead, they wanted to use Mr Ms 
savings. But as the advisor  said theyd  need to start the application process again if they 
wanted to make the payment a few days later, they used the credit card. 
The mortgage application interview  took place on a Saturday. NatWest has said its usual 
process is for payment of the valuation to be taken  upon the application being submitted  
which I can see happened on the first weekday after the interview. And its said if 
Miss V and Mr M couldnt give their payment details at the same  time as completing  their 
application, theyd  have to pause the application  until the payment could be taken. 
From what  Ive seen in this case, I think Miss V and Mr M wanted the application to be 
processed as quickly  as possible. They completed  and signed  the mortgage  documentation 
(including the direct debit  mandate), the same day as the interview and they already  had a 
property in mind they wanted to buy. So I think  they wanted to move as quickly and not delay 
things. From what Ive seen on this case, Im not satisfied  they had no other  choice  or that 
they were pressured  by the advisor into using the credit card.  
I appreciate the payment for the valuation  wasnt actually taken until three  days  after the 
application was submitted,  so Miss V and Mr M may have had time to move  their funds 
around instead of using  the credit card. But NatWest has apologised for this and I dont think  
the advisor wouldve known at the time thered  be this slight  delay. In any event, I 
understand from Miss V and Mr M they moved  savings  to cover the amount on the credit  
card. So although I know  they wouldve preferred  not to use the credit card to make the 
payment, overall,  I dont  think theyve been  left in a worse position financially by doing  so.
Ref: DRN96353153I understand Miss V and Mr M are unhappy  NatWest refunded  part of the valuation to the 
credit card rather  than to another account. But I dont  think  its unreasonable  or unusual for 
NatWest to have paid the refund to the account  it was made from. So I dont think it needs to 
do anything more. 
service given by advisor
Miss V and Mr M think the mortgage advisor  shouldve been in a position to tell them it was 
unlikely their mortgage application  would  be approved for the property they were purchasing 
before the valuation  took place. I understand from both sides  to this complaint 
Miss V and Mr M explained although the building was originally of non-standard 
construction, it had been rebuilt  over a decade previously.  And I can see the mortgage fact 
find (which was sent to the customers), says the building was made  from bricks and mortar. 
The mortgage advisor was there to give advice on the suitability and affordability  of the 
mortgage. Whilst I accept, if the property  was wholly unacceptable under NatWests lending  
criteria, it couldve done more to point this out to Miss V and Mr M. But I dont  think  thats the 
case here. 
Ive looked carefully  at NatWests policy about whether it would usually give lending  on a 
property of this type of construction. And I can see in some  circumstances  it would and in 
others it wouldnt. But overall it seems the valuation  is important in determining this  and it 
doesnt just rely on whether the relevant PRC  certificate is provided. So I dont think the 
mortgage advisor couldve known at the time of the interview  or when  Miss V and Mr M 
called  that the lending  would be declined. In any event, Miss V and Mr M were willing to 
get the PRC  certificate   they just werent  given the right type showing the building had been  
fully inspected. NatWest has said despite  the construction originally being non-standard, the 
lending still couldve been agreed if Miss V and Mr M had the relevant PRC certificate and 
the property met other requirements.  So Im not persuaded the mortgage advisor was in a 
position to determine the outcome  of the mortgage application without the valuation.
I understand it mustve  been disappointing for Miss V and Mr M to learn  their mortgage 
application wasnt succesful after paying for a valuation. But mortgage offers  are usually 
subject to a valuation for reasons like this so I dont think NatWest has acted unfairly.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Miss V and Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9635315