K822xcomplaint
Mr O has complained that an interest-only  mortgage  was mis-sold to him in 1998 by a 
business which is now part of Santander UK Plc. He is also unhappy that Santander began 
legal action against him, even though  he believed  his mortgage term had been extended. He 
wants Santander to refund  the legal costs  added to his mortgage account.
background 
In 1990 Mr O took out a mortgage  with Santander,  on the advice of a broker. The mortgage  
was interest-only,  over 25 years. At the end of the term, in February 2015, Mr O was 
required to repay the capital  he borrowed,  but there is still an outstanding  balance.
Santander amended the term end date by 3 months  when it ended  in February 2015, to May 
2015. Every six months since Santander  says it has extended the term for a further  six 
months. In 2016 a formal term extension was declined due to affordability.  
Mr O didnt repay the capital and so Santander referred the matter  to its solicitors in 2016.
In May 2017  Mr O received a mortgage summary  which stated that the mortgage term had a 
further 1 year 10 months left to run. Mr O says he relied on this and assumed Santander had 
extended his mortgage term to March  2019.
Nevertheless, Santander commenced  court proceedings in September  2017, which  Mr O 
defended. On 29 January 2019  the claim was struck out, with no order for costs.
Mr O complained to us. He said the mortgage had been mis-sold. He also complained about 
Santanders actions  and about the legal costs added  to his mortgage account.
An investigator looked at the complaint. He explained to Mr O that the mortgage advice had 
been given by a broker, not Santander. He was also satisfied that Santander had been  
entitled to begin legal  action. But Santander had agreed to refund  £240 of the legal costs, 
which he thought  was fair.
Mr O disagreed. In summary, he says that in legal proceedings,  the loser has to pay the 
legal costs. Mr O wants  all the legal  costs from 2016 onwards  a total of £9,130   to be 
removed from his account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As the investigator  rightly said, the mortgage wasnt sold by Santander. If Mr O thinks  the 
advice he was given  in 1990  to take out this mortgage wasnt  suitable,  hell need to take that 
up with the broker  which sold him the mortgage.  If the broker is no longer in business, Mr O 
can contact the Financial Services Compensation Scheme  details of which have  already  
been provided to him.
There is nothing in Santanders records to show that a formal term extension to March 2019 
was granted. But I can understand why Mr O might  have believed this to be the case, when 
he received the mortgage summary in May 2017  showing  that the term had 1 year and 10 
Ref: DRN95590602months left to run. Santander hasnt been able to explain why this happened, but I think it is 
likely to have been a system error.
But its not in dispute that, since the mortgage term reached its end in February  2015,  Mr O 
has been in breach of contract  because  hes not repaid the capital hed borrowed. So Im 
satisfied that by 2016 Santander was entitled  to refer the matter to its solicitors.
When the matter came  to court in January  2019,  the court struck out Santanders claim and 
made no order for costs.  Mr O thinks he should have his legal costs  back.  But I dont have 
any power to change a court order. The court was satisfied there  should  be no order  for 
costs. If Mr O believes this to be incorrect  or unfair, hell need to go back  to court and ask it 
to make an order for costs  in his favour.
Santander has agreed to refund fees of £240  back to the account, which were incurred as a 
result of Mr Os complaint. I think this is fair in all the circumstances, given  that the court was 
satisfied there should be no order for costs. I dont intend to order Santander to do anything 
further  and I have  no power to vary an order of the court  by substituting  a different costs 
order for that made in January 2019.
The mortgage term is due to expire in a few weeks time and so Mr O will need  to address 
his mind to how he is going  to repay  the capital  which I believe is over £80,000. I would 
urge him to discuss his proposals with Santander,  in order to avoid further  court action.
If Mr O is experiencing financial difficulty,  he might  want  to talk to StepChange or Citizens  
Advice, which will be able to offer him free advice. But I cannot  emphasise enough the 
importance of Mr O engaging with Santander  about repaying his mortgage.
my final decision
My decision  is that in full and final settlement  of this complaint, Santander  UK Plc must 
remove legal  fees of £240 that were added to the mortgage account as a result of this 
complaint. I make no other order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9559060