K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about advice Mr W received  from Age Partnership  Wealth  Management 
Limited (AP).  He says that one advisor  lied about the equity release lifetime mortgage  he 
wanted no longer  being  available  and forced him to choose a more  expensive alternative. He 
wants to be provided with his first choice mortgage  deal.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding  the amounts involved. No discourtesys intended 
by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.
Mr W began  the process  of looking for an equity release mortgage in the summer of 2018; 
during this exercise, Mr W met with two different members of APs sales  staff. Several 
different illustrations were  produced, for different amounts of borrowing, and products  from 
two different lenders were  considered. 
Eventually, in October 2018, Mr W signed  up for a loan of £31,420,  a reserve drawdown 
facility of just over £23,000, and a lifetime fixed rate of 3.65%. The key facts  illustration  
(KFI) for this product predicted  a rolled-up balance after 17 years  of around £58,000. 
Mr W wasnt happy however; he said the deal he really wanted was a deal offered by the 
first sales-person; this was a loan of £30,000,  a reserve drawdown facility  of just under 
£29,000, a lifetime fixed rate of 3.62% and a predicted balance  after 17 years of just over 
£55,500. He says the second sales-person told him this wasnt available any more.  He 
believes he was lied to so that hed take out the more expensive  deal. AP says the deal 
Mr W eventually  too was his own choice, as it allowed him to add the arrangement fee to the 
borrowing.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded AP had done  anything wrong, and so didnt recommend 
the complaint  be received. Mr W has asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
Ref: DRN98325962Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
news for Mr W; I dont  think  APs done anything wrong either. Ill explain why.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, as there is here, I have to decide what I think 
is most  likely  to have happened on the balance of probabilities, according to the available  
evidence. For me to find in Mr Ws favour  here, I have to finds his version  of events more 
likely than APs; just as likely isnt enough.  
The investigator said he found both accounts plausible,  but that the evidence wasnt  enough 
to find that Mr Ws argument the more  persuasive  of the two. Having considered  everything  
thats been said and provided,  Ive come to much the same overall conclusion; but theres 
something else.
The investigator had initially understood that Mr W had completed the mortgage and drawn 
down the money.  But Ive seen a note of a phone conversation between  them  on 31 October 
2019 where it appears to have been  established  that Mr W didnt actually take up the 
mortgage. If thats true, then theres nothing to unwind because Mr W hasnt  entered into a 
contract he doesnt want. But even if he has drawn  down the mortgage, theres still isnt the 
evidence to persuade me he was induced to do so because  of lies or mis-representation on 
APs part.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9832596