K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) incorrectly  placed adverse 
information on his credit record.
 
background
Mr S said Halifax  reported three  missed  payments and a default  notice. But when he phoned  
it in August 2018  it told him he didnt own any money. This problem began after he switched 
his account from Halifax  to another provider. He said Halifax sent him a letter  telling him 
there was an outstanding  balance of £360. But when he phoned it to find out what  had 
happened Halifax told him this was a mistake and that it owed  him the money. It said it 
would send it to his new account.  Two months later Halifax sent him another  letter saying he 
owed it the original amount plus interest. 
Halifax said when Mr Ss account was switched out it had a debit balance  of £374.46. So it 
wrote to him asking him to pay it. And it could see he was due a refund on his credit card 
that had been processed  for £360.40 around  the same time.  So it said it hadnt done 
anything wrong.
The adjudicator thought  Halifax  had dealt with Mr Ss complaint fairly.  He thought there  had 
been confusion  between the two accounts  as the refund was due on Mr Ss credit  card 
account not his current  account. And he thought there was sufficient evidence to suggest Mr 
S wouldve been aware of the overdrawn balance on his current account. 
Mr S says he phoned Halifax on 16 August 2018  to clear the debt. But he says the advisor 
told him the letter was a mistake.  He said at the end of the call he was told the account was 
now closed and nothing  further was owed  to Halifax. He says Halifax  sent him a paper 
statement on 13 August  2018 which set out a final debit balance of £374.46  but given the 
letter of 10 August saying he owed £388.29  and his call on 16 August he thought  the 
statement must be incorrect.  He said his complaint to us is about  Halifaxs complaint 
handling process. It hasnt  dealt with his complaint properly. He says if it had done so this 
dispute wouldnt have  arisen. He says hes now cleared the debt so the issue of the 
payment of the debt is no longer an issue. But his complaint is that Halifax failed to 
investigate or respond to his queries.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax wrote  to Mr S on 10 August 2018  to say that following his recent switch there was an 
outstanding balance of £388.29  on his current account and giving him several suggestions of 
payment. That amount  wasnt the final outstanding balance and I cant explain why its 
different to the final figure. Bu for the reasons Ive given below that doesnt make any 
difference to my decision.
Ref: DRN91042722After Mr S received that letter he says he called Halifax on 16 August 2018  to make the 
payment. Ive listened to that phone  call. But its clear from the beginning he was talking to 
Halifaxs credit card services. He told the agent  that Halifax had sent him a letter  saying he 
owed it money. He said he didnt understand what was happening. He said there were two 
payments made into his credit card account  on 13 August 2018, one was a manual payment 
for £503 and the other was a direct debit  payment  of £451.55. The agent  explained that Mr 
Ss manual payment  didnt cancel the direct  debit because  there wasnt  sufficient time. He 
told Mr S that Halifax owed him £360.40  on his credit card account. Mr S asked if this could 
be paid into his current account and gave Halifax the account details for his current  account  
with the new provider. Halifax paid this refund the following day.
Mr S says the paper statement Halifax sent to his address on 13 August showed a debit 
balance of £374.46. But because this was different  from the figure in the letter  dated  10 
August and in light of his phone call on 16 August he says he thought  the statement was 
wrong. But customers have a responsibility  to monitor their accounts.  So I think he shouldve  
reasonably known his account was overdrawn. And Mr S mentioned in his phone call to 
Halifax on 9 August 2018 that he was  in his overdraft.  
The final statement Halifax  sent Mr S showed  that he had a debit balance of £374.46  when 
his account was switched out. And the letter from the 10 August 2018 said he had an 
outstanding balance on his current account. Subsequent  letters  referred to a request for 
payment of his overdraft  of £374.46. So although I know he wont agree with me I think  Mr S 
should reasonably have  been aware that this money  was owed to Halifax and was separate  
from his overpayment on his credit account.
Mr S says this shouldve been explained to him sooner. But when Mr S complained to 
Halifax it sent him its final response letter on 16 October  2018.  It explained  that the 
outstanding debit balance was on his current account. The refund it sent him was on his 
credit card account. Mr S says he didnt receive this until March 2019.  But I cant fairly find 
that any failings  in the postal service are the fault of Halifax. And in any event subsequent 
requests for payment  after 10 August 2018  all referred to the outstanding overdraft. So I 
dont think Halifax couldve reasonably done more  to tell him he owed this money.
Mr S says his complaint  to this service  is about Halifaxs complaint  handling  process. But I 
cant tell Halifax how it should deal with and handle complaints. Its complaint handling is not, 
under our rules, what is called a regulated activity. If Mr S wants to take his concerns about  
Halifaxs complaint  handling  procedures further  he will need to refer these to the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9104272