K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her an HSBC Plus Account 
(HPA) in 2009.  
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
In July 2006 Miss D took out a fee free student account with HSBC.
When in January 2009 she was no longer a student,  HSBC  transferred her to a normal fee 
free account.
Two months  later in March 2009, Miss D upgraded to an HPA with a monthly fee of £12.95.
She downgraded to a fee free account in April 2019.
Miss D says that when  she was sold the HPA, she was just given  it and told everyone was 
changing to it. She says the HPA was unsuitable  for her and she has never used  the 
benefits.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Ds complaint but Miss D disagrees so the complaint 
comes to me to decide. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Miss Ds complaint.
I think that HSBC mis-sold  the HPA to Miss D and Ill explain why.
HSBC and Miss D say HSBC did not advise her to buy the HPA. So HSBC was only 
required to give Miss D sufficient information for her to make an informed decision  about it.
HSBC and Miss D agree  that there was a conversation about the HPA between  them  face to 
face in a branch. And HSBC has provided  the application form which  Miss D signed  on the 
day to open the account.
As HSBC discussed the HPA with Miss D, I think its more likely than not that Miss D relied 
more on what its representative told her than on any paperwork she was given.
Ref: DRN91651202Miss D had held a fee free account  with HSBC prior to the HPA sale and so taking out the 
fee paying HPA was a significant  step for her. The benefits of the HPA included  worldwide  
family travel insurance with winter sports; car breakdown assistance, life insurance,  and 
better rates for loans,  savings and overdrafts. It cost £12.75 a month and Miss D was 
required to sign a contract to pay the fee for the first 12 months.  This represented a 
commitment to an outlay of £153  before  she could  terminate the account. 
At the time of the sale Miss D was very young,  only just qualifying  for the account, had a 
young child, and had a limited income. Miss D says she hadnt travelled, didnt have a car, 
and had no loans  or savings  or an overdraft. And there is no evidence that she actually used 
any of the product benefits she bought for £153  a year.
So I think its very unlikely  she wouldve been interested in the HPA if shed been given 
enough information in her discussion with HSBC in a way she could understand to make  an 
informed decision.  And, as above,  in my view sending her the information  afterwards  in 
writing was not enough to correct this.
HSBC says that it was the travel insurance that Miss D was primarily interested in and she 
took a holiday  later in 2009 and then another in 2011. I accept its possible that Miss D may 
have been interested in travel insurance.  But the policy  in the HPA covered worldwide travel 
and winter sports for the whole family,  most of which she didnt use and I dont think  she 
wouldve been interested in at the time.  And if she wanted travel insurance she could have 
got it for much less than £153. So I dont  think this was enough for her to be interested  in the 
product and choose to take out the HPA if she had received the full and proper information. 
Ive looked carefully  at the application  form Miss D has signed and it requires her in four 
separate boxes  to acknowledge  (in summary): shes been  given the welcome pack  and 
understands there are fees,  terms and a cooling off period  of 14 days; and shes had the life 
cover policy,  roadside breakdown policy and worldwide insurance policy and understands 
there are terms and limitations  on them. Several of the limitations  are highlighted on the 
form.
It seems  to me more  likely than not that the form has been ticked  in a rush and not by Miss 
D. I say this because  they are four lines rather than ticks, two of which almost miss the 
ample boxes provided and one of which misses  the box provided completely. I think  if Miss 
D had been carefully  reading the form she would  have taken her time and been  more 
precise in ticking the boxes. So I think the form was more likely than not pre-filled  by HSBC 
and then signed by Miss D. So I acknowledge  that she has signed  it but Im not convinced 
the form is evidence  of her understanding what she was buying.
So I think it more likely  than not that if HSBC in its discussion with her had provided  full 
information about the product, what she was paying for and its high cost in a way Miss D 
could understand,  she wouldnt  have bought the HPA. 
In my view it follows that Miss D didnt receive the information she needed  from HSBC  to 
make an informed decision when  she bought  the HPA. And she lost out as a result.
putting things right
I require HSBC UK Plc to: 
Pay Miss D the amount Miss D paid each month for the HPA.
Ref: DRN91651203Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Miss D has saved  money because of a better rate on her overdraft or any loan by 
having the packaged account and HSBC can show exactly  how much  Miss D saved,  it 
may deduct her savings  from the amount it pays her  but only after it has calculated the 
two points above. HSBC must explain clearly and simply  to Miss D how it has worked  out 
any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  HSBC  to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give Miss D a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
response to my provisional  decision
Miss D accepted my provisional decision.
HSBC responded  to say it had decided to offer Miss D redress  as shown in my provisional 
decision putting things  right section.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has put forward any further  evidence  or arguments. So, my conclusions  remain 
as outlined in my provisional findings  above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ds complaint and require HSBC  UK Bank  plc to pay 
redress to Miss D as outlined in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9165120