K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds response to a claim he made on his 
motor insurance policy.
background
Mr Bs car was hit by another while parked. The other driver  didn't stop and wasn't ever 
identified. Mr B claimed on his policy but he wasn't  happy with a number of aspects  of 
Avivas service. Aviva acknowledged  that it hadn't got everything right. So it said it would 
waive Mr Bs excess of £350 and it paid him £100  compensation  for his distress  and 
inconvenience. Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator  
thought that Aviva had dealt with Mr B fairly.  Mr B didn't agree so the complaint's been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
valuation
Aviva said Mr B's car was a total loss and it eventually valued it at £4,750.  Mr B didn't think 
that was enough. So I've considered that valuation carefully. I've seen that when looking to 
value Mr B's car Aviva  considered three well known industry  trade guides used for valuing 
second hand cars. The guides rarely agree  on an exact valuation, but we find them  more 
reliable than the prices  cars are advertised  for. That's because  the guides are based on 
likely sales prices whereas adverts are usually inflated to allow  some  room for negotiation.
Because the guides rarely  agree on an exact  valuation we think that a fair way to find a cars 
market value is to use an average of the various  figures given by the trade guides. In this 
case the three guides Aviva used produced an average valuation of £4,226.  Mr Bs said that 
the guides valuation  didnt recognise  the condition of his car. But the valuations Aviva used 
are for cars in showroom condition and with a full service history. So they did recognise the 
condition of Mr Bs car. I also understand  that Mr Bs car had some optional  extras  which he 
believes would increase the value.  But optional extras rarely increase the value of a car 
significantly. And in this case Aviva valued Mr Bs car at over £520 more than the trade  
guides valuation. So I think its valuation was fair and took account of the extras Mr Bs car 
enjoyed.
service
Mr B wasn't happy with some aspects of Avivas service. In particular because it didn't 
provide him with a courtesy  car on the day his car was damaged.  Also because it took some 
days for it to come  and collect his car. But I note that Aviva  acknowledged that some of its 
service could have  been  better. But to reflect  that it waived Mr Bs £350 excess and paid him 
£100 compensation. And I think thats reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Avivas  handling of the claim caused Mr B.
Ref: DRN92668092Mr Bs said that Aviva's decision to waive  the excess was because  he wasn't at fault for the 
claim rather than in response to his complaints.  But I think hes mistaken. An excess  is 
usually the amount that a policyholder must pay in respect of any claim made on the policy 
regardless of fault. And I can see that Mr Bs policy is no different. Indeed under the heading 
of excesses it says
If your vehicle is lost, stolen or damaged, the excess shown in your schedule must 
be paid, no matter how the loss or damage  happened.
In other  words, as I've said above, Mr B was required to pay his excess regardless that the 
accident leading  to his car being damaged wasn't his fault.  And I'm satisfied that Aviva only 
agreed to waive  the excess  in response to Mr Bs complaint. And in the circumstances I think 
that was generous. So Im not going to ask Aviva  to take any further  action.
For completeness Ill add that I also understand that Mr C wasn't happy that the solicitors  
Aviva referred him to didn't contact him promptly  and only sent him a generic form, before 
closing its file. But the solicitors could only have  helped  Mr B with any uninsured losses if the 
driver of the other car had been  identified.  And as the other driver wasn't identified the 
solicitors wouldnt have  been able to help Mr B. So I don't intend to comment  further on the 
solicitors actions here.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9266809