K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2005 to 
protect a loan. Mr S says The Governor and Company of the Bank  of Ireland (previously 
NIIB Group) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
NIIB had to make Mr S aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding  
it to his loan. Mr S has said that NIIB told him he had to take the PPI to get the loan. I cant 
be certain what was said at the time Mr S applied for his loan and PPI but NIIB has sent us a 
copy of the available paperwork and telephone script. While I dont know  how closely  the 
telephone script was followed I think its a good indication of what  was discussed. The script  
directs the advisor  to explain the PPI was an optional  product. Mr S also signed a form in 
agreement with taking  PPI. There was also an option to decline the PPI. So overall I think 
NIIB made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose  to take it out  
although I can understand why he may not remember  this.
From the information available  including the telephone script and the PPI application form I 
dont think NIIB recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr S got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information NIIB gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI knowing  the other means he had of making  his 
repayments which included selling livestock and being able to rely on his partner. But the 
PPI would have  prevented  Mr S from having to sell the livestock, and while Mr Ss partner 
would have wanted to help, their ability to would have been  dependent on their 
circumstances at the time which  could have changed.
Mr S has told us he would  have found it difficult  to make a claim under the policy because he 
was self-employed.  But I dont think Mr S would have found  it any more difficult for him to 
make a claim for accident, sickness, life or critical illness.  And while he may have  found  it 
more difficult to claim under the unemployment section of the cover NIIB didnt advise him to 
take the policy, and I think  he would have  known he had to become unemployed to have 
claimed under the unemployment  section  of the policy when he chose to have it.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ss circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the remaining exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means NIIB doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
Ref: DRN91250152Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9125015