K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  about  CIS General Insurance Limiteds handling of his car insurance 
policy.
Reference to CIS include their agents.
background
Mr L first bought his car insurance policy  with CIS through a comparison website in 
March 2017. He renewed his policy in 2018. 
In October  2018, Mr L contacted CIS to make a claim following an incident involving his car. 
After making some  checks, CIS discovered  that when Mr L took out the policy in 2017  and 
renewed it in 2018, he failed  to disclose some important information. CIS said that had they 
know that information, they would never  have insured Mr Ls car. CIS voided (treated as 
though it had never come into existence) the policy; refunded all Mr Ls premiums; and didnt 
pay his claim.
Mr L felt that was unfair and he complained. But CIS didnt uphold his complaint. Mr L didn't 
think that was reasonable so he brought his complaint  to us. One of our investigators looked 
into it. She felt that CISs decision was reasonable. As Mr L didnt agree with our 
investigator, the complaint  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr L, but Im not going to uphold his complaint.  Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr L has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if CIS have  dealt with Mr L in a fair and reasonable way.
CIS said Mr L failed to disclose the following information:
Penalty points he got for speeding in February  2017.
Non-fault claims relating to him and his named driver (his wife)  in March and 
November 2014.
The registered keeper of the insured car was a leasing company and the car was 
leased to Mr Ls business. Mr L wasnt the owner and registered keeper of the car as 
he said he was.
CIS said the registered  keeper of the car being  a company led to the policy being voided, so 
they disregarded the issues relating to the penalty points and previous non-fault  claims.
I have seen CISs underwriting criteria. Each insurer sets their own underwriting  criteria 
which are the rules they follow  to determine whether or not they will provide someone  with 
cover. CISs rules say that they wont provide insurance to anyone  where  the car being 
insured is registered  to a company. Im therefore satisfied that if CIS knew that the registered 
keeper of Mr Ls car was a company at the outset they wouldnt have insured him.
Ref: DRN96133622CIS have  suggested  that Mr L not telling  them  about his car being registered to a company 
amounted to, what is known in the insurance  industry, a careless  misrepresentation. And 
theres specific legislation - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers may do in such  a situation.  It says that insurers  
may void the policy and refuse all claims if they wouldnt  have provided  cover had the correct 
information been given by the policyholder when applying for the policy. Where that happens 
the insurer must return the premium, which is what CIS have done. 
In Mr Ls case, Ive been shown the questions he was asked on the comparison website 
when he took out his policy. He was asked if he was the owner and registered  keeper of the 
car? Had he answered no a drop down menu would have allowed him to choose who the 
owner and registered keeper was. A leasing company was one of the options to choose 
from. But Mr L said he was the owner  and registered  keeper of the car. 
Once the policy was taken out, CIS sent Mr L a number of documents,  including  the policy 
certificate, policy schedule and CISs terms and conditions policy booklet. Those  documents 
would have explained the policy was provided  on the basis of the information  Mr L had 
given, including  he was the owner  and registered keeper of the car. The documents asked 
him to read everything carefully and to correct any information that was incorrect.  There was 
also a warning that, if that information  was wrong,  in certain circumstances, the policy could 
be cancelled  or voided  and any claim not paid out. But Mr L didnt correct the information. 
I understand that CIS sent Mr L similar documents when the policy renewed in 2018. But 
again, no corrections  were made.
I think the question  Mr L was asked and the information CIS provided him was clear. Like 
CIS I accept that there was no bad intent on Mr Ls part and he made  a mistake.  He 
explained that he had issues in his life at the relevant times which  were  a distraction. But, 
ultimately, he made a careless misrepresentation. I therefore feel that CSs  decision to void 
the policy; not pay the claim; and refund the premiums was in accordance with CIDRA and 
therefore reasonable.
Finally, Mr L told us that since the voidance his insurance premiums  for his business van, his 
car and his wifes  car have increased substantially. He feels that he is being  unfairly  
punished for one careless mistake and he will end up paying  over £100,000 extra in 
premiums over the next 40 years. For the reasons Ive given above,  I think  CISs actions 
were reasonable. And CIS arent  responsible for the premiums other  insurers  charge Mr L or 
his wife in the future. 
While I have a lot of sympathy for Mr L, and the consequences he has experienced because 
of the voidance of the policy, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN96133623my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9613362