K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that a vehicle he had on finance  with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
(Moneybarn) was developing faults at the point of supply and was therefore  of 
unsatisfactory quality.  He also complains that he wasnt told the car had been in an accident  
before he took receipt of it.
background 
In June 2017 Mr G took receipt of a used  vehicle. The car had completed 113,000 miles at 
the point of supply and was almost six years old. Mr G financed the deal through a 
conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn.
But he experienced problems with the car about  five months later.  He took it to a garage who 
said it had been  in a previous accident. They said there were warning lights  illuminated; the 
clutch and flywheel had failed; there  were  substandard repairs to the electrics and the sub 
frame was cracked. 
Mr G therefore  contacted Moneybarn and complained  that it was clear hed been sold a 
faulty car. But they didnt agree. They explained  that the clutch and flywheel were  not 
expected to last the whole life of the car and as Mr Gs car had already completed 113,000 
miles when  he took receipt of it, they thought it most likely the problems  he now had were  
due to normal wear and tear. They noted  that the car had passed its MOT in June 2017 and 
they didnt think  this would have been  likely if the faults, Mr G was now reporting, were 
present at the time.  
Mr G was dissatisfied with Moneybarns response  so he referred his complaint to this service 
and Moneybarn agreed to commission an independent engineers  report. Our adjudicator 
reviewed all of the evidence and was able to consider the independent report  as well. She 
didnt think there was enough  evidence  to suggest  the vehicle was faulty or developing faults 
when it was supplied.  She explained that the vehicle had already  completed significant 
mileage when Mr G first took receipt  of it and it was to be expected that thered  be some 
issues developing through wear and tear. She didnt think shed been provided with any 
evidence that the faults  were there at the beginning and she noted the car had passed its 
MOT in June;  which  she didnt think would  have been likely  if the faults being reported  were 
present. She explained that shed  tried to contact the garage  who had reported the problems 
but they hadnt answered her calls and she explained that she couldnt accept the letter  Mr G 
had supplied  from them, as it was in editable word  format and didnt refer to the cars  
mileage or the date repairs were attempted. 
She went on to consider  the independent  engineers report. She noted hed not been able to 
inspect the condition of the flywheel or clutch as there was substantial, and recent,  impact  
damage that had rendered  the car un-driveable. She noted that the engineer considered this 
damage had been  caused by a substantial  impact during the last journey and that there  
was no evidence, in the report, that there were any faults with the car at the point  of supply. 
So she didnt think Moneybarn needed  to take any further action.
But Mr G was still dissatisfied. He explained that the impact  had been a minor one when the 
car had hit a kerb; travelling at less than 10 miles per hour.  And he explained  that this was a 
result of the electrical  problems in the car knocking  the anti skid mechanism off and causing  
the car to skid. So he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN93826432my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired  his car under a conditional  sale agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn is 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
But Moneybarns responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for problems that arise later.
And here I dont have  sufficient information  to suggest there was a fault at the point of supply 
because:
the independent engineer has said the impact  damage is more  recent
the independent engineer hasnt provided any evidence that the flywheel  or clutch 
was faulty at the point of supply
Mr G hasnt provided any evidence of this either, as
I dont think I can consider the letter  hes provided from the garage he reported  the 
faults to. I say that because its in editable word  format; not letter  headed and there 
are no details of the date of reporting  or the cars mileage: Id expect to see those. Its 
also not been possible for the adjudicator to get in touch with the garage referred  to 
in the document so Im not persuaded this is reliable evidence
the car passed  an MOT in June and I think the accident damage would have been 
reported at that point  if it were present.
the clutch and flywheel issues have not been  inspected but I dont  think its unusual 
for a car of this age, and especially  of this significant mileage, to experience  such 
problems through  normal wear  and tear. 
So overall, I am not persuaded that there is evidence this car was of unsatisfactory  quality 
when supplied. 
I note that Mr G also suggested that the vehicle had been misrepresented to him as the 
garage had suggested itd been  in an accident  and he complained that he shouldve been  
told about that. If I thought this was the case then Id have expected it to have been reported  
to Mr G at the time and the relevant legislation would suggest  Moneybarn should do 
something to put things  right.
But Ive not been provided with any evidence there was accident damage before Mr G took 
receipt of the car. In fact there is evidence to the contrary as I dont think  it would have 
passed its MOT; the independent inspector has explained that theres  been  a substantial 
Ref: DRN93826433impact during the last trip and Mr G has now explained that the car did hit a kerb,  albeit at 
low speed, whilst in his possession. Had the car been in a previous accident  I wouldve 
expected the HPI check that was conducted to have  shown this but that also showed  up as 
clear. So I dont think theres evidence here that the car was misrepresented to Mr G either.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9382643