K822xComplaint
Miss S is unhappy that Mortgage Express didnt  repossess her property  quickly  enough, 
which meant her balance was too high which affected the shortfall she was left with. She is 
also unhappy with how quickly  the property was sold and says it was sold for less than it was 
worth. 
Background 
Miss S had a buy to let property and she fell into arrears in 2013.  She said that fees and 
charges were added  to her account from June  2014 pending repossession.  She believes this 
is unfair and made her balance higher than it should  have been.
Miss S sent an email to Mortgage Express solicitor on 29 April 2015  to voluntarily surrender 
her property. Mortgage Express informed the solicitor that they had to speak to her directly  
about this before they accepted it. Mortgage  Express said they were unable  to contact 
Miss S about this, so they proceeded with repossession court  proceedings.
The court hearing  which took place on 25 January 2016 gave Mortgage Express permission  
to repossess the property. The court also made  a money  judgement for £82,469.51 for the 
mortgage debt.
Mortgage Express then went on to sell the property for £65,500 and Miss S has said it was 
marketed at £75,000 so thinks it was undersold. Because  Miss S had a shortfall  on the 
balance, she offered Mortgage  Express  £1,000 as a compromise for the remaining mortgage 
balance  which Mortgage Express declined.
Mortgage Express said they obtained the best price  for the property  and took into account 
factors such  as market  conditions and were also mindful of limiting any further charges 
which would accrue  the longer the property was marketed for and failed to sell. They  also 
said that on repossession, the property appeared unkempt which reduced its saleability.
Miss S wasnt happy with what  Mortgage Express had said so she brought  the complaint to 
our service  where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator said that we 
couldnt look at the part of the complaint about the repossession because  it had already 
been dealt with by the court.  He also said that he was satisfied that Mortgage Express  sold 
the property in line with what we would  expect them to do and didnt think it was fair to ask 
Mortgage Express to reduce  the amount Miss S owed to them.
Miss S didnt agree with what the investigator had said. She made the following comments:
She said in her opinion the court order shouldnt be taken into account.  She said her 
complaint was about the length  of time it took Mortgage Express to repossess the 
property, from June  2014 to January 2016
She didnt see the need for Mortgage  Express to go to court to repossess because  
she voluntarily surrendered her property  in writing
The judgment figure for the mortgage  debt includes  administration and charges 
amounting to £1288. These  charges were  not itemised on the financial summary  or 
given to the court before the judgement. She wants our service  to consider whether 
these charges were  enforceable
Ref: DRN94349752She said she received  a letter from Mortgage Express  saying  the property was 
valued at £65,000  and £69,995, by two independent surveyors, for a sale to be 
achieved within 90 days. She said the information  Mortgage  Express  gave our 
service is different, and the property was only marketed for six weeks  and she would 
have expected this to have been  marketed for longer
Miss S said further charges totalling  £6790.36  were added  to the amount she owed. 
She said these charges would not be so high if the property had been repossessed 
sooner
Miss S asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman,  so it has been passed to 
me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 24 November 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whether  this 
service can and should consider this complaint.
The rules  under which this service  operates allow the ombudsman to dismiss a 
complaint without considering the merits where the subject matter of that complaint 
has already been  decided  by a court. This specific  rule can be found in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys  handbook under DISP 3.3.4A.
Part of Miss S complaint  is about fees and charges  that have been  added to her 
mortgage balance.  I have seen the court order which gave Mortgage Express  
permission to repossess  the property. The court also made  a money  judgement order 
for £82,469.51. That means a court decided how much Miss S owed at that point  
including fees and charges Mortgage  Express had already added to the balance.  
Because the court made a money  judgement order, we cannot get involved or 
consider the complaint points that Miss S has made with regards to the fees and 
charges on the mortgage because it was already decided by the court how much 
money she owed.
Because this matter  has been the matter of court proceedings where it has already 
been decided  much Miss S owed and that the property should be taken into 
possession, my intention  is to dismiss this part of the complaint under 3.3.4A(3)R 
under the relevant DISP  rules.
Miss S wants to know  why Mortgage Express would not accept her voluntary 
surrender of the property when she sent this in writing to Mortgage Express. She said 
that Mortgage Express delayed taking the property into possession which added 
additional fees and charges to the mortgage balance. 
Ref: DRN94349753Miss S has said that we should be able to look at these points because they 
happened before  the property was taken into possession. The court  had already 
decided that Mortgage Express was entitled  to repossess the property  but I do 
agree that the points that Miss S is making, are about the events leading up to court 
action. I think we can consider whether Mortgage  Express should have taken action 
when they did, when Miss S said she wanted  to voluntarily  surrender her property. 
Given Miss S had agreed  to surrender the property,  were proceedings necessary at 
all? This isnt something that the court would  have considered. I have thought  very 
carefully about this and considered what both Mortgage Express  and Miss S have 
said.
Miss S says she emailed  Mortgage Express solicitors to voluntarily surrender her 
property when she knew that they were  going to apply for a possession order.  Miss S 
said she did this by email  on 29 April 2015.
The final response  letter sent by Mortgage Express to Miss S confirms that their 
records showed that Miss S wanted to voluntarily surrender the property and this 
request was passed to them from their solicitors for consideration. But they were 
unable to proceed with this request  as an email wasnt sufficient  as it was not a 
secure method  of communication  and no guarantee the email was from Miss S. They 
went on to say they needed  to speak to her over the telephone to satisfy themselves 
that Miss S was aware of the implications of this action.
I have looked  at the file notes that Mortgage  Express have submitted to us and there  
are various entries relating to Miss S wanting  to voluntarily surrender her property.
There are notes on file to confirm that Miss S emailed Mortgage Express  solicitors 
stating she had no interest in the property. Mortgage Express  said they had been  
trying to contact her as voluntary surrender would be a better option.
I have seen ongoing notes which suggest Mortgage  Express were still trying  to serve 
Miss S papers for a possession order as she was abroad  and this was proving to 
be difficult as they didnt have jurisdiction to do so.
Further notes on file show that Mortgage Express were not sure they would act on an 
email as they would  need to speak to Miss S to explain the terms and conditions  of 
the scheme before they would issue the voluntary surrender forms. They  also said 
they would  need to follow their process by speaking to Miss S as an email wasnt 
sufficient and they needed  to read a script  out to her before the forms could be sent 
to her. 
There is a note after saying that Mortgage Express were going to hold the file for 14 
days while they tried to contact Miss S and if they were unable  to do so, they would 
start litigation.
As they were unable  to reach Miss S, they started to proceed  with litigation. The 
property was finally taken  into possession on 8 March 2016.
Ref: DRN94349754Taking everything into account,  I dont feel it was fair for Mortgage Express to 
continue with a possession order when they knew that Miss S wanted to voluntarily  
surrender her property.  She sent an email to their own solicitors asking for this to 
happen. I appreciate  that Mortgage  Express has their own process to follow but that 
process doesnt feel right when Miss S already  made  it clear  she wanted  to 
voluntarily surrender her property and by informing their own solicitors  of this  I 
believe this was enough. 
If Mortgage Express had taken Miss S email as confirmation  she wanted to 
surrender her property,  they could have sent out the forms for her to complete  
along with any other  information they needed  her to be aware of which  would have 
been in the phone script - and would have avoided taking the matter  further which  
has meant further costs  were involved. I think Mortgage Express needed to think  
outside of their own process in this particular situation. Miss S had after all contacted  
their own legal representatives letting them know her intention.
In order to put things  right, I intend  on asking Mortgage Express to remove  11 
months worth of interest  which is from April 2015 when Miss S sent her email, to 
March 2016 when the property was taken into possession. It should  also remove any 
legal fees it has charged in relation  to the possession proceedings  which  wouldnt 
have happened  had it accepted Miss Ss attempts at voluntary surrender.
However, as I say a court has ordered Miss S to pay Mortgage Express  £82,469.51.  I 
cant interfere with that order. So, Mortgage Express should  take the final redemption 
balance of the mortgage and re-calculate it to remove  11 months interest and the 
costs of the possession proceedings. If the result is above £82,469.51,  it should 
reduce the redemption balance to that amount.  If the result is below £82,469.51,  it 
should reduce  the redemption balance to £82,469.51. 
I also think that having to go through unnecessary repossession proceedings would  
have been difficult  and stressful for Miss S and the impact that would have had on 
her would have  caused  her more worry. I think that Mortgage Express should also 
award Miss S £400 for the trouble and upset  caused to her.
Sale of the property
Miss S said that her property was undersold, and it had only been on the market  for 
six weeks. She has provided us with a letter from Mortgage Express  that shows  
Mortgage Express had the property valued  by two independent RICS surveyors  for 
£65,000 and £69,995. Our investigator said that Mortgage Express  carried  out three 
valuations and the property was valued  at £55,000,  £60,000 and £70,000. She said 
that we have been given  conflicting information.  
I have looked  at the valuations that Mortgage  Express undertook to get a market  
valuation of the property. The valuations that were stated by our investigator were  
correct, but these were  what the surveyors said was most likely the probable selling 
price of the property. The property  went on the market for £75,000 in March  2016 
before then reducing to £70,000  in April 2016. The property  appeared to have had 
some viewings, but no offers made at that price.  The property was then sold in May 
2016 for £65,500.
Ref: DRN94349755We would  expect a lender  to instruct at least two valuations on a property, one of 
which should be done by an independent surveyor and I can see that Mortgage  
Express did this. We would also expect  the valuations to be consistent before a 
lender relies on them  which they were.
The valuations showed that the property had been vacant  for quite some time and 
the state of the property was either average or poor based on the reports. We 
expect lenders to show a good balance of trying  to get the best possible price  when  
selling a property  and we wouldnt expect to see them knock the price down for a 
quick sale  but also not hold out too long for a price that might  not be achievable. I 
cant agree  that Mortgage Express sold the property  too quickly. They had to balance  
how quickly they could  sell the property in order to repay the balance  outstanding on 
the mortgage while taking into account interest that was still being charged  until the 
property was sold. I think that Mortgage  Express have acted fairly in this situation  
and I dont agree that it should fairly have accepted a £1000.00 payment to 
compromise the shortfall.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  I have  given above, I am intending on dismissing part of this 
complaint under 3.3.4A(3)R  as the subject  matter has already been the subject of 
court proceedings.
I uphold some of the complaint and intend on asking Mortgage  Express to:
take the final redemption balance of the mortgage and re-calculate it to 
remove 11 months interest and the costs of the possession proceedings. If 
the result  is above £82,469.51, it should reduce the redemption balance  to 
that amount.  If the result is below  £82,469.51,  it should  reduce the 
redemption balance  to £82,469.51. 
Pay £400 trouble and upset to Miss S.
Developments
Mortgage Express and Miss S responded to my provisional decision. Mortgage  Express  
accepted what  I had said. Miss S made the following comments:
She asked who was responsible for council  tax payments from April 2015  March  
2016 which is when  we asked Mortgage Express to make the interest adjustments 
for. She said she paid £1339.63 for council tax payments  and that she wouldnt have 
had to pay this had Mortgage  Express accepted her voluntary surrender
She made reference to the statement made in the provisional decision about the 
state of the property  being average or poor. She said the property was sold in March  
2016 for £65,500. She said the property was empty between June 2014  until March 
2016 because  Mortgage Express confirmed in 2014 that repossession  was imminent. 
She said the fact that the property  was empty would affect  the condition of it and the 
selling price
Ref: DRN94349756She said she had loss of income from June 2014  March 2016 as she was unable  to 
rent out the property. She said in June 2014,  she was sent notice by Mortgage 
Express that they had commenced court proceedings which  meant her property 
could no longer be rented out. She said the monthly rental figure at the time was 
£495.00 and was looking for this to be refunded for that period which she said 
equates to £9675.00.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have since contacted Mortgage  Express to ask them to consider,  upon evidence being 
provided, to refund the council tax payments that Miss S has made for the period between 
April 2015  March  2016. Mortgage  Express responded and said if Miss S can provide 
evidence for the amount that she paid, which she said was £1339.63,  they will reimburse 
this. Miss S has since  sent us evidence of her council  tax bill for that period which we will 
forward to Mortgage  Express.
With regard to the comment that Miss S has made  about the state of her property due to the 
fact it was vacant, this doesnt change the comments I made regarding the sale of the 
property in my provisional decision.  I think that Mortgage Express acted  fairly  in this situation  
and didnt do anything  wrong.
Miss S has made a comment about  loss of rental  income because  her property was vacant 
between June 2014 until March 2016  when it was taken into possession.  I have contacted  
Miss S separately to let her know what I thought about this. I said that I didnt think it was fair 
that she was reimbursed for what she believed was loss of income as I think  this was 
inevitably going to happen anyway.  
Mortgage Express contacted Miss S in 2014 letting her know that they were  going to start 
repossession proceedings because Miss S account  was in arrears. I do understand why 
Miss S decided not to rent her property out because of this  but that isnt the fault of 
Mortgage Express. They did what they had to do in order to try and get the money that was 
outstanding on the mortgage.  In addition to this, Miss S voluntarily surrendered the property 
in April 2015 so she wouldnt  have been able to rent her property out either  from this point 
going forward. So, it wouldnt  be fair to ask Mortgage Express  to reimburse any payments to 
Miss S because the loss she would have incurred  was not because Mortgage  Express  did 
anything wrong. I explained to Miss S that I was not intending on asking Mortgage  Express  
to make any payment  with regard to this.
Miss S responded to me about the rental income and she said that Mortgage Express sent 
her a letter in June 2014 letting her know they would be starting  repossession  proceedings 
but then received no further communication from them. She said she presumed that the 
property had been repossessed without a court order.
Miss S said when she received her mortgage  statement in April 2015, she realised the 
interest payments  and arrears charges were being  added to the account and it was at this 
point, that she contacted  Mortgage Express solicitor to voluntarily surrender the property.
Ref: DRN94349757She said she believes that if Mortgage Express kept her informed soon after sending the 
letter out in 2014, she could have  secured  more  rental income from the property.
I have thought about what Miss S has said but this doesnt change my opinion on the matter. 
As I have already  said, Mortgage Express did write to her letting her know they were  going 
to start repossession  proceedings. I appreciate that Miss S would have liked to have had 
more rental  income  from the property, but repossession  proceedings can take quite a bit of 
time. I think that once  she was informed about  the repossession proceedings, Im not sure it 
would have been the right thing for her to then try to rent the property further. In addition  to 
this, had Mortgage Express repossessed the property without a consent order Miss S would 
have been notified of this. Im sorry to disappoint Miss S on this particular point. For the 
reasons Ive explained, I cant  fairly  or reasonably ask Mortgage Express to pay anything 
with regards to this. 
My final decision
For the reasons  I gave  in my provisional decision,  I am dismissing  part of this complaint 
under 3.3.4A(3)R as the subject matter has already been the subject of court proceedings.
I uphold some of the complaint and direct  Mortgage  Express to:
take the final redemption balance of the mortgage and re-calculate it to 
remove 11 months interest and the costs of the possession proceedings. If 
the result  is above £82,469.51, it should reduce the redemption balance  to 
that amount.  If the result is below  £82,469.51,  it should  reduce the 
redemption balance  to £82,469.51. 
Pay £400 trouble and upset to Miss S.
Reimburse Miss S £1339.63 for the amount she paid in council tax for the 
period between April 2015  March  2016 upon receiving evidence
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2021.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9434975