K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about Transmit Start-Ups Limited  (Transmit), in respect of a loan it granted 
to him in order to pursue a business  opportunity. Mr S thinks that the loan was made 
irresponsibly and that Transmit should have done  more to ensure that the business model 
and franchise were  sound, before lending to him. 
background
In 2017, Mr S began  looking into purchasing a franchise  from Company  C. This company 
promised significant  rewards  for its franchisees within a short period. 
Mr S carried  out research and learned that C worked as referral partners with Transmit  to 
access government loans  that were available for start up businesses.  
C referred Mr S to Transmit to discuss a start up loan. Mr S provided information to 
Transmit, and some  information  was provided  directly to Transmit by C. 
Transmit approved Mr S for a business  loan of £21,500 in October 2017.  This loan was to be 
repayable over 60 months, at an interest  rate of around 6%. The total amount to be repaid 
was just over £25,000. 
Mr S purchased a franchise from C and made  efforts for the business to work. Unfortunately  
the business has not succeeded and Mr S has found  himself  having to repay the loan from 
his other  income,  and not from the proceeds  of the business. 
Mr S complained to Transmit in early  2019, as he felt that the loan was not made  
responsibly. He believes  that Transmit  made  him assurances about C and that Transmit 
favoured Cs interests, rather  than protecting Mr Ss interests.  He complained  that Transmit 
did not carry out enough research into the business plan or into C, and that if it had done  it 
would not have loaned him the money  for the business. 
Transmit responded  to Mr S in March 2019.  It did not uphold his complaint and set out that 
Transmit had carried out all the checks that it considered necessary and that it was obliged  
to undertake. 
Mr S was unhappy with that response  and contacted  us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this complaint  and set out her view to the parties. 
She explained that some of Mr Ss concerns  are outside of the scope of our service and 
cannot be considered. In respect of the main concern, that Transmit lent Mr S the money 
irresponsibly, our investigator  felt that Transmit had carried out reasonable checks into the 
business proposition before lending Mr S money. She therefore did not uphold  the 
complaint. 
Mr S did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. He explained that he is 
concerned that Transmit and C had been  partners, but that this relationship recently ended.  
He explained  that he felt he was encouraged  to apply for the loan by Transmit, and that 
documents which were  considered in the loan application had been provided and prepared 
by C, rather than by Mr S.
Ref: DRN94932792my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I understand Mr Ss upset and frustration at the circumstances he has found himself  
in. His subsequent research has shown that far fewer franchisees were  successful than C 
had assured him would  be the case when  he bought  the business. He has noted that a 
number of other franchisees have had similar difficulties  making  the business work  and he 
thinks that the franchise is flawed. 
That said,  I agree  with the comments  made  by our investigator about  the limitations on what 
we can look into within this complaint. 
Transmit and C are separate companies, and so I cannot look at the behaviour of C within a 
complaint about  Transmit, or vice versa. 
Mr S has raised concerns about  the links between Transmit and C, because some personnel 
appear to have connections  with both businesses. We are not able to look at the make up of 
financial businesses, and Mr S would have to refer any concerns he has in this regard to the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. 
I have considered the evidence available, and what Transmit looked at when approving the 
loan application.  I have also made  further  enquiries with both Mr S and Transmit, as to what 
scrutiny Mr S was led to expect Transmit  to carry out on his behalf  when considering  his loan 
application.
Transmit has provided evidence that it reviewed business plans and that it conducted  stress  
tests for the business plan, in line with the requirements of the government scheme 
supporting the loans.  I have not considered whether the checks it carried  out were sufficient 
to meet  the government guidelines, as this relates  to the relationship between Transmit  and 
the scheme provider,  rather than the relationship between Mr S and Transmit. If Mr S 
believes that Transmit did not carry out these checks properly he would need to refer this to 
the scheme provider  for them to consider.  
From the available evidence, it appears  that Transmit carried out checks  in order to satisfy 
itself that Mr S would  be able to repay  the loan. Mr S was planning to continue  his salaried 
work for some time, and his outgoings, including the loan repayment, could be covered by 
his existing income. Transmit also conducted  a credit search and was satisfied that Mr S 
would be able to meet his repayments. I do not think this was unreasonable.  
I have considered whether there  is evidence  that Transmit offered or agreed to do any 
additional checks for Mr S, and I have not seen  evidence showing that Transmit offered to 
carry out further scrutiny  into the business,  beyond  the checks  it needed to satisfy itself that 
Mr S would be able to repay the loan. I cannot see that Transmit agreed  to any services to 
Mr S beyond lending  him the money.
Whilst I understand Mr Ss upset,  I cannot say that Transmit has failed to do something  it 
said it would  do, or that Transmit  has fallen  below the standard  we would expect of a 
business lending  money to a consumer in order for them to enter into a new business. 
Ref: DRN94932793As a result, I do not uphold  Mr Ss decision and do not ask Transmit Start-Ups  Limited to do 
anything further.  
I realise that this decision will be disappointing  to Mr S, but I hope  it explains the limitations 
on what we can consider, and the reasons that I do not uphold this complaint.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint and do not ask 
Transmit Start-Ups  Limited to do anything  further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9493279