K822xcomplaint
Ms F complains that EQUIFAX LIMITED never  gave her a proper explanation for the breach 
of its data. 
background 
In May 2017  Equifaxs parent company was the subject of a cyber attack and the attackers 
gained access to some of Ms Fs personal details.  The details included  her name, date of 
birth and telephone number. It thought  that the risks she faced were unsolicited phone  calls. 
But it didnt think it likely  someone  would  access her financial accounts or commit identify  
fraud based on those  details. It offered  her a free service for one year to monitor her credit  
file for any unusual activity. If she was still concerned at the end of this period it said it would 
extend her cover at no charge.
Ms F didnt think Equifax had done enough. She wanted a full explanation for what 
happened and says Equifax hasnt given her the reasons behind the breach.
Our investigator could  understand  why Ms F was upset  and worried by the unauthorised 
access to her personal details. So he thought Equifax should pay her £100 for the trouble 
and upset itd caused. But he thought the steps  itd now suggested to protect  her in the 
future were fair and reasonable. And he said Equifax had given Ms F a full explanation.
Ms F didnt agree. She said she still expected Equifax to provide an explanation of how the 
data breach came about. And she was being  bothered by numerous  spam calls.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute Equifax has made a mistake in the handling of Ms Fs personal data so 
we would expect  it to make good any financial loss shes incurred  as a result  of its error. So I 
have to decide two issues. Has Equifax done enough? If not what more  should it do? For 
ease of reference Ill follow the same  headings as our investigator.  
any losses  for becoming a victim  of fraud due to the error?
I understand how worried Ms F may be that her personal details might  be used by a 
fraudster. But I agree with our investigator  that there  isnt sufficient evidence  for me to 
conclude shes become a victim  of fraud  due to the breach.
what if Ms F becomes  a victim of fraud at a later date?
Unfortunately, as our investigator said, Equifax cant give Ms F an assurance this wont  
happen in the future.  But its offered her a number of free services to monitor her credit  file 
and I think thats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  If Ms F suffers  any financial loss 
in the future as a result of this breach she can make another complaint  to Equifax. And we 
would expect that organisation to make  good  any loss to her. 
Ref: DRN96155902what if Ms F doesnt want  to use Equifax Protect and Web  Defence Services?
Equifax has offered Ms F free services  to monitor her credit  file. I can understand her 
reluctance to sign up to these in the circumstances. Equifax made a mistake in protecting 
her personal  details. So I dont think its fair to expect her to have confidence in its services. 
There are a number of other monitoring services available to her. So, if she decides to take 
out similar monitoring services with another  provider,  Equifax should cover the cost for the 
first two years. 
what happens  after  two years?
I think two years is a reasonable time to monitor Ms Fs credit  file for any suspicious activity. 
I know Ms F doesnt agree this is long enough  but in light of the nature of the details that 
were compromised  I think the main risk is unsolicited calls. Its unlikely from those details 
that a fraudster could access  her financial  records  But if she does become a victim  of fraud 
within that time Equifax should make  good  any losses and should  pay for a monitoring 
service for another two years.
trouble and upset
Some of Ms Fs personal details were accessed by an unauthorised third party  so I can see 
she would  be upset  and worried by this. Her phone number was accessed so she may 
receive more nuisance calls. And shes said this is happening with up to seven  nuisance  
calls a day. Our investigator  has told her that any reasonable costs  associated with changing 
her phone number  would  be covered by Equifax. She has said that she doesnt want  to do 
this but if she changes her mind  the investigator  will help her by speaking to Equifax on her 
behalf. 
When we decide  on awarding payments for trouble and upset, any awards  we make arent 
designed to punish a business. Instead  we take a fair and reasonable approach,  taking into 
account the individual circumstances of the complaint. In this case, I agree with our 
investigator that Equifax should  pay Ms F a sum of £100 for the trouble and upset caused.  I 
feel this is a fair amount and in line with what we would recommend  in other cases with 
broadly similar circumstances.
Ms F says she hasnt had a proper explanation of why the breach took place. She wants  to 
know how the hackers were able to access the system and obtain  customers data. I know 
Ms F wont agree with me but I think Equifax has given her as much  information as it can. Its 
said it was the victim  of a cyber attack and its systems were  breached.  Customers data was 
accessed in that breach. As our investigator explained complex technology  was used to 
obtain the data stored  on Equifaxs computer systems. I cant see theres any other 
explanation it couldve given her.
Ref: DRN96155903my final decision
My decision  is that to put matters right Equifax Limited must
Provide Ms F the free online services  its already  offered and
Pay Ms F £100 for the trouble and upset  its caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9615590