K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains about how Allianz  Insurance Plc dealt with her claim under her home insurance.
background
Miss L initially  complained  to Allianz  in August 2017 about issues  with Allianzs contractor 
and the repair work  carried out in her home. 
Allianz sent a final response in November 2017. It appointed a new contractor to complete 
the repairs and awarded Miss L compensation of £750. 
Miss L complained to Allianz again in October 2018  about delays in completing the repairs  
which resulted in her needing alternative  accommodation for an additional period. Allianz  
investigated the complaint and found that the claim was due to have concluded  in February 
2018 but due to delays  the work hadnt  been  completed until August 2018.  It awarded further 
compensation of £250.
A few months later Miss L raised  a further  complaint about delays by the contractor in 
dealing with a smell of damp in her bathroom. Allianz investigated and found that the repairs 
had been delayed by three months.  It awarded  further compensation of £500.
Miss L complained to this service. Shes unhappy  at the length  of time its taken to complete  
the repairs and feels that her claim has been  mishandled by Allianz.
Our investigator explained that this service  could only look at the complaint from October  
2018 because  Miss L hadnt referred her first complaint to this service in time.  The 
investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She agreed  that there had been delays but felt that 
Allianz had dealt with the complaint fairly  and had awarded fair compensation.
Miss L didnt  agree.  She didnt  understand why her initial complaint couldnt be considered  and 
said she was unhappy about the original contractors work and behaviour. She said she disagreed 
with Allianzs response to her initial complaint and didnt accept that it had been resolved.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service is unable to look at the issues raised in Miss Ls initial  complaint to Allianz.  Ill 
explain why. 
After receiving a final response  from the business,  a consumer has six months to refer the 
complaint to this service.  If the complaint isnt referred within this timescale, this service isnt 
able to help unless the delay is due to exceptional  circumstances, the business  didnt send  a 
valid final response or the business  agrees to this service being involved after the six month 
time limit.
In this case, Allianz sent its final response  to Miss L on 10 November 2017. So Miss L had 
until 10 May 2018 to refer a complaint to this service. She didnt refer the complaint  in time, 
nor has she shown that there were exceptional circumstances for missing the deadline. 
Allianz hasnt given consent for this service  to investigate a late complaint. 
Ref: DRN97524892For these reasons Im unable to look at the issues raised in Miss Ls first complaint. The 
complaints Im able to consider  are the complaints made since  October  2018.
The October 2018 complaint relates  to delays in completing the repairs and Miss Ls need for 
alternative accommodation. Allianz  acknowledged that there  had been  delays. It said these had 
been caused by additional materials being  required, staff illness with the trades  and a 
subsequent discovery  that the floor laid by the original contractor was defective.  Due to the 
issue with the floor, alternative accommodation was arranged for Miss L for 4 days in July 2018.
I understand how frustrating these  delays must  have  been for Miss L. But its often the case 
that once works have  started different factors can cause delays which are beyond  the control 
of the insurer. 
I dont think it would  be fair to say that these delays  were  Allianzs  fault or that Allianz did 
anything wrong. I can see that it awarded compensation and Im satisfied that the amount 
was fair and reasonable, taking into account the length of the delay. 
Miss Ls later complaint relate  to delays when she contacted the contractor in December 
2018 to report  a smell of damp in her bathroom.  Miss L was unhappy that although  repair 
works began, there were  works outstanding for several weeks and she had to chase for an 
update. Allianz  acknowledged that there had been a delay of 3 months and said this was 
due to miscommunication between the trades.
Its unfortunate that further work was necessary and I understand how disappointed  Miss L 
mustve been about this further disruption, although I understand that the bathroom  
remained in use throughout the repairs.
On balance, and whilst  I can see that there have been delays in competing the repairs,  Im 
satisfied that Allianz has taken this delay into consideration in awarding compensation. 
Overall I think  the amount  of compensation awarded is fair and reasonable, so I wont  be 
asking Allianz to pay any more.
I understand that Miss L has experienced further problems with the bathroom since her 
complaint was investigated  by this service. Shes also raised  a concern about her ability to 
obtain insurance elsewhere.  Im unable to look at these issues within  the context of this decision  
because these are new complaint  points which Miss L will need to raise  with Allianz first.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint 
against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9752489