K820x#14complaint
Mr G says that Nationwide Building  Society (trading at the time as Derbyshire Building Society) 
mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in January 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr Gs complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mr G or Nationwide Building  Society sent me anything further to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions             
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject 
my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN96490552copy of provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2000. Mr G says Nationwide  Building Society  (trading  at the time as Derbyshire Building 
Society) mis-sold  him the PPI. Ive referred to the business as Nationwide in my decision.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to the time thats passed since the sale, not all of the paperwork completed is now 
available. This isnt unusual given that the sale took place the best part of 20 years ago.      
In situations like this Ill consider  the available evidence to decide what  I think  is more  likely 
than not to have  taken  place at the time of sale. 
To briefly summarise,  Mr G has complained that:
the adviser informed  him that it would  be more likely that the mortgage would be 
approved if he took PPI
he believed that the insurance  was mandatory
he didnt give his consent for the PPI to be added
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Im currently  dont think that the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why below.
When Ive considered everything, on balance, even though  I havent  seen the 
document that presented PPI to Mr G or his written consent to taking  it out, I still think 
that its more likely than not that he was aware that PPI was optional and he chose to 
take it out. 
On the mortgage  and PPI application  dated  28 October 2003, section 15 is for PPI. 
Some of Mr Gs personal details have been typed  as well as the level of cover  
required and the waiting period before a claim could be made. 60 days was selected 
when there  was an option for 30 days. Ive noted that section  16 on the form is for 
buildings and contents insurance. There are four options and a tick has been placed  
next to the option to make his own arrangements.
As this was a meeting,  I think its more  likely  than not that a discussion took place. Mr 
G agreed to take PPI and Mr G signed  the overall application to agree to what he 
was applying for. The alternative explanation  is that the adviser added  the PPI details  
to the form - without Mr Gs consent.  But the rest of the evidence  doesnt support this 
version of events. 
Ive seen a copy  of a letter dated  4 November 2003 that Nationwide  have said was 
sent to Mr G. In this letter it outlines the borrowing amount and on page 2 theres a 
heading for PPI. It goes  on to say I have recommended that you effect a..to cover 
Ref: DRN96490553you for Accident,  Sickness and unemployment. The letter  goes on to say that the 
first six months of cover  are free.
It also states what the cost of the PPI will be after six months and that Nationwide  will 
write to Mr G to remind him that the period  of free cover is ending. It also says that 
The Derbyshire allows you a fourteen day cooling off period.If you do change  
your mind, you will receive  a full refund of any premiums..
Ive also considered Mr Gs mortgage  offer. Its dated 7 November  2003.  In the 
special conditions section,  its mentioned  that the property doesnt have to be insured 
(buildings insurance) through Nationwide but that it does  need to be insured. Theres  
no mention of needing to take PPI as a special condition of the lending.
When Ive considered all of the evidence, I cant fairly say that Nationwide told Mr G 
that he had to take  a monthly  premium  PPI policy (that could be cancelled  at any 
time) and was free for the first six months, to improve the chances of his mortgage 
being approved.  In the mortgage offer letter Ive referred to, the mortgage  has been  
agreed in principle - subject to the special  conditions - none  of which mentioned  
taking PPI in order  to have the mortgage.
Ive also considered that, even in a scenario where  Mr G felt that PPI was mandatory, 
why would he have  kept the policy when Nationwide, in my opinion,  made  it relatively 
clear in the letter dated 4 November 2003 that if he changed his mind  about taking 
PPI, that he could cancel it. 
Ive also noted  that, although I havent seen a copy of the letter  Nationwide  say was 
sent at the end of the period of free cover, if Mr G did receive it he would have had 
another opportunity to decide  if he wished to go ahead and start paying  for PPI from 
month seven. But the evidence  is that PPI wasnt cancelled and it remained in place 
until it was cancelled in 2008. 
Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr G so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, including  his 
employment circumstances, I think that it was. For example  he wasnt  affected by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems  to have had a need 
for the cover.  
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But I think  that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said - including  what hes said about not needing PPI 
because of his sick pay entitlement through his employment. But this policy could have  paid 
out for longer than his sick pay entitlement  would have paid out for. 
Ive also considered what Mr G has said about having savings that he could have used to 
make his repayments. But Ive not seen evidence of the significant amount of savings that 
Mr G has described.  Ive also noted  that on page six of his mortgage application, its been 
hand written that the source of the deposit for the property being mortgaged  is Non-
returnable gift from parents & savings.  
Ref: DRN96490554This suggests, in my opinion, that Mr G may have used some  of his savings hes described 
for the deposit  which was just over £9,000. Ive also noted that, if Mr G had the savings that 
hes described, it would equate to quite a large  sum of money based on what he was earning 
at the time of sale from his employment. As this is a provisional decision and if Im incorrect  
in my assumptions, Mr G now has an opportunity to provide additional evidence of the 
savings. 
In any case, this PPI policy would have  paid out in addition to any savings that Mr G had. 
This would have allowed him the option of not needing to use his savings and instead keep 
them intact for future use. It also would have  allowed him the option of being able to use his 
savings for other living expenses that he would have had.
So on balance, I still think that the recommendation to take PPI was suitable  and the policy 
was right for Mr G and these points  dont change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr G paid on his policy  and whether Nationwide  
treated him unfairly. 
Nationwide has told us that the commission for Mr Gs policy  was less than half of what  he 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Nationwide  has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Gs commission was less than half the 
cost of the policy. As thats the case,  I dont  think  it needed  to tell him about  the commission 
 so I dont think  Nationwide treated him unfairly.  This means  it doesnt  need to pay Mr G 
back any of the commission he paid for the PPI. 
my provisional decision
I currently dont intend to uphold this complaint.
If either  Mr G or Nationwide Building Society have  anything further to add, they should do so by   
23 February 2019. Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9649055