K821x#15complaint
Ms H has complained Nationwide Building  Society  wont refund two sets of payments taken 
from her credit card which she didnt authorise.
background
In August  2018  Ms H complained to Nationwide that shed noticed two sets of regular 
payments being  taken  from her credit card account.  These were for $12.50  paid from 
April 2016 and £15 from November 2017  on a monthly basis.  Shed  never  authorised these 
so wanted the money refunded.
Nationwide didnt think they had to do this. They  felt in all likelihood Ms H had signed  up to a 
free trial (which had then continued and she was charged a monthly payment) and 
potentially to make payments for a pet charity. Ms H disputed shed done either thing. As 
Nationwide wouldnt help her, she brought her complaint to the ombudsman  service.
Our investigator considered the evidence. Nationwide  had nothing  to show  Ms H had 
authorised these payments. The retailer, however, showed Ms H had an account with them  
but Ms H was unsuccessful in being able to contact them and disputed this. Overall  our 
investigator felt Nationwide should  have  done  more, including  treating these transactions as 
unauthorised at the time Ms H first contacted them. She asked Nationwide  to refund the 
money involved to Ms H.
Nationwide felt Ms H should have paid closer attention to her account  statements as these 
payments took place  over more than a two year period  in one case.  Ms Hs complaint has 
been referred to an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly I can see the timeline of events, detail  on the transactions and how they were made 
were covered in our investigators  view of 28 October 2019. I dont intend to repeat 
everything that was said there. Except to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly and considered all the relevant evidence carefully.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank  has acted  fairly  in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed them  to be 
made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt ask the bank  to refund them.
To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the limited  evidence of the transactions,  as 
well as what both Nationwide and Ms H have told us. 
The following  summarises what Ive considered:
Ref: DRN94684942Both sets of transactions are continuous payments which people can sign up for 
when using their debit or credit card. To do this, merchants are required to provide 
explicit information to customers  to make them aware theyre  signing up to this type 
of payment arrangement.
One set is for a website which offers savings and cashback  to its members when 
they shop at certain retailers. Customers generally sign up to a free trial initially  
before regular payments kick in.
The other is for regular payments to an overseas dog charity.
I can see how someone may have signed up to the savings website in mistake and 
not then cancelled the payment arrangement. But its just as simple to not be aware  a 
payment is to be taken. I dont  think its clear on the website.
The dog charity  is a bona fide organisation and it does look as if itd be difficult to 
sign up to this by mistake.
Ms H has said shes not signed  up to either  website.  
I have considered Nationwides view this isnt the case  but there is little evidence to 
show Ms H deliberately authorised her credit  card to be debited  for regular payments. 
Unfortunately compromise  of card details does happen.
Payments to the dog charity are made in US dollars so this means amounts that 
Ms H was paying  varied on a regular basis depending on the exchange rate.
Nationwide has said Ms H has an obligation to review her credit card statements. If 
shed done so, shed have  noticed  the problem  earlier. I dont dispute this and it is 
absolutely good practice to review ones statements on a regular basis.  But the fact 
Ms H wasnt  checking  her statement doesnt  override the fact in all likelihood  she 
didnt authorise  these transactions.
Having considered all the relevant evidence, Im satisfied  Ms H didnt authorise  these  
payments. I believe regular payments were stopped in August 2018  but Nationwide will need 
to refund the disputed amounts that Ms H paid before then. I suggest they rework her credit  
card account  to ensure that shes not been  charged  for any interest or charges along with 
these two regular  set of payments. That puts her credit card account back  into the position it 
should have been in without these unauthorised payments. 
Nationwide will note Ms H would like any credit which  overpays any credit card debt to be 
paid to her current account.  This doesnt seem  unreasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Nationwide Building Society to:
Refund Ms H for two sets of regular  payments  and associated  charges which  debited  
her credit  card account from June 2016  and November 2017; and
Rework her credit card account  as if these transactions  and any relevant fees and 
charges didnt take place.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Ref: DRN94684943Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9468494