K820x#14complaint
Mrs T and Mrs N complain that Santander  UK Plc failed  to make two payments under a 
standing order.
background
Mrs T brings  this complaint on behalf  of herself  and Mrs N. Mrs T is Attorney for Mrs N and 
they hold a joint account with Santander. There is a standing order  set up on the account to 
make four-weekly payments to a third party which Ill call H.
In late 2018, Mrs T was informed by H that the account she and Mrs N hold with them was in 
arrears. Mrs T queried this with Santander  and asked them for a list of the payments  made  
to H.  When she received this, she noticed  that no payments had been made in July 2015 or 
September 2017. She says payments should have gone out under the standing order  in both 
those months.
When Mrs T complained to Santander,  they said that amendments were made to the 
standing orders by Mrs T in July 2015  and September 2017. They said that the amendments 
affected the collection date of the next payments.  So they say they havent made a mistake.  
But Mrs T says the amendments were increases to the amount being paid to H and she 
doesnt think that should have delayed the payments going out.
Because Mrs T wasnt  happy  with Santanders response, she brought  her complaint to this 
service. When  our investigator looked  into it, he didnt  think  Santander had done anything 
wrong. But Mrs T didnt agree, so the complaint  has been passed to an ombudsman for 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted by both the parties  that Mrs T made amendments  to the standing order in July 
2015 and September 2017. It looks as though  the standing  order  was originally set up in July 
2015 (bill payments  having been made up to that point) and then changed  in September 
2017. So, rather than two amendments, were actually talking about  an initial instruction and 
a later amendment.  
Santander say that, when  a change is made, its effectively a new standing order being put 
in place and it can take up to 30 days for the new instruction to take effect. I dont  think  thats 
unreasonable. But Ill look at the circumstances around each instruction below to decide 
whether I think Santander have  acted fairly  here.
the 2015 instruction
Santander say that, when  Mrs T set up the standing  order in July, she requested the first 
payment be taken on 1 August. That was less than 30 days  from the date of the request. So, 
for the reasons above, I dont think its unreasonable that the new instruction hadnt been  
implemented by then.  The first standing order payment went out on 24 August and then 
continued to be taken on every fourth Monday, as per Mrs Ts instruction. 
Ref: DRN96461012Santander say that Mrs T made a bill payment to H on 10 August for the same amount as 
the standing order  mandate. From the information I've seen, Im satisfied thats the case.  I 
havent seen anything which confirms whether this bill payment was made  to address the 
fact that no standing order went out in July. But in any event, I dont think Santander did 
anything wrong  by not making a standing  order payment in July, for the following reason.
A bill payment was made to H at the end of June. Less  than four weeks  later,  Mrs T set up 
the standing order  requesting payment on 1 August.  As Ive said above,  the first payment 
under this mandate was actually made  on 24 August. But I dont think there was a standing  
order mandate in place  which would  have enabled  Santander to make  a payment during 
July.
the 2017 amendment
I havent seen  anything to indicate that Mrs T specified a particular date for the next payment 
when she amended the mandate in September. But the standing  order was set up for 
payments to go out every fourth Monday.  From  the information available, Im satisfied that 
payment went out on the fourth  Monday after the amendment was made. So I dont think  
Santander did anything  wrong in the way they implemented the change.
A standing  order payment  went out on 21 August. Mrs T amended the mandate  less than 
four weeks  later, that is, before the next payment under the old mandate  was due. The new 
mandate carried the instruction for payments to be made every fourth Monday and, as 
explained above, Im satisfied  that happened. So I dont think there was a mandate in place 
which would have enabled Santander to make a standing order  payment during September.
conclusion
For the reasons  above, I dont think Santander have done anything  wrong here. So Im not 
going to ask them to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T and Mrs N 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9646101