K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 2000 with a mortgage. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr R if he couldnt work because  of accident, sickness  or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Rs case.
From the evidence I have  seen I dont think that Nationwide recommended  the policy  to 
Mr and Mrs R, so the key question I need  to consider is:
Did Nationwide give Mr and Mrs R information  that was clear, fair and not misleading in 
order to put them  in a position where they could make an informed choice about the 
insurance they were  buying?
If the answer  to this question is no, then I need  to consider whether Mr and Mrs R are worse  
off as a result. That is, would they have  done something different  such as not taking out 
the policy  if there had been no problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs R say they dont remember PPI being  discussed during the mortgage  application  
process. The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between 
Mr and Mrs R and Nationwide when the policy was taken out. 
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide much information from when  the policy was sold.  
Thats not surprising  as these events took place nearly twenty  years  ago. Im also mindful 
that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Without anything  else to support what Mr and Mrs R have told me, I havent  been able to 
safely conclude that Nationwide didnt tell them about the PPI, or make  them  aware that they 
had a choice about buying  the policy.
I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs R before 
they agreed to take it. But the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable.  So 
Ref: DRN93748522I think it unlikely they would have made a different decision if better information about the 
cost had been provided.
Mr R satisfied the eligibility requirements of the policy when taking it out. And his 
circumstances dont  suggest he would have been  caught by any of the conditions limiting  the 
policys main benefits  (such as those  affecting self-employed people  or people with pre-
existing medical conditions).
Mr R says he was entitled to sick pay if he couldnt work because of sickness  or accident,  
and that he and Mrs R had some savings.
But as Ive already said,  I dont  think Nationwide  advised Mr and Mrs R on whether or not to 
take the PPI. So it wouldnt  have had to check whether their existing arrangements meant 
the policy was suitable for them. Overall, therefore, Im not persuaded that Mr Rs sick pay 
and savings means the PPI policy was mis-sold.
In summary,  I think Mr and Mrs R agreed  to take out the cover, knowing they didnt have to. 
And given  it provided  broadly what I think they expected when they agreed to it, I dont think 
they would  have made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if they had 
been better informed.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9374852