K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that he was given incorrect advice by HSBC UK Bank Plc which led to a 
default being registered against him.
background
Mr G held a credit card account with HSBC. He fell behind with his payments  and contacted 
the bank to let it know that he was experiencing financial  difficulties  as a result of a property 
he was trying to sell being on the market for longer than expected.
When he contacted  HSBC Mr G said he wanted to clear the arrears  in full when the property 
was sold. He transferred  some funds into the account whilst he was on the phone  to HSBC 
to avoid a default.
From February 2018 the account fell into arrears again. HSBC  sent collection letters to Mr G 
asking him to bring the account up to date. Mr G contacted HSBC  and made a payment  
towards the arrears.  HSBC told him the account wouldnt be defaulted unless he was 7 
payments behind.
On 12 June 2018 HSBC sent Mr G a Default Notice followed  by a Final  Demand. Mr G 
contacted HSBC and told it that the property still hadnt sold and he was relying on members 
of his family  for financial  help.
HSBC advised  Mr G that the account was 6 payments behind. It offered to freeze  interest 
and penalties for 60 days which Mr G accepted.  Mr G told HSBC  he would make  a payment 
in September  2018. HSBC assured Mr G that the account wouldnt be defaulted if he did 
this.
Following this conversation HSBC  passed  the account to recoveries and recorded a default  
against Mr G.
Mr G complained to HSBC. He said hed been told a default wouldnt be recorded. HSBC 
admitted it had given  incorrect  information  but refused  to remove the default. It offered Mr G 
compensation of £100.
Mr G wasnt happy with HSBCs response so he complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said Mr G had made it clear in his discussions 
with HSBC that he wanted  to avoid a default. He said HSBC had provided  incorrect 
information to Mr G specifically in the August 2018  call where  it told Mr G that a default 
wouldnt be recorded. The investigator  thought Mr G would have taken steps  to avoid a 
default if hed been provided  with information  on how to manage the debt. He recommended 
that HSBC remove  the default from Mr Gs credit file and reach an agreement with Mr G as 
to repaying the outstanding debt.
Mr G agreed with the investigator but said the default had affected  his ability  to finance 
property projects resulting  in financial loss which he estimated to be in the region of 
£721,000.00.
Ref: DRN93880092HSBC disagreed with the investigator. It said although Mr G wanted  to avoid a default,  the 
fact that a Final  Demand had been issued meant that the only way to avoid a default was to 
repay the debt in full. HSBC said Mr G wasnt able to do this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr G was experiencing financial difficulties prior to January  2018 as the 
account was already  significantly in arrears at this time. Mr G made HSBC aware of his 
financial difficulties and  more importantly  made HSBC aware that he wanted to avoid a 
default at all costs.
In response, HSBC  provided advice to Mr G, not all of which  was clear  and correct. For 
instance, it told Mr G that his account  wouldnt  be referred to recoveries unless he had 
missed 7 payments.  This led Mr G to believe that he had time  to try and sell his property 
and/or make  payments towards the arrears.  HSBC also told Mr G in August 2018 that the 
account was 6 payments behind but assured  Mt G that if he made a payment in September  
2018 he would avoid a default.
The information provided to MR G couldve  been  much clearer. Because  HSBC didnt 
explain things properly,  Mr G was left with the impression that he had time to find money to 
make a payment  and avoid a default. If HSBC had given clear  information to Mr G I think he 
would have made a payment towards  the arrears  in August 2018 in order to avoid a default  
as he had done on previous occasions in 2018.
I understand the point HSBC makes about  default being inevitable. But I dont agree. The 
telephone conversations  between Mr G ad HSBC  show that Mr G was waiting for a property 
sale to complete which would enable him to clear  the arrears  in full. So its possible that the 
property could have  sold and the arrears  been  cleared at any time.  Further,  Mr G made  
payments towards  the arrears at various times in 2018, which  demonstrates his intentions  
and ability  to make payments to avoid a default.
Ive taken into account everything that Mr G has said about his financial losses  and why he 
feels that HSBC is responsible. Im sorry to hear that the losses  have been so extensive and 
of the effect this has had on Mr Gs family.  However,  I cant safely  conclude that the 
difficulties experienced by Mr G in obtaining funding can solely  be attributed to the default. I 
understand the point which Mr G makes about  personal guarantees. However,  theres no 
cogent evidence  to suggest  that any particular lender declined Mr G (or his company) for 
finance on the basis that Mr G didnt provide a personal guarantee. Moreover, the arrears  on 
Mr Gs HSBC credit card account wouldve been reflected on his credit  file.  So  even if the 
default hadnt been registered, I think its unlikely that Mr G would have been able to provide 
a personal guarantee in any event.
Taking all the circumstances into account,  I think  HSBC should remove the default and 
agree an affordable payment plan with Mr G.
HSBC has indicated that it intends  to remove the default and bring the account  back from 
recoveries. This means the account will accrue  interest.
Ref: DRN93880093This isnt what I intend to happen. I dont think its fair or reasonable for interest to accrue 
and for Mr G to be chased for payments. I think the balance should be frozen with no further 
interest of charges  accruing.  HSBC should reach agreement with Mr G with regards to a 
payment plan taking  into account Mr Gs financial  circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
Remove the default
Freeze the outstanding balance
Agree an affordable payment plan with Mr G.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9388009