K821x#15complaint
Miss G says Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) irresponsibly lent to 
her.
background
This complaint is about 9 instalment loans Satsuma provided to Miss G between  
December 2015  and March 2017.  This is a summary of Miss Gs lending history from 
Satsuma.
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 09/12/2015 09/12/2015 100
2 14/01/2016 11/03/2016 100
3 12/03/2016 17/05/2016 150
4 21/05/2016 02/07/2016 130
5 02/07/2016 09/08/2016 220
6 21/08/2016 26/08/2016 130
7 30/08/2016 03/09/2016 200
8 06/03/2017 08/03/2017 100
9 13/03/2017 05/04/2017 180
In Satsumas final response letter it upheld Miss Gs complaint about loan 3 and made an 
offer to compensate her in line with our guidelines. Our adjudicator upheld Miss Gs 
complaint in part and thought loans 5 to 7 shouldnt have been given. Satsuma disagreed  so 
the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN95097302the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Miss G could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Gs complaint.
There was a significant break in Miss Gs borrowing from Satsuma. There was a gap of over 
six months between loan 7 and loan 8. I think it would have been reasonable for Satsuma to 
view that gap as an indication that Miss Gs finances had stabilised after whatever the 
circumstances that had caused her to take out her previous  loans. So I will look at Miss Gs 
borrowing in two separate lending chains.
The first chain was made up of loans 1 to 7, and the second of loans 8 and 9. Satsuma has 
already said there was an error  in its lending  decision for loan 3 and offered to compensate 
Miss G accordingly so I will focus on the other  loans and comment  no further  on that loan. 
I agree  with the adjudicator, and for the same reasons, that there  was nothing to indicate 
Satsuma needed  to do more when it approved loans 1, 2 and 4. The amounts that Miss G 
needed to repay were  small compared  to the disposable income she had declared.  Given 
these repayments  and what was known about Miss Gs circumstances at the time and her 
borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it would have been proportionate for Satsuma 
to have asked  for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable before  agreeing these loans. Similarly, for loans 8 and 9 in the second lending 
chain. Given the gap in lending of over six months I think it was reasonable for Satsuma to 
assume Miss Gs financial position had stabilised  and based on this, I think  the checks  it 
carried out for these  two loans were proportionate, and didnt show anything  that should 
have caused Satsuma to make  a different decision.  So I dont think Satsuma was wrong  to 
give loans 1,2,4, 8 and 9 to Miss G.
Ref: DRN95097303However I dont think Satsuma carried out proportionate checks  for loan 5. Had it done so, I 
think Satsuma would  most likely have made a different lending decision. I say this because 
by loan 5 there were  clear signs that Miss G was struggling to manage her money.  In June 
2016 she had at least three other  active short-term high cost credit agreements  in place with 
different lenders. So it was most likely  she was just borrowing to pay off other loans. And 
there were frequent gambling  transactions on her bank statements, further indicating it was 
likely Mrs R had wider financial problems. She bet over £2000 in June  2016  and this should 
have raised concerns about her ability to meet her loan repayments ongoing. A fuller 
financial review would  have alerted  Satsuma  to these issues.
Ive then looked at the overall  pattern of Satsumas  lending history with Miss G, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans  until there was a significant gap in lending.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Gs case, I think  that this point  was reached at 
loan 6. I say this because:
Miss G took out loan 6 less than two weeks after she had settled the previous loan. It 
was her sixth loan in nine months and it was for more than her first loan. At this point 
Satsuma ought to have known that Miss G was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in their income but to meet an ongoing need. 
The loans were  instalment loans, each  with 13 week terms. But Miss G frequently  
repaid her loans  early,  often  just days after shed taken it out. This isnt how 
instalment loans should usually work.  I think this pattern of lending should also have 
alerted Satsuma to the likelihood that Miss G was having  problems managing  her 
money. I think  that Satsuma shouldve  been  concerned that Miss G might be 
borrowing elsewhere to repay loans, again  increasing her indebtedness 
unsustainably.
Miss G wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Satsuma.  When 
Miss G applied  for loan 7 she had taken out seven loans  in just over 9 months 
(considering solely lending chain 1), and loan 7 was for double  the value of the first. 
Miss G had paid high interest charges  to, in effect,  service a debt to Satsuma over an 
extended period.
I think that Miss G lost out because Satsuma provided loans 6 and 7 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Gs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Miss Gs ability 
to access mainstream  credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 5 to 7, and Satsuma should put things right. 
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss G paid on loans 5 to 7;
Ref: DRN95097304pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 5 from Miss Gs credit file
any information recorded about  6 and 7 is adverse, so the entries about these loans 
should be removed  from Miss Gs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest.  Satsuma must give 
Miss G a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
It is unclear if Satsuma has already sent Miss G the compensation it offered for loan 3. The 
offer it made was in line with our guidelines. We have sought clarification but Satsuma 
hasnt replied, Miss G says she hasnt received a cheque. If Satsuma  hasnt made payment 
it should now do so, following  the steps it set out in its final response letter. When it puts 
things right as I have set out above, it should make clear to Miss G whether or not the total 
payment includes  the compensation for loan 3. If not, it should evidence  when it sent her the 
cheque it referred to, and when it was cashed. If the cheque was sent, but not received by 
Miss G it should cancel the first cheque and include the payment with my award.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Gs complaint. Provident  Personal 
Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) should  pay Miss G compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December  2019. 
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9509730