K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (trading as first direct) caused him distress  and 
inconvenience when  it rejected his application  for a current  account after leading  him to 
believe hed been approved.
background
Mr M applied  online  for an account with first direct. He received a letter to say his application 
had been accepted. The banks letter  asked  Mr M to sign some papers and return them,  
which he did.
However, the following day, first direct wrote  again to Mr M. This time the bank told Mr M it 
had been unable to approve his application,  as he didnt meet its account opening criteria. 
The letter further  explained that Mr Ms application  wasnt declined  due to information held 
by credit reference agencies.
Mr M has complained, as hes unhappy with the conflicting and misleading  information first 
direct gave him. He says that put him to some trouble and upset, for which  hes seeking 
compensation.
In response, first direct  has explained  that it doesnt give specific  details about its reasons  for 
declining an application, as these can be commercially sensitive. The bank acknowledged 
that Mr M was unhappy about receiving the two letters. It said it was sorry if they caused any 
confusion or frustration, and that it would pass on Mr Ms comments  to the relevant area.
Our adjudicator didnt  think first direct had treated  Mr M unfairly  in declining  his application,  
though she acknowledged the banks first letter had led him to think  hed been successful. 
She didnt  recommend any compensation. Mr M didnt accept that outcome, and asked for 
this review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reviewing Mr Ms complaint, Ive spoken  with him to get a full understanding  of his 
concerns. Having done so, Im satisfied Mr M understands  that first direct  is entitled to reach 
its own decision about to whom its prepared to offer account facilities. The banks explained 
to him that its decision wasnt based on credit reference information. While  that doesnt  shed 
any light on what its decision was based  on, Mr Ms main concern is with the conflicting  
letters he was sent.
First direct has said its initial letter is a standard letter  to collect  information  prior to an 
account being formally  opened and as such,  was sent correctly. Be that as it may, I can see 
why the letter gave Mr M the impression that the bank was willing to provide him with an 
account. It said:
Theres no indication here or anywhere  else in the letter that the opening of the account is 
subject to any further checks. It may well be that first direct makes additional checks against 
Ref: DRN92756282its account opening criteria, and its not for me to say whether this is an appropriate practice. 
But I do think that, where this is a possibility, the bank should  make that clear. I dont 
consider the correspondence first direct sent Mr M did that. And I dont think a reasonable 
person applying for an account would necessarily  understand the bank draws a distinction 
between accepting an application and approving one.
Its not within my power to require first direct  to amend the way it words its letters to 
consumers in general. But if it hasnt already done  so following Mr Ms complaint, then Im 
sure the possibility of other consumers being misled in the same way is no doubt something 
the bank will want to avoid.
Understandably, Mr M was upset when  he received  the apparently contradictory letter  dated  
the following  day. His expectations  were  raised  because of the way first direct worded its 
initial letter. While the inconvenience  caused  to Mr M in responding to the first letter  
(unnecessarily, as it turned out) was modest,  he felt he needed to pursue a formal  complaint 
with the bank, which put him to some  further trouble.
Taking all of this into account,  Ive concluded  that it would be appropriate  for first direct  to 
apologise to Mr M and pay compensation for his trouble and upset, which I assess  at £150.
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc must pay Mr M £150, and provide him with a 
formal apology for giving him a misleading  impression  about his application.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Niall F Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9275628