K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) didnt treat him fairly  and 
sympathetically when  he couldnt maintain payments under his conditional  sale agreement 
because of his own and his daughters illnesses, and it wrongly terminated his conditional  
sale agreement.
background 
In March 2016, Mr W entered  into a conditional  sale agreement with Santander  for a minivan 
under which he was to make monthly payments over the next five years. He used the 
minivan for the purposes  of his taxi business and also as personal transport for his family.
In June 2017, Mr Ws daughter was diagnosed  with a serious  illness for which she was 
hospitalised. This meant Mr W was working fewer hours as he was caring for his daughter  
and transporting her to and from hospital. Mr W couldnt maintain regular payments. He did 
manage to make his payments although they were  sometimes a bit late.
Santander tried to contact  Mr W during 2017 to try to agree  some kind of arrangement. But 
Mr W said he couldnt do this. He complained Santander was harassing him. He said he 
would pay as and when he could. 
By July 2018, Mr Ws own health had deteriorated,  and he collapsed and was admitted to 
hospital. He was signed off work  for four weeks and underwent tests. On Thursday             
13 September 2018, Santander again  contacted Mr W. It offered him two options  either to 
terminate the agreement voluntarily and hand back the minivan, or come  to a payment 
arrangement.
Mr W wasnt happy with either option.  He said he was receiving universal credit and would 
pay what he could at the end of the month. He said his daughter was still seriously ill, and 
his own condition was still being investigated. In response to Santanders  request  he said he 
would send it medical evidence.
On Monday 17 September 2018  Santander  terminated the conditional sale agreement.  It 
said this was because  he hadnt sent in the medical evidence, although this was only 
requested two working days previously.  Mr W complained about this. He said he needed the 
minivan to take his daughter to and from hospital,  and he had started  his taxi work again.
Santander didnt  accept his complaint. It felt the termination was correct as Mr W hadnt 
supplied income  and expenditure information,  or medical evidence,  when  asked. So Mr W 
sold the minivan and his taxi licence and used the cash  to settle the conditional sale 
agreement. He complained to us that:
Santander didnt  support him properly during the financial difficulties he had following 
his and his daughters  illnesses;
some  information he received from Santander was conflicting;
he didnt think Santander  understood he was entitled to cancel the conditional sale 
agreement as he had paid it more than 50% of the total payable under the 
agreement;
he was willing to reach a payment plan, but Santander wouldnt engage; 
Ref: DRN91890082he had to sell the minivan and his taxi licence to avoid being left with a shortfall  after 
a forced  sale by Santander.  He now had no transport and no livelihood.  He was still 
having to pay off what he owed for the insurance  of the minivan;  and
he had settled the agreement by paying the settlement figure Santander  had asked 
for - £13,800.30. But he had received a statement showing £1,211 still outstanding, 
and a default for this had been marked on his credit file, which was stopping  him from 
getting finance for a replacement taxi. He wanted  this removed, and compensation 
for the way he had been treated.
Our adjudicator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She didnt think  
Santander had done enough  to support Mr W when he was suffering financially and dealing  
with the stress of his daughters illness and then his own illness.  Santander had never issued 
Mr W with a default notice  before it terminated  the conditional sale agreement,  which meant  
the termination was invalid.
Santander had acknowledged that it had treated Mr W unfairly, and had offered 
compensation of £1,000. The adjudicator recommended  that Santander should:
pay Mr W £1,000 to compensate him for the trouble and upset it had caused him;
waive all outstanding arrears; and
remove the default from his credit  file.
Mr W responded to say, in summary,  that he thought the compensation should be higher. He 
said that as a result of Santanders actions he had lost his livelihood and his business which 
had put him into financial  hardship.  He still owed debts to family and others, and had to rely 
on others to transport his ill daughter to hospital.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws daughters  illness  was diagnosed in June  2017 and it seems  his financial problems 
began then. Santander did try to engage  with Mr W at that time and attempted  to get him to 
set up a payment  arrangement, but Mr W didnt feel he could deal with Santander. Its clear 
that by September 2018 his finances  were in a critical state.
Santander did offer either to accept a voluntary termination  or to come to payment 
arrangement. But Mr W wanted  to try to continue.  Santander then terminated  the agreement, 
which it has acknowledged  was wrong  because it hadnt previously sent him a default  notice.  
Mr W decided  to sell the minivan  and his taxi licence  so he could pay off Santander and get 
a better  price than a forced sale by Santander was likely to achieve. He says Santander 
should compensate  him for the consequences  of selling  the minivan and his taxi licence  
loss of livelihood, business and family debts that he still owed, inability  to get finance to 
replace his taxi because  of the default  on his credit file, and difficulty in transporting his 
daughter to and from hospital. 
Ive considered carefully what Mr W has said. However given Mr Ws financial and other 
problems in September 2018 I cant be sure that he would have been  able to continue with 
his taxi business even if Santander  hadnt terminated the agreement. And many  of his debts 
had already arisen by then. Mr W might well still have  to have sold the minivan. 
Ref: DRN91890083I dont think Santander  acted correctly in registering a default on Mr Ws credit  file in respect 
of the £1,211. This wasnt a debt  it was a rebate of finance charges  Mr W was entitled to, 
and which  Santander  had agreed, when he settled his conditional sale agreement early.
However given the problems  Mr W had with his agreement  during 2017 and 2018, I cant  say 
the registration of this default was the sole reason he couldnt get finance for a replacement 
taxi.
All in all, I cant fairly hold Santander  responsible for all the debts and difficulties Mr W now 
has, or for the fact he needs to transport  his daughter to and from hospital.
Santander has acknowledged that it was wrong  to issue the termination notice, and that it 
treated Mr W unfairly. Its right that it should  compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused Mr W. Like the adjudicator, I think  Santander  should  now pay    
Mr W compensation of £1,000 and take the other  actions set out more  fully below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to:
pay Mr W £1,000 to compensate him for distress and inconvenience it has caused 
him;
waive all outstanding arrears, if any, still remaining on his account; and
remove the default in respect  of the £1,211  if this is still showing on Mr Ws credit  file 
as from the date this was put on his file by Santander.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9189008