K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  his financial adviser,  Thomson  Brown Financial Management  Ltd (TBFM),  
stopped a transfer from his defined benefit (DB) scheme to his existing self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) without prior notice. He says the transfer value he eventually  received from 
the scheme was significantly less and he has suffered a financial loss as a result.  
background
On or around May 2017 Mr M approached  TBFM for advice  on accessing cash  from a 
defined benefit  pension scheme. During  this time, a client agreement was signed by Mr M, a 
risk profile was conducted,  and a fact find recording Mr Ms circumstances was produced.  
The fact find showed  a cash equivalent  transfer value (CETV) of around £1.65  million from 
one of his DB schemes. 
Sometime later in 2017, an assessment  of the transfer from this DB scheme  was made,  and 
all parties agreed that it should go ahead. TBFM  recommended  that Mr M transfer  his DB 
scheme benefits into his existing  SIPP  with Provider  A. Mr M was then to open and transfer  
the funds into a small self-administered scheme (SSAS) with Provider  A. A CETV of 
£1,646.921.00 provided by the ceding  scheme  in October 2017  (guaranteed for three 
months) was used  to make the recommendation. The SIPP  transfer-in authority was 
subsequently signed in December 2017.
Provider A entered  into administration  on 29 March  2018.  Before then, a conditional asset 
purchase agreement  had been made between Provider A and another SIPP provider, 
Provider B. The assets to be purchased were divided into three  tranches and the first two 
had already been transferred. The third tranche  consisted of SIPPs  that held 'tainted' non-
standard assets within them. Mr Ms existing SIPP contained non-standard assets and was 
part of this third tranche.  The Administrator for Provider As liquidation objected to the 
agreement and sought other  buyers. 
On Friday 13 April 2018, the day the transfer  was to go-ahead, TBFM says it became aware 
that Provider A had entered administration following a media report.  It followed up with 
Provider A the same  day and learned  that some  SIPPs, those with non-standard  assets,  
might not transfer  over to the new provider. And even if they did, it was unknown at the time 
when this might happen.  Given this uncertainty, TBFM decided  to cancel the transfer.  Mr B 
wasnt made aware of this in advance. He learned  the transfer was stopped on Monday 
16 April 2018 when  his TBFM adviser  got in touch with an update.
On 24 April 2018 Provider B and the Administrator  reached a final agreement and the 
tranche three assets were  acquired by Provider B on 15 May 2018.
A new CETV  was subsequently requested and provided in May 2018. This showed the 
CETV had dropped by about  10%, to around  £1,477,400. Further  recommendations were 
made and TBFM advised Mr M to transfer despite  the reduction in the CETV.  In August 2018 
Mr M confirmed acceptance of this advice  and the transfer went  ahead.
In December 2018 Mr M complained to TBFM that it had incorrectly  stopped  the transfer in 
April, that it should have  contacted him before doing  so and TBFM  knew or should have 
known sooner about the liquidation of Provider A. As a result of the transfer being stopped, 
Mr M says he had to request a new CETV from his DB scheme. This was much lower than 
the previous value and so he has lost out financially. 
Ref: DRN90356462TBFM looked into Mr Ms complaint but it didnt agree the adviser did anything wrong and 
couldnt see what the adviser could have done differently. It said: 
When he became of aware of the problem,  he stopped the transfer so as to protect 
your interests. Any reasonable adviser  would  have done the same. In fact, you sent an 
e-mail to [the adviser] on the 17th of April 2018 expressing your gratitude in him acting 
so quickly in stopping  the transfer. 
It said revised advice based  on his objectives  and the lower  CETV  was provided. The advice 
was still to transfer, and Mr M accepted this advice.  And TBFM said it did not set up the 
SIPP with Provider  A or the bad investment in it. 
TBFM also said that: 
CETVs change from time to time according  to variations in actuarial assumptions. That 
is why there  is a guarantee period. After the guarantee period the value quoted can 
either be honoured or recalculated  at the discretion of the Trustees.  In this case, they 
insisted on a recalculation.
Unhappy with this response,  Mr M brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked in to Mr Ms concerns  but didnt think his complaint should  be upheld.  In 
summary he said:
The business is required  to act in the clients best interests and in stopping  the transfer 
when it did, TFBM was acting in Mr Ms best interests. 
It was reasonable for TBFM to recommend the use of Mr Ms existing SIPP  at the time 
of the original advice  as setting up a separate SIPP  would incur additional costs and 
administration fees.
The administration of Provider A wasnt announced in the financial press until 
13 April 2018  so he didnt think it was unreasonable that TBFM  only found out about it a 
short time later. Until the administration had been  confirmed it wouldnt have been 
prudent to rely on rumours that may have  been  circulating beforehand.
Mr M didnt  agree. He responded noting that the appointment  of Administrators for Provider 
A was announced in the media  on 9 April 2018. He also said that his adviser was aware  the 
CETV offered at the time of advice was very high and should be protected  at all costs. He 
thought TBFM should have contacted him the day the transfer was cancelled,  given him a 
choice and advice,  followed  up in writing. And because it didnt, TBFM unilaterally risked his 
very favourable CETV.
The investigator wasnt persuaded  to change his mind. He explained to Mr M that even if 
TBFM had learned of the appointment of administrators on 9 April 2018,  this wouldnt have 
prevented a new CETV from being required as the transfer would have been stopped at that 
point and a new SIPP provider would have needed  to be sourced. And although Mr M is 
adamant that TBFM  failed  in its obligation to consult him prior to stopping the transfer, the 
investigator thought  Mr M wouldve listened  to the advice  from TBFM  to not transfer if he had 
been contacted in advance, so he couldnt say things would have turned out differently. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to be for a decision
Ref: DRN90356463my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide  if the business has done anything  wrong  in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something  wrong  award compensation for any material  loss or distress
and inconvenience  suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position
and I am grateful  to them for doing  so. I have  considered these submissions in their entirety.
However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to
be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every
point raised in detail,  but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching  them.
TBFM was required to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator,  the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA).  So its actions  needed to be considered  with the overarching 
principles for businesses  in particular, principles 1 (integrity), 2 (due skill, care and 
diligence), 6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable  care) in mind.
So, amongst  other things,  to fulfil its duties TBFM had to know its client  and act in his best 
interests.
And in the circumstances present here, given the uncertainty  of the situation with the tranche 
three SIPPs and the potential  complications  that would arise by transferring funds to a SIPP  
provider that had just entered administration, I consider it was reasonable and prudent for 
TBFM to have  stopped the transfer to avoid  potentially  significant complications and delays. 
In so doing, TBFM was acting in Mr Ms best interests, as required.  
I also dont think TBFM when making the decision to stop the transfer  it wouldve  reasonably  
know that a subsequent CETV would fall in value by around 10%. From what Ive been  
provided, the CETV had been  at same since at least May 2017. Nevertheless, I still consider 
TBFMs actions here reasonable in the circumstances.  
Mr M asserts that TBFM  knew or at least should have known of this situation before it says it 
did.  As such, things  would have turned out differently. Ive thought about this, but Im afraid I 
dont agree. In this case, from what Ive been  provided and based on the balance  of 
probabilities, it seems plausible TBFM first became aware Provider  A was going into 
administration and that not all of its existing  SIPPs would  necessarily  be acquired by a new 
provider the same day the transfer was to proceed. 
Ref: DRN90356464And I dont  agree it would  be fair or reasonable to expect them  to have  known the situation 
with Mr Ms SIPP  in particular before it did. At the time of advice Mr M was looking to access 
cash to help fund a business.  He already  had a SIPP with Provider A that could  accept the 
transfer in from his DB scheme. Mr M didnt  appear unhappy or otherwise dissatisfied with 
Provider A at the time of advice. So I dont think TBFM needed to have investigated Provider  
A or additional  SIPP providers (the use of which would increase  the cost to Mr M) prior to 
giving advice to transfer the DB scheme  benefits to Provider A. But even  if it had conducted 
such an investigation, I cant  say this would have made a difference  as the advice was 
provided well before Provider A entered administration. And once having given that advice, 
which was accepted by Mr M, I dont  think it was unreasonable  that TBFM didnt track news 
about Provider A prior to the completion  of the transfer.  
But even if Im wrong about this, Ive seen no evidence to suggest that a new CETV wouldnt 
have been required  if the transfer  had been stopped when Provider A went  into 
administration two weeks earlier. I note the DB schemes CETV  Ive been provided was only 
valid for three months.  And given  the situation  with Provider A, a new SIPP  provider would 
need to be identified before the transfer could complete. This likely would have caused 
additional time and it would  have  certainly  increased  the cost to Mr M as hed have to pay 
charges for an additional SIPP provider. As it turns out, Mr M was able to make the transfer  
to his SIPP with Provider  A, which was subsequently taken  over by Provider B.
Mr M is also adamant that he should have been contacted prior to the transfer being 
stopped. There  is conflicting evidence on whether TBFM tried to reach  Mr M before 
cancelling the transfer. I dont need to decide  this issue, because regardless of whether 
Mr M was contacted on 13 April 2018, as Ive explained above,  Im persuaded by everything 
Ive been provided  that the transfer wouldve been  stopped on or before this day regardless. 
If TBFM had contacted him in advance,  Mr M has acknowledged  that he would have listened 
to its advice, which would have been not to transfer.  
At various times Mr M has said the transfer shouldnt have been  stopped  because  as it 
transpired, his SIPP was ultimately  transferred to Provider B. But this could only be known 
with the benefit of hindsight. The email Mr M sent after he learned TBFM stopped the 
transfer, supports  the conclusion he would have followed TBFMs advice, even if he feels 
differently now.
I understand Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, but I believe TBFM acted in his 
best interests and so I cant fairly  say it did anything  wrong in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2021.
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9035646