K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly closed his account and is 
demanding he pays his overdrawn balance.
background
In October  2018, a credit was paid into Mr Hs account for £400.  He said he was not aware  
of this credit  and does  not know where it came  from. At the time of the money coming into 
his account, Mr H had used up most of his £2000 overdraft facility.
Mr H continued to use his debit card on the account  and made smaller transactions as well 
as a larger one to his university.
Upon reviewing his account, NatWest made a decision to close it and to stop offering Mr H 
banking facilities.  It wrote to Mr H to tell him  giving him the appropriate notice.  It also 
reminded him that his overdraft debt was now payable in full.
Mr H complained.  He said he knew nothing of the money coming into his account.  He  
wanted his account re-opened  and to be compensated.  
When NatWest did not uphold his complaint, he came to this service.  He told our 
investigator he had been  the victim of identification  theft in that someone  else was using  his 
name and details.  He  didnt  explain  what the meant for the credit into his account.
Our investigator didnt  think he could  ask NatWest to do anymore  so Mr H asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid the investigator is right  according  to the terms and conditions  of Mr Hs account, 
NatWest is entitled  to give a consumer notice  of its intention to close the account.  The 
overdraft facility can also be withdrawn  and becomes payable in full.  
I wont rehearse the relevant terms here  both NatWest and our investigator have already 
quoted them to Mr H.
Its not for me to tell NatWest to re-open the account.  Thats  a matter for NatWest.   
However, I can look at whether it acted in accordance with its terms and conditions  and in 
doing so, treated Mr H fairly.
Having considered the correspondence and Mr Hs submissions, I cant  see anything  to 
suggest NatWest has acted unfairly  or unreasonably in closing Mr Hs account and 
demanding the overdrawn debt.
If Mr H is in difficulties in repaying the debt however, I would expect NatWest to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in arranging a repayment plan.
Ref: DRN90039832my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 August 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9003983