K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Barclays Bank  UK Plc (trading as Standard Life Bank  Plc) mis-
sold them  a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1999 when they 
applied for a joint mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs M complained to this Service. They applied for a joint mortgage through  an 
independent financial  adviser (IFA) from Standard Life Bank. At around the same time,  they 
bought a monthly premium PPI policy which only covered Mr M, who was a self-employed 
sole trader at the time.  They could not remember exactly what they were told about the PPI 
or how it was sold to them, due to the amount of time elapsed.  They  produced original 
documents from the time of the sale and they said the policy  was sold by Standard  Life 
Bank, which is now part of Barclays. So they conclude Barclays  is now responsible for the 
PPI mis-sale. 
Our adjudicator agreed with Mr and Mrs M and upheld  the merits of the PPI mis-sale 
complaint and made an award against Barclays.
Barclays said it was not responsible for the PPI sale and so it concluded it did not have to 
pay the award to Mr and Mrs M. It said the PPI was sold by the IFA at the same time he sold 
them the mortgage. It produced evidence to show it was not possible for Standard  Life Bank 
to have sold the policy due to the short time gaps  between receiving the PPI application and 
accepting Mr and Mrs M for PPI.
Another adjudicator   who looked at both the liability and the merits issues - thought 
Barclays was responsible for looking at this PPI sale because  it looked like the PPI had been 
sold by post to Mr and Mrs M. Our second  adjudicator also agreed  the complaint  should 
continue to be upheld  against Barclays. Barclays disagreed with our second  adjudicators  
view and so the matter was passed to me to look at.
I issued my provisional decision in January 2019  where I explained why I thought  Barclays 
was responsible for looking at this PPI mis-sale complaint (through the actions  of 
Standard Life Bank.) I also explained why I thought the mis-sale complaint should be upheld. 
We sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties and invited comment. 
Mr and Mrs M had nothing further to add. Barclays made the following points:
The PPI was sold by an intermediary;
Standard Life Banks  records  show it first had contact with Mr and Mrs M on 
14 June 1999   which is the same  date as on its PPI letter   and there  is no mention 
of a PPI sale as at that date;
The letter from Standard Life Bank  which mentions PPI reinforces that PPI was sold 
by the intermediary because it invites Mr and Mrs M to contact their financial adviser.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and to determine whether this Service is 
able to consider  this complaint against Barclays. 
Ref: DRN93092332The first thing I need to decide is whether Barclays is responsible  for the sale of the policy  to 
Mr and Mrs M. If I dont  think  Barclays was responsible for the sale of the policy,  then Im 
clearly not able to consider a complaint about the PPI mis-sale against  it. 
However, Im going to say Barclays is responsible for the sale of the PPI through  the actions 
of Standard Life Bank. I am also going to uphold this complaint.
what did Barclays says about the sale?
Standard Life Bank  did not sell the PPI;
The usual process was that the IFA would tell Standard Life Bank that the consumer  
was interested  in PPI, Standard Life Bank  would send the PPI form to the consumer 
who would complete it and return it to Standard  Life Bank;
So it concludes Standard Life Bank  performed administrative tasks rather than 
actually selling the policy;
Barclays produced  evidence to show there was a short  time gap between  Standard 
Life Bank receiving the forms ( on 16 June 1999) and then accepting  Mr and Mrs M 
for PPI (on 18 June);
Barclays concludes the IFA already had the PPI forms,  Mr and Mrs M completed and 
returned them to Standard Life Bank;
Standard Life Bank  was not regulated to provide advice or sell PPI with a mortgage  
at the time of sale;
Call notes show the IFA liaised  between Mr and Mrs M and Standard Life Bank  to 
sort out the direct  debit mandate and bank details;
The intermediary sold the policy;
Standard Life Banks  records  show it first had contact with Mr and Mrs M on 
14 June 1999   which is the same  date as on its PPI letter   and there  is no mention 
of a PPI sale on that date;
The letter from Standard Life Bank  which mentions PPI reinforces that PPI was sold 
by the intermediary because it invites Mr and Mrs M to contact their financial adviser.
I looked very carefully at everything  Barclays  told us about this PPI sale. Mr and Mrs M 
understandably did not remember  the details of the sale but they did produce their original 
documents which were  created at around that time.
They produced a letter dated  14 June  1999 sent by Standard Life Bank and addressed  to 
Mr and Mrs M. The first page of the letter says:
 Accident,  Sickness & Unemployment Cover
If you are eligible for cover we will provide free Accident, Sickness and Unemployment  
(ASU) cover  for your monthly mortgage repayment until July 1999. This is an introductory 
offer. After  the free period  has ended  will will [sic] collect  your premiums with your normal  
mortgage payment.  We will tell you what your new payment  is at this time.
What you need  to do
If you want to accept  cover please:
 complete the enclosed  acceptance form
 send it back to us in the pre-paid  envelope
The enclosed leaflet  gives you more information  about the free cover
Ref: DRN93092333Mr and Mrs M produced a further  letter from Standard Life Bank dated June 1999 which 
said:
We are delighted to advise you that FREE Accident, Sickness  and Unemployment  cover
has been extended until 30th September 1999 .
Barclays accepts Standard Life Bank sent this letter on 14 June 1999 and says it invites  
Mr and Mrs M to contact  their financial adviser  if they wanted more  help. However,  the letter 
also invites them to complete the acceptance  form and to return it to Standard  Life Bank;  
and it also encloses  an explanatory leaflet  telling them about PPI. So it does look more likely 
that Standard  Life Bank sent the PPI acceptance form to Mr and Mrs M to complete and 
return in order to get PPI which was free of charge  for around three months. I also noted 
from the call notes that Mr M called Standard Life Bank direct on 18 June to accept the ASU 
policy  it does not appear  that he went through a financial  adviser to confirm  the purchase.  
So I disagree with Barclays   I think Standard Life Bank more  likely did sell the PPI albeit in 
a non-advised  postal  sale  which means  I conclude that Barclays is responsible for looking 
at this PPI mis-sale complaint.
I can see Barclays has said the IFA dealt  with forwarding  Mr and Mrs Ms bank  details and 
the direct  debit mandate to Standard Life Bank. That may be so  but it does not change my 
decision that Standard Life Bank sold the policy earlier in time to Mr and Mrs M by post. I 
also agree  with our adjudicator that Standard  Life Bank  was able to sell this type of PPI 
policy.
the merits of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms case.
I am going to uphold  this complaint and Ill explain why: 
I think Mr M was eligible to buy the policy and I think he chose to have it to cover their joint 
mortgage payments.  
As this was a postal  sale, its most  likely the sale was non-advised and so Barclays  (through  
Standard Life Banks  actions) should have  made  sure the consumers had enough 
information which was fair, clear  and not misleading  so they could make an informed 
decision. So I looked at the information  which Mr and Mrs M would have seen at around the 
time of the sale.
Barclays sent us a copy of the policy which Mr and Mrs M would have  bought. Mr M told us 
he was a self-employed sole trader. This is important because the policy which  
Mr and Mrs M agreed to buy included the following  definition of unemployment  for self-
employed consumers:
You have completely ceased to trade  (which  includes the assisting, managing  and/or  the 
carrying on of any part of the day to day running of a business)
And the policy defines ceased  to trade  as:
You are entirely out of paid work because your business has failed
Ref: DRN93092334I suspect very few sole traders or small businesses actually become insolvent before they 
cease trading and so I think  this makes this definition significant. It wouldve  reduced  the 
value of the policy to Mr and Mrs M. So this term shouldve been specifically highlighted to 
them at the time of the sale. This was the cover on offer and Mr and Mrs M needed to 
understand this, so that they could make an informed choice about whether to buy the 
policy. This is because I think - according  to this condition - he was unlikely to be able to 
make a successful claim for unemployment  cover unless he completely ceased  trading. 
I think Barclays failed to highlight this limitation so Mr and Mrs M bought a policy which  
provided reduced value.  I dont think he understood the limited extent of the unemployment 
cover for his particular circumstances  as a self-employed person. And I dont  think 
Mr and Mrs M would  have  bought  the policy if they had been  made  aware (as they should 
have been) about these terms. So I think there  was a failing  in this sale.
Taking everything into account,  I think Barclays is responsible for looking  at this PPI sale 
and I think Barclays failed  to give Mr and Mrs M information which  was fair, clear and not 
misleading. I think Barclays  should  put things  right for Mr and Mrs M. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK Plc is responsible for looking  at this PPI mis-sale 
complaint and I uphold this complaint.
Barclays Bank UK Plc should put Mr and Mrs M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
taken out PPI. The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and 
Barclays Bank UK Plc should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount  they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Barclays Bank UK Plc 
can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes  them.   
Any amount  Barclays  Bank UK Plc has already  paid in relation to excess commission 
can be taken off from the amount it owes Mr and Mrs M.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays Bank  UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclays Bank UK Plc must  give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  
off if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Ref: DRN93092335Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9309233