K822xcomplaint
Miss M and Mr R have complained about the way Elite Insurance Company Limited (has 
ceased writing new business but continues to fulfil existing contracts of insurance) has 
handled a fire claim under  their home  insurance  policy.
background 
In January 2018 Miss M and Mr R made a claim to Elite after a fire badly damaged  their 
property. References to Elite in this decision include its claims handler.
Elite appointed a restoration company. It said the company would  dispose  of contents items 
that couldnt be restored, restore any items salvageable and clean the property ready for 
repairs. It also paid for Miss M and Mr R to stay elsewhere.
In June 2018 Miss M and Mr R advised Elite that they hadnt received all the items back  from 
the restoration company. Miss M listed these and said they would cost £5,407.18 to replace. 
She asked  Elite to double  check this and reimburse them. Elite said it had sent the list onto 
the restoration company for it to review. It later said that because  Miss M hadnt gone 
through every box with its claims  handler, she had prejudiced its position and it wouldnt 
accept liability. 
Miss M complained to Elite about the missing items. She said the restoration  company had 
also damaged  their fridge freezer. She and Mr R were unhappy with Elites customer service  
whilst dealing with their claim, issues with access to their property  and the way Elite had 
handled a data subject access request.
Miss M and Mr R brought  their complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld  the 
complaint. She thought Elite should settle  the claim for the missing  items, pay £500  
compensation for poor customer  service  and also pay the locksmiths  fees.  She didnt think  
there was enough  evidence  to show that Elite had damaged the fridge freezer. She 
explained that this service  isnt able to look at how Elite handled  the data request.
As Elite didnt respond,  the matter has been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres very little evidence about what happened  at a site visit to go through  the returned 
items but its clear  that the parties  didnt go through all the boxes together and check them  
against the lists. I cant see that Elite ever looked  into the items Miss M said were  missing. 
Bearing in mind the thoroughness with which Miss M and Mr R listed and costed  all their 
items throughout the claim (which  Elite previously said it had found helpful), I think  its 
reasonable in the circumstances to give Miss M and Mr R the benefit of the doubt on this 
issue and require Elite to reimburse  them  for the missing  items.
It seems  to me that Miss M and Mr R havent had good customer service from Elite. In 
particular they constantly had to chase Elite and often didnt get a response.  Miss M was 
accused by Elite of being abusive to its staff and contractor. Ive seen transcripts of 
telephone conversations  between Miss M and Elite. She was clearly  frustrated because 
despite her best efforts she wasnt getting anywhere  with Elite in resolving the outstanding 
Ref: DRN97372782issues and no-one  responsible for her case seemed prepared to speak to her. But I havent  
seen any evidence that she was abusive.  Elite has since confirmed to us that Miss M wasnt  
abusive to any of its staff.  I think this was an unfair  allegation which understandably  caused 
Miss M some distress. Overall I think the sum of £500 is appropriate to compensate Miss M 
and Mr R for the trouble and upset caused  to them by poor claim  handling on the part of 
Elite.
I can see that Miss M went to some lengths to explain to Elite why she needed access to the 
property on a certain day shortly before she and Mr R were  due to move back in. She said 
its contractor had lost her key. No-one in Elite seemed prepared to assist  her with this. So I 
can understand why in desperation she used a locksmith to gain access.  She has provided 
evidence she paid £175 for this. So I think its fair that Elite should reimburse this amount 
plus interest.
From photos  provided I can see various marks on the fridge freezer  but Im unable to see 
whether these werent there before it was removed  by Elites contractor, as Miss M alleges.  
With the evidence  available  I dont think it would be fair to require Elite to pay for a new 
fridge freezer.
Miss M says she and Mr R didnt receive  any reduction in council tax for their property  while 
it was uninhabitable. I can see that Elite emailed the local authority on 2 March  2018 about 
this and sent it photos showing  the extent of the fire damage. I wont  require Elite to refund 
any overpayment to Miss M and Mr R because they may be able to resolve  this with the 
local authority directly. But Ive taken  into account  the fact that Elite dont appear to have 
followed up on this when  looking  at compensation for trouble and upset.
As our investigator explained, I cant look at how Elite dealt with the data access request. 
Thats because this isnt a regulated activity.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Elite Insurance Company Limited  (has ceased writing 
new business but continues to fulfil existing contracts of insurance) to:
pay Miss M and Mr R £5,407.18 for the items  theyve reported as missing;
reimburse the sum of £175  in respect  of the locksmiths fee plus interest*; and
pay £500 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused them.
Ref: DRN97372783Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to  the dates stated. If Elite 
Insurance Company Limited (has ceased writing new business but continues to fulfil existing  contracts  of 
insurance) considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to 
Miss M and Mr R, it should  tell them how much has been taken off. It should also give Miss M and Mr R a 
certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN9737278