K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about the rejection of his claim by Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited (L & G). 
background
Mr D holds income protection  cover with L & G. He tried to claim on this for a short period, 
but L & G rejected  his claim, contending that he hadnt proved he was unfit for work,  he 
complained to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and thought  Mr Ds complaint should 
succeed. L & G didnt  agree, so the case has been referred to me for a final decision.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I too am upholding  the complaint, for the same reasons as the adjudicator. 
Mr Ds policy  benefit only kicks in after some  months off work. During the time leading up to 
the benefit period Mr D was signed  off by his doctor, was on medication, and undergoing 
other treatment. For me to agree that he was fit to work when the benefit period started I 
would need to see some  relevant opinion from a medically qualified person that he was fit to 
work, or see some other conclusive proof that he could return to work. Here I dont have 
either. 
L & G have made  some  comment about self reported issues  but both Mr Ds doctor  and L & 
Gs own nurse who looked into the case thought Mr D had good reason to be off sick, and 
there is nothing major in the last few weeks, when benefit was payable,  that offers adequate 
evidence against  their views. Equally if Mr Ds own evidence is suspect then his view that he 
was fit to return to work later would be in equal doubt, L & G cannot have self reported  
issues only go in their favour. 
I have no doubt  that Mr D was unfit to work and as I have stated I have not seen adequate 
proof that he was fit to return until he actually did. So I agree L & G should reconsider the 
claim. If a sum is payable  they should add interest  to this at 8% per annum  simple. Less  tax 
if appropriate. They should also make payment of the £100 the adjudicator  recommended to 
take note of the rejection  of the claim and the inconvenience caused to Mr D by this. 
Ref: DRN96058902my final decision
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should reconsider Mr Ds claim on the basis  
he was unfit to work. Any payment due should be increased by interest at 8% per annum 
simple, less tax if properly deductible, from the date payable to the actual date of payment. 
£100 should also be paid to Mr D for the inconvenience of the delay in payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2018.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9605890