K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC delayed the transfer of his stocks and shares 
ISA to a new provider, resulting in financial loss as well as unnecessary worry. He wants 
Barclays to compensate him for the fall in value  of his investments.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 21 February 2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Mr D accepted my provisional  decision.  Barclays did not respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision I am satisfied this complaint should be upheld and with the compensation I outlined 
in that decision, and for the same reasons.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr D £3,590  to cover 
potential investment loss plus an additional  £500 in lieu of the very considerable trouble and 
upset its failings have  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN96054232provisional decision
complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed the transfer of his stocks and shares ISA to a 
new provider, resulting  in financial loss as well unnecessary worry. He wants Barclays to compensate 
him for the fall in value of his investments.
background
Barclays initially accepted that Mr Ds transfer instructions had been received in July 2017 and that it 
was responsible for not processing things more quickly but said it wasnt prepared  to compensate him 
for any financial  loss and paid £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay.
After Mr D brought his complaint to this service Barclays also agreed to cover the loss in value of the 
stocks between  27 December 2017 and 10 April 2018  when the transfer was finally processed.  An 
adjudicator at this service felt it needed to pay redress based on the value of Mr Ds holding as of July 
2017 when Barclays received the instructions and failed to act on them. He also felt they should add a 
further to £150 to the trouble and upset payment.
Barclays said its earlier  responses had been based on a mistaken assumption that it had received the 
instructions in July 2017 whereas a closer look at the files showed that it didnt receive  these till 22 
December 2017 - and the external mail date stamp demonstrated this. It therefore  felt redress should  
be based on this date.
Mr D produced evidence from his proposed  new provider that it had written to Barclays on 27 July 
2017 enclosing the application form (sent  to its correct address), plus a reminder letter  on 10 August 
2017 asking Barclays to explain what was happening.  Both Mr D and the new provider said it seemed  
highly unlikely  that both letters had failed  to be delivered. Barclays reiterated that the first letter  had 
not arrived  till December  and that it had no record of the second letter.
An adjudicator at this service accepted Barclays  explanation.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Firstly, I am not persuaded that the letter with the apparent  post office stamp demonstrated that the 
first letter was not delivered in July as opposed to December.  When  I spoke to Barclays it confirmed 
that its mail team would not normally open letters and cut and paste the envelopes  post office stamp 
on to the letter as proof of the date of delivery.  So I need Barclays to explain why it believes this offers 
absolute proof  that it did not receive this letter as its own internal date stamp merely indicates  that it 
did not open  the letter till December.
Secondly, this service frequently received complaints  from customers who claim they never  received 
a key piece of communication from a business (notification of premium rises being the most common). 
In these situations  if the business is able to produce a copy of its original letter, correctly  addressed to 
the consumers registered  address, then this service  takes  the view that it is more  likely than not that 
the letter  in question was sent and delivered  correctly.
Barclays will be well aware of our approach  and, to my knowledge, has accepted this, something 
which will often work in its favour.
So I am very surprised that despite being shown a copy of the second correctly addressed letter from 
Mr Ds proposed new provider dated July 2017 it simply  said it didnt receive this and accepted no 
Ref: DRN96054233responsibility for this alleged non-delivery i.e. it didnt accept  that it was more likely than not that it had 
mislaid it.
For the reasons  already  outlined, I am satisfied  on the balance of probabilities   that this letter  was 
sent and received by Barclays, and was probably  mislaid  in some way. It is therefore responsible for 
the financial consequences of this mistake. Having received this letter, Barclays should  have informed  
Mr D that it had not received his application to switch his investments to this new provider. If it had 
done so, I believe he would have sent in a new form which would have  meant the transfer/sale  of his 
shares would  have occurred within weeks.
Therefore Barclays  must  pay compensation for this additional four month delay  in this occurring. 
Firstly, by waiving any fees it charged  after the date of this July letter. Secondly,  it should pay a fair 
and reasonable sum in lieu of the likely decline in value  of Mr Ds investment between July 2017 and 
the date the sale became  possible in March  2018.
I cannot say the precise date the sale could/would have occurred if Barclays had acted  correctly. 
Firstly, because I am yet to be persuaded that it did not receive the original application  form sent on 
27 July 2017.
If Barclays further evidence persuades me that it definitely did not receive the letter till mid  
December, then I remain  satisfied that it ought to have received the follow-up  letter  sent on 10 
August. In either case it is impossible to say precisely  how long the transfer/sale  would have 
occurred. Although this needed to be within 30 working  days  it could  easily have been far less than 
this - or more, if Mr D had not acted  immediately.
Given all these  factors, the only certainty is that Mr Ds shares were  worth £11,605 on 20 June 2018 
and he received £8,015 when they were  finally  sold. Hence,  his request for compensation  based on 
this difference.
Overall, I believe this sum represents a fair and reasonable resolution of this complaint and broadly 
reflects Mr Ds likely loss. As this is inevitably  a ball-park  figure  and the value of his holding may have 
fallen (or risen)  from £11,605 by the time he ought reasonably to have been able to make the sale I 
will not add 8% simple  interest to this figure as I would normally do. If Barclays feels very strongly that 
compensation should be based  on a specific date from either 20 June or 10 August,  and evidences  
this date, then I will consider trying to decide on a precise date and share price  when setting  
compensation. But I would then add 8% simple interest per annum to this figure as this would then be 
appropriate.
Finally, this service believes that compensation for trouble and upset  should reflect the particular  
clients circumstances and how much worry and distress  a business failure  has had on the individual 
concerned. In this case, Mr D is 92 and Barclays  responses have  been inadequate,  confusing and 
contradictory. Having read all the correspondence,  I have no doubt this has added  to Mr Ds overall 
distress at what happened.  I therefore intend to instruct it to pay £500 in addition to the £250 it has 
already paid. This is to reflect the actual impact this mess has had on him.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Barclays  to pay compensation as outlined  
above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9605423