K820x#14complaint
Mrs M through her representative Mr K complains  that Rooftop  Mortgages Limited unfairly  
and unreasonably paid service charges  for her leasehold property on her behalf.  She wants  
a refund and for Rooftop to sue for the recovery of the money from the landlord or his agent;  
she also wants Rooftop to issue possession proceedings if it believes she is in arrears.
background
Mrs M took out a mortgage with a lender for a leasehold property; the mortgage  was later 
transferred to Rooftop. She said that she was in dispute with the managing company about 
service charges, but Rooftop had paid this on her behalf and charged it to her mortgage.  
Mrs M said that this was unfair and unreasonable as it knew  that she was in dispute  and 
there was no court  order requiring  her to pay. She sent copies  of letters  where Rooftop had 
asked her what was happening and explaining  that it would pay the service charges if she 
didnt confirm payment  had been  made as she was in breach of the mortgage and there was 
a risk to its security, and her response  saying that she objected.  
Mrs M also said that she wasnt in mortgage arrears,  but Rooftop was asking  her to pay 
arrears capitalised by the previous lender and had sent field agents to visit her. She said it 
should stop  messing  and issue  possession  proceedings if it truly believed  she was in 
arrears.
Mrs M complained to Rooftop.  It said under the terms and conditions of the mortgage,  Mrs M 
was required to pay ground rent and service charges  as otherwise Rooftops security could 
be lost. This was why lenders made such payments and charged them to consumers. 
Rooftop explained that it was sent a county  court judgment (CCJ) by the management 
company showing  money  was due and unpaid, which it paid. It also said that it was told 
other monies  were  unpaid  (for service charges), and paid more  money  upon  receipt  of a 
notice of proposed  forfeiture. Rooftop confirmed that it also charged a fee for paying such  
debts on Mrs Ms behalf.
Mr K complained to us. Rooftop explained that it only paid the service charges and related 
charges once it had been served with a notice by the management  company that the 
property would be forfeited if payment wasnt made, and one of the reasons it had sent a 
field agent to see Mrs M was to discuss this issue. It also pointed out that the previous 
lender had to pay a significant sum in service charges  on Mrs Ms behalf  and Mrs M had lost 
two tribunal cases challenging service charges claimed. 
The adjudicators view was that Rooftop  wasnt at fault. He pointed out that the outstanding 
arrears were  outstanding  fees which hadnt  been  capitalised. The adjudicator  said Rooftop 
acted fairly  and reasonably in asking the management company to provide the necessary 
court order  or notice  before  making payment, and by giving notice of its intention  to pay to 
Mrs M. He noted that the terms and conditions of the mortgage required Mrs M to pay all 
payments connected  to the property, and the adjudicator didnt think  it mattered that the 
notice was unsigned. He said that the dispute  between Mrs M and her management 
company didnt affect Rooftop and that its letters about the arrears were  simply trying to get 
Mrs M to engage. The adjudicator didnt agree that outstanding fees should  be added  to the 
mortgage balance  as this needed to be agreed  by the parties.
Ref: DRN96827162Mr K disagreed. He said that the adjudicator was ignorant and didnt have good intentions. 
Mr K argued at length that the notice relied  upon by the management company and Rooftop 
wasnt valid. The adjudicator said much of what Mr K relied  upon  didnt apply to lenders. 
Mr K provided evidence that the management  company now accepted that its notice wasnt 
correct in parts and that it shouldnt have  asked Rooftop to pay the amount that it did. The 
management company  than refunded  the monies paid by Rooftop. Rooftop  explained  that it 
had no way to know that the notice was defective,  but took action to ensure that the account 
was in the position that it wouldve been in if the payment to the management company 
hadnt been made. The adjudicator agreed  with Rooftops actions; Mr K disagreed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rooftop didnt  make payment to the management  company until it was served with a notice 
of forfeiture, which threatened  its security.  The errors within that notice werent clear and 
werent highlighted by Mrs M or Mr K until much later. Having considered  the notice, Im 
satisfied that Rooftop  acted  fairly and reasonably in believing the notice was valid.
Mrs M, as part of the terms and conditions  of her mortgage, promised to pay all payments 
required for her property. But theres  a history in her case of both failure to make payments 
required by the management company, unsuccessful tribunal  claims  brought  by Mrs M 
through Mr K challenging the management  company, and arrears. By failing to make  
payments required,  Mrs M did breach her mortgage.
And it isnt unfair or unreasonable for lenders to make the payments to protect  the security,  
provided that the consumer is given an opportunity to object and payment isnt made until 
either a court judgment or notice of proposed forfeiture is received. Rooftop did this in 
Mrs Ms case, and its worth noting  that not all of her responses were  helpful in resolving the 
situation. Her letters focused  on her disputes  with the management company, and not on the 
need to protect  the property and the lenders position. She didnt specify  the issues  with the 
notice until much later. I dont think Rooftop acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances of this case.  And Mrs M has got her desired outcome as the management 
company has accepted  that its notice was invalid and has returned the monies  to Rooftop.
In relation to the arrears, having looked  at the evidence available to me, I cant see that 
Rooftop has acted  unfairly  or unreasonably.  And it isnt the role of this service to tell lenders 
when to issue possession  proceedings.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject  my decision before 
20 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9682716