K821x#15complaint
Miss B says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
Its been agreed Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the insurer should 
accept responsibility  for this complaint.  Although FICL didnt  actually sell the PPI, to 
keep things simple  Ill refer just to FICL  in my decision.
background
Miss B was sold a PPI policy over the phone in 2002  a few months after shed taken out a 
store card. 
When Miss B complained  to us she said she had a medical condition  when she was sold the 
cover.
The adjudicator who looked at Miss Bs complaint didnt think  FICL had made it clear to her 
the PPI didnt cover accident and sickness claims caused by her medical condition. And our 
adjudicator didnt think Miss B wouldve bought the PPI if this had been made clear. 
FICL says if Miss Bs condition was manageable, it was unlikely to cause her to have 
enough time off work for her to claim on the policy. So FICL thinks  Miss Bs medical 
condition may not have  affected her decision to buy the PPI. Miss Bs complaint has 
therefore come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had a duty to give Miss B enough clear  information about  the PPI so she could make 
an informed decision about  whether  she wanted  it. From what  Ive seen, I dont think  FICL 
did this. And I think if FICL had given Miss B the clear information it shouldve,  she wouldnt 
have bought the PPI.
Its likely  the policy Miss B was sold wouldnt have  covered her for accident and sickness 
claims caused by any medical condition she had when  she bought it. When Miss B 
complained to us, she said she had a medical condition which was diagnosed around  2001. 
She also said shed  had time off work  because of it and was on prescribed medication for it.
Miss Bs representatives have since given us information about her medical condition which,  
in some of the details,  is inconsistent with what Miss B said when she first complained  to us. 
It says her medical condition was diagnosed  earlier than Miss B originally told us and she 
hadnt had time off work for it. But it says she was on medication  for the condition,  the 
dosage was increased to control it and she had to have  regular blood tests. While some  of 
the details are inconsistent, I have no reason to doubt Miss B had the medical condition she 
says she had when  she was sold the cover. 
Ref: DRN97969252As Ive already  noted, in response to our adjudicators view on Miss Bs complaint,  FICL 
suggests if Miss Bs condition was manageable, she might not have needed  to take enough  
time off work to need to claim  on the policy for it. So it questions  whether it wouldve stopped  
her buying  the policy.
But on the basis of what Miss B has said about  her condition, I think  the exclusion its likely  
the policy had for accident and sickness claims arising from known medical  conditions  
wouldve mattered to her. Miss B was sold the PPI during a phone  call but I dont  have a call 
recording nor is there  a call script  to give me any indication of how the PPI was presented to 
her. So I havent  seen  anything to show me FICL  made the likely exclusion  clear to Miss B at 
the time.
I dont think Miss B wouldve gone  ahead with the PPI if shed  known she wasnt  likely  to 
have been covered if shed needed time off work because of her medical  condition.  It follows 
that I think Miss B has lost out because  of what FICL has done wrong and so it should put 
things right.
putting things right
FICL should put Miss B in the financial position  shed  be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI:
A.FICL should find out how much  Miss B wouldve owed when she closed her store  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss B owed when she closed her 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss B made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss B wouldve owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Miss B would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Miss B paid. And it should carry on paying  interest until the point when Miss B 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year
D.FICL should tell Miss B what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Miss B a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN97969253my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Miss Bs complaint and direct  Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9796925