K821x#15complaint
Miss W has complained that MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo)  was irresponsible  
when it agreed car finance for her on 3 October  2014. 
background
MotoNovo agreed  a hire-purchase  agreement  for Miss W, through  an intermediary, in order  
for her to acquire a car. Under the hire-purchase agreement MotoNovo would own the car 
unless Miss W opted to purchase it at the end of the agreement. In the meantime, until the 
finance was repaid, Miss W was, in essence, paying  for the use of it. 
The cash  price of the car was £12,2251 and Miss W paid a deposit  of £300. She borrowed 
the balance of £11,925 which, plus £3,965 interest  and charges, came to £15,890. This was 
to be repaid by 59 instalments of £262  with a final instalment of £461.  
The credit agreement was for a total of £16,190  the deposit of £300 plus £15,890.  The 
half-way point set out in the agreement  was £8,095. 
I understand that some eight months  into the agreement,  Miss W informed MotoNovo that 
she was unable to meet the repayments and she chose  to voluntarily terminate the 
agreement. MotoNovo recovered the car in July 2015 and sold it, and Miss W paid an 
agreed remaining  amount. 
Miss W says MotoNovo was irresponsible  to have agreed credit  for her because, had it 
carried out adequate affordability  checks,  it would have seen that she had several existing 
financial commitments  and wouldnt be able to afford to repay further credit.  
One of our investigators  looked into Miss Ws complaint and found that MotoNovo was 
irresponsible when  it agreed credit for her. They recommended that MotoNovo  should refund 
the payments  Miss W made plus compensatory interest, though  she should pay something  
for the use of the car.
MotoNovo disagreed with this recommendation and said that at that time it wasnt  required to 
complete an income  and expenditure analysis prior to lending. It also says that Miss W had 
taken out the finance to acquire the car for her then partner and, when he became unable to 
make the repayments,  she wasnt able to afford  them herself. MotoNovo asked for the 
complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve.
I issued my provisional decision on 2 November 2020 explaining why I planned to uphold  
Miss Ws complaint. MotoNovo didnt agree with my provisional conclusions beyond  
reiterating the objections it had provided  in response to the adjudicators view, which Id 
already considered. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As before, I have also taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good  industry practice at the time. To note, Ive 
had no new information  or comment from either party.
1 Ive rounded all figures  to the nearest pound for simplicity. 
Ref: DRN90263662Having considered everything, I plan to uphold Miss Ws complaint because  Ive concluded 
that MotoNovo  was irresponsible  when it agreed  credit for her. Ive attached an extract  from 
my provisional decision which sets out my reasoning and conclusions and so I wont repeat 
these here.
what MotoNovo needs to do to put things right
The finance  agreement started on 3 October  2014 and I understand the car was collected on 
the 1 July 2015, about nine months  later. I can see from the statement of account  that 
Miss W made  six monthly  repayments and paid an amount  of £4,952  after the car had been 
sold, in addition to her deposit   a total of £6,821.
Ive found that MotoNovo was irresponsible when it set up a hire-purchase agreement for 
Miss W. This resulted  in her paying  £6,821  to, essentially, have the use of a car for, at most,  
nine months. This amount  included interest and charges and the agreement has been  
recorded on her credit  file. In order to put Miss W in the position  she would have been in, 
had this agreement  not been  put in place,  MotoNovo  should refund these payments to her 
and amend her credit  file. 
However, I think its fair that Miss W pays something  for the time she (or whomever) had the 
use of the car. If Miss W hadnt hired the car then there was likely to have  been  a cost in 
staying mobile without it and, in addition, the car suffered some level of depreciation over the 
time she had it. I note that MotoNovo considered  that there  had been some  damage to the 
car beyond  normal  wear and tear and I have  borne this in mind  when thinking about usage  
costs. 
In this case, I think its fair that Miss W pays an amount  of £250 a month for the use of the 
car for nine months This amounts  to a total of £2,250.
In summary,  MotoNovo  should:
a)Cap the total amount Miss W needs to pay at £2,250; and
b)If Miss W has made payments above this amount  (taking into account her deposit of 
£300) then these  should be refunded to her along with 8% interest per annum from 
the date the overpayment started  to the date this complaint is settled; and  
c)Remove all adverse information about  this hire-purchase agreement  from Miss Ws 
credit file. As Ive found Miss W shouldnt have  been  given this finance, it follows  that 
she wouldnt have been in the position of voluntarily  terminating  the agreement  and 
so MotoNovo shouldnt record this as such on her credit file. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo to take off tax from this interest. MotoNovo 
must give Miss W a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one
Ref: DRN90263663my final decision
I am upholding  Miss Ws complaint about MotoNovo Finance Limited and require it to put 
things right for her as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2021.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN90263664Extract from Provisional  Decision  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, I plan to uphold Miss Ws complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for 
MotoNovo and I hope my explanation below makes it clear why I have come to this provisional 
conclusion.
Miss Ws hire-purchase agreement  was taken out when the Financial  Conduct Authority  (the FCA) 
was the regulator for consumer credit. The FCAs rules and guidance obliged MotoNovo to lend 
responsibly. As set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC  the specialist source  book for 
consumer credit-related activities) this meant that MotoNovo needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not Miss W could afford to meet the hire-purchase payments 
in a sustainable manner  over the lifetime of the agreement. 
CONC 5.3.1G stated  that:
1.In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required , a firm should take 
into account more  than assessing  the customers ability  to repay  the credit.
2.The creditworthiness  assessment and the assessment required  should  include the firm 
taking reasonable  steps to assess  the customers ability to meet repayments under  a 
regulated credit agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer incurring financial 
difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner  meant being able to meet  repayments out of normal income 
while meeting other reasonable  commitments;  without  having to borrow further to meet  these 
repayments; without having to realise security  or assets (CONC  5.3.1G - 6) or without incurring or 
increasing problem indebtedness (ILG2 4.3).
Neither the law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such  an assessment was to be carried out in practice. So MotoNovo is correct in 
that the regulations werent prescriptive and didnt require a lender to carry out specific checks. The 
FCA said that the level of detail in an assessment would depend on the type of product, the amount of 
credit being considered, the associated  cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers 
financial situation, amongst other factors. 
However, I cant simply conclude that MotoNovo could  not have acted unfairly  because  the 
regulations werent prescriptive.  As set out in CONC, the risk to the borrower directly  relates to the 
particulars of the lending and the circumstances of the borrower. In other words the assessment 
needed to be borrower-focussed. It wasnt an assessment of the risk to MotoNovo of recouping its 
money, but of the risk to Miss W of incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse 
consequences as a result of its decision  to lend. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require  more assurance the greater the potential risk to the borrower  
of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable  way. So, for example, Id expect  a lender to seek 
more assurance,  potentially by carrying  out more  detailed  checks
-the lower a persons income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any credit 
repayments of a given amount  from a lower level of income);
-the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
2 The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced  a document entitled Irresponsible Lending Guidance 
which the FCA referenced in its consumer  credit handbook.  CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.
Ref: DRN90263665-the longer the term of the credit agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the 
credit is likely to be greater  and the borrower is required to make payments for an 
extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind,  in coming  to a decision  on Miss Ws case, I have considered the following 
questions:
-did MotoNovo  complete reasonable and proportionate  checks when assessing Miss Ws 
credit application  to satisfy itself that she would be able to meet  her repayments in a 
sustainable way?
-if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
-ultimately,  did MotoNovo  make a fair lending decision?
-did MotoNovo  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
MotoNovo said in response to our adjudicators view When the customer  applied for finance, this was 
in a period  prior to financial transparency. This means that we were not required to complete  an 
income and expenditure  at this time and therefore the application was accepted based on the 
customers credit  file and the information  provided. I can confirm  a review of the agreement  was 
completed and the deal was automatically accepted by the system. Her employment at the time was 
an estate planning  consultant; so presumably she had a pretty decent  income  and monthly payments 
of £260 would  seem  manageable, so there would be no reason for the system  to refer the deal.
MotoNovo may or may not have been correct in its assumption that Miss W could afford  her 
repayments, but I cant say that it took reasonable  and proportionate steps to assess  the affordability 
of its credit for her on this occasion. As Ive said above, the regulations in place at the time werent 
prescriptive about how lenders should implement a proportionate  check but they were clear that it 
would generally mean independently  verifying  what the applicant had declared if it took income  levels 
into consideration.
CONC 5.3.1G  4(b) stated  that It is not generally  sufficient  for a firm to rely solely for its assessment 
of the customers income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the customer.
Miss W would  potentially need to meet her repayments  for five years and MotoNovo was required to 
take reasonable  steps  to check she could do so in a sustainable manner, in other words while 
meeting her usual living costs and without having to borrow from elsewhere  or go without.  MotoNovo 
didnt know what Miss Ws usual living costs or existing  credit commitments were and I cant  see that 
it sought  that information. 
Ive considered what MotoNovo might  have  found  out had it gone further in its affordability checks. 
Miss W has provided her bank statements from around that time and her credit report. To be clear, 
Im not suggesting that MotoNovo should have asked specifically for these but I think these sources 
are a reasonable  proxy for the information the lender would likely have found  out.
The bank statements  show  that in 2014 Miss Ws income was variable,  ranging from about £800 to 
£1,600 a month  with an average of about £1,550 in the months of July to September. Her identifiable 
bill payments amount to about £300 a month and shes told us that she paid about  £400 for her rent. 
Leaving aside  other normal living costs such as food,  cloths and travel costs,  I can see from Miss Ws 
credit file that her existing credit amounted to over £25,000. This consisted of a hire purchase 
agreement with over £10,000 outstanding and several  loans, the largest of which  was a bank loan 
with over £11,500  outstanding.  Altogether Miss W spent at least £700 a month repaying existing debt, 
all of which had been taken out in the previous six months. In addition,  she had credit card and mail 
order debts of about  £2,500.  
Miss W has said that she had a joint loan with her then partner  and had taken out credit on his behalf 
and I can see some payments from him on her bank statements. However, these debts  were in her 
Ref: DRN90263666name and she was ultimately  responsible for repaying  them.  I think the amount of existing debt she 
had relative  to her income meant that it wasnt likely  shed be able to repay any further credit 
sustainably. I also think its likely MotoNovo  would have learnt this, had it carried out what Id consider 
to be a reasonable and proportionate check. I dont think it would have agreed to lend to Miss W 
under these circumstances, and so I find it was irresponsible to have done so. 
Miss W says that this wasnt an easy time for her and that she wasnt able to afford the repayments 
when her then partner  stopped paying for them. MotoNovo said that After speaking with the 
customer, she admitted  that the agreement went into arrears and told our Collections department that 
she took out finance for her partners business, they split up just a few months after she took out the 
agreement  his business went into administration, he refused to make any further repayments and 
she was unable to afford the repayments herself. 
I havent seen enough to think MotoNovo would  or should  reasonably have known this when  Miss W 
took out the credit. In any event, it was obliged  to check  Miss W wouldnt have difficulty meeting  her 
repayments and, as Ive explained above, I dont think it did so. It seems to me that MotoNovo has 
accepted Miss Ws explanation of events,  including that the repayments were  unaffordable for her 
alone. I am upholding her complaint in this regard and require MotoNovo  to put things right as set out 
below.
Miss W also raised the issue of the car not being of adequate  quality when she acquired  it. She says 
she made a complaint to the dealership about it shortly  after taking out the agreement.  MotoNovo 
says that it has no record of her making such a complaint, and that this Service could not look into the 
matter given  the length  of time that has now passed. 
To be clear,  this Service can look into this aspect of Miss Ws complaint but she would need to 
provide further information  about what happened and why things  werent resolved to her satisfaction  
in order to do so. Based on the information I currently  have available, it seems that Miss W was able 
to continue to use the car until it was repossessed and so I have not taken this aspect of her 
complaint into account  when thinking about what MotoNovo needs to do to put things right.  
what MotoNovo needs to do to put things right
The finance  agreement started on 3 October 2014 and I understand the car was collected on the 1 
July 2015, about nine months later. I can see from the statement of account  that 
Miss W made six monthly repayments and paid an amount  of £4,952 after the car had been sold,  in 
addition to her deposit   a total of £6,821.
Ive found that MotoNovo  was irresponsible when it set up a hire-purchase  agreement for Miss W. 
This resulted  in her paying  £6,821 to, essentially,  have  the use of a car for, at most, nine months.  This 
amount included  interest and charges  and the agreement has been recorded  on her credit file. In 
order to put Miss W in the position she would have been in, had this agreement  not been put in place, 
MotoNovo should refund  these payments  to her and amend her credit  file. 
However, I think its fair that Miss W pays something for the time she (or whomever) had the use of 
the car. If Miss W hadnt  hired the car then there was likely to have been a cost in staying mobile 
without it and, in addition, the car suffered some  level of depreciation over the time she had it. I note 
that MotoNovo considered that there had been  some damage to the car beyond  normal wear and tear 
and I have borne this in mind when  thinking about usage costs. 
In this case, I think its fair that Miss W pays an amount  of £250 a month for the use of the car for nine 
months This amounts to a total of £2,250.
In summary, MotoNovo should:
d)Cap the total amount  Miss W needs to pay at £2,250; and
Ref: DRN90263667e)If Miss W has made payments above this amount (taking  into account her deposit of £300)  
then these should be refunded to her along with 8% interest per annum from the date the 
overpayment started to the date this complaint  is settled; and  
f)Remove all adverse information about this hire-purchase agreement from Miss Ws credit file. 
As Ive found Miss W shouldnt  have  been  given this finance, it follows that she wouldnt have 
been in the position  of voluntarily terminating the agreement and so MotoNovo  shouldnt 
record this as such on her credit file. 
* HM Revenue & Customs  requires MotoNovo to take off tax from this interest.  MotoNovo  must give 
Miss W a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
-END-
Ref: DRN9026366