K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt handled  a claim they made 
under their home insurance  very well. 
 
background
Mr and Mrs Ms house was damaged when a car was pushed into it by a van. The house 
was damaged so much  they couldnt  stay there.
UKI accepted Mr and Mrs Ms claim  and agreed to pay for alternate  accommodation. For the 
first few weeks  that meant  staying in hotels, and Mr and Mrs M say they had to move  about 
ten times,  often at short notice. They say this caused a lot of stress and anxiety for their son, 
who has a condition that requires consistency  and routine, and also for Mr M who needs 
regular medication  that has to be refrigerated.
UKI eventually moved them into longer term temporary accommodation, but there  were  
problems with that too.
Mr and Mrs M think UKI could have been  more pro-active in starting repairs  on their home, 
thereby shortening the time they spent  away from it. And they say that, given the nature of 
the damage to the house, UKI should have  known repairs would take weeks if not months 
and organised suitable alternate accommodation more quickly.
When Mr and Mrs M complained to UKI, it said it had tried to help them  as much  as possible 
with alternate  accommodation because it knew they had particular needs as a family. It said 
there was a delay  in moving into a longer term rental property  but that was because  it 
needed work before Mr and Mrs M could move  in. UKI did acknowledge it could have done 
more though  and that there had been some  communication issues. So it offered £350 
compensation for this and for some additional  phone costs Mr and Mrs M had.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint  to us. Our investigator thought the compensation was 
the right figure, as far as the communication issues went. And he pointed  out that he could 
only look at what had happened about  the alternate accommodation, because  the business  
hadnt looked at the progress of the claim itself.
Mr and Mrs M remain unhappy,  so Ive been  asked to decide  this complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs M responded to our investigators  view, it was to say that the main  issue 
was that UKI must have  known theyd need  alternate accommodation for several weeks as a 
minimum  and so should  have booked  their hotel rooms for a longer period of time  rather  
than on what amounted to a weekly  basis. Mrs M has told us the booking agency  UKI used 
told her it was only allowed to renew hotel bookings on a short term basis,  and that a 
representative from UKI said this was normal.  Mr and Mrs M dont think  thats  any way to 
treat customers - and in particular those, like themselves, who had particular  needs  for 
medical reasons.
Ref: DRN90791612Mr and Mrs M say their complaint  isnt about  compensation  but about the distress theyve 
been caused and that UKI could   and should  improve the way it deals with customers like 
them.
Im afraid the way UKI sources temporary accommodation is a commercial  decision that its 
entitled to take.  I dont  think  its appropriate  for me to ask UKI to change  that. And I think its 
worth noting  that Mr and Mrs Ms policy only says UKI will pay for the accommodation  not 
that it will find it for them. 
Having said that, UKI was clearly choosing to help with the alternate  accommodation  so it 
should have done that in the best way it could. That doesnt mean I think it should  have  
booked long term accommodation for them from the outset: although Mr and Mrs M say it 
was obvious theyd have to be out of the house  for several weeks,  I think  its fair for UKI to 
get the timeline confirmed by its own contractors before arranging longer term 
accommodation. It instructed agents to do that about a week after the damage occurred and 
I think thats reasonable. A flat was found  within a further week or two, by Mrs M  but 
payment of the rent was agreed  straight away, so I dont think UKI delayed  this. That the flat 
needed some work and furnishing before Mr and Mrs M wasnt something UKI could control, 
so I cant say it delayed  the move  to the flat.
I do accept that Mr and Mrs M had to move  hotels a lot between  the house  being damaged 
and the flat becoming available. And I dont  underestimate how distressing that was for the 
family, particularly their son. Some of that is likely because the whole process of having to 
make a claim and move  away from home  no matter for how long  is distressing. Thats 
not something UKI is responsible for, although  it is responsible for any additional stress and 
inconvenience it causes.
UKI has acknowledged it could have done things better  and that Mr and Mrs M also had 
unnecessary phone costs because  of poor communication.  I think the £350  it offered to 
make up for this reflects the way it handled things  under its control and the extra costs, 
although I do understand Mr and Mrs M dont think its a satisfactory response to their 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs M have  asked  about making  UKI do more work to train its staff in handling 
situations like theirs, and in particular how to deal with conditions  such as the one their son 
suffers from. Im not going to order UKI to provide training in general   because again  thats  
a commercial decision for it to take. But I would like to remind UKI of its obligations in this 
sort of situation, as it is required to make provision for customers who are vulnerable through  
illness or for any other  reason. If there  are learning  points from this claim Id expect UKI to 
take those on board for the future.
Overall, I think UKI has done enough  in this situation   in that its offered reasonable 
compensation for the way it handled this part of Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
I havent looked at any delays in completing the repairs as UKI hadnt had an opportunity to 
formally respond to any complaint about  these. Ill leave it with Mr and Mrs M to decide if 
they want to raise a separate complaint about this.
Ref: DRN90791613my final decision
Im not going  to uphold this complaint, and I leave it with Mr and Mrs M whether to accept  
the £350 compensation already offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 September 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9079161