K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Ms H. FICL didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1998 alongside a store credit account. Ms H 
was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  FICL didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided to uphold Ms Hs complaint. This is because I dont think  Ms H was working  
when she took out the PPI. I say this because she has been consistent  that, at the time the 
PPI started, she didnt  have a job. This means  the PPI would have been no use to her. 
But I dont think that was made clear enough to her. If it had been made clear to her when 
she applied, I dont  think shed have agreed  to take PPI. So shes lost out as a result.  
fair compensation
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put Ms H in the financial position shed be in 
now if she hadnt taken  out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Ms H would have owed when she closed her credit  
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms H owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms H made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy,  FICL  can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes  her.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms H would have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
Ref: DRN96458172C.If  when  FICL works out what Ms H would  have owed each month without  PPI  Ms H 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms H paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Ms H 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her credit.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Ms H what  its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Ms H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Ms H that relates  to this PPI sale, 
that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Ms Hs complaint. I require Financial Insurance 
Company Limited  to pay compensation  as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9645817