K822xcomplaint
Mr R is unhappy his building insurance  for his let property was lapsed by Cia Insurance  
Services Limited (Cia).
background 
In July and September 2018,  on Mr Rs behalf,  his representative contacted Cia to obtain
some advice around an issue that had arisen with the tenants in Mr Rs let property.  Mr Rs
representative was passed on to the legal helpline for advice.
As a result of the issues with the tenant, Cia didnt offer renewal of the policy, and it lapsed
on 21 September 2018.
Shortly after, Mr Rs representative contacted Cia to complain about  the policy not being 
renewed. During this conversation, he made Cia aware that new tenants had moved into the 
property. As a result of this, Cia were able to arrange a new insurance  policy  to start that 
day.
As they were unhappy with the service received from Cia, Mr Rs representative,  on his 
behalf, approached the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator didnt  initially uphold the complaint. She said that the policy  hadnt  been 
renewed but Cia had discovered this and managed to obtain  a new policy  five days  after the 
renewal date. She also said that if there  had been a claim, Cia would have been responsible  
for this. But no claim had arisen, so there wasnt any impact  on Mr R, so she wouldnt be 
asking Cia to do any more.
Mr Rs representative didnt agree on Mr Rs behalf. He said that he discovered the error 
rather than Cia. He also said he wasnt sure if a claim had arisen,  whether  Cia actually would 
have done anything. He asked the investigator to listen to the call recordings to get a better  
understanding of what  had happened. Mr Rs representative also said hed charged Mr R for 
sorting the insurance issue out, so Mr R should be compensated  for this too.
Our investigator said that Mr R had chosen  to ask his representative  to act on his behalf so 
she wouldnt  be recommending Cia compensate him for this. She also said that as Mr Rs 
representative was a third party, she wouldnt be able to compensate  him for the calls he 
made or service he received himself.  But she listened to the calls and this changed her view 
of the complaint.
Ultimately our investigator felt £75 compensation, which Cia agreed to pay, for the service 
Mr R had received and for the gap in cover was reasonable  in the circumstances.
Mr Rs representative didnt agree on his behalf  and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman.
Whilst I provisionally reached the same outcome as the investigator on the level of 
compensation I was minded to direct  Cia to pay, there were some  further  reasons  why I 
thought that amount was fair. So I decided to issue a provisional decision before  I make my 
final decision. This allowed both parties  to comment on my thinking, before I make my final 
decision  which is the Financial Ombudsman Services  last word on the case.
Ref: DRN95366682my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs representative contacted Cia for advice about the tenants  in Mr Rs property.  
The tenants  marriage had broken down and one tenant wanted  to remain  in the 
property but the other wanted  to leave. Mr Rs representative explained this to Cia, 
who then passed  him to the provider of Mr Rs legal cover for advice on the situation.
Nearer to the renewal date, Mr Rs representative called Cia to say that the tenants 
were leaving  but hadnt  paid the last months rent. On Mr Rs behalf, he was 
potentially looking to claim for this, and some damage. Cia gave him the contact 
details, so he could  discuss this further  with the relevant  claim areas.
Following this conversation, it appears that Cia couldnt offer a renewal invite on the 
basis of the issues  with the tenants,  despite searching its panel of insurers,  and the 
policy lapsed. Cia sent Mr R a notice to advise him of this, but this wasnt  until after 
the policy had been lapsed  on 21 September 2018.
Mr Rs representative then called  Cia on 26 September 2018 to complain about  the 
policy lapsing. During this call, he made Cia aware  new tenants had moved in two 
days before, and a new policy was arranged  by Cia to start on that day.
Cia has said the earliest a policy could have been  offered was when new tenants  
moved in. And the new tenants  moved in after the original  renewal/lapse date. So 
there would always  have been  a gap in cover  for this period.
But Cia didnt notify Mr R that it couldnt offer cover at renewal, or that the policy  had 
lapsed, until after it had done so. Had Cia made Mr R aware of the reasons it couldnt 
offer renewal  at the time (or before), then Mr R or his representative,  could have 
contacted Cia to make them aware  when the tenant  moved in. The gap in cover  
could then have  been two days less, as a new policy could have been set up on 24 
rather than 26 September  2018.
Following the complaint  coming to this service, our investigator felt £75 
compensation for the service  received  and gap in cover was fair. Mr Rs 
representative says £100 should  be paid by Cia instead. But I do think £75 is 
reasonable in the circumstances for what happened. There would always have been 
three days where cover couldnt be offered by Cia. But it was two days  longer due to 
Cia not making Mr R aware sooner. But I think £75 is reasonable for this, so Im not 
minded to ask Cia to pay Mr R more than this.
Ref: DRN95366683Whilst I note Mr Rs representative  is unhappy he had to make calls to resolve  the 
issue, as our investigator mentioned, he is a third party who agreed  to act on Mr Rs 
behalf. So I cant compensate Mr Rs representative  directly for this. And although 
Mr Rs representative says he charged  Mr R for making the calls, it was Mr Rs 
decision to appoint a representative, so Im not going to say Cia should cover  this 
cost.
Cia also explained that if Mr R had needed  to make  a claim during the gap in cover,  
then it would have  been liable for this. Fortunately,  nothing happened during this 
time. And I cant compensate Mr R for something which could  have, but didnt, 
occur.
On that basis, I was minded to direct  Cia to compensate Mr R £75.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Cia responded  agreeing  with my provisional decision.
Mr Rs representative didnt agree on his behalf.  He said, on Mr Rs behalf, he told Cia about 
the issue with the tenants and they then failed to tell Mr R they werent going to renew the 
policy. He said that when they told Cia the tenant  had left, they then offered a policy.
Mr Rs representative also said anything could have  happened in the time Mr Rs property 
was uninsured. And that Mr R lost out on a month rent from the tenant who left, which he 
should be insured for. He also said he needed to make a number of calls.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive thought  about  the conclusions  I 
came to in my provisional  decision.
Having done so, I havent changed my mind.
I agree  with Mr Rs representative that following them contacting Cia about the issue with the 
tenant, the policy wasnt renewed,  and Cia failed  to tell Mr R that at the time (or before).  
When Mr Rs representative made Cia aware  that a new tenant was in place, they then 
arranged cover. Ive noted that in my provisional decision. And this was taken into account 
when reaching  my provisional findings.
But as I said, there  would always have been  a gap in cover  until the new tenants  moved  in. 
However this gap could have  been two days less, had Cia made Mr R aware.  But Im still of 
the view £75 compensation is reasonable  for this.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr Rs representative  says something could have happened to the 
property during the gap in cover, I cant compensate Mr R for something  which  could have, 
but didnt, happen. And I acknowledge that Mr Rs representative made calls to Cia which  he 
says he charged Mr R for. But Im not going  to ask Cia to compensate Mr R for this, for the 
reasons outlined in my provisional decision.
I should also note that Mr Rs representative has said Mr R has lost out on a month rent from 
the previous tenant which he says he should  be insured for. But this complaint is against Cia 
Ref: DRN95366684who are a broker and arranged the cover. It isnt against the insurer  or about  any claim 
decision by them for the loss of rent, so I havent considered  this as part of this complaint 
about Cia.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  in my provisional  decision and above, it is my final decision that I 
uphold this complaint and direct Cia Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr R £75 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2020.
Callum Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9536668