K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Mortgage Express mishandled his request to sell part of his 
mortgaged property.
background
Mr W had an interest  only mortgage with Mortgage Express. The term came to an end in 
March 2016, with a capital  balance  of around  £500,000  falling due.
Mr W wasnt able to repay the mortgage  immediately.  He discussed his circumstances and 
plans with Mortgage Express and a number  of short-term extensions were  granted while he 
sought to sell the property.
In September  2017, Mr W asked  Mortgage  Express if it would release part of the mortgaged 
property, so that he could sell it and use the proceeds to pay down the balance.  He then 
intended to refinance the remaining mortgage  balance with a new lender. 
To go ahead, Mortgage Express required an up-to-date valuation  to be carried out. Mr W 
paid a fee of £210  for this in September 2017.  It also required details of solicitors who would 
act for Mr W, which it received later that month, and confirmation that those solicitors would 
also act on its behalf, which  it received  in October.
Mortgage Express ultimately declined Mr Ws request, and proceeded with recovery  action in 
respect of the outstanding debt. Mr W subsequently redeemed  the mortgage  in June 2018, 
by refinancing elsewhere.
Through his representative, Ms L, Mr W complains  that Mortgage  Express  kept moving the 
goalposts. He says he followed its instructions,  but still the application didnt proceed. Hes 
unhappy that it didnt explain why. And he says he incurred significant costs in setting up the 
sale of the land and abortive remortgage, which he wants  Mortgage  Express  to reimburse.
Mortgage Express didnt  uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said that the valuation  hadnt gone 
ahead as a fee of £720 was needed  due to the value  of the property. And it said it had 
relayed this to Mr Ws solicitors, but hadnt  heard anything further. Not happy with that, 
Ms L referred the matter to us.
Our investigator found that Mortgage  Express had actually decided not to grant Mr W any 
more time to repay the mortgage, which was why his request to release part of the property 
had been declined. That was a decision it was entitled to make,  she said  but it had then 
confused things by requesting the higher  valuation  fee (and by its response to the 
complaint). So she thought it should apologise  for this, and pay Mr W compensation of £250 
for the trouble and upset  caused. But she didnt think  it needed to cover any of his costs,  as 
she thought these couldve been  avoided if Mr W had waited for Mortgage Express  to accept 
the application before going ahead with his plans.
Mortgage Express accepted our investigators recommendation, but Ms L didnt. She said 
Mortgage Express had required  the instruction of solicitors and the preparation of plans 
before it would instruct a valuation. She said it had been aware  of Mr Ws intentions and 
approved of them  before a change  in position  that was only communicated  in late 
November or early December. So she still thought Mortgage Express  should cover the costs 
Mr W incurred  in pursuing the abortive plan, which she said came to around £3,500.
With no resolution agreed, Mr Ws complaint was passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN96044542my provisional decision
My initial view of Mr Ws complaint differed  from that of our investigator. So I issued a 
provisional decision last month, setting  out what I thought Mortgage Express had done 
wrong and how it ought  to compensate  Mr W. 
I said:
As our investigator identified, Mortgage  Expresss decision to decline Mr Ws request 
wasnt based on anything  to do with the proposal itself. Rather, it made a broader 
decision not to allow Mr W any more time to repay his mortgage.  Its internal notes 
show that this decision  was made  on or around  12 October 2017.
Im not entirely convinced  that decision was fair. On the one hand, Mortgage  Express  
was entitled under the terms of the original mortgage agreement to demand  repayment 
of the capital balance. And it had already allowed Mr W an extended period within  
which to repay the mortgage  by the time of his request in September 2017, around 
18 months had passed. It also seems  Mr W was struggling to maintain ongoing 
payments to cover the interest each month.
But on the other hand, there is a clear  and long-standing expectation of lenders to fairly 
treat borrowers that reach the end of an interest only mortgage  without the means to 
repay it. The regulations  allow for much more leniency in assessing applications to make 
changes  such as term extensions  to such mortgages, and possession  action should 
always be treated as a last resort. Here, Mr W seems to have had a feasible repayment  
plan in place.  Hed arranged a sale of part of the land, which  if successful wouldve 
enabled him to reduce the capital balance by around £90,000. And he was arranging  to 
refinance the remaining amount with an alternative lender. Given  that he went on to 
remortgage the whole  balance,  it seems  that wouldve  been  achievable.
So Im not satisfied that Mortgage Express gave sufficient consideration to Mr Ws plan 
and his wider circumstances before declining the request. Rather it rejected the 
prospect of more time altogether  seemingly irrespective of any merit to Mr Ws 
proposal  and proceeded to instruct solicitors  to recover  the capital balance  instead. 
Given that things  have moved  on, and particularly as this plan was aborted, its difficult 
for me to know how things  wouldve turned  out if Mortgage Express had given Mr Ws 
proposal due consideration. But at the very least,  I think he was denied the opportunity 
of his desired  resolution. So Ive borne that in mind when deciding  how to fairly 
compensate him, which Ill set out below.
It seems  that Mortgage Express was considering  Mr Ws request to release  part of the 
mortgaged property somewhat separately  from the account as a whole. So while  one 
department was progressing the application (and telling  him to pay for a valuation  and 
instruct solicitors),  another was reviewing the account and ultimately made the 
decision not to allow him any more time (with the automatic effect of rejecting his 
proposal). I think things  ought to have  been  more joined up. When  Mr W made his 
request, Mortgage  Express wouldve known that the original term had ended and that 
extensions had already been  given. So it shouldve considered whether it was willing  
to allow  Mr W any additional time  or at the very least whether it would do so 
depending on the merits of Mr Ws proposal   as clearly if it wasnt, thered be no point 
in proceeding  with the request (and incurring costs in doing so).
Ref: DRN96044543But Mortgage Express didnt do that. Rather, it invited Mr W to proceed with an 
application that was evidently doomed  to fail. It wrote to him in late September  2017  
setting out its requirements, including the payment of the valuation  fee and instruction of 
solicitors which Mr W duly arranged. It was only a few weeks later, around 12 October, 
that it decided  not to allow Mr W the additional  time needed  for this plan to go ahead.
Mortgage Express says it wrote to Mr W to inform him of its decision at that time.  Ive 
seen a copy of the letter  it sent. This contained what appears to have been a generic 
message to the effect that no further time would be agreed. It made no reference to 
Mr Ws specific request  about the release of land,  or what this decision meant for that 
proposal. Mortgage Expresss internal notes suggest a further  letter was supposed to 
be sent in respect  of the proposal,  but Ive not seen that one was actually sent.
So I cant see that the position  was clearly communicated  to Mr W at the time. And 
when he (and Ms L) called Mortgage  Express to chase up the request, they were led 
to believe it was still in progress. For example, they called Mortgage Express  on 
17 October to chase up the valuation  when they were told that it hadnt yet been  
instructed due to some  IT problems. It was only on 19 October, when Mr W called 
Mortgage Express to chase things up again,  that he was told his request had been 
declined. Even after that date, I can see that there was some confusion   as 
Mortgage Express also continued to contact Mr Ws solicitors about the need for a 
greater valuation fee, when by this time that was no longer required.
Taking everything into account  therefore, I think Mr W was wrongly encouraged to pursue 
the release of land application. So Ive thought about how hes lost out as a result.
At Mortgage  Expresss request, Mr W paid a fee of £210 for a valuation.  That valuation  
never went ahead.  Mortgage Express says the money was instead credited to Mr Ws 
mortgage account. And its provided  evidence of this. So I dont think hes lost out on 
that amount  of money   as it just reduced the balance he had to pay when he 
redeemed the mortgage.
Ms L says that Mortgage Express required a plan to be drawn up, and I can see that 
was one of a number of requirements of its process.  Shes  sent in evidence  to show 
that Mr W paid £210  to a firm of surveyors for this. As the deal didnt proceed,  I think 
this is something Mr W has lost out on and, given  what Ive said above, is something  
Mortgage Express ought to reimburse him for. So Im currently  intending to require  it to 
reimburse him this £210 fee.
Ms L also says that Mr W incurred other costs in connection with the abortive 
remortgage that was running alongside  the proposed sale of land.  These are:
Legal  fees of £503.80 and disbursements of £35;
An undertaking  of £1,500 paid to cover the fees of solicitors acting for the 
prospective lender; and
A fee of £1,200 for a valuation report for the prospective lender.
Ive thought carefully about whether it was reasonable for Mr W to incur  these  costs,  
given that his request hadnt  yet been approved by Mortgage Express. Im conscious 
that without that approval in place, there was always the risk that his request would be 
declined  rendering  this work  redundant.
Ref: DRN96044544Here, I think  it was reasonable for Mr W to have initiated some of the work  but from 
what Ive seen so far, some of it seems to have been instructed after Mortgage  
Express had said it wasnt willing to proceed. 
I think it was reasonable  for Mr W to have instructed solicitors. This was one of 
Mortgage Expresss requirements from the outset, along with confirmation  from those  
solicitors that they would act also act on its behalf  in the proposed  transaction.  And no 
doubt some  initial preparation work wouldve been  required in advising on the title split.
I dont think, though, that it was necessary for Mr W to have gone ahead  and 
committed himself  to the £1,500 undertaking or the £1,200 valuation  fee. Notably 
these are quite significant  sums and Mr W might reasonably have exercised some 
caution  and waited until his proposals  had been  accepted by Mortgage Express. 
And more  significantly,  from what Ive seen these costs were  incurred after 
Mortgage Express advised Mr W that his request had been  declined. As noted above,  
that was on 19 October. From what Ive seen, the valuation was billed for on 
9 November 2017 and paid for a couple of weeks later. The undertaking was 
requested even later  on 2 December  and again  paid about  a fortnight later. 
So it seems  to me that by the time these costs  were incurred, Mr W knew  that 
Mortgage Express had declined his application.  And even though  there was evidently 
some confusion  in that Mortgage Express was telling his solicitors that things werent  
proceeding until a higher valuation fee was paid  there  was certainly enough  to give 
Mr W and his representatives  pause  for thought.  
With all that in mind, I also find it unlikely that the extent of legal work that was 
ultimately billed for by Mr Ws solicitors was necessary  as it seems he ought to have 
aborted the transaction  sooner  than he did. The solicitors  billed  £503.80 for costs  in 
connection with the abortive remortgage, along  with £35 for office copies of the land 
registry title documents. I think  the latter wouldve been required at the outset. In light 
of what Ive said above, I think it would be reasonable for Mortgage Express  to share 
half of the cost of the legal work  as this was initiated when it need not have been. So 
Im also intending  to tell Mortgage Express to reimburse Mr W half of these legal fees,  
and the cost of the office copies.
I can also see that this matter has caused Mr W some understandable concern and 
unnecessary inconvenience. It wouldve taken up a lot of time and trouble to get the 
proposed deal to the stage he did  the various  interactions with Mortgage Express, 
his broker, his prospective lender and his solicitors   when  it was always destined  to 
fail. On top of the disappointment, I appreciate the level of stress he was under given 
that he was faced with the prospect of legal action and the loss of his home.  And as 
Ive noted above, Im not convinced that the proposal itself was given fair consideration 
at the outset  so he seems also to have been  declined the opportunity  of achieving 
his desired resolution. So Im also intending  to tell Mortgage Express  to pay him £500 
compensation for the trouble and upset  its errors  caused.
Ref: DRN96044545I invited both parties to respond with any further  information or evidence  they wanted  me to 
take into account before I made  a final decision.  Mortgage Express accepted what I said,  
with no further  comments. Ms L responded to say, in summary, that:
It had only become  apparent in December  2017  and not October  that 
Mortgage Express  wasnt  willing  to proceed with the title split proposal.  In the 
meantime, Mr W had been pursuing the deal. Hed had to pay for a valuation in order 
to get a mortgage  offer,  which  in itself was required to show  Mortgage Express  how 
the outstanding  mortgage  balance would be repaid.  Mortgage Express  had been given 
Mr Ws broker  details  in mid-November  at which  time he, his broker and his solicitor 
were all under the impression that the deal was progressing.
By the time it had become clear, in December, that Mortgage Express wasnt  willing to 
proceed, Mr W was already bound by the undertaking for solicitors fees.
Mr W had no control over the amount of the solicitors fees  and while he did attempt 
to query them, he ultimately  had to pay what he was charged. So Ms L thought it was 
unfair to suggest these  costs werent warranted.
Mortgage Express  had been  aware from the outset that Mr W would need to sell his 
property to repay the mortgage. And more recently, it had also known that the property 
was being marketed for sale as a whole and as two parts  to maximise  the prospect of 
agreeing a sale swiftly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered  things in light of Ms Ls further comments, Ive not reached a different 
conclusion to that set out in my provisional decision.  Ill explain why.
Firstly its not in dispute that Mortgage Express knew Mr W needed to sell the property to 
redeem the mortgage. It was ultimately his responsibility to have arranged that in time to 
repay the outstanding balance when it fell due. But as set out in my provisional  decision, Id 
also expect Mortgage  Express to have treated Mr W fairly when he was unable to do so. It 
gave him additional time,  which was reasonable. But as Ive already noted,  I dont  think  it 
fairly considered his proposal before declining it. That doesnt  mean  it ought  simply to have 
accepted it. And theres no way for me to know now how things wouldve turned out if it had 
been properly  considered,  or accepted.
Similarly there is no dispute that Mortgage  Express was aware that Mr W was also looking to 
split the title so that there were in effect  two plots, increasing his options  to settle the 
outstanding mortgage. But I dont think that knowledge alone ought to have led 
Mortgage Express to act any differently.
The key issue here is when Mr W ought  to have been aware that Mortgage  Express wasnt 
willing to allow him any more time to proceed  with his proposal. In my provisional  decision, I 
said this was 19 October 2017.  And having  considered things afresh, I still think that 
conversation was enough to make Mr W aware  that Mortgage Express  was unwilling to give 
him more  time. 
Ref: DRN96044546The conversation was relatively  short  and I think the adviser clearly explained the position to 
Mr W. In response  to Mr W chasing  up the valuation that was required  as part of his 
application, the adviser said:
Your request for the part sale of land has actually been declined.  You will be 
receiving a letter in regard to this. It came  back today. So there has been a 
letter sent out to you; I think its either  been  sent out today or it will be sent 
out tomorrow to you.
Mr W questioned whether that meant  there would no longer be a survey,  and why. The 
adviser confirmed thered  be no survey,  because  the application had been declined  as the 
mortgage term had expired.  When Mr W asked about what  would happen  next, the adviser 
suggested that Mr W seek some  independent  financial advice.
So I think Mr W was clearly told on 19 October 2017  that Mortgage Express  was no longer 
willing to consider his proposal.  As noted in my provisional decision,  its not clear  if he was 
sent a letter  confirming this. But if he wasnt, I think it wouldve been reasonable to suggest 
that he doublecheck the position rather than proceed.  
I accept that Mr Ws broker  and solicitor may have  been under the impression that the deal 
was going ahead. But it wouldve been up to Mr W to relay the content of the conversation of 
19 October to them, as prompted  by the advisers  suggestion to seek independent advice.
I appreciate what Ms L says about further  contact with Mortgage Express after this point.  
And again as noted in my provisional decision I accept that there  were  some shortcomings 
here. And I accept what Ms L says about  Mortgage Express being  given the details of 
Mr Ws broker. Perhaps it couldve done  more  to reassert that the deal that Mr W had 
proposed wasnt  going  ahead at that point  but at the same time, I dont think it actually said 
or did anything to assure Mr W that it was, and certainly not such  that he should disregard 
the content of the phone call on 19 October  altogether.
I think responsibility for actions taken  after the phone call rests primarily with Mr W, so I dont 
think I can fairly require Mortgage  Express to compensate him for the costs that I think  were 
incurred after this date.  And so I still dont think Mortgage Express  needs to reimburse  him 
for the undertaking or valuation report, or the balance  of the solicitors costs.
On the solicitors costs,  I didnt question the fairness  on the solicitors part to charge them but 
rather the fairness of passing them on to Mortgage  Express. I dont doubt that Mr W had to 
pay them  once they were incurred. But I dont think he needed to incur the amount that he 
did  as, for the reasons  set out above,  he ought  to have  aborted the transaction  sooner 
(after the call on 19 October). So while I still think its right that Mortgage Express pay a 
share of the legal costs, I dont think I can fairly require it to reimburse Mr W for all of them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and require Mortgage  Express  to:
Reimburse Mr W the £210 fee he paid for the plans to be drawn  up;
Reimburse Mr W £251.90  in respect of the legal costs and £35 for the office copy  
documents;
Ref: DRN96044547Pay interest at a rate of 8% simple per year on each of these amounts from the date 
Mr W paid them to the date of settlement; and
Pay Mr W compensation of £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9604454