K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the way Aviva  Insurance Limited has handled a claim  under  
their legal expenses  insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes its agents  and claims handlers. 
background 
Mr and Mrs G employed a company  to carry out construction work  to their property. At 
conclusion, there was a dispute over how much was left to pay. As this wasnt  resolved the 
company started  legal proceedings  against Mr and Mrs G for the amount it believed it was 
owed. 
In June 2017 Mr and Mrs G made  a claim under  their legal expenses insurance  policy  to 
cover the cost of defending the legal action. Mr and Mrs G also wanted to counterclaim as 
they felt there were  shortcomings in the works carried out, and they wanted the company to 
pay the cost of having these repaired.  
Aviva appointed one of its preferred  law firms (A) to consider the claim. They  said they didnt  
think it was likely to be successful (as required by the policy terms).  A also said 
Mr and Mrs G would need to obtain a surveyors report  to support any counterclaim they 
wanted to pursue. 
Mr and Mrs G funded  a legal assessment of their own from a direct access  barrister (DAB). 
This said the defence did have reasonable prospects of success. But the barrister said he 
hadnt seen enough evidence to be satisfied the counterclaim had merit. Mr and Mrs G 
appointed a solicitor to act on their behalf  to ensure their position  was protected. And they 
obtained a surveyors  report. 
Aviva appointed another of its preferred law firms (B) to consider the claim. B didnt  agree 
the defence or counterclaim had reasonable prospects. Mr and Mrs G complained  to us and 
that was considered as part of a separate complaint. In March  2018 our investigator said 
Aviva should  resolve things by funding another legal opinion  from an independent barrister. 
He said if that showed  their claim met the terms of the policy Aviva should also then 
reimburse Mr and Mrs G for their costs  to date (in line with the policy  terms). Both Aviva and 
Mr and Mrs G accepted  what  he said so that complaint  closed. 
Following that there were  discussions  between Mr and Mrs G and Aviva about  the 
appointment of an independent barrister. B was appointed to obtain this; Mr and Mrs G say 
B caused delays  in sending instructions to counsel and failed to pass on all of the evidence  
theyd submitted. In June  the barrister produced his opinion  which  agreed the defence claim 
had reasonable prospects but was unsupportive in respect to the counterclaim as the 
barrister said he hadnt  seen evidence of the state of their property.
In July Aviva  said the costs Mr and Mrs G had incurred  to date would be subject to 
assessment by a costs  draftsman. But because of the amount that they were out of pocket it 
agreed to make an initial payment (of around  £8,400). It also reinstated cover for the 
defence claim and appointed another preferred law firm (C) to consider the case. Later  that 
month Mr and Mrs G provided a further barristers opinion which  said both the defence  and 
counterclaim had reasonable prospects, although the counterclaim would  need  to be 
properly quantified.  
Ref: DRN95015672C werent able to come to an agreement with Mr and Mrs G about how the claim should be 
handled. So Aviva agreed to appoint the original law firm, A. However, A wouldnt go on 
record as Mr and Mrs Gs representative until they received evidence  showing the value of 
the counterclaim. In the meantime the company  made an offer to settle the claim based  on 
what it was prepared to accept for the outstanding costs. Mr and Mrs G were willing to 
accept this but on the understanding  the policy would pay the settlement. 
Aviva said the policy only covers legal fees.  Mr and Mrs G asked A to put forward a 
counteroffer. But they were  unwilling  to do so. They said until they had evidence of the value 
of the claim, they werent able to give advice on whether or not the offer was reasonable. In 
August 2018 Aviva  agreed to cover the cost of a surveyors report  to evidence their 
counterclaim. Mr and Mrs G obtained a report the following month but A said this wasnt 
court compliant. 
However, it did accept on the basis of this report the counter claim had prospects of 
success. But Aviva said Mr and Mrs G had obtained the report without its authorisation and 
so it would only pay the lower of the quotes  theyd obtained and wouldnt pay the additional  
fee to make  the report court  compliant.  It also said the costs draftsman had assessed their 
solicitors costs at significantly less than theyd charged. So taking into account the 
payments already made  Aviva thought  it had paid more than it needed to here.  
Our investigator upheld  the new complaint (about what  had happened since the previous 
one) in part. She said once the third barrister  had confirmed both the defence  and counter 
claim had prospects Aviva should  have done  more to explore  the way forward with 
Mr and Mrs G or allowed  them to appoint  their own solicitor. The fact the report  wasnt  court  
compliant would only be an issue if the matter  progressed  to court;  it wasnt something that 
determined whether the policy should cover their claim. 
She thought  it was right Aviva wanted  the costs  Mr and Mrs Gs solicitor had incurred 
assessed to see if these were reasonable and necessary. And she thought it was right that it 
had made  a part payment while this was being done. She didnt think Aviva  was responsible 
for any delay in carrying out the assessment. And she thought that Aviva was entitled  to rely 
on the evidence  from the costs draftsman  as to what its liability towards Mr and Mrs Gs 
solicitors costs was.  
However, looking at the other costs Mr and Mrs G had incurred she noted  Aviva had 
authorised the counter claim they made.  So she said Aviva  should pay the costs  associated 
with this. Taking into account what it had already paid that meant a further payment of 
around £1,230.  She also said Aviva should allow Mr and Mrs G to appoint  their own solicitor  
under the terms  of the policy or find them another preferred law firm. And she said it should 
pay £200 in recognition of the impact  on them  of what it got wrong.  
Aviva agreed to do that. However, Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. Theyve raised  a number of 
points and Ive considered  all of these.  In my view the key issues  are: 
Aviva  shouldve accepted their claim from the outset when they provided a supportive 
legal opinion  from the DAB  instead it referred the matter to a firm of solicitors. And 
it should have  allowed  them  to choose  their own legal representation as court  
proceedings had been  issued against  them; 
Ref: DRN95015673After the previous complaint to our service was resolved Aviva didnt provide all of 
the documents to the barrister they provided  (including photographs) meaning a 
proper assessment of the counter claim couldnt  take place;
Its unfair of Aviva  to try and restrict the costs it will pay to what  it would have  paid 
panel solicitors. They  had to take urgent action to respond  to a claim that had been 
made against them and seek specialist advice  in relation to this. The previous  
investigator said Aviva should  reimburse the legal costs  in full if the legal  opinion  was 
supportive. As the third barristers  opinion was supportive, they should have their 
costs met in full by the policy; 
They obtained three quotes  for a surveyors report. The first was for £1,440 but they 
had no immediate appointments  available.  As the hearing  was imminent, this wasnt 
practical. The second was for £2,000 plus VAT and travel costs. The third  which 
they accepted  was for £1920 all inclusive. As such, they went for the cheaper of the 
two viable options. 
I reached a provisional  decision on the complaint last month.  In summary I said:
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G remain concerned  about what  Aviva did after they made  their 
claim and following a supportive opinion from a DAB. But that argument was central  to the 
previous complaint they brought to us which was resolved when both they and Aviva  
accepted the investigators view on it. So those  issues arent ones Im considering  in this 
decision. What  Im looking at is their concerns  about  what happened after the resolution of 
the previous complaint in March 2018. 
And while Mr and Mrs G have raised concerns about the solicitors that Aviva appointed  to 
consider their case those  arent matters we can consider because those solicitors werent 
doing something that our rules allow us to look at. 
More generally Mr and Mrs G have raised  many  points  in support of their complaint. And 
whilst I have taken into account  everything theyve said when Ive thought  about the overall 
handling of the claim,  I dont intend to address every point individually.  Ive focused on what  I 
consider to be the key points and Ive set out my findings below on these. 
prospects of success
Its a requirement of Mr and Mrs Gs policy that any intended claim must have a reasonable 
prospect of succeeding.  It isnt for us to evaluate the merits of the underlying  claim.  Instead, 
we look at whether  Aviva  has acted fairly. As long as they have got advice from suitably 
qualified lawyers, we wont  generally question their reliance  on that advice, unless we think it 
was obviously wrong.
Following the previous  complaint it was agreed  Aviva would fund another  barristers opinion  
to determine whether  or not the claim should  be accepted. And that found the prospects of 
defending were reasonable. Whilst the barrister couldnt confirm that the counterclaim had 
reasonable prospects, he said this was because  he had insufficient evidence. 
Mr and Mrs G say B didnt pass on all their evidence to the barrister. But I cant see that 
Aviva followed  this up. Or asked the barrister  to clarify what  evidence  hed want  to see in 
order to finalise his opinion on the counterclaim. Mr and Mrs G were  left with no cover under 
Ref: DRN95015674their policy for this part of their claim.  And they had to fund their own barristers  opinion, for 
the second time. 
legal representation
Following receipt of the third barristers opinion, Aviva agreed to accept the claim and 
appointed C. It was Cs legal advice that they try to agree a drop hands settlement with the 
company. But Mr and Mrs G didnt want to do this. So C withdrew from the case. 
Aviva appointed A to act for Mr and Mrs G under  the policy.  But from what  Ive seen, A didnt 
provide Mr and Mrs G with any advice or representation. They said they wanted to know the 
value of the counterclaim before going  on record or giving  any advice. 
As our investigator explained, we cant look at what the solicitors did when acting in their 
legal capacity. But I think Aviva couldve done  more at this point  to assist Mr and Mrs G. 
Theyd shown they had a valid claim under the policy  and I understand Aviva  was aware of 
the issues they were  having with the appointed  solicitors. So I think  Aviva  shouldve 
discussed the situation with A or allowed Mr and Mrs G to appoint their own solicitors.  
surveyors report
Mr and Mrs G asked Aviva whether it would fund a surveyors report  so their claim could be 
quantified which would allow A to represent  them. Aviva agreed  provided Mr and Mrs G 
obtained two quotes. They did this and the report was obtained. 
A said the report wasnt court compliant. So they still werent able to go on record  or provide 
any assistance. Again, I cant  comment on the actions or advice of a law firm. But I agree 
with our investigator that the report only needed to be court compliant for the courts  
themselves. I havent seen anything to suggest the information within the report  couldnt 
have been used to quantify  the claim for settlement negotiation purposes.  Given, that I think 
Aviva could have done  more to clarify  that and assist Mr and Mrs G in moving the claim 
forward. 
legal costs 
When we considered Mr and Mrs Gs first complaint we said that if an independent  barrister  
confirmed the claim  had reasonable prospects of success, Aviva should reimburse the legal 
costs incurred. But the investigator made clear that should be in line with the policy terms 
and they say that costs incurred must be reasonable and necessary.
I appreciate the points  Mr and Mrs G have  made  about why they sought  the legal advice 
they did. But Aviva  would always have been  entitled to have those costs assessed  by a 
costs draftsman to ensure  they were reasonable  and necessary before paying them. 
And the costs draftsmans advice was that Aviva should pay around £3,538  (plus  VAT) 
towards the solicitors  costs. I havent  seen anything  to show  me this advice is incorrect. So 
Im satisfied Aviva can rely on it. In relation to the other  costs  Mr and Mrs G incurred the 
costs draftsman said he thought it was reasonable to instruct  counsel to file a defence  and 
provide an opinion on this. However,  he couldnt  identify why two surveyors  reports had 
been obtained. So he felt it was fair for Aviva to limit its contribution  to £2,000  for these. 
Ref: DRN95015675But from what I can see, Mr and Mrs G obtained the first surveyors report  to show the 
defects of the companys works. This was based on As advice when they were  appointed on 
the claim the first time. The second surveyors  report was obtained  when A was appointed 
the second time. And this report was to quantify the cost of the repairs. As both reports were 
obtained on the advice of A, I think its fair for Aviva  to reimburse the cost of both. And I think  
Mr and Mrs G have provided a reasonable explanation as to why they werent  able to accept  
the cheapest quote  for the second survey. So I think it is reasonable of Aviva to reimburse 
them for the actual  cost they did incur here. 
The cost draftsman said it was reasonable for the barrister to file the defence and provide an 
opinion on it. So he agreed with these costs. And Aviva has already agreed  with our 
investigator that it should pay the costs of filing the counter claim  and obtaining advice on 
this which  I think is fair. 
From everything Ive seen, I think its fair for Aviva to pay those costs  identified as 
reasonable and necessary by the costs draftsman plus the cost of both surveyors  reports  
and the costs of filing the counter claim and obtaining advice on this. Aviva is entitled  to 
deduct the initial payment it made  to Mr and Mrs G from this amount. 
Our investigator also thought it was fair for Aviva  to pay Mr and Mrs G £200 in recognition of 
the impact on them  of what it got wrong.  But I think it needs  to do more here. As Ive 
identified there were a number of occasions  where Aviva could have done more  to assist  
Mr and Mrs G with the difficulties they were  having.  And I appreciate this was a challenging 
time for them when  they were concerned about  the action being  taken against them  by the 
company involved.  
I also note that Mrs G has some health problems  which she believes were exacerbated by 
the stress  of this situation. I think its at least possible they could have been alleviated  if 
Aviva had been more  proactive in providing  assistance. Taking that into account I think  it 
would be fair of it to make  a payment of £500  to Mr and Mrs G to reflect  the impact on them  
of what it got wrong during this time. 
ongoing concerns
I cant look into anything thats  happened since April 2019.So  if Mr and Mrs G are unhappy  
with anything Aviva has done since our investigator gave her opinion  of the complaint, they 
will need  to raise this as a new complaint to Aviva. Once Aviva has had an opportunity to 
consider those issues then Mr and Mrs G can ask us to look into matters if they remain  
unhappy. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Aviva agreed with my provisional decision.  Mr and Mrs G thought the complaint should have 
been upheld  in full. In summary they said:
Aviva  should have agreed  to reinstate cover for the defence claim on the basis of the 
assessment the original  barrister  carried out. And following the previous complaint Aviva 
didnt provide all of the evidence to the barrister assessing prospects or give them the 
opportunity to contact  them. If it had done  so then there would have been significant  
savings for them  both in terms of their legal costs and the impact  on their time and 
health; 
Ref: DRN95015676Aviva  restricted  the legal costs to A who said they didnt act on the claim because of that 
restricted funding;  
Aviva  never provided policy terms to their solicitor and the assessment  by the costs 
draftsman wrongly  concluded  the amount charged by their solicitor was excessive. The 
amount quoted in his report as a fair rate was significantly less than Avivas own panel 
solicitor would have  charged for the work;
Information on our website said if a policyholder was only made aware of the restriction 
on costs after theyd  made a claim it might  not be fair for an insurer to insist on payment 
in line with its standard terms.  And they queried  where in the policy it said that it wouldnt 
cover the cost of reviewing incoming correspondence. 
Overall Mr and Mrs G said that Aviva wasnt involved  as it should have been throughout the 
lifetime of their claim and didnt handle  this appropriately. And they said this caused 
considerable stress and led to the eventual loss of the claim. 
They argued that if theyd been  able to use their policy as they should  then theyd  have been  
able to claim the full costs  from the contractor and thought Aviva should be responsible for 
paying this amount
Mr and Mrs G also queried what the maximum they could claim in compensation from Aviva 
for their health issues was. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
progress of the claim
Our view on the previous  complaint was that the prospects of both claims should be 
assessed by an independent barrister.  Given that, I dont think Aviva did anything wrong in 
waiting for the outcome of that assessment before reinstating cover  for the defence  claim. 
And the letter theyve provided from their solicitors doesnt specifically ask for a copy  of the 
policy terms and was in any case sent in February 2018 which is prior to the period Im 
considering in this decision. 
But, as I set out in my provisional decision,  I agree  there  have been  a number of failings by 
Aviva during  the progress of this claim. For example Aviva didnt follow up the issue  of 
evidence being  passed on to the barrister or ask him to clarify what evidence hed want to 
see to finalise the claim. I also think Aviva should  have done more  to assist  Mr and Mrs G 
with the problems they were having  with Firm A. 
So I agree with them that it wasnt as involved with the claim as it should have been and 
should have done more  to assist. But the eventual  outcome of their claim isnt something  
that forms part of the complaint Im considering.
As I explained in my provisional decision Im not looking at whats happened since April 
2019. So if Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with whats happened since then and believe Aviva 
are responsible for the loss of their claim thats  something that will need  to be raised  as a 
new complaint. 
Ref: DRN95015677And looking at whats  happened in the period I am considering Im satisfied that a payment 
of £500 does enough to recognise the impact on Mr and Mrs G of what Aviva  got wrong.  We 
dont have a maximum figure  for compensation of this nature as it depends on the 
circumstances of the case.  But as Ive said I think £500 is the right amount here. And, as Mr 
and Mrs G are aware, Ive taken into account  their health issues in arriving  at that figure.  
costs assessment
I understand the point Mr and Mrs G have made  about the case  on our website but I dont 
think it applies here. That example relates  to where  it wasnt made clear that an insurer 
might restrict  cover  by doing  something  like offering a fixed  hourly  rate lower than a 
policyholder could instruct a non panel  solicitor for. 
But in this case Aviva  hasnt sought  to restrict the costs Mr and Mrs G incurred to what  it 
would have paid a panel solicitor. Whats its done  is to have these  assessed  to see if they 
were reasonable and necessary. Our view on the previous complaint was that if an 
independent barrister confirmed the claim had reasonable prospects  of success, Aviva 
should reimburse the legal costs incurred. But we said that should be in line with the policy  
terms and they say that costs incurred must be reasonable  and necessary. I think that would 
include whether  charges  had been  properly incurred  for reviewing incoming correspondence. 
Both parties  accepted that view. So I dont think Aviva did anything wrong in having that 
assessment carried out. 
Mr and Mrs G have raised concerns  about what the assessment  said in relation to the hourly 
rate charged by their solicitor compared to what a panel firm would have charged.  But the 
rate theyve quoted is for a grade 1 fee earner.  The information  from the panel  firm doesnt 
say their case needed to be conducted  by someone at that level.  So I dont think  it shows  the 
cost assessment was obviously wrong.  As a result I dont think Aviva did anything wrong in 
relying on this when deciding what it would pay Mr and Mrs Gs solicitors. And if they 
disagree they do have the option  of appointing  their own costs draftsman to prepare  a report. 
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Aviva Insurance Limited  will need to put things  
right by paying those  costs identified as reasonable and necessary by the costs draftsman 
plus the cost of both surveyors  reports and the costs of filing the counter claim and obtaining 
advice on this. Aviva is entitled  to deduct the initial  payment it made to Mr and Mrs G from 
this amount. 
It will also need to pay them £500 for the trouble and upset theyve been caused by what it 
got wrong. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 August 2020.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN95015678
Ref: DRN9501567