K822xcomplaint
Mrs N complains on behalf  of D, the executor of the estate of the late Miss G, about the way 
Aviva Insurance Limited handled  Miss Gs home  insurance claim following an escape of 
water. 
background 
In October  2017 there was an escape of water at Miss Gs flat. Miss G no longer lived there 
having moved into residential  care.  The claim was handled on her behalf by her next of kin, 
Mrs N. 
Aviva accepted the claim but there were delays and poor workmanship from its contractors. 
Mrs N found she had to organise and deal with the contractors directly, travel to and from the 
property, inspect it and effectively project manage  its reinstatement. Mrs N shielded Miss G 
from what was happening  with her flat but on occasion Aviva attempted  to contact her 
directly when itd been  asked  not to so. Mrs N said that Avivas actions caused  distress to 
Miss G. 
After about a year, when there were still outstanding issues with the repairs  along with 
ongoing delays  and poor customer service,  Mrs N complained to Aviva.  Aviva  sent Mrs N 
two responses to her complaint. The first was on 9 October 2018. In that letter, Aviva agreed 
that the service  provided hadnt  been  to the standard it expected and that, consequently, this 
had impacted on the time taken to do the repairs. It acknowledged the numerous  calls that 
Mrs N had had to make in order to obtain  updates and to progress the claim and accepted 
this shouldnt have  happened and had caused her inconvenience. 
There was an issue with the kitchen sink and Aviva set out two options for how this could be 
remedied. In recognition  of the lack of service, delays and inconvenience  Mrs N had 
experienced whilst dealing with the claim on behalf  of Miss G, it offered a goodwill payment 
of £300 to Miss G. 
Mrs N responded to Avivas letter in detail, setting out the delays, lack of co-ordination and 
poor quality  of workmanship carried out at the property. She also set out the outstanding 
works that needed  to be completed. And she said she thought any compensation payment 
should be made to her as she had been the one constantly dealing  with the claim and its 
issues.
Aviva issued a second response letter on 19 December  2018 and apologised for not 
returning her calls. Aviva commented on the outstanding issues relating  to the poor 
communication around the fitting of the isolator switch for the kitchen electrics, the boiler 
thermostat and the kitchen radiator not being  painted. It said it understood all outstanding 
remedial works had now been undertaken and apologised for contacting  Miss G directly  and 
any upset this mayve caused.  Aviva  increased its offer of compensation to £500 but said 
this would have  to be paid to Miss G as payments of this nature were  always  made to the 
policyholder. 
Mrs N replied to Aviva  to say there were still outstanding issues  with the repairs  at Miss Gs 
flat that required  attention   such as the sink, hob and gas not being connected. She said 
she remained unhappy that the radiator  hadnt been painted  even though  it hadnt been  
damaged and she said she thought Aviva could make her an ex-gratia payment. Aviva said 
in January 2019 that itd provided its final response to the complaint but would look into the 
Ref: DRN98473012outstanding repair issues that needed  attention.  It arranged for the contractor to attend the 
property on one final occasion to assess and attend to any snags. Aviva said that after this 
point it would provide no further response  to Mrs N. 
By this time Mrs N had also referred  her complaint to this service. Whilst the complaint was 
waiting to be allocated  for investigation Mrs N let us know that Miss G had sadly passed 
away. There was a short delay whilst  the executor, D, was contacted  and the correct 
documentation and signatures obtained. D now brings  the complaint on behalf of the late 
Miss G and has confirmed that it is happy to let Mrs N remain as representative. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He didnt 
think that Aviva had treated the estate  of Miss G unfairly when considering her complaint 
and thought that the compensation Aviva had offered was reasonable in the circumstances. 
He also explained  why this service was unable to recommend compensation was paid to 
Mrs N. 
Mrs N disagreed with our investigators findings  and said hed focussed his investigation on 
compensation rather than the poor service  shed received. She was also unhappy he 
couldnt require  Aviva to pay the compensation to her. Finally Mrs N said she wanted the 
complaint reconsidered and hoped  it would lead to us making  strong recommendations to 
Aviva about  how it conducts  its business.  
Our investigator replied  to say he had considered the whole complaint and set out again why 
Mrs N couldnt be classed  as an eligible  complainant  (as required by our rules) and therefore 
was unable to receive  any compensation. Mrs N replied to say it was disappointing that we 
were unable to consider  the impact Avivas  actions had had on her directly and she said the 
fact that we couldnt shouldve been  made clear at the outset  of her complaint. She said she 
would like the complaint reconsidered  from the viewpoint of the impact having to deal with 
the complaint  herself wouldve had on Miss G. Our investigator replied to say that this was 
something we were unable to do as we could only look at what  actually had happened. 
Mrs N disagreed with our investigators findings  so the complaint was referred to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Its my role to decide whether or not Aviva  has treated Miss G and her estate in a fair and 
reasonable way and, I have to say, I think it has. Its not part of the role of this service  to 
recommend to a financial company how it conducts  its business  thats a matter  for the 
industry regulator. I can only look here at the individual complaint brought by Mrs N on 
behalf of the late Miss Gs estate. And when doing  that I have to have regard to the rules  
under which this service  operates. They are set by the Financial Conduct Authority and are 
called the DISP rules. They set out how consumer complaints  are to be handled.  One of the 
rules is that a complaint must be made  by an eligible complaint  here the eligible 
complainant was Miss G and is now the executors of her estate. 
I fully appreciate the role Mrs N has played  in managing  the claim, dealing  with Aviva and its 
contractors, and making a complaint. I also fully appreciate  all her efforts  were  motivated by 
the desire to shield Miss G from becoming  upset and stressed.  It is Mrs N that has given up 
Ref: DRN98473013her time, shouldered the burden of dealing  with Aviva and suffered personal inconvenience 
in the process.  But, unfortunately  for her, whilst I can acknowledge those efforts,  they dont 
make her an eligible  complainant as required  by our rules. Despite being a representative of 
Miss G, and later her estate, she isnt a customer of Avivas and there  is no contractual  
relationship between the two of them. 
So Im unable to say that Avivas decision to compensate Miss G/her estate rather than 
Mrs N is unreasonable.  It said it could only pay the compensation to Miss G/her estate 
because Miss G was the policyholder and I cant reasonably say it was wrong  to do so. 
That being  the case, I have to consider whether the compensation  Aviva  offered Miss G/her  
estate for the trouble  and upset it caused her is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
There were delays in reinstating  the property but the effect of such  on Miss G was limited 
owing to the efforts of Mrs N to shield her. But I can see Miss G was resident in a care home 
and that Aviva  despite an instruction from Mrs N not to  contacted and corresponded with 
Miss G causing her some distress in the process. 
I have to look at the impact of Avivas action on Miss G and decide whether Aviva  has 
compensated her fairly for it. I have to say I think  it has. It seems  to me the main impact  was 
the distress caused  to Miss G when Aviva  wrongly  contacted her. All of the other issues  to 
do with the claim were shouldered by Mrs N.
Ive had regard  to this services  approach  to awards of compensation generally and I think  
that Avivas offer is fair in all the circumstances. Indeed if this complaint had passed across  
my desk  without any award of compensation having been offered for the upset caused by 
Aviva to Miss G its unlikely Id have  awarded as much as Aviva has offered. So Im satisfied 
that Avivas offer to pay Miss G/her estate  compensation of £500 is both fair and reasonable. 
I appreciate that Mrs N is likely to remain disappointed that, having been  put to considerable 
inconvenience herself, Im unable  to direct Aviva pay the compensation  to her. But, as Ive 
explained above, our rules  do not permit me to do so. I know too that she thinks the fact this 
service cant assist  her in the way she wants is something that shouldve been  highlighted to 
her when she first contacted us. But this service needs to carry out a full investigation first 
before being in a position to comment on the merits of a complaint. 
I also note that Mrs N has said we should  look at the complaint from the perspective of what 
the impact wouldve been  if Miss G had had to handle the claim herself. Im afraid we can 
only look at what actually  has happened   not what might  or might not have happened  and 
decide from there whether we should  require a business to take steps to remedy that 
complaint. Its often the case that a business  has already taken steps, before the complaint 
arrives with us, to remedy a situation  which this service will consider  to be a fair and 
reasonable resolution. Whilst I appreciate  that Mrs N feels differently, I think Aviva  took such  
steps with regard to Miss Gs complaint,  such that I dont think it needs to do anything 
further. 
Its worth  noting that Ive taken account of all the issues Mrs N had when dealing with Aviva.  
I know that she thought our investigator had focussed on compensation rather  than the poor 
service shed received.  Aviva has accepted,  and I agree, that its service  did fall below an 
acceptable standard with this claim. So the fact that there was poor service  and delays  is not 
in dispute. The remedy in such situations is the payment of compensation. But Aviva had 
already offered to compensate Miss G  for its poor service and delays - before her 
Ref: DRN98473014complaint was brought here. And for the reasons  Ive given above, I think it did so fairly and 
reasonably. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9847301