K820x#14complaint
Miss D feels that Next Retail Limited  has treated her unfairly  in the way it dealt with her debt 
in 2018 and since.
background
In April 2018 Miss D received a default  notice  from Next.  So she rang Next as instructed. As 
a result of this call she entered into a payment plan. But later she found shed had a default 
logged on her credit file. Which she wants removed.  So she complained. 
Next said it had told Miss D she had debt and what would happen  if she didnt pay the 
outstanding amount. It says Miss D didnt pay the outstanding amount so it was right to place 
the default on her credit  file. It did offer her £50 in respect of some  customer service issues 
sometime later in 2019 as it felt it wasnt good enough. But it didnt uphold  Miss Ds 
complaint about  the entries on her credit file. So she complained here.
The investigator did not agree with Miss D and said Nexts position was reasonable. As Miss 
D remains unhappy her complaint  has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of their complaint.
Having considered the entirety of the matter I do not think  this complaint should be upheld.  I 
say this for the following  reasons which I see as key to this complaint.
Ive considered the letters that Next sent to Miss D during  2018.  I can see it said in its letter  
of February 2018  when  it told Miss D she could no longer spend on her account that it would 
log what happened with credit reference  agencies  and that may affect  her credit in future. So 
I think Miss D was on notice from there  that she was in significant debt and that Next were 
starting to take serious steps in relation to that debt.
I can also see other letters Next sent her in March 2018 including Notice of Sums  in 
Arrears and describing amounts she had to pay it immediately.
Then, in April 2018, Next sent her the default notice that was the start of her complaint.  Ive 
considered this letter and it meets the criteria  of a default notice. It sets out how much  she 
has to pay to stop the default being applied and by when. It also sets out the total debt she 
owes. I note that in capital letters at the top of the letter  it says important  you should read 
this carefully and then goes on to say its served  under  section 87 (1) of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. So its clearly an important matter.  Im not persuaded by Miss Ds 
arguments she didnt  realise the importance  of this letter from Next. For several months  Next 
had been writing to her demanding money and telling her it could affect her credit rating. And 
this letter  is clearly important and has a number of sections in capital letters or in bold type. It 
also clearly is served  under legislation  so for me it is very clear that these matters are 
serious. If Miss D didnt grasp the importance of these matters  then it is my position  that this 
isnt Nexts fault.
Ive also considered the call of 12th April which was in response to the default  notice. Miss D 
is asked if she can make the immediate payment the letter  requires. Miss D says shed 
Ref: DRN93801852struggle to do that. In response  to that Nexts  representative  makes clear the default will be 
registered unless  the overdue amount is paid. So I think Next did what  it had to in explaining 
what would  happen  if she didnt pay the amount due immediately. And once Miss D made 
clear she couldnt  pay it I think the Next representative did the right think in then discussing 
how to pay off the debt.
Next are obliged  to record on the credit file how Miss D manages  her account and the 
repayments she makes or doesnt  make and the repayment plans she enters into. And Ive 
seen nothing persuasive that shows its done anything wrong on Miss Ds credit  file. So I 
dont think it needs  to change anything there.
Ive considered what else has happened and I see Next offered Miss D £50 in relation to the 
customer experience  she had. I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I note that Miss Ds main  argument in response  to the view was that had she understood the 
severity of the matter  shed have acted differently. I think Next did what it had to here and did 
make clear  the situation. So I dont think it did anything  wrong.  As a consequence I dont 
uphold this complaint.
I appreciate this isnt the decision that Miss D wants to hear.  But I think Next hasnt done 
anything wrong  regarding the credit  file and I think the £50 is fair. And as such  I am not 
upholding Miss Ds complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Next Retail Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9380185