K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Santander  UK Plc (Santander trading at the time as Abbey 
National) mis-sold them a mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out by Mr and Mrs B in 1995. 
The policy was sold in a meeting where  Mr and Mrs B were also arranging their mortgage.  
The policy was taken  out in Mr Bs name only and he was covered against  accidents, 
sickness and unemployment.
Mr and Mrs B say Mr B had significant  sick pay benefits through  his work so the policy  was 
unsuitable. They think Santander mis-sold  the policy to them.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Here  are my reasons:
I have first of all looked into whether Mr and Mrs B were  given a choice to have the MPPI 
policy. This has been a difficult issue for me to consider as I havent been  able to see the 
sales documentation that would have been  used at the time of sale. Although  this is 
understandable due to the many  years that have passed since the date of sale.  
I have though considered what I know of sales that happened at that time and also read 
Mr and Mrs Bs recollections. Having done  this, I cant be sure what was discussed  
between Mr and Mrs B and Santander  during the meeting. Its completely 
understandable that Mr and Mrs Bs recollections are not detailed  and as I have already 
said the sale took place many  years ago. And because of this and considering  what  I 
know of sales carried out by Santander at that time, I dont think the evidence  is strong  
enough for me safely to say Santander didnt explain that MPPI was an optional feature 
in the meeting. I havent, on this occasion,  seen enough evidence  to be able to safely 
draw that conclusion.
Moving on, I need to consider next whether Santander provided advice to Mr and Mrs B 
or not during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional responsibility to ensure the 
policy was suitable for them.  On looking at the very limited information provided and also 
taking into consideration what the parties  have  said, and what I know of Santander sales 
during this time, I think advice was given.
And based on the information Ive seen,  I think the policy  was suitable for Mr B as the 
sole policy holder.  I say this after considering Mr Bs circumstances at the time of sale. 
Ref: DRN95929512Because, although he says he would have continued to be paid for at least a year on full 
pay, the MPPI policy would have paid out in addition to his means and for longer (24 
months per claim). Having the policy in place would mean Mr and Mrs B could use any 
provisions they may have  had to cover other  expenses. So I think he would have found 
some use by having the cover.
Mr B was also not affected  by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits 
such as, for example,  those that affect  self employed people or policy  holders with pre-
existing medical conditions. Mr B was self employed at the time of sale.  But I have seen 
the terms and conditions and dont think that there were any restrictive or limiting  terms 
for self employed people that would have  made  it unsuitable  for Mr B. It is unlikely Mr 
and Mrs B needed better advice or information  about the policys exclusions and 
limitations and if they had received  clear  information on these terms I dont think it would 
have put them off. So I am persuaded the policy was suitable for Mr B.
 
I am not sure if Santander gave Mr and Mrs B clear  information about the costs of the 
policy, but even  if it did, I dont think Mr and Mrs B would have done anything  differently 
for the same reasons  as I have  already given. Ive also seen nothing  to suggest it was 
unaffordable.
In conclusion, it has been a difficult decision to make due to the lack of information provided 
about this sale,  but based  on what I have, I do not think the policy  was mis-sold.
my decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  16 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9592951