K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the way in which Lloyds Bank PLC dealt with his business  borrowing 
and that it provided  poor service and did not dealt with his requests fairly.
background
Mr P had established borrowing with Lloyds Bank including a business  loan and also an 
overdraft facility of £20,000.  Lloyds had taken a mortgage over his combined  business and 
residential property.  Mr P says his relationship  manager told him in December 2016 that due 
to a change in regulations  his overdraft would no longer be secured and that Lloyds was 
going to increase the interest rate. Mr P was unhappy to receive a deed of variation to sign 
in July 2017 which he thought was to his disadvantage.  And that his partner was expected to 
sign a deed of postponement of any interest  of hers in the property behind  that of Lloyds. 
Mr P asked that the residential element of the property be released from the security Lloyds 
held. He agreed to pay for a valuation of just the commercial part and was unhappy that it 
was substantially lower  than he believed it to be worth.  He says his relationship manager did 
not deal with his concerns and he still thinks the valuation  was too low. He was generally 
unhappy with the communication from that relationship manager. Lloyds agreed that its 
customer service  and communication could have been better and it paid Mr P £300  in 
compensation. Mr P does  not agree that this is sufficient.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that Lloyds do anything more. She said that:
-Lloyds had decided  that it would not be holding security for overdraft borrowing under 
£25,000 and had issued the deed  of variation to amend  the mortgage document.
-The deed of postponement was to confirm its position relating to the security it held 
for the loan.
-She thought  that Lloyds could have  communicated the changes more  effectively.
-It had given Mr P adequate notice of the changes to the terms of his overdraft.
-This service cannot consider a complaint  about  a surveyor  and Lloyds had followed 
its normal procedure in obtaining this valuation. Mr P had been given a choice of 
three surveyors from its panel  and knew the costs in advance.
-Lloyds was entitled to make  a decision about whether to release part of its security  
taking into account the valuation.
-She agreed that the customer service  from the relationship manager had been 
lacking and he had not responded to requests. But she thought that Lloyds 
resolution was fair.
Mr P who is represented in this complaint did not agree. He made  a number of detailed 
points which  Ill summarise here and didnt think his evidence  had been  taken into account. 
He wanted to see the information about the change in policy. He remained of the view that 
the deed of variation was going to disadvantage him and allow  changes  to be made  to the 
term of his loan putting  his home at risk and wanted  us to get a solicitor to review this.
As a result of what happened he decided to repay the overdraft from other  funds at further  
cost to him and wants to be compensated. Mr P also questioned  why the valuation was 
required when his premises must have increased since  the last valuation in 2005. And he 
remained unhappy he was forced  to use a surveyor agreed by Lloyds. It took five months  
before his questions  about the valuation were  put to the surveyor  by Lloyds. He was 
generally unhappy with his relationship manager  and that he wouldnt put things  in writing 
and that he still wanted to retain an interest  in his case when a new relationship  manager  
Ref: DRN97866082was appointed. Mr P thought the legal documentation Lloyds had sent him to sign was to 
trick him and his partner  into allowing  their interests to be overridden. And he said that the 
securities department  at Lloyds had been wrongly  told by his relationship  manager  that hed 
agreed to this. He was caused stress and wasted time and he thought that Lloyds real 
motive was to undervalue his security so it could increase the amount it charged him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going  to deal with the key issues to resolve  this complaint that Mr P raises  separately.
the change in policy
Im clear  from the information Ive seen that Lloyds had decided not to continue  to rely on 
security for business overdrafts under £25,000  secured on premises  where  a significant part 
were occupied on a residential basis by the borrower. It was a matter for Lloyds to decide on 
its lending policy and it has made some reference  to changes in residential mortgage 
regulation. I accept entirely that the changes were poorly communicated to Mr P. But I wont  
be requiring it to disclose  any confidential internal policy documents.
the overdraft
Lloyds says that the overdraft has always been covered by the mortgage security  Mr P gave 
in 2005. It relies on the following clause  in the charge:
Secured obligations means all monies and liabilities and other  sums hereby  agreed to be 
paid by the Mortgagor (Mr P) to the Bank.
I note that until December 2016  the margin on the overdraft was three percent over Base 
Rate and that Lloyds decided that the margin was going to be increased to five percent. Its 
notes show this applied  to the overdraft  even before it was to become unsecured. Im afraid 
it was entitled  to make its own decision about the interest rate to apply when the facility was 
reviewed. Unlike the loan this was not a long term commitment and could be varied  in this 
way.
the deed of variation 
This service provides informal dispute  resolution  and we are not a court and do not resolve 
legal issues. My understanding  of the deed of variation was that it was to state that the loan 
alone would  be covered  by the mortgage charge. Mr P has provided a copy  of the completed 
form he was expected to sign and I note that this said that the clause Ive referred to above 
was to be changed to:
Secured obligations means  all monies  now or at any time in the future due, owing or 
incurred from or by me/us to the Bank  on account(s)  in the name(s) listed  below and the 
other liabilities detailed
Handwritten under that statement on the form was Mr Ps business trading name followed by 
BL which I take to mean the business  loan only was to be covered.
Ref: DRN97866083I make  clear that my understanding  is that there was no change to the terms of that loan 
itself. But I understand  Mr Ps concerns  and that again this was not explained to him clearly.  
The cover letter with the documentation Ive see did point out that this was a legal document 
and he may wish to take legal advice. But as this wasnt a change hed requested I can 
understand why he didnt  feel he needed  to do so or sign the form itself.  Lloyds  has 
confirmed that it wont  be asking him to do so now and the file at the securities  department is 
closed.
the deed of postponement
I make  the same  caveats  as before about this being  a legal document and the role of our 
service. I have  to say though based on what Ive been told I see this as an attempt to deal 
with what Lloyds must have perceived was a weakness with the security  it held for the loan. 
It may have taken the view that by changing  the mortgage deed with the deed of variation  
Mr Ps partner  may take some additional priority  to the extent she was an existing occupant 
of the secured premises. Or this may be an issue it had not dealt with before.  However,  I 
cant see any sign that it explained the reasons and although again the suggested legal 
advice was referred to Id have expected it to have provided a clear explanation  of the 
reasons for this. But again this was not signed and returned.
the valuation
I agree  with what our adjudicators said about  this. Mr P made a request for part of the 
security to be released - the element that he and, as I understand it, his partner lived in. The 
previous valuation was a number of years old and Mr P was asking Lloyds only to rely on the 
commercial element of the property.
Its very common  for financial businesses to have a panel of surveyors  familiar with the 
requirements of a particular business. And also for any valuation costs  to be due to the 
borrower based on what has been agreed with each surveyor. Mr P was consulted about  
this. And Ive seen  evidence that the surveyor selected was appointed  in the normal way. 
Clearly the valuation was significantly lower than Mr P hoped and he made  comments about 
this referring to his neighbours property,  general market trends and a number of other 
issues. 
Mr P has provided a copy of an email  from his relationship manager in response  dated  20 
September 2017. He refers Mr P to the comments in the valuation report about planning 
consent and hope value  and says that Lloyds  will only look to the value of the proposed 
commercial assets. In contrast he adds that the 2005 valuation  had been based on the 
conversion of two buildings into residential bungalows and that this was based  on hope 
value. Whether Mr P agreed  with this or not he was committed to paying for the valuation  
even if as he says he had raised a complaint by that time.
I know Mr P continued to find this valuation impossible  to accept but Im afraid I think  Lloyds 
was entitled to rely on the opinion of a professional surveyor and had clearly  noted what    
Mr P had said. When his detailed points were  put to that surveyor later in the year the 
surveyor responded and said there was no change to the valuation as a result. I understand 
Mr P has seen  those comments.
Ref: DRN97866084the lending decisions
Lloyds was as Ive said entitled to decide  on the terms  it would provide future  overdraft 
borrowing. And not to provide this if Mr P did not agree  to those terms. He didnt agree and 
he chose to repay this overdraft and Lloyds cannot be responsible for any related costs for 
him.
Similarly Lloyds did not have to agree to release existing security. It fairly  decided to 
consider the request and an important  factor was the valuation. For the reasons Ive given it 
made a decision  taking the information it had into account.
the customer service and communication
Ive already highlighted areas where Im accepting Mr Ps account of the poor 
communication and service provided. Theres no documentary evidence  from Lloyds to 
suggest otherwise  and it has already  conceded  this in the final response. But for the reasons 
Ive already given  I dont  accept Mr P was financially disadvantaged by this. He could not 
accept Lloyds terms for the overdraft and remains of that view. And Ive explained  what  I 
think about the valuation however poorly  he thinks  his feedback about this was dealt with. I 
dont doubt that Mr P was caused  distress  and inconvenience by this. But Im afraid taking 
everything into account Im not persuaded that compensation in excess of that already paid 
by Lloyds of £300 for this is warranted  here.  I know he will be disappointed by my 
conclusions. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that Lloyds Bank PLC need  
not take any further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9786608