K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains the vehicle he acquired on a conditional sale agreement  financed by 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited was not of satisfactory quality. He wants to end the agreement and 
reject the vehicle. He also seeks compensation for loss of earnings.
background
Mr S tells us he acquired the vehicle at the start of July 2018 through a dealer Ill call C. 
And he says that almost  immediately he experienced problems with it. He says he took the 
vehicle in for repairs several  times.  As a result of this - and not having been provided  with a 
courtesy vehicle - he says he was unable to work. Hes told us hes also attempted to have 
various repairs to the vehicle undertaken at his own cost during the subsequent period.
Moneybarn told us it had accepted there were problems with the vehicle and that following 
an independent inspection by A, a company, it had offered to either end the agreement  or 
have the vehicle repaired. But Mr S had accepted neither offer and instead had just brought  
his complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 May 2019. In that provisional view I 
indicated that I was minded to uphold the complaint. But I said I wasnt going to award any 
compensation for loss of earnings, as the invoices supplied  by Mr S to show these  losses 
were those of a limited  company. And - whilst Mr S was the sole director  and person with 
significant control of the company - the company  has a separate legal entity and is not a 
party to this complaint.
Both parties  have now replied to my provisional decision. Moneybarn  says it accepts the 
provisional decision except for the return of the deposit. Mr S has expressed his 
disappointment that I did not intend  to award  compensation  for the consequential  losses  he 
says he incurred. He says these have caused  him serious financial  difficulties.  
I thank both parties for their replies.  Its now accepted that no deposit was paid - despite  the 
agreement indicating the contrary.  Other than this I see no reason to alter my provisional 
view which is largely repeated in my final decision  which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr S has experienced the inconvenience of the vehicle proving to be unreliable. 
And that its affected  his ability to undertake his employment which was heavily dependent  
on his having  his own means of transport.
In broad terms the facts of this complaint  are not in dispute - namely that the vehicle was 
faulty at the point of supply and attempted repairs did not resolve all the issues.  So I dont 
need to go into further detail about  that.
In practical terms this complaint now centres  on the nature of the redress which  should be 
offered to Mr S to bring about a resolution which is fair and reasonable to both parties. I 
should explain our approach where a vehicle  is faulty at the point of supply and this leads to 
the ending of the agreement.
Ref: DRN99269082Ideally, wed like to be able to put the parties back to the position  they were  in immediately 
before the agreement  commenced. But this isnt possible here - as several  months have 
passed and the vehicle  has been  used in that time. And - despite  the issues  and time under 
repair - the vehicle has covered around 16,000 miles between  July 2018 and April 2019.  
Whilst thats above the general average Id have expected, its in line with the earlier history 
of this vehicle,  which  was recorded as having  mileage of 66,000  at the time it was supplied 
to Mr S. The vehicle had first been  registered in 2014.
Ill deal with those  aspects of redress which are not likely to be contentious.  Mr S has had 
the use of the vehicle  and so its only correct this should be reflected in any settlement. So 
he should pay the monthly  payments  (pro rata for any period  of less than one month) from 
the commencement of the agreement to the date the agreement  is ended.  From this can be 
subtracted the £312.61 which Moneybarn agreed as reflecting  loss of use whilst the vehicle 
was under repair. It also agreed  to pay Mr S £150  for distress and inconvenience.
Ill deal briefly with the issue of the advance payment  (deposit). The copy  of the agreement  
provided to me showed a deposit  of £1,920 had been paid. Mr S has always  maintained  he 
did not pay this sum.  Ive now been  told by Moneybarn that the dealer made an error and 
assumed that Mr S would pay the deposit - but this never happened. As both parties agree 
the deposit was not paid I shant make  any order in respect of this.
Im aware Mr S thinks he should also have the costs  of insurance  and road tax refunded  for 
the period the vehicle was not available to him. Im not making any award in respect of these 
items for reasons Ill explain.  The insurance  was required under the agreement and covered 
such issues as theft and damage which  were  still relevant even when the vehicle was not in 
use. And road tax applies to any period when the vehicle is not subject of a SORN  notice.
This leaves  two areas of contention  surrounding the issues of loss of earnings  and whether 
the depreciation in the value of the vehicle  should be taken  into account.
The agreement made no reference to limits  on mileage or depreciation charges. But it was 
subject to a general  requirement for Mr S to maintain it in good condition.  So no deductions  
based solely on mileage  and/or  depreciation are justifiable. But the vehicle will presumably 
be inspected upon return and any damage  above  fair wear and tear (in line with industry  
standards and guidelines) would potentially be recoverable under the terms of the 
agreement.
I also dont think that any award related to loss of earnings should  be made. Mr S expressed 
his disappointment about this when he replied to my provisional decision. As its a 
substantial part of his claim  for compensation Ill explain in more  detail why I take this view.
When Mr S submitted proof of loss of earnings  - he supplied invoices of work  hed 
undertaken. And he claimed these showed the level of earnings he would have expected to 
make had it not been for his vehicle  being unavailable. As such  he wished to claim 
consequential losses.
But the invoices  related  to a limited company. It seems Mr S is the sole director  and only 
person with significant control of this company. A limited company has a separate  legal 
entity - even  if its wholly owned by an individual. And whilst I dont apply the law - directly - I 
do take it into account.
Ref: DRN99269083Its quite common for individuals to provide services through  a company - rather than act as 
a sole trader.  Its a perfectly  legitimate  means  of conducting business and there  are, no 
doubt, advantages to such  arrangements. But there are also drawbacks as this complaint 
amply demonstrates. 
The company is not a party to either  the agreement or this complaint. Whilst I accept Mr S 
suffered an indirect  loss - as funds  he would no doubt expect to draw from the company 
were not available - I cannot make financial awards  to non-parties (whether individuals or 
corporate legal entities).
For completeness, I would add that if the agreement  had been in the company  name  this 
service would not have  even  been able to consider the complaint - as the finance agreement  
would not be a regulated  agreement.
So whilst Im upholding Mr Ss complaint - in part - I realise he will be disappointed  that Im 
not awarding compensation at the level he would wish.
Finally, I understand  Mr S is in arrears with the payments due on the agreement. So its only 
fair and reasonable that Moneybarn should  be able to deduct  any arrears due before it 
makes any refund (if any is still due).
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.  
I now require Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited  to take the following action to settle this complaint:
1.End the agreement with nothing further  (other than any arrears  which  have become 
due) for Mr S to pay from the date of termination;
2.Arrange collection  of the vehicle at no cost to Mr S;
3.Refund one monthly  payment of £312.61 and pay simple  interest of 8% per year from 
date of payment  to date of settlement;
4.Pay £150 for distress  and inconvenience  to Mr S.
Subject to the payment  of all arrears  and charges arising under the agreement - to
arrange for the record of the agreement  to be removed from Mr Ss credit file.
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  may deduct  any sums owing on the agreement  (if any) prior to 
paying the sums due under items  3 and 4 above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
Ref: DRN99269084ombudsman
Ref: DRN9926908