K820x#14complaint
Ms M says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax (BoS), mis-sold her a Total  Mortgage  
Payment Protection  policy (TMPP).  A TMPP is a type of protection policy which  typically 
includes payment  protection insurance (PPI) together  with other  features, such as life 
insurance and critical illness cover. The individual elements of the cover  can be added or 
taken out to suit the consumers needs. The policy started in 2003  at the same time as       
Ms Ms mortgage. 
background
In 2003 Ms M took out a mortgage  with BoS.  At the same time she was sold a TMPP policy.  
The mortgage was for £20,000 with a term of 15 years.
The TMPP provided Ms M with life cover and critical illness cover of £20,000.  
The TMPP also contained a PPI policy which wouldve paid a monthly benefit if Ms M 
couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment.
Ms M was initially sold a separate TMPP policy, but it seems the mortgage was delayed and 
the original TMPP policy  was cancelled before Ms M paid any premiums.
When the mortgage came into force in February 2003 a new TMPP policy began.  This is the 
policy thats the subject of this complaint.
Our adjudicator originally  looked only at the PPI element of the policy and they didnt think 
Ms Ms complaint should be upheld.
Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators findings and confirmed she also wanted to complain 
about the life insurance and critical illness elements of the policy.
The complaint was then passed to me.
In November 2018 I issued my provisional  findings  on Ms Ms complaint and invited both 
parties to comment and send me any additional evidence they wanted me to think  about.      
A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I wasnt intending  to uphold Ms Ms complaint.
In summary  I thought  it was most likely  the policy was presented  as optional  and Ms M 
chose to buy it. It looked like BoS recommended a policy  that was right for Ms M, and I didnt 
think any clearer information wouldve made Ms M change  her mind about  applying for the 
policy. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Ms M nor BoS replied with any new evidence or points for me to consider. Therefore 
I see no reason to depart from the findings  I set out in my provisional decision in November 
2018.
Ref: DRN94928272my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I dont  uphold  Ms Ms 
complaint and I dont  make any award  against  Bank  of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
copy  of my provisional  decision
complaint
Ms M says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax  (BoS), mis-sold her a Total  Mortgage Payment  
Protection policy (TMPP).  A TMPP is a type of protection policy which  typically includes payment 
protection insurance (PPI) together with other features, such  as life insurance and critical illness 
cover. The individual  elements of the cover  can be added or taken out to suit the consumers needs. 
The policy started  in 2003 at the same time as       Ms Ms mortgage. 
Ref: DRN94928273background
In 2003 Ms M took out a mortgage with BoS.  At the same time she was sold a TMPP  policy. The 
mortgage was for £20,000  with a term of 15 years.
The TMPP  provided  Ms M with life cover and critical illness cover of £20,000. 
The TMPP  also contained  a PPI policy which  wouldve paid a monthly benefit if Ms M couldnt work 
due to an accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment.
Ms M was initially sold a separate TMPP policy, but it seems the mortgage was delayed and the 
original TMPP policy was cancelled before Ms M paid any premiums.
When the mortgage  came  into force in February 2003 a new TMPP policy began. This is the policy 
thats the subject of this complaint.
Our adjudicator originally looked only at the PPI element of the policy  and they didnt think  Ms Ms 
complaint should be upheld.
Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators findings and confirmed she also wanted to complain about the 
life insurance  and critical illness elements of the policy.
The complaint has now been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ms case. 
Im not intending to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain  why.
The policy was sold over fifteen years ago so it isnt surprising that BoS doesnt have copies of all the 
paperwork completed  at the time. I also have to take into account that memories can fade over time. 
In cases  like this, where the evidence is incomplete, I make my decision  on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, on what I think is most likely  to have happened.  
Ms M applied for the mortgage and was sold the TMPP during a meeting at a branch.  Ive taken into 
account what  we know about how BoS sold these policies  in branches around this time and the 
documents weve seen in the past.  And, on balance, the paperwork in these  cases made it clear  to 
consumers that the policy  was optional and they would  have been asked for their consent  to the 
cover.
I note Ms M told us that she was a first time buyer in 2003 and wanted to have all the insurance that 
was offered, although she has told us shed  feel differently now.
Ive also noted that Ms M paid the premiums for the policy  for some time.  So I think shed likely have 
been aware  of the policy.
So taking everything into account I think its most likely Ms M was told she had a choice about  
whether to buy the policy  or not, and she chose to take it.
BoS recommended  that Ms M buy the policy. So it had had a duty to make sure it was right for her. 
And from what Ive seen  I think it was.
Ms M was taking a mortgage  in her sole name and I understand she had dependants. So I think  shed 
have wanted to have the mortgage repaid if she died. I understand  Ms M wouldve had some death in 
Ref: DRN94928274service benefits through her employer. But the life insurance sold to her by BoS would  mean  the 
mortgage would be repaid and any death in service payment from her employer would be for the 
benefit of her dependents. So I think Ms M had a need for the life cover and it was suitable for her 
needs.
The TMPP  also provided  Ms M with critical  illness  cover.  This wouldve paid Ms M a lump sum of 
£20,000 if she was diagnosed with a serious illness  or had a serious accident.  Looking  at Ms Ms 
circumstances in 2003  I think shed find this payment useful  if she had become seriously ill. The policy  
wouldve allowed Ms M to clear her mortgage and able to concentrate on her recovery without 
worrying about  her mortgage repayments. So I think BoS made  a suitable recommendation that she 
take out critical illness cover.
Turning to the PPI element of the TMPP.  This provided a monthly benefit if Ms M became too unwell 
to work  or lost her job. I think the PPI that BoS advised  Ms M to take out was right for her.
Ms M was eligible for the cover and would  have  been  able to claim if shed needed  to.
The policy had some exclusions and limitations,  but it doesnt look like Ms M was affected by these. 
For example Ms M has told us she had no pre-existing medical conditions  that wouldnt have been 
covered.
Ms M wouldve got some sick pay if she became  too unwell  to work. But this particular  PPI policy 
couldve paid Ms M a benefit in addition to any sick pay for up to two years. So if Ms M had become 
too unwell I think she still wouldve found the policy useful, particularly if she was off work for an 
extended period.
The policy would also pay a benefit for up to two years if Ms M lost her job. Although  Ms M may have 
got some redundancy  pay if that happened, the policy  would allow her to use any redundancy pay 
towards other living costs.
So overall I think  the TMPP including the life cover and critical illness  cover was a suitable 
recommendation for BoS to make.
As well as making sure the policy was right for Ms M, BoS also had to give her information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
Its possible that BoS didnt give Ms M all the information it shouldve. But from what  Ive seen the 
policy was right for her and I think its likely she was interested  in this type of cover.  The cost of the 
policy seems  to have been comparable to other, similar  policies on the market  at the time,  and Ive 
not seen anything to make  me think the premiums  were  not affordable. So even if BoS had given Ms 
M all the clear information it should have, I still think shed  have bought it.
In summary I think  its most likely the policy was presented  as optional and Ms M chose to buy it. It 
looks like BoS recommended a policy  that was right for Ms M, and I dont  think  any clearer information  
wouldve made  Ms M change her mind about applying for the policy. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
not intending to uphold Ms Ms complaint and I dont plan to make any award against Bank of 
Scotland plc.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9492827