K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains Nationwide Building Society failed to credit his account with money which he 
paid in using an ATM.
background
Mr R says he used his local ATM  to pay £500 in cash into his Nationwide account.   The  
money was placed  into an envelope.  Initially the deposit flap at the ATM rejected his 
envelope twice,  then it was accepted but a message on screen  said the transaction  had 
been cancelled.
He says he waited  for a few minutes to see if the envelope would be returned but when  
another customer walked  over to use the ATM,  he left.  He  rang Nationwide shortly after to 
ask whether the money had credited his account  and he was told he would need to wait until 
the next working day for staff to return to the branch  and to physically  retrieve  the deposits.
When staff did return,  they checked the deposits from the day Mr R made his  but Mr Rs 
envelope with £500 could  not found.   So, Nationwide concluded that the envelope  couldnt  
have been retained by the ATM  and was therefore not going to reimburse  his money.   It 
did, however, accept that it had offered a poor service  when  dealing  with Mr Rs complaint 
so it offered  £100  to compensate for that.
Mr R then brought his complaint to this service where our investigator looked into matters for 
him.  She asked Nationwide for details about  how the deposits were retrieved from the ATM, 
records from the day in question and she was also provided with statements  from branch  staff.
Our investigator told Mr R that she could  see he had used  the ATM on that day but that the 
deposits were checked by two members of staff on the next working  day.  This limited  the 
opportunities for human  errors.  Mr Rs envelope with his money  was not there.
On that basis, she told Mr R that she could not ask Nationwide to do anymore  so Mr R 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I will not 
be asking Nationwide  to refund this money  to Mr R.  My reasons are very much the same as 
the investigators.
I have to come to a decision  based  on what I think is more  likely  to have happened here.  I 
take into account documentary evidence as well as Mr Rs verbal account of what  happened.
The evidence from Nationwide appears  to show that the deposits from that day were  checked 
manually by two members of staff.   Our  investigator has even  checked  that the tills at the 
branch balanced on that day  in case a cashier had made a mistake in inputting the details.
But everything looks like it balanced and Mr Rs missing envelope was not at the branch or 
stuck in the ATM. So, I cant  say Nationwide has been unfair in not returning £500 to Mr R.
Ref: DRN90084222However, from a customer service point of view, I agree that the service was poor.  Mr R had 
to chase Nationwide on a number of occasions and it took a number of months before a 
relatively straightforward investigation  was concluded.  I think  the £100 fairly  compensates 
for that so I wont be asking Nationwide to increase on that either.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9008422