K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the way Highway Insurance  Company Limited (Highway) has dealt 
with a claim on his legal expenses insurance policy. In particular, that  it disputed the date 
from which his costs  should be paid; delayed dealing with the claim; and didnt deal with him 
fairly.
Where I refer to Highway, this includes it agents  and claims handlers.  
background
Mr D brought a previous complaint to this service  after Highway refused a claim on his legal 
expenses policy. The ombudsman who dealt with that complaint  directed  Highway  to cover 
the claim (in line with the policy terms) and to pay legal  costs that Mr D had already incurred 
together with interest, and compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused to him.
Mr D then brought this complaint to our service. He said Highway had disputed  the date from 
which his costs should be paid, caused delays and failed in its duty to treat him fairly. 
Our investigator said Highway had agreed to cover  the costs  from the right date. Although  it 
hadnt communicated this to him properly, and there had been a delay paying  compensation, 
that had been paid (together with interest) and Highway had apologised. So she thought  
Highway had now acted  fairly. 
The investigator said there had been some delays agreeing terms with Mr Ds solicitors. But 
due to the complexity of this case and the large  amounts  involved,  it was inevitable it would 
take some  time to sort things out and she didnt  think Highway had acted unfairly.
.
Mr D disagreed. In summary, he said:
Highway should  have covered his costs from the start;
the terms of business Highway  sent to his solicitors were not fit for purpose  and his 
solicitors had to prepare new terms;
if his solicitors hadnt done this, he would have been in a worse position;
the new terms were only agreed  at the last moment, just before his case  went  to 
court.
Highway said the policy terms  dont allow solicitors to impose their own terms of 
appointment. It said a lot of the points  raised by the solicitors related to the costs already 
incurred, and it agreed to pay those before the terms  were agreed.  And once those costs 
were paid, the solicitors  agreed the terms of appointment  without  many  of the amendments 
theyd suggested.  Highway also said part of the delay was due to Mr Ds concern that it 
hadnt paid his solicitors costs for bringing  his complaint, and they had made  it clear  all 
along those costs wouldnt be paid.
The investigator didnt  change her view in response to Mr Ds comments. She said any costs 
relating to making his complaint wouldnt be covered. And she wouldnt  expect  Highway to 
agree to substantial  amendments  its standard terms  these arent usually negotiable. She 
thought the actions Highway had taken were enough to resolve the outstanding issues.  
Mr D remains  unhappy and has requested an ombudsmans decision. He says:
Ref: DRN99748322he understands that terms of business arent usually negotiable,  but the terms were 
breached by Highway, creating exceptional circumstances that meant they had to be 
renegotiated;
he pursued the case independently  until Highway finally agreed to provide cover  
following the previous Ombudsmans decision  altogether there was 17 months  
delay;
because of Highways failings, the only way to proceed was for his solicitors  to 
prepare new terms of appointment.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Another ombudsman  considered the issues relating to Highways refusal  to provide cover.  I 
cant look at any of those  issues  again. Following that decision, Highway was to provide  
cover for Mr Ds claim,  in line with the policy terms. Ive considered whether there has been 
delay putting cover in place.
The policy terms say that where the policyholder chooses  their own solicitors,  they will be 
appointed to act in line with Highways standard terms  of appointment. So the starting point  
is that this is the basis on which the solicitors will act. There  is sometimes  some discussion 
between an insurer and solicitors over terms, particularly in relation to the hourly rate to be 
paid to the solicitors.  But I wouldnt expect an insurer to agree to major changes to its 
standard terms. 
Highway sent its terms of appointment to Mr Ds solicitors in April 2018. The terms were 
agreed and the solicitors  were authorised to act from 27 July. So it did take a few months to 
get things sorted out. But the solicitors  had asked for substantial changes to the terms. As 
Ive said, I wouldnt expect Highway  to agree to these. And it seems much  of the discussion 
was around costs that had already been incurred. Highway arranged for these to be paid 
before the terms were  agreed.  Once  that had been done, the solicitors  agreed to Highways 
terms of appointment  with fewer changes.
In addition, there was an issue around solicitors costs for bringing the complaint to this 
service. We hardly ever award costs in relation to this; our service is free and its very rarely 
necessary for someone to need solicitors to help bring their complaint. So I wouldnt expect 
Highway to have  paid those costs.
In the circumstances, although it took a while to agree terms, I dont think  Highway was 
acting unreasonably. 
There was some delay paying  the compensation awarded previously, but this was paid, with 
interest added,  so Mr D hasnt lost out as a result of this. And Highway apologised for any 
issues with miscommunication.
I appreciate that this whole matter has been  going on for a long time and Im sure it was 
frustrating for Mr D. But I cant  consider  any of the earlier issues, which were dealt with in his 
previous complaint. In relation to the issues I have considered, Ive explained why, although 
it took some  time to get cover in place and pay the costs, Highway didnt cause unnecessary 
delay.
Ref: DRN99748323my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9974832