K821x#15Complaint
Mr V complains that Close Brothers  Limited  didnt  provide the service it should  have when  
his wife (an authorised person on his account) tried to make  a settlement payment. He says 
this caused him stress and inconvenience.
Background
Mr V entered into a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers  in 2017. He says that he 
decided to make an early settlement payment on the account  on 30 November 2018 and his 
wife (who was authorised  on the account) contacted Close  Brothers prior to this to ask about  
the process for making the payment. 
Mr V says that his wife contacted their bank to advise of a larger payment being made and a 
pre-approval was set up. But when Mrs V contacted Close  Brothers on 30 November to 
make the payment she was told she couldnt  do this as she was a third party. Mr V says he 
then contacted Close Brothers  to say Mrs V was authorised on the account  and the payment 
was coming from their joint account. He says he explained he wasnt registered  for 
telephone banking with his bank  and would need  to spend time setting this up and then go 
back to his bank  to get the payment pre-approved and asked for the matter to be escalated. 
He says his wife was called  back and told she couldnt make  the payment and Mr V would 
need to do this. 
Mr V says the payment needed to be made  that day as he had cancelled  his direct debit and 
he didnt want his credit  file affected. Because of this he says he spent around two hours 
setting up telephone banking and arranging the payment. 
Mr V raised his complaint and received a final response letter apologising that his wife had 
been told she couldnt make the payment but then saying his complaint hadnt been upheld.  
He says he challenged this and was told that there  was a mistake in the letter and his 
complaint had been upheld.
Close Brothers says that Mrs V was authorised on the account  to make the settlement 
payment and apologised for the incorrect information she was given. Its final response letter 
said the complaint  hadnt been upheld but it says this was a mistake  and the complaint  was 
upheld and feedback given. 
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He said that Close  Brothers had provided inaccurate 
information to Mrs V which meant that Mr V was caused unnecessary  distress  and 
inconvenience. .Because of this he recommended that Close Brothers issue a letter of 
apology and pay Mr V compensation of £100.
Close Brothers didnt  accept our investigators  view. It didnt accept that compensation of 
£100 was proportionate.  It said that it couldnt  be held responsible  for Mr V needing to 
register with his bank  and also said this process can be very straight forward. It said it tried 
to make contact about other methods of payment but Mr V didnt  answer. It initially offered to 
pay £10 to cover the cost of the calls made. After discussion with our investigator it agreed  
to offer £50 compensation. Mr V didnt accept the offer.
Ref: DRN90509262My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about the service  received when Mr V wanted  to make a payment to settle 
his conditional  sale agreement early. The agreement was settled early and the outstanding 
issue is what, if any, compensation Mr V should be paid for the inconvenience  the service  he 
received caused  him. As Mr V is the complainant  in this case  I can only consider the distress 
and inconvenience  he has been  caused. 
In this case, Mr V has explained that his wife manages his account and was set up as an 
authorised person on the account. Given this I find it reasonable that when he made  the 
decision to settle  the agreement early,  his wife took the required actions to make this 
happen. This included calling Close Brothers  a couple days before they intended to make 
the payment.  At this time no issues were raised  regarding Mrs V making the payment. She 
then took the required  actions with her bank for the payment to be pre-approved.
Close Brothers has said in its final response  letter that Mrs V should  have been allowed to 
make the payment however  this wasnt the information she was given on 30 November 
when she tried to make  the payment. Because Mrs V was told she couldnt make the 
payment, Mr V then had to take action to make the payment. I note Close Brothers 
comments that it wasnt its fault that Mr V needed to register with his bank but given he had 
set up his account to be managed by his wife I think it reasonable to accept this was an extra 
action that he had to take because of the advice given to his wife on 30 November.  I also 
understand why the payment needed to be made on the day due to him having cancelled his 
direct debit. This was Mr Vs choice but given the set up he had on his account and the 
actions that had already been taken  for the payment to be made  I accept that Mr V thought  
there would be no issue  with the settlement payment  being  made  on that day.
Mr V had to act on that day to get the payment pre-approved (actions that his wife had 
already put in place) and I accept  this did cause him undue stress and inconvenience. 
Because of this I think compensation  is required. I accept that the payment was made  and 
there was no financial  loss aside from the possible cost of telephone  calls. However, I think  
the recommendation of £100  is reasonable given  the stress and inconvenience caused  to 
Mr V in regard to the payment  and the overall  service he received  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Close  Brothers Limited should:
issue a letter of apology to Mr V for the issues he experienced;
pay Mr V £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this has caused 
him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9050926