K820x#14Complaint
Mrs P is unhappy that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) declined a claim under her equine  
insurance policy for the death of her horse.  
Background
In July 2017 Allianz accepted a claim for suspensory ligament branch disease  in the horses  
right hind leg. Allianz paid for treatment for this condition from 1 June 2017 for 12 months.  
The following  year,  Allianz applied an exclusion to the policy  for tendon  and ligament 
disorders, both hind limbs.  
It seemed the horse initially responded well to treatment but in November  2018  was seen by 
the vet again.  Her condition continued to deteriorate until sadly,  she was put to sleep  on           
7 January 2019.
Allianz referred to its policy terms and conditions which say it wont pay if the first signs  of 
the injury which  ultimately led to the death were present more than 12 months before the 
horse died.  It also explained there were several  exclusions  on the policy,  and the cause of 
death was related to one of these,  so the claim wasnt covered. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and said Allianz acted fairly when declining  the 
claim because  it did so based on evidence provided  by the vet and it was in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mrs P disagreed so the complaint has been  referred to me for a final decision. In summary,  
she says the horse was put to sleep  in line with British Equine  Veterinary Association 
(BEVA) guidelines.  She also said based on guidance from our services website, the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Mrs P has referred  to veterinary  research  which shows the 
horses condition  was hereditary and degenerative. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy includes  death cover  so in certain circumstances Allianz would pay the sum 
insured for the death of the horse. But as with most insurance policies, exclusions and 
conditions apply. 
Mrs Ps policy schedule  lists all excluded conditions.  One of the exclusions applied is as 
follows:
Excluding claims resulting from or connected  to Tendon & Ligament Disorders,  both 
hindlimbs.
So, the policy covered death, but it excluded all claims  relating to the above exclusion. 
Allianz is entitled to decide what it will and wont cover and this exclusion was made clear at 
the renewal of the policy in 2018 and Mrs P agreed to have cover on that basis. 
The policy also says Allianz  wont pay:
Ref: DRN92540192Any amount  if the Injury or Illness which caused the death of your horse  happened, 
or first showed clinical signs  more  than 12 months before the date of your horses 
death.
The evidence Ive seen  shows Mrs P first claimed for the problems the horse  experienced 
with her suspensory ligaments in July 2017. The treating vet has provided clarification as to 
why the horse had to be put to sleep:
With no viable treatment  option remaining for progressive suspensory ligament 
degeneration, a decision  was made to euthanise the mare on humane grounds.
As this is the same the condition  claimed  for in July 2017, Im satisfied the evidence  shows  
that the condition that led to the death  of the horse  had been ongoing for over a year. For 
these reasons, I think Allianz fairly  declined the claim in line with the policy  terms and 
conditions.
I understand how strongly Mrs P feels about the situation. She says because the horse was 
put to sleep in line with BEVA guidelines, in her view, that means  the claim should be paid. 
However, while I acknowledge that one of the conditions of the claim being  accepted  was 
that the BEVA guidelines were adhered to, this isnt of itself enough on this case. There are 
certain conditions  on this specific policy that need to be met and exclusions which applied. 
When all of this was considered, Allianz decided to decline the claim. And, having looked at 
everything, Im satisfied  that it hasnt treated Mrs P unfairly in declining the claim, in the 
circumstances of the case.  Ultimately, an exclusion was clearly applied  when the policy was 
taken out in 2018 which was made  clear  on the certificate of insurance. As such  the claim 
submitted for suspensory ligament degeneration was declined.  
Mrs P has provided additional  information  relating to research and advice shes sought  from 
a vet in the USA and some professors. The information Mrs P has provided  is a copy  of 
communication between  the vet and her. It appears  to be more  general in nature  rather than 
about the specifics of Allianz her horse and what happened.  Ive considered this information 
and while  I appreciate the time Mrs P has taken to provide this and accept the horses 
condition was degenerative, theres no conclusive evidence in the information shes 
provided. She says the condition in 2017 and 2019 are unrelated  and refers to the 
conversation between her and the vet in the USA. Its difficult  for me to place weight on this 
additional information over the vet who treated the horse and had to make the decision to 
put her to sleep. The complaint Im looking at is about the claim being declined.  Allianz has 
said it declined the claim because an exclusion applied and thats the crux of the matter. 
Overall, there was an exclusion applied to the policy when it was taken out in 2018.  The 
evidence on file shows the horse  was put to sleep because of suspensory  ligament 
degeneration. Im not persuaded therefore  that Allianz did anything  wrong  in declining  the 
claim or that it treated Mrs P unfairly  or unreasonably. And on that basis, I dont think  Allianz  
needs to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Ref: DRN92540193Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9254019