K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Society of Lloyds  (Lloyds) wont meet in full a claim he made for water  
damage on his home insurance.
 
background
Mr G bought his home in May 2018. In late June, whilst having some  work done on the 
house, he discovered a water leak in his utility room  had caused significant damage to the 
floor and joists. 
Mr G contacted Lloyds  which  said it would consider his claim. It sent a loss adjuster 
(someone who assesses  damages and the cost of repairs)  out to look at the damage. The 
loss adjuster thought the damage had been caused  over a long period of time,  and that 
Lloyds need not meet the claim,  as it was in existence before Mr G took out his policy.
Mr G complained, saying hed had a survey  done on the property just before he moved in 
and there  had been no signs of rot  so this must have occurred after his policy started.
Lloyds sent a second surveyor who looked  in more depth at the damage. He also said he 
though it had been building up over about  a couple of years   but that it might  have got 
worse since Mr G bought his policy. Lloyds offered to pay a proportion  of the estimated 
costs of repair.
Mr G didnt think that was fair and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought Lloyds had acted  reasonably and need not do more than it had.
Mr G remains  unhappy about this so Ive been  asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
For Mr G to make a claim on an insurance policy he has to have whats often called an 
insured interest.  That means, in effect, that he needs to own the property hes insuring.  Mr 
G only bought  his house in May 2018   so he cant have an insured interest before then.  Any 
insurance held by the previous owner isnt available for Mr Gs benefit. So any damage that 
might have developed before he bought his house isnt covered.
Its common practise for insurers to appoint  surveyors or loss adjusters to look at damage 
claimed for. And its not unreasonable for Lloyds to rely on what  these experts say when 
deciding if it should  meet a claim.
Lloyds sent two surveyors to look at Mr G property. Both said the damage existed before Mr 
G bought the house. 
Mr G says that cant be right as he had a survey done before he bought the house and it 
didnt report any such damage. So it must have developed after this.
Ref: DRN90179302Ive looked at the reports. 
Mr Gs home  survey  wasnt comprehensive  in that it only reported on what  the surveyor 
could see at the time. No floorboards or floor coverings were lifted. The only relevant 
comment appears to be about no damp being  noted  when  moisture readings were  taken   
but theres no description of where  that was.
In contract  the second report commissioned by Lloyds gives a comprehensive set of 
reasons why the damage existed before Mr G bought the house.  And it was done after the 
floor had been opened up and with the benefit of cameras. It describes not only the sort of 
rot that has developed in the wet conditions and the time this takes  to develop, but also 
notes that there is damage caused by wood boring beetles who take advantage of wet or 
damp wood  to complete their life cycles. Those  life cycles  end with the beetles emerging 
from small holes  in the wood to start the cycle again  and each life cycle  normally  takes 
many months if not years. The surveyor also noted that the subfloor had standing water in it 
and wasnt adequately ventilated and the pipework was poorly installed. Finally he noted that 
much of the damage  was underneath the site of a shower cubicle that had been  removed 
and a washing machine sited in the same place.  That took place  some  time before Mr G 
owned the property. 
Overall Im more persuaded by the report commissioned by Lloyds  than I am by Mr Gs.
Lloyds has assessed  the damage  as building up over at least two years.  And its accepted  
that some  of the damage will have progressed since Mr G bought  the house. Its paid Mr G a 
proportion of his estimated  repair  bill based on these two facts. That seems reasonable to 
me, and I wouldnt expect it to do more..
Mr G did suggest the surveyor might not be entirely independent as he was commissioned 
by Lloyds. I havent seen anything that would lead me to think the surveyor  didnt assess the 
damage impartially.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 September  2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9017930