K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the compensation Aviva Insurance  Limited (Aviva) has offered to 
settle her complaint that she was mis-sold payment protection  insurance  (PPI) with her 
catalogue accounts.
background
Mrs B complained to Aviva that she had been  mis-sold PPI with several catalogue accounts. 
Initially Aviva  said it could  find no evidence  of PPI on her accounts.  Mrs B provided  her 
previous addresses  and Aviva said it had a found  a PPI policy on one of the catalogues 
accounts she had had. It agreed  to uphold her complaint that the PPI was mis-sold and 
offered £3.64  in compensation.
Mrs B wasnt  happy with the offer and said she thought it should be substantially more as in 
the past she had bought some expensive goods  on her accounts.  So, she brought her 
complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator said they thought what Aviva had offered  was fair. Mrs B didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B says she had several  catalogue accounts  in the 1980s  and 1990s which  were  used 
regularly. When she complained about being mis-sold PPI on these accounts Aviva  
eventually confirmed she did have  PPI on one catalogue account ending 4580  and offered 
£3.64 to settle  her complaint. But Aviva  said it could not trace  any PPI on other  accounts  for 
Mrs B.
Aviva has provided us with information about  its searches  for Mrs Bs accounts  and these  
show that nothing  has been found  showing any other accounts with PPI. This search 
information has been shared with Mrs B.
I know Mrs B believes she had PPI on other  catalogue accounts, but she cannot provide any 
actual evidence showing this. Therefore,  with no evidence there was PPI on any catalogue  
account, other than the one ending 4580, we cannot consider further complaints about other 
accounts and PPI.
Turning to account ending 4580, Aviva has upheld that the PPI on this account was mid-sold  
and has offered compensation. But Mrs B is very unhappy with the amount of compensation. 
When PPI is mis-sold we expect a business to repay all the costs of the PPI that were  paid 
by the consumer and also pay some compensatory interest for any time a consumer  was out 
of pocket. This is to put the consumer back as far as possible in the position they would have 
been in if the PPI had never  been  sold. 
In this case Aviva say Mrs B only paid one premium of £1.63 for the PPI in 1999. It is paying 
back this premium and also compensatory interest  of £2.51, less tax, making the 
compensation it has sent to Mrs B £3.64.
Ref: DRN92742352Aviva has provided some  computer information  about the account and also the records of 
the statements  from January 1992 to December 1999. These  records show  that this account  
opened in October  1990, but there is no indication that PPI was taken out at that time. 
The full statement records are available from January  1992  and these show  all the 
transactions on the account each month and the opening and closing balances. No PPI is 
shown charged  at all when the records start in 1992.  And looking through  them  to 1999 there 
are no charges on the account for PPI until September 1999.
In that one month a charge is added to the account for the PPI. Then in October 1999 no 
PPI charge is shown,  and nothing then appears  after that showing PPI charges were  added 
to the account.  
It isnt known whey the PPI was only added  for that one month. It is possible Mrs B had a 
conversation with the catalogue company and the PPI was added. Then  when she saw the 
charge on her statement as the end of the month, she contacted the business and cancelled 
it. But there is no certainty about  why the PPI was added and then cancelled. However, what 
is certain is that Mrs B did pay the PPI in that one month, September  1999.  And that 
premium is what  Aviva  has offered  to refund, plus some compensatory interest. 
There is no evidence to show  PPI was paid for more than that one month in September 
1999. So, the compensation Aviva has paid for that PPI charge, plus compensatory  interest,  
is fair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out I think the compensation that Aviva Insurance Limited has 
paid to Mrs B for the mis-sold PPI is fair and Im not upholding the complaint that any further 
compensation is due. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9274235