K820x#14Complaint
Mr B, who is represented by a Claims Management  Company (CMC),  complains that 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  rejected his claim under S 75 Consumer Credit Act 
1974 in respect  of a timeshare.
Background
In March 2011 Mr B and his wife bought timeshare points from a company I will call C at a 
cost of £17,034 funded  in part by a fixed term loan from Clydesdale  to Mr B. The interest 
rate was 17.6% and the loan was settled on 13 May 2011. They made the purchase while 
they were on holiday  and the CMC  says Mr B and his wife were misled  about a number of 
aspects of the scheme. It also says they were  subjected to high pressure selling. As the loan 
was made  to Mr B sole I will refer to him as the owner throughout this decision.
The CMC made a claim in March  2018  which was rejected  by Clydesdale and the matter 
was brought to this service. It was considered  by one of our investigators who concluded  Mr 
B was in time to complain  to this service, but his claim against  the bank had been  made  out 
of time.
The CMC didnt agree and said there was no statutory time limit for raising a claim under  the 
Consumer Credit Act. It also said that Mr B didnt become aware of his right to complaint 
until after he had repaid the loan.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Can we consider the complaint under DISP 2.8.2(2)?
The bank has disputed  that Mr B has the right to make a complaint to this service,  but I 
disagree.
. 
Our rules say that we cant consider a complaint if a consumer refers  it to us more  than:
(a)six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint
unless:
the failure to comply  with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
When assessing and declining a claim under the Consumer Credit  Act, a business is 
exercising its rights  and duties under a regulated credit agreement. A consumer may then 
complain if they feel that a business  has failed to fulfil its obligations  under this credit 
agreement, because they havent received satisfactory compensation for their claim.
So in this case, it follows that the event  complained  of is Clydesdales  decision on 20 April 
2018 to decline  the claim Mr B made  regarding the timeshare, rather than the sale itself. He 
Ref: DRN96916102then complained in August 2018, which is well within the six-year time limit specified  in the 
rules.
Because of this, I think we can look at this complaint, as it has been brought  within the time 
limits set under DISP  2.8.2(2). So, I will now go on to consider Mr Bs complaint, which  is 
that Clydesdale would  not look into his claim under the Limitation Act. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, Im 
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory  rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice.
Under s.75, Clydesdale is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of the goods or 
services for any breach  of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier.  This means,  Mr B 
has a like claim against Clydesdale  just as he would have against the supplier. So, if his 
claim against the supplier  of the timeshare has likely expired  under the Limitation Act, 
then that is something Clydesdale could take into account when it considers claims 
against it.
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits which apply to different types of claims. Mr B has 
said the timeshare  he and his wife bought was misrepresented to them.
Under the Limitation Act, Mr B had six years  from the date upon  which  he suffered a loss as 
a result of the misrepresentation to bring his claim.  
As Clydesdale  steps into the shoes  of the supplier for the purposes of the s.75 claim,  to 
work out when the clock starts running  under the Limitation Act, we need to work out 
when it would start if the claim  had been  brought directly against the supplier.
Misrepresentation claims can be made once the person  bringing  the claim has experienced 
damage and or loss as a result  of the misrepresentation.  In this case, given the nature of the 
complaint, I think damage occurred when  Mr B suffered a financial loss as a result of 
purchasing the timeshare. Ill explain why below.
 
The CMC says that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation, Mr B paid to enter an 
agreement which has caused  him to suffer a loss. It says that but for the misrepresentation, 
Mr B wouldnt have  entered into the contract at all and wouldnt have paid any money  to the 
supplier.
So, I think the point of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, which 
was in March  2011. Thats the moment when  Mr B accepted any potential benefit under 
the contract, and it was also the moment he accepted the cost under the contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, he 
needed to raise his claim no later than March 2017. As I understand it, he raised his claim in 
April 2018, which is nearly seven years after the loss occurred.
He may say that he wasnt  aware  he could raise  concerns about the misrepresentation until 
much later. But the time limits set out for misrepresentation claims such  as this, start to run 
from the date of loss, which may fall earlier than the date Mr B became aware that 
something might have gone  wrong.   
Ref: DRN96916103Ive also considered section 140A (s.140A) of the Consumer Credit Act when looking into 
this complaint. Under s.140A,  the courts may make an order  under section 140B in 
connection with a credit agreement  if it determines  that the relationship between the creditor 
and debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor due to a number of factors. 
Only a court has the power  to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is 
unfair, but it is relevant law we need  to take into consideration. 
The Limitation Act still applies for these types  of claims. For a s.140A claim, you would have 
six years  from the date the related  finance agreement ended. From the information I have, 
the finance agreement ended in May 2011  so a s.140A  claim needed to be raised no later 
than May 2017.  As I understand it, Mr B raised  his claim in April 2018,  which  is nearly seven 
years after the finance agreement ended.
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide  whether or not any claim you may have  against  
the supplier or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act.
However, given the above, it seems to me that this misrepresentation claim against  the 
supplier and the like claim  against Clydesdale more than likely exceeded the relevant time 
limits set out in the Limitation Act. So, it would not be unreasonable for Clydesdale to take 
this into account  when considering this s.75 claim  against it. 
I would add that having reviewed the typical commission  rates, this service  does not 
believe they are of such an amount that they could give rise to an unfair  relationship. We 
also disagree that there was a fiduciary  relationship  between  the parties which may also 
give rise to a need to disclose. 
So, given that this claim now is more than likely time barred under the Limitation Act, I 
think Clydesdales decision not to look into the claim was fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2021.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9691610