K820x#14Complaint
Miss F says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy in 1998,  with a new credit card.
Background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Miss F 
disagrees so the complaint has been passed  to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Miss F is represented by a third-party company and Im afraid  I find some of the information  
put forward on her behalf to be somewhat  inconsistent. I can see, for example, weve asked 
for clarification and evidence in relation  to her employment and medical  history  which  hasnt 
been provided. Nevertheless,  Ive looked  very carefully at everything weve  been  sent on 
her behalf  and Ive thought about  the statements made about her circumstances at around 
the time of the sale. I have also used my experience of these  types of sale to assess  what  I 
think is more likely  to have happened.
There doesnt seem to be any real dispute that Miss F probably  agreed to buy the PPI at 
the time of the credit card application, although  its also been said that not enough 
information was provided to her during the sale process. 
Knowing what I do about these types of sale and the business involved, I think Miss F 
would have been presented with a choice on the application form about  either  having,  or 
not having, PPI with her new credit card. She would therefore have been able to see that 
PPI was an optional  product  and not something  she was required  to buy if she didnt want 
to. On the form, Miss F would have needed  to tick something for the PPI to be added  and 
she would  have later seen the charges then starting to appear  on her monthly credit card 
statements. This looks also to have been a postal sale,  so Miss F would  have been  able to 
complete the application in her own time and without any intervention from Nationwide. 
Given all these things, I think its more likely that Miss F agreed to the PPI option  when she 
was applying for the card. I think  if she hadnt  agreed, she would have wanted  to know why 
PPI charges were starting to appear on her statements. I therefore think Nationwide most 
probably obtained Miss F consent to add PPI to the card, as described above. 
As this was a postal  application and not an advised sale,  Nationwide  didnt need to make 
sure the policy  was suitable for her. The decision about buying the cover and whether it was 
suitable was for Miss F herself to make. Again, my experience of these types of sale is that 
the application was part of a wider, leaflet-based form, which would have also included  some 
brief details about the PPI policy rules and the cost. So, I think  Miss F would have had 
enough information on which to make an informed  decision at that point. 
Ref: DRN97555562Its obviously possible that Nationwide  might have better explained things or been clearer  
than it actually was, but I dont  think  theres enough evidence to say this would have really 
changed what Miss F went on to do. I think she would have still bought  the policy.
This is because I think Miss F specifically chose the PPI policy  on the form because  it was 
something she wanted to have. She was also eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the main exclusions  we tend to see in these types of policy. Looking  at the work she did, I 
agree she might have  had some,  albeit moderate,  sickness protection  in place with her job. 
But I think she is unlikely to have  had the amount of protection claimed on her behalf. I also 
note the company representing her says Miss F had what appears to have been very 
substantial savings in place. But again,  Ive been provided with no evidence  of this so Im 
afraid nothing Ive seen demonstrates the PPI cover wasnt of some  value to her at that time. 
The policy would have paid out 10% of her outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if 
shed needed  to claim and the costs seem affordable for her, at around 60p per £100  of 
outstanding balance. Overall, I think this policy was of use.
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss F. I appreciate  this was all a long time ago, but Ive seen 
very little evidence to support the allegation that this PPI was mis-sold to her. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
the cost of the PPI to Miss F.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss F to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9755556