K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about the way Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited 
handled a potential transfer  of pension benefits  he held in a former  employers defined 
benefit scheme.
background
Mr W was a member  of a defined benefit  occupational pension scheme (OPS) until he left 
that employment in 1995. 
Mr W was interested in transferring his benefits and obtained a letter, dated 24 January 
2018, from the pension scheme administrators which included a Cash  Equivalent Transfer 
Value (CETV).  The CETV  was valid to 24 April 2018.
A meeting was arranged between Mr W and Hargreaves  Lansdown  which took place on 26 
February 2018. A number of documents were  signed by Mr W including a Defined Benefit 
Pension Transfer Service Adviser Charge Agreement.
Mr W confirmed  that he wanted  Hargreaves Lansdown to see if the transfer was viable and 
that included advising on an initial  investment portfolio. 
The charging agreement  said that the transfer analysis charge would be £1,250 plus VAT 
and that the pension transfer advice was based on a sliding scale  depending  on the fund 
value. Hargreaves Lansdown  gave an example of a pension fund of approximately £300,000 
which would have an additional charge of approximately £5,000.
A follow up meeting  took place on 6 April 2018 when further information was obtained.  
Hargreaves Lansdown then produced  a report dated  13 April 2018. This report advised 
against the transfer. It said that a transfer out of the OPS was not suitable  for Mr W.
Mr W was unhappy about this decision and he contacted other SIPP  providers to see who 
would accept the CETV from his OPS. He felt that Hargreaves Lansdown should have done 
more to help identify SIPP providers who would accept the transfer despite a negative  
recommendation.
Mr W complained  but Hargreaves Lansdown  rejected his complaint and he referred the 
matter to this service. 
An adjudicator looked into the complaint  and felt it should not be upheld. He noted  that:
Hargreaves Lansdown had said that: Whilst we anticipate  most clients will agree 
with our recommendations,  we appreciate you may still wish to transfer to an 
alternative receiving scheme. If you decide  to transfer against our advice, you will 
need to conduct your own research into the options available  to you. If you are able 
to find a provider  that will accept  your transfer,  HLAS will only provide  an Advice 
Declaration after the invoiced Pension Transfer Analysis and Adviser  charges  have  
been paid.
Hargreaves Lansdown had provided the Advice  Declaration on 13 April 2018 even 
though the fee had not been settled.
Telephone calls between Mr W and Hargreaves Lansdown  on 16 April 2018 
highlighted that Hargreaves  Lansdown  couldnt sign any new SIPP provider forms 
Ref: DRN90167652and couldnt advise Mr W which SIPP provider he should use once  Hargreaves  
Lansdowns report had recommended not to proceed with a transfer.
On page 18 of the financial  report prepared  by Hargreaves Lansdown,  the fee was 
clearly documented.  
Under section 1 of the leaflet Final Salary Pension Transfers  - What  you need to 
know and section 2 of the transfer  advice  it was stated that fees would be payable  
irrespective of whether  the advice was to transfer  or not.
Hargreaves Lansdown was not obliged to find another  SIPP  provider if the advice 
was not to proceed with a transfer.
  
Mr W referred to the discussion he had on 6 April 2018 and pointed out that the adviser had 
said that the transfer could still go ahead if there was negative advice, you just need to 
identify an alternative  provider.
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change his mind, so the complaint was referred  to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and I dont uphold  this complaint.
The crux of this complaint seems to be that Mr W believes Hargreaves Lansdown could and 
should have done more  to assist with the OPS transfer once it had advised  against it. Whilst 
I can understand Mr Ws frustration, I dont agree.
Im satisfied that Hargreaves Lansdown  made it reasonably clear from the outset that its 
charges were payable  whether it advised in favour  of, or against the transfer. It was also set 
out in clear terms that Mr W would need  to conduct his own research to find a provider that 
would accept the transfer if Hargreaves  Lansdown advised against  it.
Mr W has pointed  to the meeting he had on 6 April 2018, but I dont think  the comments hes 
identified should  have changed  his expectation.  The adviser restated that it would  be for 
you (Mr W) to identify an alternative provider if there was negative  advice.
Hargreaves Lansdown did provide Mr W with a declaration confirming that it had provided 
independent advice. It seems that it did so despite its fees being  unpaid.
Given the agreement  Mr W had entered  into with Hargreaves Lansdown, which  expressly 
said that it would not find alternative  SIPP providers for him if it gave negative  advice, I dont  
think I can say that it should  have done  more. I dont think  it would be fair or reasonable to 
uphold this complaint.
my decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Ref: DRN90167653Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9016765