K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) has applied  arrears charges to 
their mortgage account unfairly.
background
Our adjudicator found that BOI was permitted  generally to apply fees and charges to cover 
the extra costs  of administering mortgages  that are in arrears. But in accordance with our 
general approach  to the application  of arrears fees and charges, he asked BOI to refund to 
Mr and Mrs K several charges that he thought hadnt been  applied  fairly. BOI asked an 
ombudsman to decide the complaint.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The starting point is that lenders generally 
are permitted under the mortgage  terms to apply fees and charges to cover the additional  
cost of administering a mortgage account that is in arrears. Such charges are typically set 
out in a separate tariff of charges. 
But lenders  also have a duty to treat customers fairly, and even where  fees have been 
applied in accordance with the account terms and the tariff of charges, well still give 
separate consideration to whether theyve been applied fairly.  One situation  where  we 
generally find that arrears  fees or charges  havent been applied  fairly is if more than one 
charge has been  levied in the same  month. 
Another is if a charge  is levied in a month where the customer has paid either the contractual 
payment or a different  amount agreed as part of a payment arrangement. In Mr and Mrs Ks 
case, the adjudicator identified a number of occasions where charges had been applied  in 
months where the consumers had made a payment that was short of the required amount, 
but the shortfall was less that the amount of the fee. He considered  that unfair. These  were:
June 2013 (£25),  
August 2013 (£25), 
January 2014  (£25), 
February 2014 (£25), 
August 2014 (£25), 
September 2014 (£25), 
January 2016  (£25), 
March 2016 (£25),  
May 2016 (£25), 
January 2017  (£25).
In asking for the complaint to be reviewed, BOI hasnt disputed  the specific charges the 
adjudicator identified. It just doesnt  agree with our approach on the fair application of fees 
and charges. That may be so, but it is our approach, and BOI has known this for some  time. 
In my view, its unhelpful  and fundamentally unfair   to apply a charge that exceeds the 
amount by which the payment received that month  has fallen short  of the amount due.
Ref: DRN93097602my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct Bank of 
Ireland (UK) Plc to refund, backdated  for interest purposes,  the fees listed above
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9309760