K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold  them  a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage in 1992 and alongside that a monthly  premium  PPI policy.  
The PPI policy covered Mr D only for accident, sickness and unemployment. It cost 
£27.50 per month for £550 per month of mortgage repayments cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed, so their complaint was 
passed to me. In the main  they said that they were led to believe taking PPI would help with 
their mortgage application.  They said they didnt want  or need PPI and their parents 
wouldve helped out if needs be. They  said they were also concerned  that Bank of Scotland  
had not investigated their complaint properly,  given it had initially said it couldnt find a record  
of them  having  PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our general approach to complaints 
about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.  
Where the evidence is incomplete  (as some  of it is here), I have to base my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  on what I consider is most likely,  given  the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen some paperwork from the time of sale. Ive seen Mr and Mrs Ds PPI certificate and 
their PPI application. The PPI application form isnt clearly legible in parts. But, I can see that 
to apply for PPI a separate  application  form wouldve  had to be completed.  The  application 
form made it clear that PPI was an optional and separate product. The paperwork says that 
the customers will then be sent a certificate of insurance. Mr and Mrs D were. So, I think  it 
likely that Mr and Mrs D were persuaded to take out the cover,  being  aware  that this was an 
optional product.
I cant know what was discussed at the time with Bank of Scotland. But, I dont feel I have 
enough, based on what Ive seen, to fairly  conclude that Mr and Mrs D were misled  by Bank 
of Scotland into believing they had to take the PPI to get the mortgage.  This is a very 
subjective area. I think it equally likely they were  told it was optional and decided to take it. 
So, I cant fairly uphold  their complaint on this ground.
Bank of Scotland has proceeded on the basis  that it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D. 
To be fair to Mr and Mrs D I have  too. By doing  so, Bank  of Scotland had the additional 
responsibility of considering whether  the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs D. Overall, I 
think it likely  the PPI was suitable, based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. In reaching this decision, I have taken  into consideration Mrs Ds circumstances too, as 
this was a joint mortgage.  I think the policy was likely to be suitable because:
Ref: DRN92404962Mr D appeared eligible to take out the policy.  Mrs D was working  too, but I havent 
seen anything to suggest that it was inappropriate to take out the cover in Mr Ds 
name only. 
Mr D said he wouldve  got six months worth of statutory sick pay through  work. 
Mrs D said she had the same cover. They said their parents couldve helped them 
out from savings. But, I still think the policy couldve been useful to them to help 
protect their home. It wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ds sick pay, for up to 24 months 
per successful accident or sickness claim.  So, this was more cover than Mr D had 
through work. It wouldve  also paid out if he was made involuntarily  unemployed. Mrs 
Ds income couldve been used to help meet other  household expenses.  And whilst I 
accept that their parents wouldve wanted  to help, help of this kind cant always  be 
guaranteed when the time comes, so I havent  placed much reliance on this. 
The policy appeared affordable. The monthly premium couldve been  cancelled at 
any time, without them losing out financially.
I cant see that Mr D was affected by any of the main limitations or policy exclusions. 
So, I think it likely that he couldve benefitted  from everything the policy offered.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr and Mrs D all the information they needed 
before they decided  to buy PPI. But, as Ive said above, it appears  to have been affordable 
and suitable for the reasons set out. I also dont know when Bank of Scotland  first pointed  
out the main things  the policy didnt cover. But, as Mr D wasnt affected  by any of the main 
limitations or exclusions in the policy, I dont think having better information about these 
things wouldve changed their decision to buy PPI.
I cant see that Mr and Mrs D have lost out as a result of anything  that Bank of Scotland 
couldve done better. So, it follows that I dont think this policy  was mis-sold.
When Mr and Mrs D complained to Bank  of Scotland, it sent the bank  paperwork,  which  
shouldve helped show they had PPI. But, Bank of Scotland  didnt appear to pick this up. 
Bank of Scotland has offered Mr and Mrs D £50 as a gesture of goodwill for any 
inconvenience caused by its handling of their complaint. I think Bank of Scotlands offer is 
fair in the circumstances. So, I leave Mr and Mrs D to decide whether they want to accept it.
Ref: DRN92404963my final decision
My decision  is I dont  think PPI was mis-sold, so I dont uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint 
about this.
Bank of Scotland has offered to pay Mr and Mrs D £50 for the trouble and upset it has 
caused them  in the handling  of their PPI mis-sale complaint. I think  this is fair. So, Bank  of 
Scotland should now pay Mr and Mrs D this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9240496