K822xcomplaint
Miss W is unhappy  Autonet  Insurance Services Limited cancelled  her insurance policy. 
Shes also unhappy it didnt initially respond  to a subject access  request she made.  
background 
Miss W had motor insurance arranged through Autonet (trading as Only Young Drivers). In 
December 2017  she had an accident  and made  a claim  to her insurer.  As part of its 
investigation of that claim  the insurer found  Miss W had previous convictions which it said 
hadnt previously  been disclosed.  However,  it noted  Miss W was challenging one of the 
convictions in court and said it wasnt able to make  a decision on whether to void the policy 
until the outcome  of that process was known. 
Miss W got in touch with Autonet in January 2018 and said the claim hadnt been  settled  and 
she no longer wanted  to pay for the policy. Autonet said if Miss W wanted to keep the policy 
active she would need to keep paying  for it. 
In February Autonet wrote to Miss W and said her direct debit for the policy had been 
returned unpaid  and requested payment. As this wasnt  received it issued a notice of 
cancellation the following month  and the policy was then cancelled at the start of April. 
Autonet then sought to recover the outstanding  amount  owing on the policy  from Miss W. 
Subsequently she asked  for information Autonet held about her. Initially  it said Miss W 
needed to complete a form for this but then said this was no longer required (due to a 
change in the law). It accepted the request hadnt  been dealt with in a timely way and agreed 
to pay Miss W £25 in recognition of this. 
Our investigator noted Miss W hadnt  paid the premiums for her policy  when they were due. 
So she didnt think Autonet hadnt done  anything wrong in cancelling it. And she thought  it 
was entitled to ask for payment of the outstanding  premium because  there  was an ongoing 
claim which the insurer was considering.  But she accepted  confusing  information had been 
provided by Autonet about  the reasons why the policy was cancelled  and recommended it 
pay Miss W £100 in recognition of this. 
Autonet agreed  though  said it would  offset  this amount against what Miss W owed for the 
policy. Miss W didnt  agree. She raised  concerns about what  Autonet had done  when she 
first took out the policy and said it had her details incorrectly recorded until the start of 
February. And she said that when she contacted the insurer  it told her she didnt need to 
continue to make payments because they were  voiding  the policy.  Miss W says she sought  
clarification from Autonet about this but didnt get a reply. So I need to reach a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that this has been  a really difficult situation for Miss W and Im aware shes  had a 
number of other complaints against  her insurer and Autonet  about  separate (though  related 
issues). But weve looked into those matters as part of our investigation of other complaints. 
And the issues I need to focus  on in this case are the cancellation of her policy  by Autonet 
and its response to her subject access request.  
Ref: DRN92785502Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Miss Ws policy.  This says that the insurer or 
broker can cancel the policy  by giving seven days written notice to the policyholders last 
known address if there is a good  reason for doing so. Examples of when this might be done 
include you not paying  a premium when it is due.  And the policy says that if a claim has 
been made in the current period of insurance,  we will not refund any part of your premium. 
I understand Miss W had concerns about  the contact details Autonet had recorded  for her 
(which weve  considered as part of a separate complaint). But I understand these issues  
were resolved by February. And the letters Autonet sent about the cancellation  do appear to 
have been correctly addressed. It also looks like it gave her the notice required by her policy  
of this. It told her in February  that a payment  on the policy had been  missed and it would be 
cancelled if she didnt  pay the outstanding amount  in 7 days. In fact the policy wasnt  
cancelled until early  April after a further cancellation notice had been issued. And as Miss W 
had made  a claim on the policy  then I think the business has acted  in line with the policy 
terms in not refunding any premiums shed made. 
Miss W queried  why she should have  to pay the outstanding  balance  on a policy  the insurer 
had said wasnt valid. But I dont think that is whats happened. As I understand it Miss Ws 
insurer hasnt voided her policy yet because its waiting for the outcome of her appeal 
against her previous convictions. Until it reaches a decision  on that the policy  remains  in 
force. And I understand Autonet  paid the insurer upfront for the policy  and that debt now 
rests with it. So I think its entitled to try and recover the outstanding amount from Miss W. 
I can see that after the policy had been  cancelled Miss W did make contact with Autonet  to 
try and clarify what the situation with the policy was and whether this had in fact been  voided 
or cancelled.  And I agree that Autonet should have  done more to address these issues  at 
that time.  Because  that wasnt done I think Miss W was caused some  avoidable confusion 
about what the correct position was (though the policy had already been cancelled  by then). 
And, as Autonet has accepted, there  was also some delay  in dealing with the subject access 
request Miss W made. Taking into account  the impact of those errors on Miss W I think that 
a total compensation payment of £125 is fair. 
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. To put things right Autonet Insurance Services  
Limited will need to pay Miss W a total of £125 if it hasnt already done so. I understand its 
already sent her a cheque for £25 as compensation for the subject access  issue.  I think its 
reasonable that Autonet offsets the remaining £100 against the outstanding amount Miss W 
owes (and its entitled to seek  recovery of the remaining debt from her).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9278550