K820x#14complaint
P is unhappy about the sale of a commercial legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy by 
Peninsula Business Services Ltd. It says it was mis-sold.
background
Towards the end of January 2018, a representative of Peninsula met with two 
representatives of P; Mr N and Mr C. At that meeting  Mr N signed an agreement,  on behalf 
of P, for Peninsula  to provide employment advice and support for P (the service contract). 
P also agreed to take out a LEI policy to cover the costs of defending  employment  disputes 
with staff, and any awards made by the employment tribunal - subject to P complying with 
the policys other terms. 
This meeting took place the day after Mr C had contacted Peninsulas  free advice line 
seeking employment guidance  regarding a cleaning contract P was taking over.  At that time 
P was aware that the outgoing cleaning company had made changes to staff contracts, 
including increasing  pay and changing their hours  of work.
After P took out the service contract and LEI policy, Peninsula provided  employment law 
advice regarding the takeover of the cleaning contract and the impending transfer  of the 
outgoing providers  staff to P. 
After the cleaning contract changed hands, two members of staff commenced employment 
tribunal claims against P (the employment tribunal claims). P sought to claim on the LEI 
policy but was informed that the insurer wouldnt cover the costs of defending  the claim  or 
any award made by the employment  tribunal  even  though P followed  Peninsulas  legal 
advice throughout.  Thats  because it said the policy only covered claims relating to 
something that happened after the policy had started  and the issues that gave rise to the 
employment tribunal  claims  pre-dated  the policy.
P says the policy was mis-sold. It says Peninsula  was aware  of the impending transfer of the 
cleaning contract and the changes that the outgoing  cleaning provider was making to staff 
contracts at the time the policy  was sold. It says Peninsulas representative told Mr N and 
Mr C during their meeting  in January 2018 that if P entered into the agreement  all legal costs 
and any award or settlement would be covered in respect of that particular issue.
Peninsula denies that its representative  told P that. Its representative says he made it clear 
that the policy only covered events that occurred after the policy started. It also says that the 
documents received at the meeting confirmed that too.
As a gesture  of goodwill Peninsula has agreed  to absorb the legal  costs  that have  been,  and 
will be incurred,  preparing  Ps response to the employment tribunal claims up to and 
including representing  P at an employment  tribunal hearing. Its also agreed  to contribute 
£500 towards any settlement. 
P isnt happy  with this and has brought its complaint to us. Ultimately,  our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. P disagrees  so the complaint  has been  passed to me to look at 
everything afresh.
Just so everyones clear  Im only looking at whether the policy  was mis-sold; not whether the 
insurers decision to decline covering Ps legal  costs in connection with the employment 
Ref: DRN99923582tribunal claims  and any award made at the employment tribunal - should be covered under 
the terms of the LEI policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by explaining  that were not free to investigate all complaints that are referred  
to us. The Dispute  Resolution: Complaints (DISP) rules issued by the Financial Conduct 
Authority set out the rules under which we operate. And as part of those rules  we can only 
look at complaints that concern a regulated  activity  or any ancillary activities,  such as 
advice, carried on by a firm in connection  with a regulated activity.
Effecting a contract of insurance  is defined is a regulated activity. So whilst I can consider 
whether Peninsula mis-sold the LEI policy to P, I dont have the power  to consider any 
aspect of the sale of the service contract  which was sold alongside it. Thats  because  the LEI 
contract is a separate contract and can be separated from the service  contract  itself.  
Turning to the sale of the LEI policy, its difficult to gauge what  happened  at the meeting 
when the policy was sold. Nobody  took any notes. So Ive looked  at what  both parties say 
happened and the documents that were signed.
Mr N signed a document (the essentials  contract) at the meeting. By doing so he agreed  on 
behalf of P to take out the LEI policy alongside the service contract. 
Given what the essentials contract  says, I dont think Peninsulas representative advised P to 
take out the policy. Mr N has signed a separate box under the heading: insurance 
declaration confirming that it was a non-advised sale.  That being the case, Peninsula  still 
had to provide  P with fair, clear and not misleading  information about the main terms of the 
policy  including  things  like the policys main benefits and exclusions. 
Under the terms of the LEI policy, theres  no cover  for a dispute which  started before the 
policy was taken out. This is defined in the policy  by reference to a train of events  that leads 
to a matter which  becomes the subject of a notified  claim.  Terms like this are not unusual. 
The aim of most insurance is to cover  the risk of something happening  in the future. But Ive 
considered whether P had been made aware  of this when the policy  was sold.
In response to our investigators final view on the case, Mr N has told us that Peninsulas 
representative gave  him the wrong  information.  He says the representative told him: any 
delay (in signing  up with Peninsula) would mean they could not cover  us, but now would be 
appropriate as it was not yet an incident  or claim and if in the event  of it turning into a 
tribunal claim Peninsulas  representatives reassured him that they would cover all legal 
costs and any award or settlement  that may incur
Thats a little different  to what he told Peninsula when first complaining  about the sale of the 
policy towards the end of June 2018.  Ive listened to this call and Mr N is clearly  unhappy 
about the insurers decision to decline cover under the LEI policy  and the sale of the policy. 
He says Peninsulas  representative told him when the policy was sold that all costs would be 
covered if the case ended up going  to an employment tribunal, even if they lost or the case 
settled. If that was said, thats not the same as saying that the LEI policy would cover any 
Ref: DRN99923583tribunal award  or settlement reached  in respect  of any employment dispute  that occurred as 
a result of the transfer of the cleaning contract.
Peninsulas representative denies  giving Mr N misleading information.  
On balance, I dont  have enough  to say that P was mis-sold  the LEI policy. Particularly in 
light of the essentials contract  that Mr N signed. 
A tick appears next to the employment insurance  option - the LEI policy.  It says the 
insurance provides  cover  for the legal costs, awards  and settlements arising from 
employment tribunal  claims  resulting from incidents  occurring  after the date of this contract - 
subject to the terms of the policy. 
The insurance declaration, which appears as a separate  section on the contract and is 
signed by Mr N says:  I have read the key facts, the demands and needs  statement and the 
insurance summary document. Also I have had the opportunity to ask questions about,  and 
check my understanding  of the insurance policy.
The policy summary   which  is a comparatively short document   says cover  under the LEI 
policy only exists where the incident leading to the claim arises during the period of 
insurance, and where the other  policy terms are met. 
If Peninsulas representative  did tell Mr N that the known issues  surrounding the staff 
assigned to the outgoing provider of the cleaning  contract wouldnt yet be classed as an 
incident under the policy, I wouldve expected  Mr N to have, at least,  questioned this in light 
of what the essential contract  says. Particularly  as this type of insurance  is taken out  like 
most insurance policies  - to protect against  unforeseen risks; as opposed  to risks which  are 
contemplated and known  at the time the policy starts.    
Ive taken into account what Mr N says about not really reading the essentials contract or 
policy summary  and not even being sure that the summary was given to him at the 
meeting. He also says he didnt  question what he was signing as Peninsulas representative  
was talking to him as he was signing it and he was relying on what hed been told rather  than 
what was on the essentials contract. But, ultimately,  Mr N signed to say that he had read and 
understood the essentials contract  and policy summary. 
It follows that Peninsulas  offer to absorb the legal costs that have  already  and will be 
incurred by preparing  Ps response to the employment tribunal  claims up to and including 
representing it at the employment tribunal hearing   and contributing  up to £500 towards any 
settlement  is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Ps complaint. Peninsula Business Services  Ltd doesnt  need to do anything 
more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99923584
Ref: DRN9992358