K822xcomplaint
Mr A has complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited unfairly  held him to 
be 50% liable for causing an accident  under his motor policy.
background 
Mr A was involved  in an accident  in June  2016 with another driver. Mr A said initially  the 
other driver agreed the accident was his fault.  But then he changed his mind. Mr A and this 
other driver both had a witness each who supported their individual  accounts  of what  
happened.
LV considered all the evidence and decided it would  be able to defend any claim against Mr 
A from the other driver. It also decided it couldnt win any claim it could make on Mr As 
behalf against the other driver. It obtained legal advice from its solicitors to confirm this 
decision. This meant it and the other drivers insurer agreed that Mr A and the other  driver 
would be each 50% at fault for causing  the accident.  
Mr A didnt agree and complained to LV but it would change its stance so he brought  his 
complaint to us.
The investigator didnt  think LV had done anything as regards its decision to hold Mr A 50% 
liable. However  she considered LV didnt  always keep  Mr A fully updated about what was 
going on with this claim. So she thought LV should pay Mr A £100 compensation for this 
failing.
LV agreed but Mr A didnt  so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint for the same level of compensation as the investigator  indicated. Ill now explain  
why.
As the investigator  explained this service  doesnt decide who is at fault for causing an 
accident. Thats a matter for the courts. What we do is make  sure the insurer, LV here,  came  
to its decision reasonably and in line with the policy terms.
In Mr As policy on page 38 under the section  called Claims Handling, it details a term 
under claims procedure, which says the following:
We may do the following:
Take over, defend  or settle  any claims in your name, or that of any other 
person insured.
Take action (which  we will pay for) in your name, or that of any other person 
insured, to get back any money we have  paid.
Ref: DRN92518152This means  its only in LVs remit to decide what  to do about whose fault an accident is. This 
service looks to make sure LV used this clause reasonably and I consider it did in Mr As 
case. 
This is because it looked at what he said and his witness said and it considered what  the 
other driver and his witness said. It felt on balance since both accounts of the accident 
contradicted each other that a court would  probably decide Mr A and the other  driver  were 
each 50% at fault for causing the accident. 
But LV also went  further  to check this decision was the right one, because  it then consulted 
its own solicitors  and asked them to give their view. Those  solicitors  also thought a court 
would decide  that Mr A and the other driver were each 50% at fault for causing  the accident.  
Therefore, I dont think LV did anything wrong  in settling the matter with the other drivers 
insurers on the basis each driver  was 50% at fault for causing the accident. Further  I 
consider it was right that LV did this on a without  prejudice basis, which simply means Mr A 
is free to go to court himself if he wishes but if he was to do to that, he should take proper 
legal advice before  doing  so.
Mr A feels  aggrieved that his injuries from this accident arent being considered. However no 
motor policy  provides such cover, unless under the personal accident section. Ive seen  no 
evidence Mr A made any claim under this section,  which is very curtailed  as to what is 
covered in any event.  
Mr As policy  says on page 18 under the section  of whats not covered the following:
Death or injury to the person driving  or in charge of the insured car..
So this means  Mr As owned  injuries  arent covered under his policy  with LV. 
So injuries from accidents like Mr A was involved in, are classed as uninsured  issues  and 
would normally be compensated by the other drivers insurer assuming  it was decided the 
other driver was at fault for causing the accident. Here the other driver is 50% at fault so LV 
hasnt done anything to stop Mr A pursuing  any personal injury  action. However,  there is no 
duty at all for LV to help Mr A with this, he would  need to again take proper legal advice to 
do so.
The investigator thought (and LV then agreed) that LV didnt do all it should have done to 
keep Mr A properly updated  when it was dealing with his claim and with the other  drivers  
insurers. She thought  LV should  pay Mr A £100 for this. LV agreed.  I consider that amount if 
compensation is appropriate and in line with what I have awarded  previously.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint for compensation 
only.
I now require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr A the sum of £100  
compensation if it hasnt  done so already.
Ref: DRN92518153Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9251815