K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs C bought  the policy in 2001  at the same  time as taking a loan. Due to the time 
that has passed, Nationwide cant say how Mr and Mrs C applied  for the loan and PPI policy. 
Mr and Mrs C say the PPI was sold to them during a meeting.
Mr C was employed at the time as a gardener and had been  there  ten years. From what hes 
told us, he was entitled to redundancy pay and at least  12 months full sick pay. Nationwide 
thinks this was six months full pay followed by six months half pay, based on a phone  call it 
says it had with Mr C. Mr C has also told us he had £1000  in savings he couldve used to 
pay the loan if he couldnt work and he had death  in service cover. From what  Mr and Mrs C 
have told us, Mr C was in good health  at the time and hadnt had any health  issues.
From what  Mr and Mrs C have told us, Mrs C was also employed at the time with savings 
and work  benefits  like Mr Cs, but she worked part-time (less  than 16 hours a week). Also, 
her salary  was less than a third of Mr Cs at the time, so he had the higher earnings by far. 
Mrs C has told us of health  issues she suffered both before and after the loan was taken.
The PPI provided  cover on Mr C for accident, sickness, unemployment  and life  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  For a successful claim, it offered to pay Mr and Mrs Cs total 
monthly repayment (the loan repayment  plus the PPI premium) for up to the remaining loan 
term if Mr C suffered disability and for up to 12 months if he suffered unemployment. The life 
cover would, subject to its terms, repay the loan upon death.
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £753.98  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over 48 months and the policy term matched  that of the loan. The monthly  loan 
repayment was £125.34 with the PPI costing an additional £18.90, making  the total monthly 
repayment £144.24. Nationwide has sent us evidence  to show the loan was repaid in 2001.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Cs representative says:
The information Mr and Mrs C received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue;
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP APP 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have 
taken the PPI and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Cs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The PPI excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some  of the most 
common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value of cover;
Ref: DRN92690922The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the PPI was of inherently  poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio.  The 
common law duty of utmost  good  faith means Nationwide  should  have told Mr and Mrs C 
about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;  and
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs C and 
the impact they would have had on their chances  of making a claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Cs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  about  s.140 of 
that Act and the rules  and guidance  made by the FCA about  the handling of complaints  
about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin  judgment, arent applicable.  
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code.
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN92690923The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries like 
Nationwide selling insurance at this time: 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes and 
these other  publications into account when deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the duty of utmost  good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Building Societies Ombudsman  
in this case  might  have  been expected to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note under the Building Societies Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sales took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all circumstances  of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs C with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the PPI was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the PPI, including  
Ref: DRN92690924drawing to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main policy provisions and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Cs 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr and Mrs C and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below.
did Mr and Mrs C know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr and Mrs C have said they had no 
interest in PPI and have  said it was just included as part of the loan package.  Ive thought  
about this carefully.
Nationwide has provided a copy of the printed credit agreement Mr and Mrs C signed to take 
the loan. The agreement included PPI. I havent  anything to show  exactly  what discussions 
took place before the agreement was printed,  but I expect the main loan details on it reflect 
the choices Mr and Mrs C made, before it was printed, about how much to borrow, over what 
period and so on. If the PPI and loan were sold at a meeting, like Mr and Mrs C say this loan 
was, these would be choices they made during the discussions at that meeting.
On balance I think its likely the discussions also involved Mr and Mrs C being given a choice 
about the PPI, with the printed agreement reflecting the choice they made. I say this bearing 
in mind the agreement  refers to the PPI as Optional Credit Insurance  and sets out the PPI 
costs separately from the main loan costs  so I think it likely Nationwide presented  the PPI 
as, and Mr and Mrs C signed  the agreement aware  they were  taking,  an optional insurance  
with a separate cost. Ive not seen anything to make  me think Mr and Mrs C were  pressured 
into the PPI either. Taking everything into account, I think  its more  likely Mr and Mrs C knew 
the PPI was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  the PPI sale. When  Mr and Mrs C came to 
us, they didnt tick their questionnaire to say advice was given. Looking  at everything I have, 
it doesnt make me think Nationwide  provided advice when selling the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs C. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable them to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the PPI, including drawing  to their attention 
and highlighting   in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main policy provisions and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs C were given a broad description of what 
the PPI was intended to cover (that is, it would protect Mr and Mrs Cs payments if Mr C 
were unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr and Mrs C wouldve taken the PPI without any 
Ref: DRN92690925sense of what it was  also the credit  agreement they signed  said Mr C was insured for 
disability, unemployment  and life.
Also, I think Mr and Mrs C knew the single premium  being added to the loan was £753.98, 
the interest added to the premium was £153.22,  the total cost was £907.20  and the monthly 
cost £18.90 - as this information was, in my view,  sufficiently  clear on the credit  agreement 
they signed. But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit or about the exclusions or limitations 
before Mr and Mrs C agreed to take the PPI. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take the PPI, including drawing 
to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main policy 
provisions and significant limitations and exclusions.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Cs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Cs representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs C about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Cs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs C has suggested. And, taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs C? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs C suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Nationwide didnt do all it should have done when it sold this PPI to Mr and Mrs C. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
wouldve still taken the PPI, had Nationwide done  things  properly. 
Mr and Mrs C say they wouldnt  have  taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN92690926As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs C had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the PPI against  the benefits  offered and the potential consequences  if they didnt insure 
against the risk of Mr C being unable to work.
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs C chose to take this PPI. So I consider  its reasonable to 
conclude they had some  interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But they 
made their decisions based  on incomplete information. So what  Mr and Mrs C thought  they 
were getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this differed  is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs C have suffered any loss or detriment.
As Ive already  said, the information Mr and Mrs C were given about the cost was clear   
they were told the total cost of the PPI, how much  the interest was and the monthly PPI cost.  
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit and the limitations 
and exclusions,  wasnt as clear as it should have been.
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs C would get if they made  
a successful claim on the PPI. But I think its unlikely their expectations about what it would 
pay (an amount sufficient  to meet their monthly  loan payment)  were significantly different to 
what the PPI actually did pay.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs C thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The PPI limited, and in some situations excluded,  unemployment  cover  if Mr C wasnt  a 
permanent employee;
The PPI excluded claims  for disability or unemployment related to health issues Mr C 
knew or should reasonably have known of at the policy  start;  or related to health issues  
for which he received  advice or was referred  for investigation in the 12 months before the 
start and which recurred in the first 12 months  of the policy;  and
To be eligible  for disability, Mr C had to be not only unable  to do his own job but unable 
to do any work.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs C pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the PPI 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs C from taking the PPI. 
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of the sale shows the PPI 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for them. Mr C was eligible for its benefits and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable to Mr and Mrs C should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr C 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  he didnt have any health issues 
and was in permanent employment,  for example. So, I think Mr and Mrs C still had some 
good reasons  to take the PPI.
The PPI didnt exclude back or mental  health  conditions or place any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs C would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the PPI without first providing some evidence  to 
Ref: DRN92690927support that claim. Also, the policy did provide a pro-rata  refund  if it was cancelled early,  so 
the policy provided flexibility in case Mr and Mrs C decided to repay the loan early.
If Mr and Mrs C had known they could only claim for disability if Mr C were not only unable  to 
do his own job but also unable to do any work, this mightve played  into their thinking  about 
what to do. And I accept  it may have  given them pause for thought  although, given their 
circumstances, on balance I think they wouldve likely still been  interested  in taking the PPI.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs C would still have  taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its likely 
they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  manage the 
consequences were  Mr C made redundant, or unable  to work through accident or sickness. 
In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs C wouldve taken the PPI 
in any event, notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Cs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken.
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs C would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they wouldve been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs C believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including Mr and Mrs Cs own comments  that they 
wouldnt have taken  the PPI. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  at DISP  App 3 (which I dont 
consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider  it would in this case  represent fair 
compensation to put Mr and Mrs C in the position  they wouldve been  in if they hadnt bought 
the PPI. 
Thats because,  while I accept its possible Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have taken it, Im satisfied 
that, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not they wouldve still taken the PPI had 
they been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the policy  they were buying. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs C compensation, as that would put them in a better 
position than they wouldve been in had everything  happened as it should  have done.
Ref: DRN92690928Im also aware Mr and Mrs C think Nationwide misrepresented  the terms of the PPI in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Nationwides statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason Nationwide 
failed to act fairly and reasonably wasnt because  of what it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs C, 
in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2001 when providing information about  an insurance policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Cs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Nationwide  negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs C and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs C in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 June  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9269092