K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that a car he is financing  through an agreement with Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS)  has been misrepresented to him as hes not achieving the 
advertised fuel consumption.
background
Mr O took receipt of a used car in October 2017. The car had completed just over 6,000 
miles at the point of supply and was about  six months old. Mr O financed the deal through  a 
hire purchase scheme with VWFS.
But in December 2017 he complained to them. He said the cars fuel consumption was poor. 
So an inspection was arranged  but the garage could not identify  any faults with the car.
Mr O said one of the main reasons the car was of interest was because  of its fuel 
consumption statistics. He said they were advertised as 55.4mpg (combined) and he 
provided a copy of the advert. 
VWFS explained that they werent able to find a fault with the car in the inspection and that 
published mpg figures were obtained  under standardised test conditions using a 
representative model. They said they were  included in sales  literature to allow a direct 
comparison between different models from different  manufacturers, but may not represent  
the actual mpg achieved in real driving conditions.
So Mr O referred  his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided his opinion. He 
noted the post script on the advert  in which  it was explained that:
** MPG(combined) figures obtained are from laboratory testing and intended for 
comparisons between vehicles. They are unlikely to represent real world efficiencies.
And he agreed that many factors would impact on the fuel consumption Mr O was likely to 
achieve on the road. So with this in mind,  and as the inspection  hadnt uncovered  any faults 
with the vehicle, he didnt think it would be reasonable  to suggest the car had been mis-sold. 
And regardless, he wasnt satisfied that if Mr O had been aware of the fuel consumption  he 
would get on the road,  he would necessarily have rejected the deal.  As it was clear that 
there were other factors that had attracted him to the car like the brand, reliability and style. 
So he didnt think VWFS needed to take any further  action.
But Mr O disagreed he said the advertised consumption  for urban cold was 44.1mpg  which  
was significantly higher than the actual consumption of 18.4mpg hed experienced. He said it 
might be reasonable  to expect some margins of error  but the difference in reality was 
staggering. He said the business should have  been aware of the discrepancy as the car was 
in their use for six months  before he purchased  it. So he asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Ref: DRN92136782Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr O acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant legislation says that if 
he were told something that was untrue  and if this led him to enter into the finance 
agreement, VWFS would  be responsible and Id think it fair to ask them to do something 
about it.
Here Im not persuaded  that Mr O would have declined to proceed with the agreement  if hed 
known he wouldnt get the fuel consumption quoted. I say that because hes explained  that 
there were others factors that appealed to him in the car he received, such as the durability; 
the brand  and the styling. So the fuel consumption wasnt the only consideration and if hed 
realised the stated fuel consumption was based on laboratory conditions and may not be 
mirrored on the road,  that wouldve been the same  for any model and make of car.
So even if I found  that he had been told something that wasnt  true I wouldnt be suggesting 
VWFS take any further action, as I think its most likely Mr O wouldve  proceeded with the 
deal anyway.
But, for completeness, I would say that I agree with the investigators  view about the 
advertised consumption. The post script  explains that the consumption  figures are laboratory  
based and are unlikely to reflect real world efficiency. So whilst  I think  it would be reasonable 
to compare the stated  consumption with other models, as the figures are derived from the 
same tests.  I dont think its feasible  to compare the stated consumption figures to what  is 
achieved on the road.  Thats because road, traffic, driving, temperature  and vehicle set up, 
vary considerably. 
But if Mr Os car had a problem with it, that affected its fuel consumption, Id expect VWFS 
to repair  it. They may have noticed this during the time they had the car that Mr O alludes to. 
However, the inspection  completed by the garage  didnt highlight  any issues.  So it seems  
the car is working  as it should  be and whilst  I know it will be very disappointing for Mr O, I 
dont think in those  circumstances,  it would be fair to ask VWFS to take any further action.
Ref: DRN92136783my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9213678