K822xcomplaint
Mrs A complains about various  charges being sought from her by Volkswagen Financial  
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS)  following her decision to voluntary terminate her hire 
purchase (HP) agreement.
background 
In 2014 Mrs A entered into a HP agreement with VWFS  for a new car.
In 2017 Mrs A took the decision to voluntary terminate her HP agreement,  as she was 
entitled to do, and returned the car to VWFS. Following the return of the car VWFS invoiced 
Mrs A £1,703.59, broken down as follows:
£726.11 excess mileage charge
£977.48 refurbishment charge
Mrs A complained about the above  charges  but VWFS confirmed that both charges stood.
Unhappy with VWFS response to her complaint, Mrs A referred it to our service for 
investigation.
In March 2020 VWFS agreed to waive the excess mileage charge of £726.11. 
In November 2020 VWFS agreed  to waive £162.00 of refurbishment charges, leaving a 
balance of £815.48 outstanding in this respect made  up as follows:
Unsatisfactory repair to rear bumper £132.48
Unsatisfactory repair left-hand rear door £165.60
Broken side step to left-hand front door £546.80
Incomplete tyre inflation kit £57.00
Adjustment (£86.40)
Total £815.48
The above  offer was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
was, in all the circumstances,  fair and reasonable. However, Mrs A disagreed.
The investigator considered Mrs As response  to her view but wasnt persuaded  to change 
her mind. Therefore, it has been  passed to me for review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I can confirm that Ive 
come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator,  for broadly the same  reasons. 
There is also very little I can usefully add to what  has already been  said. 
Ref: DRN95045732Its clear Mrs A has very strong feelings about this complaint.  She has provided detailed 
submissions in support  of her view which I can confirm  Ive read and considered  in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mrs A will not take the fact that my findings focus on what  I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every  point  raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,  I 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider  is most likely to 
have happened  given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
excess mileage charge (£726.11)
VWFS agreed to waive this charge in March 2020  and Mrs A has accepted  this. So other 
than saying that I think this waiver  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, I make no further  comment on this aspect of Mrs As complaint.
refurbishment charges  (£815.48)
Its not unusual  for a finance provider like VWFS to check  at the end of an agreement that 
the consumer  took reasonable  care of the car. And the hire agreement makes provision for 
VWFS to be able to charge for damage  that is deemed beyond  fair wear and tear and/or 
missing items. 
The trade body  that oversees the car rental and leasing  sector   the British  Vehicle Renting 
and Leasing Renting Association (BVRLA)  has issued guidance which  outlines what  is 
considered to be fair wear and tear and what is chargeable damage.  In looking at this type of 
complaint and deciding whether VWFS has acted  reasonably, I take account of this 
guidance as I think its a good  indicator of what  damage is fair for a business to charge for.
£132.48 for an unsatisfactory repair to rear bumper
BVRLA guidance states that in respect of paintwork, body, bumpers and trim Repaired 
chips, scratches and dents are acceptable provided  the work is completed to a professional 
standard by repairers who can provide full warranty on their work.  Obvious  evidence  of poor 
repair, such as flaking  paint, preparation marks, paint contamination, rippled finish and 
poorly matched  paint,  is not acceptable.
VWFS guidance states that in respect of a poor repair to a bumper its entitled to charge 
£132.48.
VWFS has provided our service with a photograph of the rear bumper following return  of the 
car. And in my view, this shows  a poor repair that doesnt constitute fair wear  and tear.
And having thought about all the circumstances here, Im satisfied that what VWFS has 
charged for this damage, being £132.48,  was reasonable.
Ref: DRN95045733£165.60 for an unsatisfactory repair to left-hand  rear door
BVRLA guidance states that in respect of paintwork, body, bumpers and trim Repaired 
chips, scratches and dents are acceptable provided  the work is completed to a professional 
standard by repairers who can provide full warranty on their work.  Obvious  evidence  of poor 
repair, such as flaking  paint, preparation marks, paint contamination, rippled finish and 
poorly matched  paint,  is not acceptable.
VWFS guidance states that in respect of a significantly poor repair  to a door its entitled to 
charge £165.60.
VWFS has provided our service with two photographs of the left-hand rear door following 
return of the car. And in my view, these show a significantly poor repair  that doesnt 
constitute fair wear  and tear.
And having thought about all the circumstances here, Im satisfied that what VWFS has 
charged for this damage, being £165.60,  was reasonable.
£546.80 for a broken side step to left-hand front door
BVRLA guidance states that in respect of paintwork, body, bumpers and trim Dents (up to 
10mm in diameter) are acceptable provided there are no more  than two (2) per panel  and 
the paint surface  is not broken.
VWFS guidance states that in respect of excessive damage to items (such as a side step to 
a door) its entitled  to charge the approved retailer price of replacing the item.
VWFS has provided our service with three  photographs of the side step to the left-hand front 
door. And in my view, these show a dent exceeding  10mm that doesnt  constitute fair wear  
and tear and shows damage that could  be viewed as excessive.
And having thought about all the circumstances here, Im satisfied that what VWFS has 
charged for this damage, being £546.80,  was reasonable.
I note that Mrs A says she shouldnt  be held liable for this charge because it was an optional 
extra that she purchased. But I disagree. I disagree  because although I accept  that this side 
step was added as an extra to the car, I can see that Mrs A arranged for over £8,000  of 
extras to be added and the majority of this £8,000 was financed  with VWFS. 
£57.00 for an incomplete inflation tyre kit
BVRLA guidance states that in respect of tyres and wheels The emergency tyre inflation kit, 
if supplied when new, should be in full working order, serviceable and ready  for use.
VWFS guidance states in respect of a missing tyre inflation kit its entitled to charge £237.60.
Ive considered what both parties have said and submitted  on this point. And having done so 
Im satisfied that given  the car was new when supplied its unlikely, on the balance of 
probabilities, that it had a missing, incomplete or broken  inflation  tyre kit. Im also satisfied, 
again based on what both parties have said and submitted, that on the balance  of 
probabilities that Mrs A returned the car with an inflation  tyre kit missing, incomplete or 
broken.
Ref: DRN95045734And having thought about all the circumstances here, Im satisfied that what VWFS has 
charged for this, being £57.00, was reasonable.
I appreciate that Mrs A feels that some, or all, of the damage might have been caused  after 
the car had been returned.  But although  I accept that I cant  say for certain this wasnt the 
case I find VWFS submissions to the contrary (including photographs) to be the more  
plausible and persuasive. I would also add that although Mrs A has provided pictures of her 
own these either dont show the relevant  part of the car or are inconclusive.
For the sake of completeness, I would also add that I accept that the car might have been 
able to be repaired for a lessor sum than VWFS  charged Mrs A. But it was open  to Mrs A to 
have any damage  repaired herself  (to a satisfactory  standard) before the car was returned.  
VWFS are entitled to charge for damage which  goes  beyond fair wear  and tear and the fact 
that repairs can be carried out more cheaply elsewhere doesnt  mean  that VWFS charges 
are unreasonable. 
Similarly, theres no obligation on VWFS to carry out the repairs.  If the repairs  arent carried 
out this is reflected in the reduction of the cars  value when it comes to be sold at auction, for 
which VWFS  should be compensated. 
For the reasons  Ive explained Im satisfied  that the end of agreement  charges of £815.48 
(£901.88 less £86.40) are fair and VWFS  need neither reduce or waive them.
my final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, having agreed to 
waive the excess mileage  charge of £726.11 and to reduce the refurbishment charges to 
£815.48 need do nothing more.
However, I would  remined Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited of its obligations to 
treat Mrs A positively and sympathetically when agreeing how the outstanding sum of 
£815.48 can and should be repaid if she is now in financial difficulties.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2021.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9504573