K820x#14complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the delays and the handling of her long outstanding  subsidence  claim.  
The buildings insurance policy is provided by U K Insurance Limited.
background
The original  claim dates  back to 2011.  Ms M has had previous  complaints and some  of these 
have been looked at by this service. In this complaint Ms M came  back to this service as 
shes unhappy about further  delays,  the contractors and the outstanding  snagging  issues. 
The work was meant to be completed sometime earlier but in May 2018  the works had just 
begun. Ms M wants compensation  for the stress  and inconvenience caused and 
independent contractors. So, she brought a further complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint initially. She confirmed this complaint was only 
in relation to issues  from June 2016  onwards. She noted UKI offered £750 for the delays and 
problems it had caused. Our investigator  agreed  that it had taken too long, and Miss M had 
to undergo counselling. But she also noted  that on a couple of occasions delays were 
requested by Ms M and site visits postponed by her too. Our investigator highlighted that a 
couple of issues  only came to light when work started, and this uncovered more problems 
which then needed  to be rectified. In conclusion she said subsidence  claims are often 
lengthy and complex  by their nature and UKI had acted unreasonably  in relation its errors, 
delays and the impact  this had on Ms M.
But the matter  continued to drag on and our investigator effectively felt she had to become  
further involved due to the problems  with the claim handling and project management. Ms M 
continued to highlight areas  that she said were a concern and hadnt been dealt with since  
2016. As the errors  and problems with the claim  did appear to be linked our investigator 
increased the compensation by £500  to a total of £1250 and then due to further delays  with 
the schedule of works by another £150 to a total of £1,400. She also confirmed that the 
points raised by Ms Ms representative  should  be built in to the final schedule of works.  That 
UKI should settle the final bill on top of what it had settled already  for the tree removal once  
Ms M provided  it with a VAT receipt.  She said UKI should pay the £500  it offered towards  
damaged garden  items. It should  send contractors to deal with the guttering issues. Finally,  
she said UKI should consider separately a new complaint about their 50% offer for the 
repairs to the driveway. Ms M didnt accept  this and asked for her complaint to be passed  to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think certain issues really stand out in this complaint. Theres no doubt that subsidence  
complaints can be lengthy.  But the amount of time involved in this case  and the continuing 
inability to even  agree on the snagging  items list does indicate  that this complaint hasnt 
been managed  as it shouldve been. The communication throughout the claim has been a 
problem and Ms M continually raised  concerns about the way UKI s representatives and 
contractors have dealt  with her and her claim.  But thats not all. The details provided show 
that there  were serious issues regarding criminal activity at the alternative accommodation 
Ms M had to live at for a period. And its clear from the details provided that dealing with all 
Ref: DRN91789232the issues surrounding this claim had a detrimental effect on Ms Ms health and the health of 
her pet too.
schedule of works
Overall, theres no doubt that this claim could and shouldve been dealt with more speedily 
and effectively by UKI. But it has taken  some time to get fully to the bottom of what  all the 
outstanding items are and Im just not sure why. For example, at one point when our 
investigator was trying  to get points moved  along UKI didnt send a copy  of the updated 
schedule to Ms Ms representative. But it claimed  it couldnt as it didnt know what  their 
relationship was. On the other  hand, the representative was telling this service  that he was 
dealing with UKI. I think UKI couldve checked and saved a lot of time but making  sure the 
details had reached both parties  much earlier.
Our investigator has been clear with the parties  throughout  in trying to find a way forward. 
Ms Ms representative said there were several  items  that were missing from UKIs final 
schedule of works. So, based on this information I think  UKI should accept his comments  
and deal with the additional  points noted by Ms Ms representative. These  works  related  to 
many areas of the property and UKI should  include these in relation to the living  room,  
kitchen, hall, bathroom, front bedroom,  external repairs and general. I note that Ms M has 
regularly struggled  to respond  with details and added other issues  after our investigator  
thought definitive lists had been created on several  occasions. But to me this shows  the 
impact the claim has had on Ms M and I think UKI were slow to react and adjust to the 
difficulties it was causing Ms M.
But I must be clear and fair to all parties so based  on the additions being included,  despite 
UKI being unhappy about this, I think if UKI do everything on the most  recent  schedule  plus 
the items  added by Ms Ms representative that will be a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
claim.
other costs
Ms M has told UKI that she has had to continue  to make payments for her mortgage,  council 
tax, and other utilities on her own property  despite not living  there for a long period. But our 
investigator accepted  that Ms M needed to keep  making those payments as its still her 
home and I dont think she wasnt required to make these  payments on the rented property. 
But to be clear if in case  any extra bills were  incurred UKI has said these will be considered. 
If Ms M provides details of the extra bills UKI will review these and consider  reimbursing  her. 
I think thats reasonable.
poor workmanship
Where poor workmanship was been  found in relation  to the repairs UKI authorised repairs to 
put things right. In line with this UKI agreed to pay reasonable costs for castors to be fitted 
and a further £205 for outstanding items  was dealt with too. Its clear that this wouldve 
added to the delays and Ms Ms unhappiness. UKI confirmed this to Ms M and asked  her to 
provide details to conclude  this issue. I think thats reasonable.
tree removal
The issue  of tree removal has been  a problem throughout  this claim, and I understand 
Ms Ms wish to deal with the removal in a specific way. So, I think UKIs  original  offer to 
Ref: DRN91789233settle this was reasonable. Initially it paid towards  the cost Ms M quoted and confirmed that 
once Ms M has had the work completed it would pay the outstanding amount and VAT when 
a receipt has been provided. However, UKI has recently told us that it has now paid for this 
part in full including the VAT element. I think thats fair. If there are any outstanding issues  
on this point Ms M and her surveyor will need to pick that up with UKI.
garden items
Other issues  included the outstanding garden  items.  Ms M has provided many pictures of 
her garden and its clear  that she has been very upset about the state of the garden since  
the claim occurred. Ms M is clearly very attached  to her garden. But I think  our investigator 
felt some of the items werent  damaged  and some areas may be resurrected once the claim 
repairs have been  concluded. Ms M said the cost to her to put everything  back as it was 
would be large  and provided  a long list of problems and photographs to show  likely 
replacement costs. But theres not really  any firm details provided to show  what has been  
done and how much it cost. To get the matter moved forward closer to a resolution an offer 
to pay £500 towards  the cost of damaged items was made. But I note from the details 
provided by Ms M that she thinks the costs to be more in the region  of £840 and she 
provided further long lists of items  that she said need to be replaced.  Although  I appreciate 
that UKI agreed  to pay £500  I think  based on the details Ive seen  Ms Ms estimate of £840 
is going to be much closer  to her actual cost.  So, I think Ms Ms estimate looks  much more 
likely to be closer to her actual cost and UKI should  pay Ms M £840 in total for the garden 
items. I think in the circumstances  thats  a fair outcome.
certificate of structural adequacy
Importantly for Ms Ms peace of mind,  UKI has now agreed to provide  a certificate of 
structural adequacy once  the repair works have all been concluded. This is something that 
Ms M has requested, and I think its fair for UKI to provide it once all of the works in the 
schedule have been concluded.
Ms Ms representative
I think following the last meeting  between the parties  and the changes  required to the 
schedule of works the involvement of Ms Ms representative has been key to getting this 
complaint towards  a resolution. I think its important for UKI to use the representative to 
make sure the works  are completed and agreed. I think the strain on Ms M would be greatly  
resolved this way. To help with that UKI has agreed to pay his fees so far and I believe has 
already done so. It has also confirmed it will pay the fees for the next follow up meeting. 
Again, this is helpful. But I think  UKI should discuss with the representative his fees and 
agree to pay suitable reasonable costs to ensure the repair  work gets completed from here.
Any other items that have not been picked up by the numerous schedules, all of the emails,  
the meetings,  and the telephone calls will have to be considered separately to this complaint 
as a new complaint.  The two notable  examples  of issues  that have cropped up as time has 
moved on from the original complaint are the guttering  and the driveway.
guttering
In terms of the guttering UKI has confirmed it will instruct contractors to add this to the 
schedule and undertake repairs. Im grateful,  and that hopefully will resolve that issue.
Ref: DRN91789234driveway
Turning to the driveway Ms M is unhappy with UKIs offer of 50% towards replacement. 
Ms M said due to the works,  the traffic and the skips  she thinks UKI should  pay for all of it. 
But it wouldnt be fair for me to make a finding on that issue  without UKI reviewing it  if 
suitable agreement  cant be reached then Ms M can raise a new complaint on this.
compensation
In view of the impact on Ms M our investigator  said UKI should  increase the amount of 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience by a further  £500  for the errors, delays and 
the impact this had on Ms M. Our investigator then increased this by a further £150 due to 
the mistakes in issuing  a new schedule which took several months  longer than it shouldve  
done. UKI had previously  offered Ms M £750 but the new total with the two further awards 
means UKI should  now pay Ms M a total amount of compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience of £1,400.  Personally, I think this is a fairer reflection of the issues,  the 
difficulties and the impact  that dealing with this claim has had on Ms M. This is a fair 
outcome.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require U K Insurance Limited to:
accept the additional  items added to the schedule  of works by Ms Ms representative and 
get all the repairs  completed;
send contractors to deal with the guttering issues;
pay £840 towards the damaged garden items;
agree  and pay Ms Ms representative reasonable and appropriate fees;
increase the compensation for distress and inconvenience  to £1,400 in total.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9178923