K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that MYJAR Limited  lent to him in an irresponsible  manner.
background
Mr L was given a single  loan by MYJAR. He borrowed  £650  in June 2017, and agreed to 
repay the loan in 12 monthly instalments of around  £96. Mr L successfully made the first 
seven repayments  but then told MYJAR  that he was facing financial difficulties. At the time 
he made the complaint a balance remained outstanding on Mr Ls loan.
Mr Ls complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the checks  
MYJAR had done  before  lending to Mr L had been  sufficient. And since those checks 
suggested that Mr L could afford the repayments he didnt think  MYJAR had been wrong to 
agree to lend to Mr L. So he didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld.
Mr L didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr L could repay the loan in a sustainable manner.  These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
Ref: DRN92931832The repayments that Mr L agreed to make were small compared to the income he declared  
to MYJAR. And they appeared to be easily affordable based on what  he said about  his 
disposable income. From what MYJAR has shown us, its checks didnt identify anything 
adverse on Mr Ls credit  file such as defaults  or large amounts of other  borrowing.  So given 
the amount Mr L needed to repay, what was apparent about his circumstances at the time, 
and that this was his first loan with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for 
MYJAR to ask him for the amount of information  that might  have shown the lending  was 
unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr L provided or the information MYJAR 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
he was saying.  
I appreciate that Mr L says his credit file would  have shown a far worse position  than was 
identified by MYJARs checks.  But the information  a consumer  might see, when  they request 
a copy of their credit  file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. A lender might  only 
see a small portion of the credit file, or some  data might be missing or anonymised, or the 
data might not be up to date. So, this may explain any differences  between  the information  
provided by MYJARs  credit check to it and the information seen by Mr L in his credit report.
I think that the checks MYJAR  did were sufficient, and they suggested that Mr L could  afford 
the repayments on the loan. So I dont think MYJAR  did anything wrong in agreeing to give 
this loan to Mr L. It follows that I dont  uphold the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
MYJAR Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9293183