K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy with a store card. 
background
Mr M took out a store card in 2001. At the same time he bought  a PPI policy which  couldve 
helped cover his repayments  on the card if he couldnt work. It also provided  life cover and 
purchase and price cover. 
Mr M complains that he wasnt given enough  information about the PPI.
The adjudicator thought  that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. FICL didnt agree, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Its clear that Mr M chose to take the PPI, because FICL has provided a copy of his 
application form for the store card where  he signed separately for the policy. FICL had to 
make sure it gave Mr M enough information about  the policy so he could make  an informed 
decision about whether to buy it. I dont think FICL  did this.
Theres no information on the application  form about  the terms and conditions  of the PPI. So 
Mr M wouldnt have known  about  any potential exclusions. This was important for Mr M as 
he had an existing medical condition and it would  have  been excluded from cover   as well 
as any other  conditions which may have arisen  from it.
FICL wanted more  information about  Mr Ms condition, but I dont think this is necessary. Mr 
M has been consistent  about his condition with FICL and with this service and I have no 
reason to doubt that Mr M has given us correct information. And Mr Ms condition  is one 
which could have many  other far-reaching  medical  consequences which  would reduce the 
likelihood of making a successful claim. It also couldve  affected his next of kins ability to 
claim on the life insurance element of the policy.
I think if Mr M had understood the exclusion hed have thought the policy  didnt offer him 
good value for money and he wouldnt have bought it. So I think he lost out as a result  of 
what FICL did wrong.
putting things right
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr M would have owed when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
Ref: DRN97298442So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr M owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr M would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr M would have owed each  month without PPI  Mr M 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr M paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point  when Mr M 
wouldve owed FICL  something on his card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mr M what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mr M a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint which means  Financial Insurance  Company Limited should 
pay compensation as I have described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9729844