K822xcomplaint
EF is unhappy with how Lloyds Bank  PLC dealt with its requests to add and remove  
authorised signatories  on its bank  accounts.  Mr B, EFs treasurer, has brought the complaint 
on its behalf. 
background 
Mr B is the treasurer of EF, an informal membership group.  In early July 2018, Mr B sent a 
mandate variation request to Lloyds asking it to remove  an authorised signatory on EFs two 
bank accounts,  and to add another  signatory.  He included  the relevant paperwork.  
When he didnt get a response  to this request, Mr B visited a local Lloyds branch. The bank 
told him that the signature mandate had only been  updated on one of EFs accounts, not 
both. Mr B said Lloyds told him it would  make the changes to the second  account and 
confirm this in writing. 
But when he didnt  hear from Lloyds, Mr B wrote to the bank to complain. At the same time 
he also asked for another signatory to be removed from both accounts.  Mr B again  enclosed 
a mandate variation request. A month  later, Mr B still hadnt heard  anything from Lloyds, so 
he sent another complaint  letter. 
Mr B then contacted our service as he still hadnt received anything  from Lloyds. One of our 
adjudicators looked into EFs complaint. When she contacted the bank, it gave us a copy  of 
its response to the letters Mr B had sent.  
Lloyds accepted it had only updated  the signatories  on one of EFs accounts  in July. It said 
the other account  had now also been updated.  Lloyds  also said it could  see it had received 
EFs first complaint letter, but this hadnt been logged correctly  onto its systems. Nor could it 
find the mandate variation  form that was included with the letter. 
Lloyds apologised  for these issues and paid £150  to EF. The bank included  another  
mandate variation form to be completed. The bank also commented that due to the ages of 
EFs two accounts, these werent classed as commercial accounts. It said that to make 
future account changes  easier, EF might want to open  a new account.  
Our adjudicator sent Mr B a copy of Lloyds response. She asked him if he still wanted to 
pursue EFs complaint in light of the compensation the bank had already paid. Mr B wasnt  
happy and wanted us to look into this matter further.  In short, he said Lloyds  had failed to 
solve his issues. 
Our adjudicator thought a fair settlement would be for Lloyds to pay EF £100  on top of the 
£150 it had already paid.  The bank agreed to this. But Mr B, on behalf  of EF didnt agree 
with the adjudicator. Briefly, he said: the issue hadnt been resolved; he asked what was he 
to do the next time EF needed  to vary the signature mandate;  and, neither our service nor 
Lloyds have found a solution  to the fact that the bank is incapable of processing mandate  
changes. 
As EF didnt  agree  with our adjudicators view, its complaint has been  passed to me for a 
final decision. I would note that Mr B, on behalf of EF, is also unhappy that it hasnt been 
receiving bank statements. This is a different issue which  Lloyds has dealt with as a 
separate complaint. I wont be commenting further  on this. 
Ref: DRN91944412my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Lloyds agreement 
to pay a further £100 is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why. 
But first, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly  and in my own words.  No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think is the crux of the matter 
here: has Lloyds dealt with EFs complaint fairly and reasonably? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  point or argument  to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Mr B told us that Lloyds  clearly have nothing but polite  contempt for both EFs complaint and 
our investigation. He suggests the bank would rather process  mandates  in a slow manner 
and then apologise, rather than processing them in a prompt and timely manner. Mr B goes 
on to say that Lloyds response proves that our service has been both impotent and useless 
in dealing with this matter. He also says I should  comment specifically on this assertion in 
my final decision. 
I would point out here that the Financial Ombudsman Service is impartial between, and 
independent from,  consumers and financial businesses. What this means  here is that I dont 
represent either EF or Lloyds. Nor do I act under either partys instructions or take directions 
as to how a complaint will be considered. 
Im also aware that EF has had this same problem with Lloyds some years  ago. I can 
appreciate why Mr B thinks  the same issue is likely to happen again. But, from the available 
evidence, I dont think there is a large  scale systemic failing here. Im satisfied that EF has 
simply experienced a poor level of customer service. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr B, but we dont have  the power to tell Lloyds what level of 
customer service  it has to provide. This means  I cant make  it provide  EF with a guaranteed  
level of customer service  that it might be satisfied  with. But customers are entitled to be 
provided with a reasonable level of service.  If theyre not, and suffer financial loss, trouble  or 
upset as a result, then we can consider how best this should be put right. 
Similarly, we dont  have  the power  to tell Lloyds  how it must process mandate  variation 
requests. Thats  an internal  matter for the bank. But what I can look at is if the way Lloyds 
has dealt with EF means its been  treated  unfairly.  
Here Im satisfied Lloyds has treated EF unfairly. The bank accepts that it should  have  
actioned the first mandate variation on both accounts, rather  than only one of them. It also 
accepts it mislaid the second mandate variation  request when EFs complaint letter  from 
October 2018 wasnt logged correctly onto its systems. Both the mandate  variations have 
now been actioned. So what I need  to think about is what  else Lloyds should do to put things 
right. 
Ref: DRN91944413As above, I cant make the bank give EF a guarantee over the level of customer service  it 
will provide   and as Ive just said,  its now updated the mandates on both accounts. So Ive 
thought about the impact this issue has had on EF. 
Its important that I make  clear that its EF who is Lloyds customer, not Mr B. Here, EF is a 
totally separate entity to Mr B, who is its representative. The available evidence  doesnt 
show that EF has suffered  a financial loss. Indeed, Mr B told our adjudicator  that EF doesnt 
want the extra £100 from Lloyds and doesnt need  it. 
EF, as an entity, cant suffer distress. But it can be inconvenienced.  Ive not been presented  
with any evidence that the issues with the mandates stopped  EF from carrying  on with its 
usual activities. Taking  all of this into consideration, Im satisfied that an additional £100  so 
£250 in total  is a fair and reasonable settlement of this complaint. 
For completeness, I can see Mr B told us he thinks Lloyds never sent a response to his 
complaint. He asserts the bank backdated  its response, after he brought  his complaint to us, 
to make it look as though  it had been  sent earlier. I dont accept this. 
Lloyds response  is dated 19 December 2018. EFs complaint to our service was received 
around 11 February 2019. Lloyds letter is correctly addressed to the same  address Mr B 
has provided to our service. The letter states  £150 will be paid straight into EFs bank 
account. 
I can see from bank statements that on 2 January 2019,  this amount was credited to the 
account specified in Lloyds response. This is five working days after the date of the 
response. Its also more  than five weeks before EF contacted us. So this doesnt support 
Mr Bs assertion that the letter was backdated. Im satisfied that Lloyds did indeed send a 
response to EFs complaint on 19 December 2018. 
Also, I know  Mr B is unhappy that Lloyds suggested EF may wish to open a new account  
one thats more suitable for an organisation such as EF. I can appreciate why EF, and its 
supporters, would be inconvenienced by this. But I would  point  out this was a suggestion by 
Lloyds  one that EF can accept or reject as it sees fit. 
I know Mr B, on behalf of EF, will be disappointed that our service cant make Lloyds 
guarantee that the next mandate  change will be processed quickly  and competently. As 
above, this is beyond our remit.  Ultimately,  any commercial  business that consistently fails to 
provide a reasonable level of customer service  is likely to lose customers. 
In summary,  Im satisfied  Lloyds didnt treat EF fairly  when it failed to process the mandate 
variations in a timely way. Im also satisfied that the banks agreement to pay a further  £100  
in compensation  is a fair and reasonable settlement of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN91944414my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should  pay EF a further £100 in addition to the 
£150 its already  paid.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the EF to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9194441