K821x#15complaint
Mrs D and the estate  of the late Mr D complain  about advice given by Barclays Bank UK
PLC (Barclays) to invest £75,000 in a Barclays  Personal Investment Management  Portfolio.
background
Mrs D and the late Mr D were  advised by Barclays to invest in a Barclays  Personal
Investment Management Portfolio in April 1998.  The investment was surrendered  for a loss 
in October 2002.  Barclays assessed Mrs D and the late Mr D as medium risk investors  with 
their investment objective selected as capital growth with safety.
Prior to making this investment,  Mrs D and the late Mr D had invested in PEPs,  so they had 
some investment experience. Within a short  period of time, a substantial  proportion of the 
funds had been invested into equities (up to 80%). It is said on behalf  of Mrs D and the late
Mr D that they were exposed to much more risk than they were  willing  to take,  given their 
time of life and objectives. Mrs D and the late Mr Ds representatives suggest  that the funds 
should have been invested  in a high interest paying  savings account.
Barclays have conceded their adviser failed to correctly establish Mrs D and the late
Mr Ds attitude to risk and accept that Mrs D and the late Mr D were advised  to invest  too 
much into the portfolio.  Barclays say that Mrs D and the late Mr D should have been advised
to retain  £25,000  on deposit, which would have reduced their exposure  to equities. Barclays
have therefore  offered  £15,945.74  by way of compensation, based upon £25,000 being
retained on deposit with a return  based  upon the Bank of England  Average Fixed  Rate Bond
Returns Index, plus £200 to compensate  for distress and inconvenience caused by late
assessment of the complaint.
Those acting on behalf of Mrs D and the late Mr D do not object to the compensation offer
on £25,000. But maintain that compensation is also payable  on the remaining £50,000
invested and suggest this too should have  been placed in a deposit-based high interest-
earning-account.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She thought it wasnt fair and reasonable to
consider cash reserves  outside  the portfolio when looking at risk, as Barclays had no control
over the cash reserves and there was nothing to show that they had advised Mrs D and the
late Mr D to retain those reserves in order to balance the risk within  the portfolio. She
recommended assessing  compensation against a benchmark whereby half the funds
invested would be assessed against the FTSE UK private investors income  total return index
and the remaining half against the average  rate from fixed bonds,  with interest payable from
date of surrender.
Those acting on behalf of Mrs D and the late Mr D have nothing further to add. Barclays
disagree with the view and maintain that their offer is fair and reasonable. They say evidence
should be provided as to whether the late Mr Ds business had failed in the past and point to
the fact that Mrs D and the late Mr D did have cash reserves,  with which they purchased
another property,  so they were in a position to make up losses  on the portfolio. Further,
Barclays say that Mrs D and the late Mr D were made aware of the importance of
maintaining a healthy reserve and the impact  that had on the portfolio through  the literature
provided to them at a sales  meeting.
I wrote  a provisional decision in December 2019,  in which  I upheld  the complaint. I said:
Ref: DRN94660412my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its now conceded by Barclays that the assessment of Mrs D and the late Mr Ds attitude  to
risk was incorrect. They were cautious investors,  so the recommendation to invest in a
medium risk portfolio presented too high a level of risk for them.  Further,  Barclays  also
accept that Mrs D and the late Mr D were told to invest  too much.
In light of these  concessions, I consider that the advice given was unsuitable for Mrs D and
the late Mr Ds circumstances. So, its fair and reasonable  for Barclays  to compensate Mrs D
and the estate of the late Mr D.
Putting things right
Despite the above concessions, when  assessing  compensation  Barclays  say that investment
in the fund would have  been suitable  if less had been invested and a higher cash reserve
had been held. They suggest that had Mrs D and the late Mr D invested £50,000 and kept
£25,000 on deposit, the portfolio would have  been  suitable for their appetite for risk. Barclays
have therefore  offered  £15,945.74,  based upon  the return from investing  £25,000 in the
Bank of England  Average Fixed Rate  Bond Returns  Index. They maintain that no further
compensation is due because  this offer effectively realigns the investment and puts Mrs D
and the late Mr D in the position they would have  been in had the correct advice been given
at the outset as the capital growth  with safety option relied  upon  cash reserves to balance
the portfolio.
Those acting on behalf of Mrs D and the late Mr D have suggested that I need  only now
focus on the remaining £50,000.
Im not satisfied that the offer is fair and reasonable. Barclays suggest artificially  removing a
chunk of the investment to try and retrospectively  reduce  the risk. But theres  no persuasive
evidence that Barclays would have recommended this particular approach at the time had
Mrs D and the late Mr Ds attitude  to risk been properly assessed. And Im mindful  that the
equity split of the funds  invested would have remained high at 77%,  according  to a table
provided by Barclays. The fact that cash  might  have sat outside the portfolio wouldnt have
necessarily made the recommendation  to invest in the portfolio less risky, as at the point the
investment was made, it wouldnt have been  known  what  would become of cash  reserves in
the future  and Im mindful not to assess compensation  with the benefit of hindsight.
Theres nothing to show that the adviser told Mrs D and the late Mr D to maintain cash
reserves to offset the risk in the portfolio. Ive not seen any written evidence  from the time to
support that. Barclays say there  was information in the literature that was likely given to
Mrs D and the late Mrs D at the time of sale, which said, the Portfolio Manager will assume
that you maintain  the liquid portion of your total savings outside  the portfolio. . it should  be
recognised that any substantial  reduction  in the value of your cash reserve  will have the
effect of raising  the level of risk to which you are exposed. But again, theres nothing to
show that this section was brought to the attention of Mrs D and the late Mr D at the time, so
I place very limited weight  on it.
So, the correct  starting  point is that the recommendation  shouldnt have been made at all. I
Ref: DRN94660413think that if the right advice had been  given,  its likely that Mrs D and the late Mr D would
have invested  £75,000 differently.
It is not possible to say precisely what they would have done  differently. But I am satisfied
that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given their circumstances and
objectives when  they invested.
So, Barclays  should make  an assessment  in respect  of the whole £75,000 invested:
Compare the performance of Mrs D and the late Mr Ds investment with that of the 
benchmark shown  below  and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual  value 
of the investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
They should  also pay interest as set out below.
Provide the details of the calculation in a clear,  simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)  additional   interest
Barclays  
Personal  
Investment 
Managementsurrenderedfor half the 
investment: FTSE UK
Private 
Investorsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple  per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
     Income  Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bonds
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  you should  use
Ref: DRN94660414the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity as published
by the Bank of England.  The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous
month. Apply those  rates to the investment on an annually compounded  basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the
calculation from that point on.
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if
you total all those payments and deduct  that figure  at the end instead of deducting
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mrs D and the late Mr D wanted  capital growth  with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who
wanted to achieve a reasonable  return  without  risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It
would be a fair measure  for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a
higher return.
I consider that Mrs D and the late Mr Ds risk profile was in between, in the sense
that they were  prepared  to take a small level of risk to attain their investment
objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs D and the estate of
Mr D into that position.  It does not mean  that Mrs D and the estate of Mr D would
have invested  50% of their money  in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of index
tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects
the sort of return Mrs D and the estate of Mr D could have obtained  from investments
suited to their objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money
since the end date.
In addition to the compensation set above,  Barclays should also pay £200  in compensation 
for the delay.
Both parties  have now received and accepted my decision. Ive reviewed everything before 
reaching my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN94660415Having considered everything, it remains my view that the advice given by Barclays  to Mrs D 
and the late Mr D was unsuitable. It is therefore fair and reasonable for Barclays  to put 
things right.
I remain of the view that the recommendations in my provisional  decision are fair and 
reasonable. I therefore adopt the reasoning  set out above.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am upholding this complaint. I direct  Barclays Bank UK PLC to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D and the 
estate of the late Mr D to accept or reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9466041