K821x#15complaint
Mrs N complains about Sterling & Law Group Plcs advice to transfer the deferred benefits in 
her occupational pension scheme  (OPS) to a personal pension.
background
In 2006, Mrs N received  correspondence from her former employer in relation  to her OPS.  
The letter explained that, as the OPS was in deficit,  transfer values were  currently reduced.  
In Mrs Ns case the usual  transfer value was reduced by 62% compared  to what  the transfer 
value would be if the scheme was fully funded or in surplus.
However, her former employer was offering to pay the full transfer  value to members who 
made the decision to transfer their benefits to an alternative pension.  This was a temporary  
offer available on a first come,  first serve basis. If Mrs N took the offer she would be entitled  
to an enhanced transfer value of £94,259. The amount  included  an enhancement  of 
£60,279, and the letter recommended that Mrs N should seek independent  financial advice 
before making  a decision about whether she should  accept this offer.
Mrs N sought advice  from Sterling  & Law who completed a fact find with her in April 2006. It 
was recorded  that she was aged  45 and married with one dependent. She was employed 
earning £668 per month, had an outstanding repayment mortgage  with her husband of 
£74,500 and unsecured  debt of £2,500. It was recorded that she had savings of £3,000 and 
no other savings or investments.
Mrs N also completed a pension transfer questionnaire on 21 June 2006 which included 
information about her priorities  when it came  to retirement planning.  On the same day Mrs N 
signed an execution  only declaration which stated:
I have been provided with generic financial advice with regard to my pension  options but I 
have made  my own decision with regard  to the transfer of my [OPS].
I therefore request  that this business  is transacted on an execution  only basis
with Friends Provident  on my behalf. 
On 22 June 2006, Sterling & Law issued a suitability letter  to Mrs N. The report  confirmed 
that she was now working  part time and was a member  of the local government  pension 
scheme. With regard to the transfer  of her OPS from her former employer, the report stated 
the following:
The advice I provided to you was a general  appraisal of your options  with regard to
the existing scheme  with [the OPS]. This is a final salary scheme with valuable
irreplaceable guaranteed benefits. Our recommendation  with such  schemes is NOT to
transfer because  the decision to transfer is irreversible.
You have  subsequently  taken your own decision to transfer to a new personal pension  in
your own name without advice. Your main  reason,  that you stated, was that you are
particularly keen to have access to benefits from age 55. Our advice will therefore be
limited to the choice  of provider for the proceeds  of the transfer.
The report  confirmed that following an analysis  of Mrs Ns attitude to risk, it was established 
that she had a balanced attitude to risk to this investment because of the number of years  
Ref: DRN99091092until her anticipated  retirement at age 65. In addition, it said she wanted the flexibility  to 
switch between a variety of funds  as her financial objectives, circumstances and attitude to 
risk could change  over time.
Sterling & Law advised that Friends Provident  was a suitable pension  provider to transfer
the OPS pension to. It also recommended the funds Mrs N pension  should be invested  into 
once the transfer  had been completed. Mrs Ns OPS benefits were  subsequently transferred 
to a new plan with Friends Provident  and invested  in line with the investment  strategy  
recommended by Sterling & Law.
Mrs N later complained to Sterling & Law as she became  unsure  as to whether the advice 
had been appropriate. They rejected the complaint. They said the transfer was transacted  on 
an execution-only basis and Mrs N hadnt received advice.
An investigator at this service looked into the complaint  and upheld  it. 
In summary  he thought  Sterling & Law shouldnt  have  treated this as an execution-only 
transfer.  He considered Mrs Ns background and past investment experience and concluded  
that she wouldnt have  the knowledge  or experience to go ahead  with an OPS transfer on an 
execution-only basis. In his opinion, if Sterling & Laws recommendation with OPS schemes 
was not to transfer then it should  have  refused  to transact the pension  transfer  on any basis. 
By proposing to act on an execution-only basis, Mrs N was not in a fully informed position in 
relation to the transfer. He said that Sterling & Law had a duty to act in Mrs Ns best interest.  
He also considered that the ability of the new plan to outperform the OPS  was limited. 
Mrs N was giving up valuable benefits and guarantees to an investment with no guarantees 
and dependent on performance and she didnt have an immediate need for a transfer.  
He concluded  that the transfer wasnt suitable for Mrs N and if she had been  given  suitable  
advice by Sterling  & Law she likely would have decided to stay in her OPS.  He 
recommended Sterling & Law should  compensate Mrs N to put her back into the position 
she would  be in if she had received  suitable advice and had not transferred.  
Sterling & Law disagreed  with the investigator. They said they had acted in Mrs Ns best 
interest by making  sure she wasnt losing out on the enhanced transfer value which  was a lot 
of money for anyone  in Mrs Ns position. They said they were just following Mrs Ns 
instructions and she would have understood  from the suitability report  that her OPS  was a 
final salary pension with valuable irreplaceable benefits. 
Sterling & Law said -in their view- Mrs N most  likely decided to proceed  on an execution-only 
basis because a full transfer analysis would  have been a drawn-out process and she didnt 
want to risk losing  out on the enhanced value offer. By signing the declaration she waived 
her right to a full recommendation.  They  didnt  give advice  on the transfer and so they didnt  
have to make sure it was suitable.
A new investigator considered the points  raised but was not persuaded to change the 
opinion already issued. She endorsed the initial view that Mrs Ns transaction wasnt  a true 
execution-only sale.
She pointed  to guidance which was provided  by the Personal Investment Authority (PIA) in 
May 1997 which refers  to the need  for firms carrying out execution-only transactions to 
provide clear and credible evidence of the nature  of these sales. 
Ref: DRN99091093The guidance read As the regulators have always stressed, a true execution-only sale is 
inherently rare. This is especially so where a complicated pension product is involved, and 
the investor will inevitably need to rely on the firms expertise. In the specific  context of the 
review, the Standards prevent a firm from classifying  a case as execution-only unless  there 
is clear and credible evidence to this effect. The clear and credible  standard is a high one. 
If a firm has correctly  classified  a case as execution-only the firm must still proceed with 
Test 4 of the compliance assessment and consider whether or not the investor  was mislead.  
This will, in such a situation,  involve many of the elements which would in any event have 
had to be considered under a full compliance  assessment.
She also said just before  this transaction in June 2006, a publication by the Ombudsman in 
January/February 2006 (issue 51) had been published. It provided guidance where  firms had 
acted on an execution only basis  or had given  only limited  advice.  It reminded firms of the 
above guidance. 
The second  investigator endorsed the initial view that Mrs Ns transaction  wasnt a true 
execution-only sale.
In response, Sterling  and Law offered Mrs N all her fees back inflation proofed which comes 
to about £6,000 to settle the matter. Mrs N rejected the offer and asked for her complaint to 
be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree that this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
execution-only sale 
Based on the information provided I dont  consider  this was a genuine execution-only 
transaction. Mrs Ns former  employer  strongly suggested she should seek  advice about 
whether to accept  the offer of an enhanced transfer  value and she was introduced to Sterling 
& Law for advice. 
A fact find and a pension  transfer questionnaire  were completed which I wouldnt expect to 
see if no advice was planned to be given. And, as Sterling & Law say themselves, they gave 
her generic  advice on pension transfer options. They also recommended a specific personal 
pension plan and what Mrs N should  invest in. In an execution-only transaction  a client  
would give the business clear instructions what they wanted to do without any advice from 
the business. I cant see this was the case here.
Sterling & Law might  have  given  only generic  advice  with regards  to Mrs Ns OPS  transfer-
they said their recommendation with such schemes is not to transfer-  but it was still advice. 
I dont put much weight  on Mrs N signing a declaration that she made her own decision with 
regards to the transfer. As explained  above this was effectively an advised sale which  
outweighs a declaration to the contrary. Transferring from an OPS is a complex financial 
matter on which the vast majority of consumers will need the advice from an expert. Looking 
at Mrs Ns personal and financial circumstances theres no indication  that Mrs N would have 
Ref: DRN99091094understood the full risks of her actions and made a conscious and informed  decision  to 
proceed without advice. 
I also note that the reason for proceeding without advice given in the declaration  isnt 
persuasive. It says Mrs N was keen to access benefits at the age of 55. This might have 
been an objective, although this isnt backed up by any other documents  on file. In fact 
Sterling & Laws  recommended personal  pension had a retirement age of 65 and in her 
pension transfer  questionnaire Mrs N indicated that she probably couldnt afford to retire 
early. However, in any event, mentioning one possible advantage  of a transfer shows  to my 
mind that Mrs N didnt have a full understanding of the advantages and disadvantages of a 
transfer to an extent she could make  an informed decision without advice.  
Sterling & Law had a duty to act in Mrs Ns best interest and so shouldnt have allowed her 
to proceed in this way. As I see it Sterling & Law had two options. They could have given her 
full transfer advice, including a transfer  value analysis and weighing up the advantages and 
disadvantages of a transfer. Or they shouldnt  have advised her at all. Limiting the advice in 
the way they did left Mrs N in an uninformed position and helped facilitate a transfer that was 
likely to be unsuitable for her. Sterling & Law had said themselves they would generally  
recommend not to transfer due to the valuable benefits in a final salary scheme.
Sterling & Law made assumptions that Mrs N just wanted  to proceed quickly  so she wouldnt  
lose the enhanced transfer value and so she didnt  want to wait for full transfer  advice. 
I would like to note that this is just an assumption  made which isnt supported by any 
evidence on file. However, even if this was the case, to treat Mrs N fairly and act in her best 
interest Sterling & Law shouldnt have agreed to proceed without full advice and giving her 
all the information  she needed. I dont doubt  that an enhanced value would have looked 
attractive. But it was Sterling & Laws duty to point out to Mrs N that taking the enhanced  
value might not necessarily be her best option.
  
As Sterling  & Law did give Mrs N advice, they needed to make  sure the transfer  was suitable 
for her circumstances.
was the transfer  suitable  for Mrs N?
At the time of the advice the regulators guidance  in relation to OPS  transfer advice  was set 
out in the Conduct of Business (COB).  Under COB 5.3.29G it said:
When advising a customer  who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined  
benefits occupational pension scheme  whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming  it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable  if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence  available  
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
So the starting point should be that a transfer  isnt suitable. I considered whether a transfer 
was in Mrs Ns best interest, however I dont think it was.
Mrs Ns was considering  a transfer  due to the enhanced transfer value that was being 
offered by her former employer. Sterling  & Law say the large  enhancement  would have been  
a lot of money  to Mrs N. However, this wasnt money that would be paid to her. It would be 
invested in a personal pension and Mrs N would only benefit if her new plan would  perform  
Ref: DRN99091095better and give her more  benefits in retirement than her OPS.  The transfer value didnt affect  
the benefits that she received in her OPS. 
Sterling & Law didnt perform a transfer value analysis and they couldnt  provide a backdated 
one to show how much the benefits  in Mrs Ns personal plan had to grow to match  her OPS 
benefits (also known as critical yield).  However, based on the information  I have I think the 
chances of the personal plan exceeding  the OPS benefits were unlikely.
Mrs Ns former employer  provided her with information regarding the benefits she could 
expect from her OPS. This was an income  of £15,784 per year or a lump sum of £67,743  
with a reduced income of £10,161 per year.
I then looked at the illustration for the personal pension  with the specific  investments 
recommended by Sterling & Law. It showed projected benefits at age 65 with assumed  
growth rates of 5%, 7% and 9% as per the regulators guidelines at the time.
Mrs Ns attitude to risk was recorded  in the suitability report as balanced.  She also confirmed 
to this service that her attitude  to risk had been  medium. I also looked at her capacity for 
loss. At the time of the advice the OPS benefits were the main source of Mrs Ns retirement 
income. However, she still had twenty  years to go to retirement and she was working  for the 
local government which would have also provided her with a defined benefit  pension. So I 
think she was able to take a balanced  risk with this pension.
At a medium  growth rate of 7% the personal pension showed  projected benefits of £16,100  
per year or a lump sum of £65,100 and a reduced  annual income  of £12,100. 
At the time of the advice this service was publishing 'discount  rates' on our website for use in 
loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst 
businesses weren't required  to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension  transfers,  
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been  considered  
reasonably achievable when the advice was given  in this case. 
The discount  rate in 2006 taking into account  Mrs N being 19 years away  from her planned 
retirement was 6.2%. Given  her medium attitude  to risk I dont  think its likely her plan would 
have performed much better than this. 
Looking at the illustrations provided  Mrs Ns new plan needed  to achieve close to 7% just to 
match her OPS benefits. And I havent  even taken  account of the fact that the annual  income  
in the personal  pension  didnt include a spouses  pension whereas the OPS benefits 
included a dependents pension of £7,892 per year. If she had wanted her personal  pension 
to provide a spouses pension, she would have needed a higher growth rate to fund this 
benefit.
So by transferring to a personal pension Mrs N was unlikely to end up with higher  retirement  
benefits than her OPS  and there  was a risk she could end up with lower benefits.
Based on the information Ive seen a transfer wasnt financially  viable  for Mrs N.
There can be other reasons why a transfer can be beneficial. But I havent seen that this 
applies here. As mentioned before possible early retirement at age 55 was mentioned  in the 
declaration Mrs N signed, but in the pension transfer  questionnaire  she said she probably 
couldnt afford to retire  at 55 and she rated the importance of retiring early as low. Even  if 
Mrs N found the idea of the possibility to access benefits early attractive, OPS schemes can 
Ref: DRN99091096often offer early retirement options  too or she could have transferred out of the scheme if 
she had concrete plans to retire ten to fifteen years later. None of this was explained or 
explored.
Mrs N also indicated in the pension transfer questionnaire that the spouses  pension in the 
OPS was very important  to her and that these benefits should  be maintained and that the 
security of her pension was her highest  priority. 
So taking all of the above into account  I cant see that transferring  her pension was in 
Mrs Ns best interest or fulfilled a particular objective  or need. It was unsuitable for her 
circumstances. 
I appreciate the generic advice from Sterling  & Law was not to transfer. However, without full 
information why the enhanced transfer  value  wouldnt put Mrs N in a better position and how 
the OPS would fulfil all her pension objectives  and meet her priorities, Mrs N wasnt given all 
the information she needed  to make her decision.
I think if Sterling & Law had explained all of this to Mrs N she would have decided to stay in 
her OPS.  I therefore hold Sterling & Law responsible for any losses  Mrs N incurred as a 
result of their unsatisfactory advice.
putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mrs N as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider she would 
have remained in the occupational scheme. Sterling & Law must therefore undertake a 
redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review  guidance as updated by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Ns acceptance of the decision.
Sterling &Law may wish to contact  the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mrs Ns contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS  or 
S2P). These details  should then be used  to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation,  
which will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on Mrs Ns 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ns pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs N as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
Ref: DRN99091097In addition Mrs N should be paid £250  for the disruption  caused  to her retirement planning. 
This should be paid to her directly.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs N within 90 days of the date 
Sterling & Law receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest  
must be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple  from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 90 days, that it takes 
Sterling & Law to pay Mrs N.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs  that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000 I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require  Sterling  & Law to pay Mrs N the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above,  up to a maximum of £150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000 I additionally require [Sterling & 
Law to pay Mrs N any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds  £150,000 I only require Sterling & Law to 
pay Mrs N any interest  as set out above on the sum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount  exceeds £150,000 I also recommend that 
Sterling & Law pays Mrs N the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as 
set out above  on this balance to be paid to Mrs N.
If Mrs N accepts my decision, the money award  is binding on Sterling & Law. My 
recommendation is not binding on Sterling & Law. Further, its unlikely that Mrs N can accept  
my decision  and go to court to ask for the balance.  Mrs N may want  to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and request  Sterling  & Law Group Plc to compensate  Mrs N as set 
out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2020.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9909109