K820x#14Complaint
Mrs P complains that JCT600 Limited recorded details of her personal contract purchase 
(PCP) agreement on her credit reference file without making it clear to her that it would  do 
so.
Background
In October  2017 Mrs P acquired  a new car and this was funded by means of a PCP 
agreement. She says she told the dealer she had a certain monthly budget  and wanted  to 
lease a new car. She says she was advised to take a PCP agreement as it was similar to 
leasing and she would  be able to either  buy the car or hand  it back  at the end of the 
agreement. She says that at no time was she told that the debt would be registered against 
her personally. 
Subsequently she sought to remortgage  and discovered the debt on her credit  file. This had 
an impact on her debt to income  ratio and affected her ability to remortgage. She also said 
she was required to have  an excellent credit rating for her job and she would have to explain 
the situation to her employer.
She says she was asked  for £2,500 to give the car back, but as she didnt have this sum she 
took out a new agreement  with another provider which included the £2,500. 
JCT600 rejected  her complaint and said that the documentation she had signed had 
mentioned that the agreement would be added to her credit file. The complaint was then 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt  recommend it be upheld. 
He noted the suitability  document which was used  to identify  the most suitable  means  of 
financing the car. JCT600 provided  details  of range of products but the PCP was deemed to 
be the most  suitable.  He noted  Mrs P signed  the document confirming  she was happy  that 
the answers given  were  accurate and that she had been given sufficient time to read all the 
documents.
He said the finance agreement signed  by Mrs P set out the full amount of credit  and it 
followed that this sum would be recorded on her credit file. He explained that it was standard  
practice for lenders to record the overall  value  of the vehicle as a starting balance in hire 
agreements.
He added that the agreement confirmed that the loan details would be recorded  on her credit  
record. She was paying interest on the full a mount due and given she was liable to pay the 
full amount in one form or another this was the correct sum to be recorded.  Overall, he 
concluded the business wasnt  obliged to detail the precise sum which  would be shown  on 
her credit file. 
Mrs P didnt agree and said she was told that PCP was like a lease  and she had an option  to 
buy it so she wasnt liable  for the full sum.  She also said that she had spoken to other  people  
who were unaware of how the process  worked for PCP. She said it hadnt been made clear 
to her and she believed the practice fell below  standards  she would expect for a financial 
transaction. She also said that just because  it was standard practice by the industry didnt 
mean it was fair.
Ref: DRN92782532My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service  is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award  redress where  appropriate.  I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have  the power to make rules for financial businesses  or 
to punish them.
It is unfortunate that Mrs P wasnt aware  of the consequences of the agreement  she took 
out. I cannot say what was said by the salesman, but I can see that the documentation she 
was given made it clear  she was borrowing  money to fund the car. Once she signed  the 
agreement and took delivery of the car she owed the full cost of the car.
The fact that she could satisfy that debt in a number  of ways, for example handing  the car 
back at the end of the term or paying off the balance didnt  mean that she hadnt  entered  into 
a loan arrangement. JCT600 made  a loan and the car was collateral for that loan. The 
agreement also goes  on to say that:
We will also add to your record with the Credit  reference agencies details of your 
Agreement with us, the repayments you make under It, and any default  or failure to keep to 
Its Terms and any change of address you fail to let us about where a repayment  is overdue.  
Credit reference agencies may share  with other organisations credit searches and other 
information about you (and those you are associated financially with) that is provided to us or 
directly to them (or both).
Mrs P signed to say she had been  given the pre contract information and she had been 
given time to read it. I can understand if she didnt do so, but that doesnt  mean  I can say the 
business did anything  wrong. In short Mrs P borrowed  money  to fund a car and that was 
properly recorded  on her credit file. I note her friends didnt know how such agreements 
were recorded, but that is no basis for me upholding her complaint. As I have explained 
above I am not the regulator. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 
26 December 2019.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9278253