K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined his claim against his private
medical insurance policy.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 8 January 2020, 
an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.  So, I wont  repeat that 
information here. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought that AXA PPP had treated Mr W 
unfairly in declining his claim and I set out what I proposed it should do to put matters right. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr W accepted my provisional decision. He said he was willing to agree to compensation of 
£100 but the time hed spent on this matter added up to more  than that. Mr W said he 
required a tax deduction certificate.  
AXA PPP didnt respond to the provisional  decision.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what  Mr W has said about  the time hes spent dealing with this matter.  We dont 
usually award compensation for an individuals  time and I dont think that a fair resolution  
requires me to do so here. In considering compensation, I look at the overall  impact  the error  
had. For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I think  that compensation of £100 is 
fair here.
Given that neither  AXA PPP nor Mr W has provided  me with anything  further  on the 
complaint, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. So, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think  that AXA PPP treated Mr W fairly  in 
declining his claim. 
To put things right, AXA PPP should  pay Mr Ws claim, subject to the relevant limits in the 
policy. It should also pay interest on any amounts Mr W has paid which should have been 
covered under his policy. Mr W has indicated  that he wants a tax deduction  certificate, so 
AXA PPP should  provide one. AXA PPP should  also pay Mr W compensation of £100.  
Ref: DRN92177732my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
AXA PPP Healthcare Limited should  now:
pay the claim, subject  to the relevant  limits  in the policy;
if Mr W has paid invoices which should have been covered under his policy,  
pay interest on the amount Mr W paid at the simple rate of 8% per year, from 
the date Mr W made  the payment, to the date AXA PPP makes  the payment;
pay Mr W compensation of £100.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires AXA PPP to take off tax from this interest. AXA PPP must 
give Mr W a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off, as hes already indicated that he 
wants one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN92177733extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr W complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited  declined his claim against  his private 
medical insurance policy.
background
In February 2019,  Mr Ws GP referred  him to a consultant dermatologist  in relation to a 
cluster of papillomata on his thigh that hurt when  he walked. Mr W asked AXA PPP to cover  
a consultation  with a consultant dermatologist. AXA PPP declined  the claim.  It said that 
benign papillomata are generally considered warts,  which  are excluded under the policy.
After Mr W complained, AXA PPP agreed  to cover the initial  consultation to gather 
further information. After  AXA PPP spoke with the consultants secretary, it decided that 
the removal of skin tags was the removal of surplus tissue, which  was excluded under 
the policy. I understand that the consultant dermatologist  removed the skin tags in March  
2019.
Mr W complains that:
AXA PPPs front-line staff are not trained in medical matters and make 
decisions about what is or isnt covered under the policy by guessing.
AXA PPP changed the exclusion upon which it relied but didnt explain that to 
him.
His consultant  said that a procedure was required  and given  the location 
of the problem, it isnt cosmetic.
AXA PPP wasted  his time.
Mr W wants AXA PPP to deal with his claim.
One of our investigators looked  at what had happened. She said that theres no evidence 
that Mr W had warts, as AXA PPP initially said. The investigator said that Mr W had skin 
tags, the removal of which the NHS considers cosmetic surgery,  for which  theres an 
exclusion in the policy. So, she didnt think that AXA PPP had acted unfairly  in declining 
the claim but its explanation was confusing and ambiguous. The investigator  thought  that
AXA PPP should pay Mr W compensation of £50 in relation to his inconvenience.
AXA PPP didnt  respond to the investigators  view. Mr W didnt agree with the 
investigator. He said:
It wasnt right for the investigator to rely on definitions from elsewhere.
Skin tags are not warts and are not excluded  under the policy,  so they are 
covered.
The surgery required  wasnt cosmetic and AXA PPP didnt decline the claim 
on that ground.
Ref: DRN92177734The NHS would have treated the skin tags because it was necessary for the 
relief of pain.
The investigator should get a third party medical opinion.
As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed  to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr W has very strong  feelings  about this matter.  Hes provided  detailed 
submissions to support his complaint, which I have read and considered. However,  I trust 
that he will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what  I consider  to be the 
central issues: that is whether AXA PPP acted fairly in declining  his claim.
This service cant direct an insurer in relation to how it organises its business or trains  
its staff. But I can consider the effect  of AXA PPPs actions on Mr W.
Mr W has, in effect,  questioned why non-medically  qualified  individuals are making 
decisions about his complaint. My role isnt to commission further medical  reports or 
substitute the medical judgement of any of the medical professionals involved in the case  
with my own.  But I do weigh  up all the medical evidence Ive been provided with to decide 
whether I think AXA PPP handled Mr Ws claim fairly and reasonably. 
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point  is the terms and conditions  of the policy.  The policy excludes cover for 
the treatment of skin warts.
In its final response to Mr W, AXA PPP said that his claim was declined  because there was 
a general exclusion  under the policy in relation to skin tags and quoted  the removal of 
surplus tissue. The part of the policy that refers to that says as follows:
4.12 Fat 
removal
We do not cover the removal of fat or surplus tissue, such  as abdominoplasty (tummy 
tuck), whether the removal is needed  for medical  or psychological reasons.
Theres also an exclusion under the policy in relation to cosmetic treatment or 
surgery. 
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that AXA PPP has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ref: DRN92177735I think that AXA PPP treated Mr W unfairly  in declining his claim. Ill explain why.
    AXA PPP initially relied  on the exclusion relating to the treatment  of warts. I 
think its now common ground that Mr W didnt have warts; he had skin tags. So, 
his claim wasnt  properly  excluded under  the policy on that ground.
    AXA PPP next declined Mr Ws claim on the basis that theres a general 
exclusion in the policy relating to skin tags and referred to the removal of surplus 
tissue. Theres no general exclusion under the policy relating to skin tags. The 
reference to the removal to surplus  tissue is from an exclusion relating  to fat 
removal and isnt applicable here as Mr W wasnt having  fat removal.
    As the investigator explained, we look at the whole  picture  and we wouldnt 
direct an insurer to deal with a claim if it was excluded under the policy  but I dont 
think that the exclusion relating to cosmetic  surgery is applicable here either.
    Theres no definition  of cosmetic  surgery under the policy. So, Ive taken into 
account the definition of the Royal College of Surgeons, which  is where a 
person chooses  to have an operation, or invasive medical procedure,  to change 
their physical appearance  for cosmetic rather than medical reasons.
    I dont think that Mr W chose  the procedure to change his physical appearance 
for cosmetic  rather than medical reasons. The consultant dermatologist said that 
the size of the skin tags meant  they were traumatised by Mr W walking  and were  
therefore getting sore and inflamed.  Mr W says that they were  causing him 
difficulty when walking  or sitting and that he was in pain. Based on what  Ive seen, 
I think that Mr W had a medical  reason for wanting  the skin tags removed, which 
was recommended by his consultant.
    I dont think its directly relevant here whether the NHS  would treat Mr Ws skin 
tags: the central issue is whether the treatment is excluded in Mr Ws policy and I 
dont think it is.
    To put matters right, AXA PPP should deal with Mr Ws claim, subject to the 
remaining terms of the policy. If Mr W has paid medical invoices that should  have  
been covered  under  his policy,  hes been kept out of the use of that money. So, 
AXA PPP should also pay interest  on the settlement amount.
    AXA PPP is the expert and wed expect  it to apply its policy  terms accurately 
and fairly.  I dont  think it has done  that here as it declined Mr Ws claim first on an 
inaccurate understanding of his problem  and then on a misunderstanding of its own 
policy terms, which led to its exchanges with Mr W to be somewhat confusing. I 
think that caused Mr W inconvenience. Fair compensation  for that is £100.
Ref: DRN92177736my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint. I intend to direct  AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited to:
pay the claim, subject  to the relevant  limits  in the policy;
if Mr W has paid invoices which should have been covered under his policy,  
pay interest on the amount Mr W paid at the simple rate of 8% per year, from 
the date Mr W made  the payment to the date AXA PPP makes  the payment;
pay Mr W compensation of £100.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires AXA PPP to take off tax from this interest. AXA PPP must 
give Mr W a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN9217773