K821x#15Complaint
Mr C complains that Capital One (Europe) plc didnt tell him that he could only use the final 
£100 of his credit limit for balance  transfers.
Background
Mr C applied for a Capital One credit card via a third party website.  Mr C says he wanted to 
complete a balance  transfer, taking advantage of a 0% interest  promotional  rate that was 
available. Mr Cs application was successful and he was given a £200 credit  limit. 
When Mr C tried to complete a balance  transfer  for £180 it was declined.  He was told that 
Capital Ones policy is not to allow a balance transfer that leaves less that £100 of the credit  
limit remaining.  
Mr C complained and said that the information  about  balance transfer limitations wasnt  
contained in the promotional literature  or credit  agreement. Capital One said that it wont  
allow a balance transfer that takes  up the final £100  of a credit  limit to ensure theres enough  
money left to cover fees. Capital Ones final response confirmed this was an internal policy  
and it didnt uphold  the complaint. 
Mr C referred  his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator upheld  Mr Cs complaint and asked Capital One to pay him £100. Capital One 
didnt accept so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  that Capital  One is free to decide  what policies and procedures to use when 
administering a credit  card.  And I understand why it has a policy  that balance transfers 
require a £100 buffer which means  they cant take the balance  of the credit card to the 
maximum available. But I agree with the investigator  that in Mr Cs case  details  of 
Capital Ones policy would most likely have impacted his decision to proceed.  
Capital One accepts that no information about  its policy was given to Mr C when he applied  
and signed the credit agreement. In response  to the investigator, Capital One quoted  a 
section of its credit agreement that says:
When purchases,  cash withdrawals, credits to your account and balance  transfers  are 
added together   along with interest  all other  fees, charges and expenses   the total must  
not go over your credit limit. 
The maximum amount you can transfer  depends on how much  of your credit  limit is 
available.
In the credit  agreement Ive seen the above sentences arent  together.  And Im not 
persuaded the information provided gives any indication  of balance transfer buffer imposed 
by Capital One. Im satisfied the limitation wasnt made clear  to Mr C when he applied  or 
accepted the credit  agreement. 
Ref: DRN94042242In this case, the £100 buffer meant  that Mr C was only able to transfer around £100  to his 
Capital One credit card. I appreciate that for accounts with larger  credit  limits the £100 buffer 
may not be of the same importance. But because Mr Cs credit limit was £200  half of that 
was used up by Capital Ones buffer. As Ive said, I understand  the reasons for the limit and 
Capital One can decide how to operate its credit cards. But I think  Mr C would have either 
applied elsewhere  if the limitation was made known in the promotional  material or decided  
not to proceed  if it had been set out clearly in the terms. 
I note Mr C has used the credit card. But I agree with the investigator that he decided to 
proceed without the full facts. Its clear Mr C is annoyed and disappointed  that the credit card 
doesnt operate as expected and I understand that he wanted to reduce  his borrowing costs 
elsewhere by transferring  the debt to Capital One.  There has been  a reasonable level of 
trouble and upset  here so I agree that its fair for Capital One to compensate Mr C. The 
investigator recommended a figure  of £100  and I agree  that fairly reflects  the impact of this 
situation on Mr C so Im going to endorse  it. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Capital One (Europe) plc to pay Mr C 
£100. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9404224