K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1992 
alongside an M&S card. 
Its been agreed in this case  that Allianz Insurance plc, as the insurer,  should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to Allianz as the seller in my 
decision.
Mrs M says Allianz mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint should 
be upheld. Mrs M disagreed so the complaint has been brought to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mrs M says she was advised she couldnt have card without taking the PPI. She also says 
that the sales assistant  ticked  the box for the PPI, not her. Ive considered  what Mrs M has 
said and while I think these are her honest recollections of the sale,  without any evidence  to 
support what shes said I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold the complaint on this point. 
Ive looked closed at Mrs Ms application form and I can see in the section for PPI there  is a 
tick in the box to agree to the cover. But there  is nothing to suggest the cover had to be 
taken in order to get the policy. In this section Mrs Ms name and date of birth has been 
written in the box to confirm she is the applicant for the cover. I accept that this couldve 
been completed by the sales person but I think its likely the PPI was discussed and this 
section wouldve been left blank if Mrs M had decided she didnt want  the policy.  Mrs M 
signed this application to agree to its contents   so I think  this reflected what  she wanted at 
the time.  So overall, I think  Allianz  made it clear that Mrs M didnt  have to take out the PPI 
and she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen and from what weve seen of these types of sales 
previously, I dont think Allianz recommend  the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt  have to check  if it 
was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs M got the information  she needed to 
decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But the evidence suggests that she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so 
it would  have been useful for her if something  went wrong. And even  though Mrs M says she 
had some savings at the time which she couldve used, having  the PPI in place protected  
her savings for other  means. And the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months and in 
addition to her savings. So these funds couldve been used to pay for other  expenses  had 
she been made suddenly unemployed, or couldve been kept for any other  intended 
Ref: DRN94117772purpose. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better  information  about 
the PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9411777