K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that JD Williams  & Company Limited has sold her debts to third parties  
and about the county  court judgment  thats  been  entered against her.
background
Miss M opened an online shopping account with JD Williams in January 2008.  She didnt 
make the repayments  required  so it defaulted  the account  with an outstanding  balance of 
£307.86 in January 2011 and it sold the debt to a third party.  The third party entered into a 
repayment arrangement  with Miss M but she didnt make the agreed repayments.  A county 
court judgment was entered  against Miss M in 2015. JD Williams says that Miss M had 
another account which was defaulted  in March  2011  with an outstanding balance  of £107.18 
and which  was sold to a different third party in January  2013.  Miss M complained to JD 
Williams last year about the accounts  and the county court judgment. She wasnt  satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that the 
account terms and conditions wouldve allowed JD Williams to sell the debts  but that it 
couldn't reasonably predict what action  the third parties would take to recover  any sums 
outstanding. And he said that it wasnt JD Williams that had applied  for the county court  
judgment  so it wasnt responsible for it.
Miss M has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that she 
only had one account and shes provided evidence from a third party to show  that shes 
repaid the debt so she says that there  shouldnt be a county court  judgment against  her. She 
also says that JD Williams  failed to protect her data by selling it to numerous debt agencies.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Miss M opened an account  with JD Williams in 
January 2008  and that there were arrears on the account. But JD Williams says that she had 
two accounts   both of which were  defaulted - whereas Miss M says that she only had one 
account.
JD Williams has provided evidence  to show that: 
the first account was defaulted in January 2011  with an outstanding balance of 
£307.86 and was sold to a third party (and it says that its that account about which a 
county court judgment was entered against Miss M in 2015); and
a second account was defaulted in March 2011 with an outstanding balance  of 
£107.18 and was sold to a different third party in January 2013 (and this is the 
account which Miss M says that shes repaid). 
But it says that it only has limited information  available about the accounts because of the 
time that has passed since the accounts were defaulted and sold to the third parties  and I 
dont consider that to be unreasonable.
Ref: DRN94048602Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that JD Williams  has acted 
incorrectly in selling  Miss Ms accounts  to the third parties. One of the third parties has then 
obtained a county court judgment against Miss M. And Miss M hasnt provided enough 
evidence to show that shes repaid the outstanding debt due to that third party.  But its the 
third party thats obtained  the county court judgment  and not JD Williams. So I dont 
consider that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require JD 
Williams to take any action in response  to Miss Ms complaint.
If Miss M wants to complain about  the actions  of the third parties,  she should make a 
complaint to one or more of the third parties and then  if shes not satisfied with its 
response  she may be able to complain to this service.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9404860