K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  wont pay a claim Mrs H made 
under their travel insurance policy after Mr H was taken ill and they cancelled a holiday they 
had booked.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 September  2019, a copy of which is 
attached to, and forms part of, this decision.
Mr and Mrs H accepted  my provisional decision.
UKI responded to say, in summary, that as the account held was a joint account for Mr and 
Mrs H, the definition of you set out below applied to both of the policy holders:
Your/You/Insured Person/Adult 
The account  holder, their partner, dependant children (where  the relevant premium has been 
paid).
Following from this definition, for both Mr and Mrs H to be able to make a claim for this event 
the condition causing it would have  needed to have  been  declared and accepted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I accept the definition of you is widely drawn in the definition  section of the policy, I 
dont think it is applied  consistently later in the policy document.
As I pointed  out in my provisional  decision, in only one exclusion relating to cancellation - the 
hospital inpatient/waiting list exclusion   does the wording makes it clear  that the medical 
condition of someone else may lead to a claim being  rejected. However  this exclusion 
doesnt apply  in the circumstances of this claim.
All the other  exclusions  which  relate  to cancellation are worded so that, in my view, the 
natural meaning  is that its the medical  condition or other circumstances of the policyholder  
who is claiming that are relevant for the purposes  of the exclusion, not those of someone 
else.
So I dont  think its reasonable for UKI to say that the policy should be read so that Mrs Hs 
claim fails because of the circumstances of Mr Hs pre-existing medical condition.
I remain of the view that UKI didnt act reasonably when it rejected  Mr Hs claim, and that it 
should now deal with her claim and pay her compensation, as set out more fully below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order U K Insurance  Limited:
Ref: DRN943065721. to deal with Mrs Hs claim, subject to any policy excess and the other terms of the 
policy; and
2.to pay Mrs H compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience  its previous 
rejection of her claim has caused  her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 October  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN94306573COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION  OF 5 SEPTEMBER 2019
complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) wont pay a claim Mrs H made  under  their 
travel insurance  policy after Mr H was taken  ill and they cancelled a holiday they had booked.
background
Mr and Mrs H had the benefit of a travel insurance policy  underwritten by UKI as joint account  holders 
with a financial institution. They booked to go on a family holiday abroad in August  2018.  Before they 
were due to leave, Mr H became ill and was unable to travel. So they both cancelled their holiday and 
claimed under their travel policy.
UKI didnt accept Mr Hs claim. It said in 2013 Mr H had notified UKI that he suffered from the 
condition that caused him to cancel his holiday, and had taken out a medical extension  for this 
condition with UKI for 12 months. The extension lapsed after that. So the condition  wasnt covered 
under the policy when it caused  him to cancel his recent holiday. Mr H accepted this decision.
UKI didnt accept Mrs Hs claim either. It said one of the exclusions  for the cancellation  section was:
7 A pre-existing medical condition unless  declared  and accepted by us
This, Mr Hs pre-existing medical condition, was the reason Mrs H had cancelled her holiday. So UKI 
wouldnt accept her claim. It also referred to another exclusion in the policy, namely:
A medical condition of a travelling companion, or (whether travelling  or not) either  a member 
of your immediate family or a business  partner  which has resulted in that person being a 
hospital inpatient or being put on a waiting list for hospital treatment in the 12 months before 
the start of this insurance or you booking the journey,  whichever is later
Mr and Mrs H didnt think either exclusion  applied to Mrs H and complained to us. They said Mr H 
hadnt been a hospital inpatient, or on a waiting list, so the second exclusion  wasnt relevant.  And the 
first exclusion  applied  to Mr H but not to her as she was a separate and independent policy holder 
under the policy, and her claim should be treated separately and not as part of Mr Hs claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He agreed that the hospital 
inpatient/waiting list exclusion wasnt relevant in the circumstances of this claim.  However he said 
Mrs H wasnt  travelling independently  she was travelling with Mr H on the same holiday.  He pointed 
to a section  of the policy  dealing  with medical  problems  becoming apparent after booking a journey 
but before leaving:
If we are unable to cover your condition and you still want to go on your journey,  then we will 
not pay claims that are directly related  to the excluded  medical condition;  however,  all other 
cover applies as per the terms and conditions.
He said the cancellation was directly  related to Mr Hs medical condition so he didnt think UKIs 
decision to reject  Mrs Hs claim was unfair.
Mr H responded  to say, in summary:
Mrs H was entitled  to cover under the policy in her own right;
for any policy exclusions to apply, they had to apply  specifically and clearly to her; and
the exclusions UKI and the investigator had referred to applied to Mr H and his medical  
condition, not to Mrs H.
Ref: DRN94306574my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The relevant rules  and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims promptly 
and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim  unreasonably.  
UKI has confirmed that as Mr and Mrs H held a joint account with the relevant financial institution,  
each of them  is a policyholder with UKI. So Mrs Hs claim under the policy for the costs of cancelling 
her holiday has to be considered as a separate claim from Mr Hs, although  it arises from the same 
factual situation.
The wording of the policy in relation to Mr Hs claim  and his own medical  condition is clear. His 
condition was pre-existing and he had in the past extended his policy for 12 months to cover it. 
However this extension had lapsed. So when  he fell ill again his claim  wasnt covered under the 
policy.
Under the heading Important Information the policy  terms say:
Please note that if a member of your immediate family, travelling companion or business  
associate (whether  they are travelling or not) has been a hospital inpatient in the 12 months 
prior to you booking  the trip or been  put on a waiting  list for hospital  treatment, then this policy 
will not cover you for subsequent cancellation  of the trip 
And under the heading  of Cancellation there is a list of things which are covered which includes:
Death or serious  injury or illness to you, a travelling companion, a member of your immediate 
family, a business partner  who are all resident in the UK or a relative or friend  in whose home 
you are intending to stay
But the policy  excludes:
-A pre-existing medical condition unless declared and accepted by us
-A medical condition of a member of your immediate family, travelling companion or 
business partner (whether they are travelling or not) which has resulted  in that person 
being a hospital in-patient in the 12 months before  the start of this insurance or you 
booking the journey, whichever is later or been put on a waiting list for hospital treatment. 
-
A pre-existing medical condition is defined  as:
.when, at the time of booking the journey or becoming  eligible for this cover you are 
unable to comply with the Medical  Statements on Page 7 of this policy. 
The policy holder is then directed to a series of statements. 
There is only one exclusion  - the hospital inpatient/waiting list exclusion - where  the wording makes 
it clear that the medical condition of someone else may lead to a claim being rejected.  However this 
exclusion doesnt apply  in the circumstances  of this claim.  
The wording the investigator referred  to in support of his recommendation is taken  from a different  
part of the policy. It refers  to what happens if a policyholder decides to continue  with a booked  journey 
after that policyholder becomes unwell.  So I dont think its relevant  to Mrs Hs situation.
Ref: DRN94306575All the other exclusions which relate to cancellation are worded so that the natural meaning is that its 
the medical condition or other circumstances  of the policyholder  who is claiming that are relevant  for 
the purposes of the exclusion, not those of someone else. 
The information UKI has provided indicates that Mr H first had angina in 2007 and then again in 2016. 
In June 2018  he was prescribed medication and the information I have suggests that this was 
provided by his GP. The trip was booked in July 2018 but theres  no evidence that at this point in time 
Mr H had been an in-patient in the 12 months before he booked  the holiday or that he was on a 
waiting list for hospital treatment. 
Looking at the policy terms the wording in relation  to pre-existing medical conditions and the medical 
statements are focused on the person who has the condition, which  in this case is Mr H. So I dont 
think its reasonable  for UKI to conclude  that those sections of the policy  apply to the circumstances of 
Mrs Hs claim.  
I say that because the only clear  exclusion which sets out the position  in relation to cancelling a trip 
because an immediate family member or travelling companion falls ill refers to them receiving in-
patient treatment within the previous 12 months or being on a waiting list for hospital treatment.  Based 
on the evidence Ive seen,  neither of those scenarios applied to Mr H; hed just been prescribed 
medication by his GP, which was a few weeks before  he booked  his holiday. 
So I dont think UKI has acted reasonably in rejecting  Mrs Hs claim. I think  it should now deal with 
Mrs Hs claim,  subject to any policy  excess  and the other terms of the policy. I also think it should  pay 
her compensation  of £150 for the distress and inconvenience its previous rejection of her claim has 
caused her.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments and evidence I receive from 
either UKI or from Mr or Mrs H by 19 September 2019, I intend to uphold this complaint.  
I intend  to order U K Insurance Limited:
1.to deal with Mrs Hs claim,  subject  to any policy excess and the other terms of the policy; and
2.to pay Mrs H compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience  its previous rejection 
of her claim has caused  her.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9430657