K821x#15Complaint
Mr T complains that he is in financial difficulties but Progressive Money  Limited have not 
given him the help they should.  He says Progressive Money  Limited charged an excessive 
amount of interest  on his loan and are refusing to remove it. He wants them to remove the 
interest so he can repay the loan in a reasonable amount of time. 
Background
Mr T took out a loan with Progressive Money  online in April 2018 for a period of 72 months.  
The loan was for £13,000 and had a weekly repayment of £88.94. The annual  percentage 
rate was 34.17%. The total charge for the loan (including interest  and fees) was £14,748.24. 
The total amount  to repay was therefore £27,748.24.  
Mr T was unable  to keep up repayments on the loan within a few months  of taking it out and 
ended up on a debt management plan. He asked Progressive Money  to remove  the interest 
on the loan and allow him to just pay back the money he borrowed   saying other  creditors 
had already agreed to do the same.  
Progressive Money  refused to remove  the interest. They said they had shown the correct  
level of forebearance by not applying additional  interest and charges since the account  fell 
into arrears. They said they would not remove the interest charged on the loan itself. his.  
Mr T then brought his complaint  to this service. Although Mr T had put forward  a complaint 
about the way Progressive Money had treated his financial  difficulties,  our adjudicator  used 
our inquisitorial remit to look into whether it had been irresponsible of Progressive Money to 
give Mr T the loan in the first place. 
The adjudicator concluded that the loan had been  given irresponsibly. This was because of 
the large number  of credit commitments  and the amount of credit  Mr T had taken out, 
particularly in the 12 months before  the loan. The adjudicator thought this should have 
prompted Progressive  Money to carry out further checks  on Mr Ts financial circumstances. 
Had they done so, they would have found  that Mr T was spending over half of his declared 
income on gambling and was having real difficulties  managing his money  which meant he 
wasnt in a position to repay this loan in a sustainable way.
Progressive Money  disagreed with our adjudicator and so the complaint has come  to me to 
decide. In summary,  Progressive Money  say Mr Ts complaint  is not and never was about 
irresponsible lending  and that, in any event,  they did not lend irresponsibly. They say they 
carried out detailed  checks before  giving  Mr T the loan.  
My findings  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
First of all Ive looked at what  the real nature  of Mr Ts complaint is. And I agree with 
our adjudicator that, as we have an inquisitorial remit, we can consider whether or not 
it was irresponsible  for Progressive Money to have lent Mr T the money  in the first 
place. Particularly given that he is complaining  about the excessive amount of interest,  
Ref: DRN99517652the overall level of debt he is now in and that he fell into financial difficulties soon  after 
taking this loan out. 
Progressive Money  argue  that the reason Mr T has fallen into financial difficulties is 
because of the debt he took on after the loan they gave him. But I think its fair to 
consider what Mr Ts financial situation  was at the point he took the loan out. 
Progressive Money  have  not been  disadvantaged  by this  as they have  been  given 
the chance to look into this aspect  of the case  and have provided a response detailing 
why they dont agree that they lent irresponsibly. 
So Ive gone  on to consider Mr Ts complaint about irresponsible lending.  
In considering what is fair and reasonable I have taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and what I 
consider to have  been good industry  practice  at the time. 
Taking this into account, I think  the overarching questions I need to consider in deciding 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstance of this complaint are:
Did Progressive Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy 
itself that Mr T would be able repay the loan in a sustainable way?  If not, would those 
checks have shown  that Mr T would have  been  able to do so?
Did Progressive Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Progressive Money did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Mr 
T and that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Progressive Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that     
Mr T would be able to repay  his loan in a sustainable way?
The regulations in place when Progressive Money lent to Mr T required it to carry out a 
reasonable assessment of whether Mr T could afford to repay his loan in a sustainable  
manner. This is sometimes referred  to as an affordability assessment or an affordability  
check.
The affordability check should have been  borrower-focused  so Progressive Money had to 
think about whether  repaying the loan sustainably would cause financial difficulties or 
adverse consequences for Mr T. In other words, it wasnt enough for Progressive Money to 
only think about the likelihood that it would get its money back  without considering the 
impact of the loan repayments on Mr T himself.
The checks  Progressive Money carried out also had to be proportionate to the specific  
circumstances of the loan application.  In general,  what constitutes a proportionate  
affordability check will depend  on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the 
particular circumstances  of the borrower  (e.g. their financial  history, current  situation and 
outlook, and any indications of vulnerability  or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and 
cost of credit they are seeking.  Even for the same customer, a proportionate  check will more 
likely than not look different for different loan applications.
In light of that, I think reasonable and proportionate  checks should generally  be more 
thorough:
Ref: DRN99517653 the lower a customers income  (as it could be harder to make any loan repayments  from a
lower income);
 the higher the amount  to be repaid (as it could  be harder to meet a higher repayment  from 
a given income);
 the longer the term of the loan (as the total cost of the loan is likely to be greater  and the
customer is required to make payments  for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could affect how detailed a proportionate  check 
should be when  it comes to a loan application   including, but not limited to, any indications 
of borrower vulnerability  and any foreseeable changes in the consumers future 
circumstances. Ive thought about all the relevant factors  in this case.
Ive carefully considered  what reasonable and proportionate checks  should have looked like
when Progressive Money was in the process of approving the loan for Mr T. And Ive 
thought carefully  about what checks Progressive Money say they carried out and 
whether those were  proportionate in the circumstances. 
The loan was for a high amount and was to be paid over a significant period of time - 
six years. Due to the high interest charged,  the overall amount Mr T would have to pay 
back was more than twice what he had borrowed.  In these circumstances, I would 
have expected Progressive Money  to carry out detailed checks  when assessing  
whether or not to give Mr T this loan.
Progressive Money  say they did carry out a detailed assessment of Mr Ts finances 
and that it was fair for them to lend based  on their checks. 
I note Progressive Money asked Mr T for details of his income  and expenditure and 
they also completed a credit search. There were  no defaults, missed  or late payments 
on the credit  report.  But the search  showed  that  as well as taking  a mortgage less 
than a year earlier   Mr T had also taken  out around £50,000 worth of debt in the 
space of a year across  various lenders.
As well as carrying out a credit search,  the underwriters also spoke to Mr T on the 
phone - to ask about his existing credit commitments,  what they were used for and the 
purpose of this loan.  Progressive Money  has provided us with a copy  of this call 
recording from February 2018. During  this call Mr T confirmed  that the funds from this 
loan would be used  for home improvements. He explained that his existing credit  
commitments related to borrowing for an extension, to buy a car, to buy furniture and to 
carry out a balance transfer.  He also told them he would  be making overpayments  and 
was not struggling  financially.  
Progressive Money  say Mr T said he would be using some of the funds from the new 
loan to pay off some  of his existing debt. From the call recording Ive heard mentioned 
above, it appears that initially Mr T didnt intend  to consolidate. However, Progressive 
Money have provided  us with a further  call recording from April 2018 and this appears 
to indicate that Mr T had decided to use some of the funds to consolidate.  
Unfortunately, I have not heard any call recordings in between  the two mentioned  so I 
dont know what happened to change Mr Ts mind or what further checks were 
conducted in between.  But I note Progressive  Money did repay  some  of Mr Ts existing 
Ref: DRN99517654debt (just over £3,500).  The rest of the loan money  was transferred to Mr Ts account.
I accept that Progressive Money did gather some detailed information from Mr T. And  
Progressive Money  say the explanations they received from Mr T about  his existing 
debts were plausible.  However, I think the information on Mr Ts credit report ought to 
have alerted Progressive Money to concerns that Mr T was having some difficulties in 
managing his money and they should  have reacted to this by carrying out further 
detailed checks.  I dont think just asking Mr T about  this was sufficient.
I appreciate Mr Ts credit file showed no missed payments and no defaults.  But I think  
it was significant,  and concerning, that hed taken out around  £50,000  worth  of debt 
across a number of lenders in the past year. One of these lenders  was a lender 
associated with people  struggling with finances. Only some  comparatively smaller 
lending was being consolidated and Progressive Moneys loan would add considerably  
to Mr Ts overall debt levels. 
So, I think based on the information it had  and given the size and term of the loan  
Progressive Money  should reasonably have done more to get a clearer  picture of Mr 
Ts financial  situation  before deciding whether to lend. I dont think the checks it carried  
out were reasonable and proportionate in Mr Ts case.  
Would proportionate checks on this loan have indicated to Progressive Money  that Mr T 
would have been unable to repay it in a sustainable manner?
As I dont think Progressive Money  carried out proportionate checks, Ive gone on to 
consider what would have happened  had Progressive Money  carried  out further  checks. 
I cant be sure what further checks would have been done or what  they would have 
shown, so weve asked  Mr T for more  information about his circumstances  at the time. 
Hes sent us his bank statements in the lead up to the loan application and I think  its 
likely that the information  in these  statements is the sort of information  the lender  might 
have seen, if itd done better checks to start with. So Ive carefully considered these 
bank statements. Ive started off by looking  at the bank statements in the three months  
before the loan application.
Although Mr Ts net income from his employment was around  £3000 per month, the 
bank statements show large amounts  of money  entering and leaving Mr Ts account. 
The money entering Mr Ts account in January 2018 was just under £23,000  and the 
money leaving his account was just under £25000. In February and March 2018  the 
money entering his account was just under £17,000 and the money  leaving  his account 
was just under £14,500 and just under £18500  respectively.
Mr Ts bank  statements show he was spending  large amounts of money  on gambling 
and cryptocurrency transactions  including  his own income and borrowed money.  For 
example, Mr Ts February 2018  statement shows that Mr T had used more than half of 
a £8,000 loan he had taken out from another provider for gambling  purposes. Due to 
this I went further back in Mr Ts statements to see what he used the loan in November 
2017 (£10000)  for. He had told Progressive Money  that this was for an extension.  
However, had Progressive Money  tried to verify  this information, it would have found 
that this was not correct. I can see from Mr Ts November 2017 bank statement again 
part of this was used to bring  him back into credit  following being overdrawn  due to 
gambling transactions - I note that even on the same  date that Mr T had received  the 
Ref: DRN99517655£10000 loan he had already spent over £8500 on gambling -  and he also went on to 
use some  of the funds  for cryptocurrency transactions..
Looking at Mr Ts statements,  I can see that there are what seem to be some 
substantial payments back into the account,  including gambling wins and possible 
trading successes. But the overall trend was concerning, as he was being pushed  
deeper and deeper  into debt. When he applied for a loan,  Mr T was already around  
£50000 in debt and was overdrawn  by a considerable amount of money   over £4,000. 
And this loan was pushing  him further  into debt.
So I think had Progressive Money  carried  out the checks they ought to have,  they 
would have realised  that Mr T was having  difficulties managing his money and was 
spending a disproportionate amount of money,  including the loans he had been taking 
out, for gambling  purposes.  And as such it was clear he was not in a position  to be 
able to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
Therefore I think it was irresponsible of Progressive  Money to have provided Mr T with 
the loan.
Did Progressive Money act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Although Mr T has complained that Progressive Money acted unfairly  towards him by 
refusing to remove the interest on this loan,  I dont think its necessary for me to make  any 
findings on whether  I think Progressive Money acted unfairly in this way. This is because I 
dont think it makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint  as Ive already concluded 
that Mr Ts complaint about the sale of the loan should be upheld.
Putting things  right
Where a business has done something wrong,  our service usually aims to put the consumer 
back in the position they wouldve  been in had the incident not occurred. 
However, in cases where a business has lent irresponsibly, this isnt entirely  possible   as 
the lending provided cannot  be undone.
In this case, I think its fair that Mr T should  only have to repay the money  he borrowed and 
had the use of. So I think Progressive Money  should  refund all of the interest and charges 
Mr T has paid on his loan. 
While I think its fair that Mr Ts credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history,  I 
dont think its fair that he should be disadvantaged  by Progressive Moneys  decision  to lend 
to him irresponsibly. Therefore, under  the circumstances, I think  Progressive Money should 
also remove any negative information recorded  on Mr Ts credit  file associated  with this loan.
To settle  Mr Ts complaint, Im recommending  Progressive Money does the following:
A) Progressive Money should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr T 
towards interest, fees and charges on this loan, not including anything Progressive  Money  
has already refunded.
B) Progressive Money should calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  
by Mr T which were  considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr T
Ref: DRN99517656originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Progressive Money  should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the 
upheld outstanding loan, and treat any repayments  made by Mr T as though  they had
been repayments of the principal on this outstanding loan.  If this results in Mr T
having made overpayments then Progressive Money should refund these overpayments with 
8% simple  interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Progressive  Money should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus
then the surplus  should be paid to Mr T. However,  if there is still an outstanding
balance then Progressive Money should  try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr 
T. Progressive Money  shouldnt pursue outstanding balances  made  up of principal it has 
already written-off.
E) Progressive Money should remove any adverse information recorded  on Mr Ts credit file 
in relation to this loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Progressive Money to take off tax from this interest.  
Progressive Money  must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold Mr Ts complaint against Progressive Money Limited  and 
require it to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2021.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9951765