K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the overdraft charges The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS) are 
applying to his current account.
background
Mr B had a current account with RBS that had an overdraft  facility. Hed exceeded his 
overdraft limit, which led to unauthorised overdraft charges being applied  to his account. Mr 
B says this resulted in him being trapped in a cycle  of charges that he found himself unable  
to get out of. 
Mr B stopped using  his current account  in June  2018 and started having his salary  paid into 
another account. But, because the overdraft remained, RBS continued to apply charges and 
interest. In November 2018, RBS gave Mr B 60 days notice that they were going to close his 
current account. RBS have used a third-party debt collection agency to pursue Mr B for the 
outstanding overdraft. 
Mr B is unhappy with the charges applied  to his overdraft account, and that RBS have 
closed his account. Hes also unhappy RBS refused to change his overdraft  to a repayment 
account or loan,  and that theyve not supported him during  his financial difficulties.
Our adjudicator found RBS had acted  reasonably.  She said that, because Mr B had 
originally complained about the charges in May 2017, we could only consider whats 
happened after this date. She found RBS had applied charges in line with the terms and 
conditions of the overdraft and she felt this was reasonable. She also thought it was 
reasonable that RBS continue to apply these charges until the overdraft has been  repaid.
The adjudicator also found that, in May 2017,  RBS provided Mr B with details of their 
Financial Difficulties Team, but he never contacted  them. She felt RBS didnt need to refund 
charges, even if customers were in financial difficulties, so she didnt think  theyd done  
anything wrong  by not doing so. She also felt RBS had given Mr B enough notice they were 
closing his account.
Mr B didnt agree with the adjudicator. He said he cannot see how any reasonable person  
could reach  the conclusion  that I have been  treated fairly here.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator,  and for broadly the same reasons.
Ive seen RBSs  complaint  response letter of 24 May 2017. This addressed the issue of 
overdraft charges and told Mr B that, if he remained unhappy, he could bring  his complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service within six months. He didnt do so, so I agree the we can 
only consider any charges  that were applied  after this date  Mr B is out of time for us to 
consider anything earlier.
Ref: DRN99897562This letter also gave  Mr B the details of RBSs Financial Difficulties Team, who could  discuss  
any specific needs he may have. RBS also gave  Mr B the contact details for two other 
organisations who may be able to assist him. I agree RBS acted reasonably by providing  this 
information, and it was for Mr B to decide to contact anyone to help him or not.
Mr B has said the whole situation  with the overdraft  charges made him very anxious when 
talking about this. This is why he asked RBS to only correspond with him by email. So he 
feels RBS havent  acted fairly by only giving him a phone number to contact the Financial 
Difficulties Team.  
I appreciate the situation Mr B found  himself in, so I understand  why he felt he couldnt  talk 
to RBS about this. But he couldve asked RBS for an email  address for the Financial 
Difficulties Team, or emailed RBS, asking  that his email was forwarded to the right team.  
RBS also gave Mr B contact details of the Citizens Advice Bureau, who couldve  given him 
some advice and assistance,  and contacted RBS on his behalf. So, while  RBS couldve also 
provided an email address, I dont think they acted  unfairly in not doing so. And I cant  hold 
them responsible if Mr B chose not to contact their Financial Difficulties  Team.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Bs account  allowed RBS to apply interest and charges on 
overdrafts, so I cant say theyve done  anything  wrong by doing so. The terms and conditions 
also allowed them to give notice to close the account. As Mr B had stopped  paying  regular  
credits into the account, and wasnt making any payments towards  the overdraft, I cant  say 
RBS acted unfairly by giving Mr B 60 days notice of closure  this gave him enough time to 
sort out an alternative  account, or to start to repay his overdraft.
Mr B says now hes paid substantially more in interest and charges than the amount of the 
overdraft. Because  of this he thinks RBS should  cancel  the overdraft. I dont agree with this. 
An overdraft is a rolling credit facility  where interest  and charges are applied. If an overdraft 
is kept and used for a substantial period of time, then the interest  and charges can exceed 
the amount of the overdraft itself.  While  this may seem unfair, its the nature of this type of 
unsecured credit facility  and I dont think this is a reason  to waive  the outstanding balance.
Mr B has also said that RBS wouldnt increase the overdraft limit, to stop any more over limit 
charges, or offer him a loan to repay  the overdraft. He feels this has left him trapped. 
Financial institutions  can set their own lending rules,  and theyre not required to extend  an 
overdraft or offer a loan to repay  this. I havent  seen anything to show that RBS have applied 
their lending policy unfairly by not offering Mr B an extended overdraft or loan.so  I wont be 
asking for them to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about The Royal  Bank of 
Scotland Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9989756