K820x#14complaint
Miss Vs unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc hasnt raised  a chargeback  dispute  or 
a claim under section  75 of The Consumer Credit Act 1975. 
background
Miss V entered into a contract with a third party for a snagging report  on a new build 
property. She paid a total of £444 for it using her credit card.  Shes unhappy with the report, 
says it doesnt  cover  everything advertised  and that the operative wasnt properly qualified.  
She believes the service  was misrepresented  and asked  NatWest to make  a section 75 
claim or seek  a chargeback. Shes  unhappy with the way its dealt  with this request and that 
its asked repeatedly for the same  information.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
Making a claim under  section 75 and raising a chargeback are two very different 
things. 
Miss V provided a clear account to NatWest of why the report  wasnt what  she 
expected and was misrepresented. But NatWest is entitled  to ask for more 
information.
Before making a chargeback request the consumer should  try to resolve  matters  with 
the supplier and provide evidence theyve done so. It was acceptable for NatWest to 
ask Miss V for relevant documents to back up her claim. NatWest didnt have to raise  
a chargeback request with the card issuer if there  wasnt enough evidence to back  up 
the request.  Here  NatWest asked Miss V for more information and documents  but 
they werent provided. And so the chargeback didnt proceed.  
A section  75 claim is different to a chargeback and is made against the credit 
provider. Here thats NatWest. The information it would need for this is similar to that 
provided for a chargeback request. It isnt as simple as asking for a refund. More  
evidence may be needed. If Miss V had continued  to engage with NatWest more  
progress mayve ben made.  But as she was unwilling or unable to provide more 
evidence of her continued contact with the third party supplier NatWest couldnt 
proceed further. That wasnt unreasonable.
NatWest hasnt treated Miss V unfairly by not requesting a chargeback or considering  
a claim under section  75. It hasnt made an error.
The supplier wasnt aware  of this dispute  and now its been made aware of it has 
said it will contact  Miss V to arrange a full refund. 
Miss V remains unhappy and says she provided  all that NatWest  asked  for. It also didnt 
respond to her complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN90027022I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
Miss V gave NatWest an account of the issues she had with the third party supplier and she 
mentioned she wanted  to make a chargeback or section 75 claim. 
NatWest then reasonably  asked her for copy  invoices and documents including her 
continued correspondence with the supplier to show her attempts to resolve  the matter. 
Shortly after that Miss V sent NatWest a response  saying it didnt need  to ask her for further  
information as shed already supplied the reasons for the chargeback  claim.  That response 
clearly didnt satisfy NatWest or provide the information and documentary  evidence itd 
asked for.
Its up to NatWest to decide whether it has enough information and evidence  to allow it to 
make a chargeback  request or to consider a section 75 claim. Here it didnt consider Miss V 
had provided what  it needed.  
When our adjudicator recently contacted  the third party  supplier it said it wasnt before then 
aware of Miss Vs dispute. So I think its likely Miss V wouldnt have  been  in a position  to 
supply the evidence NatWest had previously  asked for about her attempts to resolve matters 
directly with the supplier.
Taking everything into account  I dont think I can reasonably conclude  that NatWest  acted 
unreasonably or unfairly by not requesting a chargeback or considering further Miss Vs 
section 75 claim as it didnt think it had all the information and documentary evidence  it 
needed to consider these things.
And I also dont think on balance that I can now reasonably require NatWest to do anything 
differently including considering Miss Vs section 75 claim. 
It appears that after the adjudicator contacted the third party  supplier it agreed to make  a full 
refund to Miss V. But as the adjudicator has said we dont have any jurisdiction over the third 
party and so we cant make it keep to that promise. Hopefully it will make  a refund of the 
money to Miss V so that she isnt out of pocket.
Overall, although I recognise  Miss Vs strength of feeling, I dont see any compelling reason 
to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9002702