K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Capquest Debt Recovery Limited is chasing him for a debt which hasnt 
been substantiated and that his credit  file is being  affected despite the account defaulting 
more than six years ago.
background
Mr G says that he opened a credit  card account  in 2003 but the account  defaulted  in 2008. 
He says he entered into a debt management  plan (DMP) to clear the balance  on an interest  
free basis  by making payments  of £22.15 each month. He says he recalls the balance  was 
around £2,000  but that the credit card company  said it was around £7,000. He has disputed  
the balance on several occasions.
Mr G says that in November 2011  he requested a copy of his credit agreement  and evidence 
to substantiate  his outstanding balance. He says he only received a template agreement  and 
was told the company didnt have a copy of the signed agreement.
In 2014, Mr G says he received a letter saying his outstanding balance was just under 
£7,000. He checked his credit file and this also showed a similar balance in regard to this 
account along with a £7,500 credit  limit. He contacted the business managing his account 
and was told the account hadnt defaulted which was why it still showed on his credit  file but 
that there  was no credit  limit.
In July 2014, Mr G received notification that Capquest was managing  his account. He says 
he again disputed  the balance and noted  the lack of evidence to support the claim on him 
but received no response.
In December 2017, he says he was contacted by a company acting for Capquest and he 
said he wouldnt be making  any further  payments until his situation had been resolved.
Capquest purchased Mr Gs account in November  2012 and says the balance  outstanding at 
that time was £7,283.53. It says the account related to a credit card account that was 
opened in 2003. It says another company  began  to manage the account on its behalf in 
October 2017.
Capquest says that an arrangement was made for Mr G to make monthly payments of 
£22.15 and that as these were maintained his account wasnt defaulted.  It says that Mr G 
contacted it to discuss late payment markers  on his credit file and that this issue  was 
addressed. It noted that the last payment made  to the account was in December  2017.
Our adjudicator accepted that there  was a credit agreement in place. In regard to the 
account she said we could only consider transactions  that occurred in the six years  prior to 
Mr G making his complaint, that is from February 2012. She said that she believed the 
payments had been applied correctly to the account  in this time and that the balance was 
correct.
Our adjudicator thought the account  should  have been defaulted in 2008 and recommended 
that the account be removed from Mr Gs credit file. She said that Mr G had been caused 
distress and inconvenience by his account  not being  defaulted  and said Capquest should 
pay him £150 compensation because of this.
Ref: DRN95860322Capquest didnt agree  that a default  should have been applied  in 2008 and that it should 
backdate a default to then. It said that when reduced payments were agreed and the terms 
of the payments are maintained a default  shouldnt be applied. It said that its system notes 
from 2014 and 2015 showed  that Mr G was happy  that no default had been applied.
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I noted that Mr G had raised three  main  
points and I concluded in summary:
credit agreement
it was not my role to say whether or not a debt is enforceable, only a court could 
decide that;
the creditor is required to provide  a copy of all the terms and conditions, parties, and 
so on to ensure  that the debtor is able to understand what obligations  they have (this 
didnt have to include the signature);
based on what I had seen it wasnt  unreasonable that Capquest accepted that the 
debt was Mr Gs.
outstanding balance
Capquest acquired the account  in 2012  and was only responsible for the 
management of the account from that date;
Capquest confirmed  the outstanding balance at the point of acquisition and based  on 
the information I had seen I didnt  find it unreasonable that it accepted this;
since acquisition the payments received had been offset against the balance and I 
had nothing to suggest that the remaining balance wasnt  correct.
credit file
I didnt have any evidence to show that the account was defaulted  in 2008;
Capquest acquired the account  in 2012  and when it acquired the debt a payment 
plan was in place and no default had been  recorded and so I couldnt say that it did 
anything wrong  by not recording  a default at that time;
Mr G continued to make the agreed payments and I couldnt say that the relationship 
had broken down;
the payments  were  reduced compared  to what would have been  expected  on a 
balance of the size recorded. However the payments were more than token and as 
these were maintained in line with the agreement I didnt find that Capquest  did 
anything wrong  by not applying a default;
from when Capquest  acquired the debt it was responsible for providing  information to 
the credit  rating agencies. This information  had to be accurate. I understood that 
amendments were  made to Mr Gs credit file.
Overall, I didnt  find that I had enough evidence to uphold this complaint.
Mr G didnt accept my provisional decision.  He provided information  showing reduced 
payments and default sums from 2011  and said that although a default notice hadnt been  
located the account should have been  defaulted  more than six years ago based on the 
relevant rules. He said the relationship had broken down.  He also noted  that his credit file 
was still showing the credit card with a £7,500 limit.
Ref: DRN95860323Mr G reiterated his dispute in regard to the outstanding balance and explained that he was 
only making payments  in good faith and hadnt accepted  the arrangement and the balance  
owed. He said there were  gaps in the information provided and that Capquest hadnt  
confirmed the balance at acquisition.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role is to consider each case  based 
on its merits. I take relevant regulations and guidance into account but my decision is based 
on what I consider fair and reasonable given the unique circumstances of the complaint.
Mr G challenged my provisional decision in regard to the outstanding balance  and the credit  
file entries / recording of a default. I have considered these  points further however my 
decision hasnt changed. 
In regard to the outstanding balance while I acknowledge  Mr G has disputed this on several 
occasions based on the evidence I have seen I do not find that I have enough to say that 
Capquest did anything  wrong by accepting the balance when it took over the account. It has 
provided a copy of a statement from the time showing the balance and a notice of 
assignment letter which includes  the agreed  payment  arrangement. The evidence shows  the 
payment have been applied to the outstanding  balance. Therefore I do not find that I can say 
with the evidence I have seen that the balance  is incorrect.
Mr G believes  a default should have been  recorded more than six years  ago when he 
encountered issues with payment. He says the relationship  had broken down at that time.  
He further notes that had default been recorded  more than six year ago it would no longer be 
recorded on his credit file. I understand the points he has made but my view hasnt changed 
from that which I set out in my provisional decision. Capquest acquired  the account  and 
there is no evidence  that a default was applied before then so I wouldnt expect Capquest to 
apply a default at that time.  A payment amount was in place and while  this was maintained I 
dont find it unreasonable that a default  wasnt  applied.
I note the comments he has made  about the credit  limit recorded on his credit file. The 
system notes provided by Capquest  from 2015  record that the credit  balance should be 
removed. Given this I noted this in my provisional decision. However in its final response 
letter Capquest said that the statement provided from the previous account owner showed a 
£7,500 credit limit and that this was being  reported  correctly. Given the conflicting  
information regarding  this issue and the concerns  Mr G has raised I asked for further 
clarification. 
Capquest responded to my information request saying that the first statement it sent to Mr G 
included the credit limit and available to spend  amount  as zero.  It said for it to investigate  the 
issue of the credit limit further it would need  to see a copy  of Mr Gs credit  file. It noted that it 
bought the account  and didnt arrange  or discuss the credit limit.
While I can see the issue Mr G is concerned about the credit limit and he has provided an 
extract from a credit score website showing the limit as £7,50  Capquest has provided copies 
of a number of statements following its acquisition which show the amount available to 
spend is zero. So while  I appreciate Mr Gs concerns it appears that his account is set up 
Ref: DRN95860324with a zero amount available  to spend. If Mr G is concerned  about  the information  on his 
credit report  he should, as Capquest has said, contact it with a copy  of his report.
Overall, as I set out in my provisional decision,  I do not find that I have enough evidence to 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9586032