K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays  Bank  UK plc wont refund three  transactions  that she says 
she neither made nor authorised. They  were:
a withdrawal  of £2,000 made  at a Barclays self-service machine; 
a cash machine withdrawal of £300; and 
a retail payment of £150.05.  
Barclays didnt accept  that someone  else had managed to use Miss Ms bank card and PIN 
to make the transactions.  
background
Miss M says that she met an old friend briefly in a chain restaurant at a railway station where 
they had a drink  and a snack.  She tried to pay with her card,  but, after shed entered her 
PIN, she was told the card machine wasnt working and was presented with a different one. 
She paid using contactless payment,  without  entering her PIN again.  
At around the same time, Miss M accessed  her mobile banking app, intending to transfer 
money between accounts  and then to her daughter. 
Miss M says she then had to leave the table,  leaving her mobile  phone  and bank  cards  with 
her friend. Shortly after she returned, he left to catch a train. Within a little over an hour the 
three transactions had taken place, along with four transfers between Miss Ms own 
accounts, three using  the mobile  app and one at a self-service machine. 
Miss M says that when she returned  to the app to complete the transfer  of money  to her 
daughter, she noticed a transfer of £445 from her savings to her current  account. This 
prompted her to call Barclays, and it was then she realised her card was missing.  
When the three transactions came  to light, Barclays looked into things but didnt  believe that 
Miss M had been the victim of fraud.  It didnt think  Miss Ms friend would have been able to 
obtain her card and PIN and also make  transfers  using the mobile app. Miss M didnt accept 
that and referred  her complaint  to this service. One of our adjudicators considered  the case  
but broadly agreed with Barclays; she thought it likely that Miss M had authorised all the 
payments. Miss M asked that an ombudsman  review  the case, as the last stage  in our 
consideration of it.              
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, I agree with 
the adjudicators  conclusions,  and for similar  reasons. 
Im satisfied that whoever was responsible for the disputed withdrawals and the disputed  
payment here had Miss Ms genuine card and PIN. So I need to consider who might  have  
been in a position to obtain both. I note that the location of the places where the card was 
used meant  that those  transactions  couldnt have been carried out by someone who had 
recently got on a train.    
Ref: DRN99433802Miss Ms account of events would certainly have given  her friend an opportunity to obtain her 
card, since  she left her bag containing it with him for a while.
Barclays has said though  that there was no opportunity for anyone  to obtain Miss Ms PIN. 
She hadnt used  it to pay the restaurant,  so nobody could have had an opportunity  to 
observe it. Miss M says however that she did use her PIN, for a payment  that wasnt  
successful. However, even if that had happened, the banks records would still show that 
card use; it wouldnt of course appear  on Miss Ms bank statements, but would appear in the 
banks internal records. 
There would  however be no record at all if, for example, the first card reader wasnt  genuine. 
But that would suggest some kind of collusion between the restaurant staff and Miss Ms 
friend. I think  thats most  unlikely, especially given the unexpected turn of events that left that 
friend alone with Miss Ms bag, containing  her card, and her phone.  I think its more likely 
that  as the bank says  she simply made a contactless payment and didnt  use her PIN at 
all. 
But there are further indications that Miss Ms account of events is unreliable.  As Ive said,  
she accessed her mobile banking app at about the same time she made  the contactless 
card payment. She used the apps passcode to do so. The implication is that her friend  might  
then have been able to use the app as well  having  picked  up the phone while the app was 
still open or having observed the passcode.  But in the following 90 minutes  someone 
opened the app using  touch identification (not a passcode) on 13 occasions. The first of 
those occasions  was 23 minutes after Miss M had used the passcode, indicating the app 
had been closed or had timed out well before she and her friend had parted company.
On four of those  occasions transfers were made between  Miss Ms accounts. Only Miss M 
can have logged on using  touch identification, and she hasnt suggested her phone  went 
missing at any point. The transfers appear  to be linked to the withdrawals and the payment, 
in the sense that they are for similar overall  amounts. I think it likely that Miss M would  have 
noticed the movements on her account when she used the app, and the fact that she didnt 
report them  immediately indicates  to me that she was unconcerned  by them.
On balance, I think Miss M either made  or authorised the disputed transactions herself.  I will 
however comment briefly on a statement Barclays made in response  to Miss Ms suggestion  
that it obtain CCTV or similar coverage of the transactions. Its likely that would have been  
installed at its own self-service machines, and possibly at the cash machine and retailer  as 
well. But the bank says it  does not take CCTV images into consideration  There may 
well be cases  where such coverage  is inconclusive, but I dont think  it was helpful to the 
investigation of Miss Ms case  not to consider it at all, or to make assumptions about  what it 
might or might not show. As I say though, I think there is sufficient other evidence to link 
Miss M to the transactions shes disputing.         
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont require Barclays  Bank UK plc 
to do anything further to resolve Miss Ms complaint.  Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject  my decision before 
15 September 2019.
Ref: DRN99433803Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9943380