K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt block fraudulent transactions on his credit  card 
account.
background
In October  2018, Mr R noticed fraudulent  transactions on his credit card. He notified  Lloyds 
who told him these transactions would be refunded to his account  and that a new card would 
be sent to him. Lloyds  didnt keep the assurance  given to Mr R - those payments were later 
collected from him by direct debit. 
Mr R is also unhappy that Lloyds sent him a replacement card in the post.  He says he lives 
in a country where credit card theft is widespread. In the past, hed been asked to pay for a 
secure courier service in order to have  a replacement  card sent to him. He spent a 
considerable time in contact with Lloyds  trying to have the situation rectified  hes told us he 
was on the phone for nearly four hours. 
The payments in question have since been refunded to Mr R. Lloyds concedes that its 
internal fraud detection system ought to have blocked them at the outset. It accepted  that 
Mr R had suffered inconvenience and distress  in having the problem addressed. It offered 
him £325 in recognition of this and said it would refund any charges Mr R had incurred as a 
result of making international calls.
Mr R didnt think the offer was enough  and so he referred the complaint to this service.  He 
said that his professional fees are £250  per hour and that this needed  to be reflected in the 
compensation Lloyds offered. He says hes spent over four hours pursuing this complaint 
and so £1,000 would  be a fairer sum. His complaint  was looked at by an investigator who 
thought the offer was fair and reasonable. She said she was willing to look at any evidence 
that Mr R had suffered  a direct financial loss as a result of trying to sort things out with 
Lloyds, but that she hadnt seen anything to justify  asking Lloyds to increase its offer.
Mr R responded to the investigator and said:
In order to deal with Lloyds Bank  I was unable  to deal with my own business and my 
own client queries   this resulted in a direct loss of income  for me. I am simply 
seeking redress for my financial loss which Lloyds are responsible for  nothing  
more, nothing less.
The investigator wrote in her assessment of Mr Rs complaint:
Although I appreciate being  on the phone to Lloyds  wouldve caused  you 
inconvenience, I dont  have enough evidence to say there was any direct financial 
loss. For example, evidence that because you were unable to answer  one of your 
clients queries that time you were on the phone your client didnt pay you or decided 
to no longer use your service as a result  of you not being able to answer their query.
Mr R replied:
My time lost has been totally disregarded   you seem unable  to accept that whilst  
working on the Lloyds  case  I was unable to attend to my business and my own client  
cases.
Ref: DRN91129772As Mr R disagreed with the investigators opinion,  the complaint has been passed to me to 
reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
The rules  that apply to this service say that we can make a financial award in one of the 
following categories:
-financial loss
-pain and suffering
-damage to reputation
-distress or inconvenience
Lloyds has offered Mr R £325  in recognition  of the final category - distress and 
inconvenience. Its clear  that having  to go to the lengths he did to communicate  with Lloyds 
was a source of significant inconvenience.  I also dont doubt that it was stressful.  Ive 
considered carefully  what Mr R has told us about the impact Lloyds error had on him. In the 
light of that, I think £325 is fair compensation for distress and inconvenience.
When considering  this award for distress  and inconvenience, its not relevant that Mr R is 
paid £250 per hour in his professional life. The hourly rate an individual is paid in their 
occupation doesnt have any direct impact  on how stressful it would be to deal with a 
situation such as this one. Furthermore, he was calling Lloyds in his capacity  as a private 
individual. From time to time, we all have to engage  in administrative tasks when things like 
this go wrong without anticipating  that well be remunerated for doing  so. 
Im also able to make  an award for financial loss. Lloyds  has already addressed the primary 
financial loss that Mr R suffered by refunding  those  payments that were  incorrectly  collected  
from his account  after it promised him otherwise. Hes said that having to deal with this 
complaint meant he was unable to spend  time attending to the needs of his clients  and that 
this caused him direct  financial loss. 
I accept that, while  Mr R was on the phone to Lloyds, he wouldnt have  been  able to attend 
to his clients queries.  But this on its own doesnt  show that hes suffered a financial loss. 
The investigator asked  Mr R to provide evidence to show exactly how the time spent 
contacting Lloyds had manifested as financial  loss  for example, clients not paying for Mr 
Rs services, paying later than they otherwise wouldve done or opting to no longer use his 
services. Hes not provided an explanation as to how he was caused  to suffer  financial loss 
or any supporting  evidence so Im not persuaded that I should  award  him additional 
compensation.
Ref: DRN91129773my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9112977