K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that TTR PT Limited  hasnt supplied him with the training course services for 
which he paid through a fixed  sum loan agreement. He wants to end the agreement without 
having to pay anything further  or to be given  access  to an alternative course.
background
Mr E complains that TTR didnt supply him with the training course hed purchased  through  a 
fixed sum loan. And that its now instructed debt collectors to chase  him for the balance of 
the debt. Mr E explains that before  he was able to start the course, hed sustained an injury 
and also had to return home as a relative  was seriously ill. He feels that as he didnt 
complete the course, he shouldnt have to pay anything  more than he already has.
TTR told us that Mr E had initially purchased the e learning course in January  2015. But that 
hed later decided  to transfer  to the full time course. It said that hed agreed to take up a 
course commencing in November 2015  but hadnt  then attended. TTR said it hadnt  been 
made aware  that Mr E had moved  from mainland UK. Or his having sustained  an injury  and 
having to deal with an illness within the family.  It said it had met the cost of the initial course  
along with learning materials, tuition and placements.  And that Mr E would need to pay a 
further fee if he wished to enrol on a new course.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
course had been  made available for Mr E to attend.  And that she didnt  think that TTR had 
breached the contract.
Mr E didnt agree with this. As its not been  possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see in our investigators view there  is a reference to Section 75 of the Consumer Credit  
Act 1974.  I dont think this legislation applies here as the services  and the supplier of the 
finance through which they were bought is the same business. So if the contracted services 
werent supplied  as required, then either  way TTR would be liable. This doesnt affect the 
outcome of my decision and I mention it only for clarity.
Theres a very limited amount of documentary information available. But from what  Mr E has 
told our investigator I dont think theres a huge amount of dispute about  the factual 
circumstances.
Where information is incomplete - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions on the 
balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
The original  agreement was entered into in January 2015 and was linked to a three  year 
course. I believe  the online course was available from March 2015.  But Mr E decided to 
transfer to a full time course.  Ive seen a deferral  request dated  22 June 2015 on which  its 
noted that Mr E will be transferring to the full time course in November.
Ref: DRN97359042Unfortunately, he wasnt able to commence the course due to sustaining  a serious injury. 
Ive seen information relating to his having  to have an operation in July 2015. And also due 
to having to return to his home  which wasnt in mainland UK  due to the illness  of a close 
relative. I cant see any record of TTR being informed at the time that hed been injured or 
that hed left mainland UK and wouldnt be able to attend the course.
I fully appreciate that the circumstances which befell Mr E were outside his control.  And that 
hes experienced a great deal of misfortune.  But it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to transfer 
the resultant financial burden onto TTR.
The information shows that the course  in November 2015 was available and that TTR had 
provided some materials and incurred expense in organising tuition and future placements.
So I think its met its side of the contract.
Im aware that Mr E maintained payments for several months  - even whilst not attending  
before cancelling direct debits. But TTR is entitled to receive all the payments that were 
agreed.
Mr E has advised that due to the current Covid situation hes out of work. When a business  
is given information  that a customer is in financial difficulty  its required to treat that individual 
fairly and with forbearance and due consideration. How thats achieved in practice  is down to 
negotiations between business and customer.  But typically  it might include an affordable 
payment arrangement or similar measures. Id encourage Mr E to get in touch with TTR and 
/ or the debt collecting company it appointed. And hopefully a suitable and sustainable  
arrangement can be made  for the outstanding  balance.
In summary,  I find that TTR has done nothing wrong  in these circumstances  and accordingly  
Im not upholding the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 March  2021.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9735904