K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained that Ageas Insurance Limiteds approved  repairer caused further 
damage when  his car was repaired following a claim he made under his car insurance  
policy.
background
Mr N made  a claim to his insurer, Ageas following an incident in March  2017. Ageas 
instructed an approved  repairer (AR) to carry out repairs to the left side rear bumper of 
Mr Ns car. Mr N said that when his car was returned to him, he noticed a crack  to the right 
side rear bumper. 
In September  2017 Ageas AR agreed  to carry out a further repair  to the right side rear 
bumper. This was done as a gesture of goodwill  as it said the area had been repaired 
previously. 
In 2018 Mr N said that he noticed  a bigger crack  appear in the same  place  on the right side 
of the rear bumper  and he said the bumper had come  out of place on the right side.
In July 2018 Ageas instructed an independent  engineer to inspect Mr Ns car. The engineer  
reported that in his opinion the damage to the right side of the rear bumper  was caused by a 
new impact  and not by the ARs repairs in 2017.  
Mr N complained to Ageas. He didnt agree with its decision. Mr N said he wasnt aware of 
the engineers  planned  visit and was unhappy that he wasnt  there when the inspection  took 
place. 
Ageas didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend Mr Ls complaint should be upheld.  While Mr N would 
have liked to be present  when  the engineer inspected his car, she didnt think  Ageas  was 
obliged to do this in order to investigate his complaint. She thought Ageas had acted 
reasonably. 
In November 2018 Mr N sent us a report from an accident and repair  centre. This report said 
that  in the technicians  opinion  the crack  wasnt caused by a new impact   but by the 
repairs carried out by the AR. 
Our investigator sent the report  to Ageas.  Ageas provided further images of Mr Ns car from 
September 2017. Ageas said the engineer commented back  then that the right side rear 
bumper had been blown - and scratches  were  visible from previous repairs  carried  out to the 
right side of Mr Ns rear bumper. 
Our investigator remained of the view that Ageas had acted reasonably. 
Mr N didnt agree. So the case has been passed  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN92022822my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
When Mr Ns car was first repaired in 2017, Ageas  instructed  an independent engineer  to 
inspect his car as he was unhappy with a crack  he said appeared to the right side of the rear 
bumper. 
Ageas agreed  to repair the crack to the right side of the bumper as a gesture of goodwill. 
There wasnt any evidence to show that the crack was caused by the repairs  carried  to the 
left side of the rear bumper  by the AR. 
But  the engineer reported that the right side of the rear bumper was blown and had been 
previously repaired  using filler and paint. The photos provided by Ageas of Mr Ns car are 
dated September 2017. The engineer commented  that the scratches from a previous repair 
to the right side rear bumper were showing through as the filler had broken and cracked. 
The technician from the report provided  by Mr N in November 2018 says that he believes the 
car hadnt had an impact  since  it was repaired by Ageas. I note that the technician refers  to 
the repairs as recent   even though they were done  over a year before. The technician  notes  
that the bumper  may have had previous bodywork repairs  but says this is all the more 
reason as to why Ageas should have replaced  the bumper rather  than repair  it. He says this 
is because if the area is repaired too many times, the plastic  stretches and a good  quality  
repair isnt possible.  
Mr N has also provided a video where he has explained his concerns and provided close up 
images of his car. This has been  very helpful. 
However, Ageas was only ever obliged to repair the part of Mr Ns car that was damaged  by 
the incident in March  2017. As both specialists report that previous repairs were carried  out 
to the right side of the rear bumper before Ageas repaired  this area as a gesture of goodwill 
 and due to the time that passed between September  2017  and July 2018  on balance I 
dont think Ageas is responsible for carrying out further repairs. There isnt enough  evidence  
to persuade me that the approved repairer caused the damage Mr N is now claiming for. I 
think its more likely  that the damage  has been  caused either  by a new impact  or as a 
result of repairs carried out before Ageas was involved. 
I understand Mr N will be disappointed  with my decision. But this means  I think  Ageas acted 
reasonably. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN92022823Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9202282