K820x#14Complaint
Ms F is a director of A, a limited  company,  and brings this complaint on its behalf.  She 
complains HSBC UK Bank plc unfairly reviewed and subsequently closed As account; and 
that HSBC agreed  to refund account fees which it then failed to do. She asks HSBC to 
refund the fees, reinstate the account,  and pay compensation for the inconvenience and 
financial loss caused to A.
Background
A held a business current account with HSBC,  which Ms F had mandate  over as a director of A. In 
August 2018 HSBC  decided to review the account and contacted  Ms F to ask her some questions. 
Ms F says she provided answers to HSBC  but was concerned the person she spoke to was 
unable to communicate clearly in English. She suspects theyd failed to understand her 
answers and was concerned whether they were  an employee of HSBC and how they had 
obtained As data.
HSBC says Ms F failed  to provide adequate  answers to its questions and didnt complete the 
review it required. And, after a further review, it decided to terminate its relationship with A 
and sent a letter on 12 November 2018  giving Ms F two months  notice to make alternative 
banking arrangements.
Ms F complained to HSBC about its actions. She says she was unfairly targeted, she didnt 
need to divulge  information if she suspected she was talking to a third party,  and As account 
ought not to have been closed. In addition,  she says HSBC had sent her a letter  agreeing to 
refund account  fees shed incurred, but to date no refund  has been received. She says 
HSBC has refused to disclose the name of the person who wanted  information. And 
because of everything that happened her health  had suffered.
An investigator at our service considered As complaint and decided it shouldnt be upheld. 
In summary  they found:
-HSBC were entitled  under the terms of As account to conduct  a review in the manner it 
had done. So, while Ms F may have been  concerned by HSBCs contact and questions, 
it wasnt doing  anything wrong.  It was our role to see whether HSBC had acted in line 
with its legal and regulatory obligations   and it had.
-HSBC had given sufficient indication that it and not a third party  was conducting a 
review. HSBC  had sent Ms F several subsequent  letters  instructing her to ring and 
complete the review.  HSBC also didnt need  to disclose  the name of the employee who 
was reviewing  her account,  as that person was acting  on its behalf.
-Ms F had asked HSBC  to only correspond with her by email as she didnt want  to speak  
over the phone.  But HSBC has explained  it doesnt  offer email when asking questions 
as part of a review  its a less secure  form of communication more open to interception.  
Based on this, it was appropriate and reasonable to expect  Ms F to ring HSBC on the 
number provided  in its letters.
-HSBC can decide to close customer accounts. It had done so in line with the terms of As 
account by giving two months notice. Although this may have concerned  Ms F, HSBC 
had correctly  applied  the account terms, and this wasnt  a reason to uphold  her complaint.
Ref: DRN98708142-HSBC hasnt  got a record  of a letter showing it had agreed  to refund As account  fees.  
What is clear  is that several  fees were  waived to bring  As account  balance to zero, 
enabling it to be closed.
Ms F has rejected the investigators findings.  She says HSBCs  actions were illegal. Shes  
asked for an ombudsman to make  a final decision on the complaint, so it has been passed to 
me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided not to uphold  
As complaint for broadly the same  reasons given by the investigator.  Ill explain why.
Our role
Ms F has on several  occasions referred  to HSBCs  actions being illegal. I would like to clarify  
that only a court of law can make a finding of fact on whether a breach of the law has occurred. 
My role as an ombudsman is instead  is to provide an answer  to a complaint which I think is 
fair and reasonable in all its circumstances. And part of this means considering any relevant 
law, rules and regulations,  and industry practice  in order to reach  my decision.  Our services 
remit and the rules I must follow are described in greater detail in the Dispute Resolution  
Rules (DISP) which form part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook.
Account Review
HSBC has a wide variety of legal and regulatory  obligations it must  meet  when providing 
accounts to its customers, including business customers. These  obligations are ongoing  and 
do not only apply  when an account  is opened. To comply with those obligations HSBC may 
need to ask questions in relation to an account and the activities taking place on it. If HSBC  
didnt on occasion  take action it could  risk serious  sanction.
Ive looked into HSBCs  decision  to conduct a review. And, while I appreciate  Ms F thinks  the 
review was intrusive and unwarranted, Im satisfied HSBC were  required to perform it and its 
actions were appropriate. 
I understand too that Ms F was concerned about  how credible the person she spoke to over 
the phone  was, and she doubted  they were from HSBC. But I find HSBCs subsequent contact 
ought to have reassured her that HSBC  genuinely wanted to review the account. It had sent 
her several letters asking her to complete  the review and ring the number on the letters.
Ms F only wanted to conduct the review by email. And HSBC  should consider the individual  
needs of their customers. But I also find that HSBCs reasons for needing to conduct a 
review of this type over the phone or by secure  online messaging were reasonable and 
proportionate. And other than Ms Fs prior concerns  about who she spoke  to, I dont think 
this is was sufficient  reason for HSBC to change their usual process, or for Ms F not to 
engage with HSBC any further.
Ref: DRN98708143Ms F has asked for the name of the person  at HSBC who wanted information  about the 
account, but that person  represents HSBC as its employee. Im satisfied HSBC need not 
disclose this information to her.
Looking at all the information I have, I dont  see Ms F provided satisfactory answers  and 
evidence in response to HSBCs questions. And, I can understand why HSBC concluded 
she didnt cooperate as it would  expect  in line with the terms and conditions of As account  
which permit reviews.
Account closure
I understand Ms F feels very strongly that HSBC had no reason  to close As account, and 
that she runs a reputable  business. But HSBC  can still make  decisions on who it wants  as a 
customer, including existing customers. And in general, it wouldnt be appropriate  for me to 
interfere with HSBCs decisions in this regard, as long as they represent  a legitimate 
exercise of its commercial discretion.
HSBC should,  however,  ensure that it applies the terms of its accounts correctly when
closing an account.  And, its decision shouldnt be based on improper reasons. I see HSBC  
gave Ms F the two months  notice  required of it under the terms of As account. And I find 
this was a reasonable amount of time to make alternative banking arrangements.  
Im also satisfied HSBCs decision  was legitimate and understandable, particularly in view of 
Ms Fs failure  to complete  the review. I see the letters she received in relation to the review 
did warn her that As account  could be closed  if it wasnt completed. So, I wont be directing 
HSBC to reinstate  As account.
Ms F has also asked for the exact reasons  why As account was closed. But I find HSBC  
isnt under the legal  obligation Ms F says its under to disclose those reasons. And, I wont  be 
requiring HSBC to disclose them.
I understand A mightve  lost revenue  as a result of the time Ms F spent communicating with 
HSBC. But as I think HSBCs actions were  warranted, I wont  be asking it to pay 
compensation for any business losses A incurred. Nor will I be directing HSBC to 
compensate Ms F for the impact on her health  she says HSBCs  actions  caused.  
I was sorry to hear about what happened  to Ms F personally. But the complainant here is A, 
a limited company.  And although  Ms F controls  and is invested  in A, the personal distress  
and inconvenience  she experienced  is not something I can consider in relation to a limited  
company. Even if it was possible, as Im satisfied HSBC hasnt done anything wrong, I 
wouldnt be awarding compensation on this basis.
Refund of fees
Ms F says HSBC  agreed to refund fees on As account. Shes  said she received  a letter  
which confirmed this, but to date we have not received a copy  of this letter. HSBC says its 
no record of agreeing to a refund,  and it would generally be unusual  for it to agree to one 
when closing an account. I can, however, see HSBC waived several fees to bring As 
account balance  to zero, which allowed the account to close.
Ref: DRN98708144Im satisfied HSBC didnt need to refund Ms F any other  fees on the account  simply because 
it elected to conduct a review and then close As account. Ms F still had use of the account  
during the review and notice period, and this is what the fees were  likely in relation to. So, Im 
not recommending HSBC  take any further  action in relation to the fees than it has already.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2020.
Liam King
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9870814