K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with an Egg 
credit card. Mr A says the PPI was mis-sold to him.
Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) has accepted responsibility for the sale and 
this complaint, so Ive referred below to Barclays rather than Egg as the seller.
background
Mr A complains that the PPI he took out with a credit card in 2002  was mis-sold. Among 
other things,  he says he didnt need it and it wasnt suitable for him. And he feels  that he was 
misled about the extent  of the cover  the policy would give him.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. But Mr A disagrees, so the complaint 
has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Having done that, I dont  think  the PPI policy was mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Mr A says he applied for his credit card online.  Barclays records  say that too, so I think  its 
correct. Ive been shown examples of the screens that Barclays believes Mr A will have seen  
when completing  his internet application.  They present the PPI as an optional extra and Mr A 
wouldve had to choose yes or no to having PPI, in order  to proceed with his card 
application. I think its unlikely the PPI wouldve been added to Mr As card account unless 
hed selected  the yes option.  And Ive seen Barclays records  of the data he provided when 
applying, which say he did that. So in my view its probably what  happened.  
So overall I think its likely Barclays made it clear to Mr A that he didnt have to take out the 
PPI and that he chose to do so, even if after so many years he may not now recall this.
The PPI policy was taken  out without Mr A, as far as I know, discussing it with anyone from 
Barclays. So I dont think Barclays gave him a personal recommendation, which  meant it 
didnt have to check if the PPI was right for his particular needs. He had to decide that for 
himself. But Barclays did still have to make sure Mr A was given good enough information 
about the cost and terms of the policy, in order  to make that decision.
Based on what Ive seen  and been  told about  its online  sales process, Mr A may be right that 
the information Barclays gave him about the PPI wasnt as clear or full as it shouldve  been. 
But as Ive said, I think he chose  to have PPI, so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
From what  I know of his circumstances at the time, I think  he was probably eligible for the 
policy and it doesnt  look as if he was affected  by any of the likely exclusions to, or limits on, 
the cover. And Ive seen  nothing to suggest  he couldnt afford it at the time. So I dont  think  
getting better information about it wouldve put him off taking it out.
Ref: DRN91034212Mr A feels  he didnt  really need  PPI, as he says he wouldve  got sick pay through his 
employer for at least six months  if hed been unable  to work because of illness  or injury.  But 
the PPI couldve  paid out on top of his sick pay and for up to 12 months  at a time. It wouldve 
paid out too if hed lost his job, in addition to any redundancy payment he mightve  got. And 
from what hes told us Mr A didnt have any savings or other means  he couldve used to 
make the card repayments,  if he wasnt earning. So even taking into account his employee  
benefits, I think the PPI couldve proved helpful for him.
As Ive explained, it was up to Mr A to review his needs at the time of the sale and make his 
own decision  about whether to have  the PPI. But as hed be paying for it monthly, he could 
cancel it at any time without further  cost if his situation later changed, or he no longer wanted 
it.
I realise Mr A will be disappointed by this outcome. And Ive thought carefully  about  
everything he and his representatives have  said. But looking at all the information Ive got, 
on balance I dont think I can fairly and reasonably say the PPI was mis-sold to him.
That means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A. But 
Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because:
-  Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it shouldve  told Mr A about  that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr A, that was 
unfair.
-  To put that right, Barclays has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that offers fair in this case.
what Barclays needs to do
If it hasnt  done  so already, Barclays has to pay back to Mr A any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should also pay back  to 
Mr A any extra interest he paid because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr A the difference  
between what Mr A owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays  should also pay Mr A 8%* simple  
interest if Mr A paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr A can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc doesnt  have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But it does  have to pay back  to Mr A any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt  yet done that.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Ref: DRN91034213Chris Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9103421