K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that JD Williams & Company  Limited split her credit account into two 
separate accounts without her permission. As a result Ms C feels  the accounts are no longer 
accurate. She would like to have one account and for the balance to be correct.
background
Ms C says she is unhappy her credit  account  with J D Williams  & Company Limited  (JD 
Williams) has been split into two accounts. For ease of reference I will call these accounts  1 
and account 2. She says she has found some  discrepancies  on her accounts, for example, 
she says she keeps  being charged for returns.  
She adds  that every  time she places  an order  with account 1 it is charged to account 2.
JD Williams confirmed that Ms C has two accounts. Account 1 was opened on 21 March 
2016 and account 2 on 15 February  2017. Account 2 initially had a different name, but this 
account was disbanded  on 28 February  2018. At this point that account became known 
under its current name and remains for the purpose of this complaint account 2.
So Ms C always had two accounts. JD Williams confirmed if Ms C wished to just have one 
account she would need to repay in full the balance on one of the accounts.  In the meantime 
for orders to be accurately  linked to the right account Ms C needed to sign in with the right 
account number.  If she just signed  in with her email  address orders could be linked to either 
account.
It said it sent a full list of transactions to Ms C and said if she had particular queries it would 
address these. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Ms Cs complaint. She found  Ms C had two separate accounts 
not a single one that had been split into two.
She reviewed the information Ms C provided  on her orders and matching that with the 
statement information JD Williams provided could find no errors. She noted that Ms C had 
not received statement information from JD Williams. So she arranged for Ms C to get this.
She accepted Ms C might find placing orders confusing in that if she used  her email address 
orders could be placed against either account.  But she explained that our role isnt to make  a 
business change  its processes.
JD Williams accepted this view but Ms C didnt.  She said she hadnt received statements 
from JD Williams.  That account 2 had no outstanding balance in her view. That she had 
been charged interest and administration charges, she didnt feel returned  items had been 
dealt with correctly  and she was unhappy that the accounts had now been  sold on.
On receiving the statement data from our investigator she also added  that this this didnt 
show her payments.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her view.  She said based on the 
information she had she found no errors in the accounts.  She confirmed, as detailed  in her 
view, that no charges  or administration fees had been applied  to the accounts from May 
2019.
Ref: DRN90691902Our investigator also noted that Ms C wasnt happy  that JD Williams had sold her accounts 
on. She said that hadnt formed part of Ms Cs original complaint. So if she wasnt  happy with 
that she would need to put in a separate complaint  to JD Williams.
Now Ms C had the account information she asked her to identify any particular discrepancies 
Ms C wished the investigator  to take up with JD Williams on her behalf.
Ms C didnt accept this further  view.
.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Ms C has found her accounts  with JD Williams  frustrating to manage.  I can 
see that having two separate accounts  might be difficult, particularly as Ms C doesnt  think 
she had two accounts  just one that was separated into two.
 But I am persuaded by the information Ive seen that Ms C always had two accounts. The 
confusion seems to have arisen  in the change  of name for account  2.
And JD Williams  has explained that if Ms C wants just one account she needs to pay off in 
full the balance on one account which can then be closed.
I can see that when  Ms C placed  orders using her email address to sign in rather  than an 
account number  the system allowed orders to be placed against account. I would agree that 
would have been confusing. But as our investigator has noted its not for us to change 
business processes.
The main  outstanding issue for me to deal with seems to be the balances  on Ms Cs 
accounts.
I have looked  at the account statements JD Williams has provided. And I have  matched  up 
the transactions that Ms C listed for us with the information on the statements. So as far as I 
can tell the statements are accurate.
The statements  do show  the payments Ms C made but I can see thats  not obvious as they 
arent listed under a separate column. Ms C needs to look at the transaction type column  to 
see payments, items charged and items credited.  The transaction value column shows  the 
value of each  transaction.
I can also confirm that interest charges stopped applying after May 2019.
Although Ms C has insisted the statements are still wrong and dont  accurately  reflect  her 
transactions she hasnt  given  us any specific transactions that she thinks are wrong  that we 
could raise with JD Williams. Ive noted from our correspondence that our investigator did 
ask for this information  several times in an attempt to help Ms C. But Ms C hasnt provided 
this.
I can only look at the information I have been given. And on that basis  I cant conclude that 
JD Williams has done  anything wrong.
Ref: DRN90691903my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9069190