K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a Halifax-branded mortgage held with Bank of Scotland  plc. The 
mortgage is held by four borrowers, three of whom  (Ill refer to them  as Mrs A and her 
parents Mr and Mrs B) have brought the complaint. The fourth borrower,  who Ill refer to as 
Mr C, isnt part of the complaint.  The essence  of the complaint is that Halifax:
wrongly allowed  someone to change the correspondence address for Mrs A  and 
Mr and Mrs B to that of Mr C; and
refused a sale when  the shortfall  would  have been about  £25,000  whereas by the time of 
the possession  order, it was closer to ten times that.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding  some  of the figures  involved.  No discourtesys 
intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont  mention  
something, it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn. Another reason I have left 
out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumers when my decision is 
published.
The circumstances of this complaint, briefly,  are in that in 2009  a third-party intermediary (a 
broker Ill refer to as G) submitted a re-mortgage application to Halifax in the names  of 
Mrs A, Mr and Mrs B, and Mrs As former husband, Mr C. The mortgage was to be secured  
on a property then owned by Mr and Mrs B, who at the time had their own mortgage on it. 
Halifax approved  the application, issued an offer, and the transaction completed shortly 
afterwards.
Mrs A and Mr and Mrs B say they believed at the time that the transaction was for Mr C to 
buy Mr and Mrs Bs home from them and leave them  without a mortgage. In reality,  the 
re-mortgage raised new borrowing in all four names,  which Mr C then apparently 
appropriated for his own use. The marriage  between Mrs A and Mr C ended in very difficult  
circumstances (details  of which I dont reproduce here to preserve Mrs As privacy); the 
property became unoccupied and the mortgage fell into arrears.
In 2013, a neighbour offered to buy the mortgaged property. Mrs A and Mr and Mrs B say 
Halifax refused to allow them to sell it because the price being offered would have left a 
shortfall of about  £25,000. The arrears continued to grow until,  eventually, in late 2018,  
Halifax decided to take legal action for possession of the property.  
Mrs A and Mrs and Mrs T say they only found  out about  this by chance  when a visit was 
made to the mortgaged  property, and mail was collected which  included  Halifaxs  letter 
telling them of its intentions. This revealed a further concern on Mrs A and Mr and Mrs Bs 
part. For many years,  it seems  the only address Halifax  had on its system for 
correspondence purposes, other than the mortgaged property address itself,  was an address 
at which  neither Mrs A nor Mr and Mrs B ever lived.  It was, however, an address that had 
been used by Mr C, and was on Halifaxs system as applying to Mrs A as well.
Ref: DRN99033452Mrs A and Mrs and Mrs Ts concerns about the address were two-fold. First,  it begged the 
question of how they would have found out about the court  action but for the visit to the 
mortgaged property to pick up mail. Secondly, and more seriously for Mrs A in particular,  it 
raised the very real fear that in post sent to the correspondence  address, Halifax may have 
revealed personal information  about Mrs A to Mr C, most notably her current  whereabouts
The case  went to court, and Halifax was granted  a possession  order.  Meanwhile, Mrs A and 
Mr and Mrs B complained to us. Halifax has put any action to enforce the possession order 
on hold whilst we consider the complaint.
In response to our enquiries, Halifax explained that the correspondence  address had been 
registered (probably by Mr C) at a time when its then computer system could only hold one 
address. That address  was carried over as applying  to all borrowers when the account was 
then migrated to a more flexible system. But it confirmed that the only mail that had even 
been sent to the correspondence  address was material that Mr C, as joint borrower,  was 
entitled to see; for example, annual statements. 
As far as the shortfall sale was concerned, Halifax said that when it was asked for its 
agreement, it sent out the relevant forms for completion. The sale didnt proceed  because  
the borrowers solicitor  had apparently  advised  them not to unless Halifax would agree to 
write off the shortfall rather than hold them liable  for it.
Our investigator, whilst acknowledging how distressing the situation  must be for Mrs A and 
Mr and Mrs B, wasnt persuaded Halifax had done  anything wrong. Mrs A and Mr and Mrs B 
have asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Before I deal with the merits of the complaint, Ill make a general comment about  an issue 
we werent able to consider; that is, how the mortgage came to be arranged in the manner it 
was, allowing Mr C to take all the money leaving  Mrs A and Mr and Mrs B to deal with the 
debt. We explained  that the time limits  in our rules  prevented us from looking into that. 
All Id add to that is that where, as here, a lending application is made  through  a third-party 
intermediary, there was, in 2009, no obligation on the part of the lender to replicate  the role 
of the intermediary. The responsibility for any advice that may be given about the suitability 
of re-mortgaging  Mr and Mrs Bs home  into four names with extra borrowing lies with the 
intermediary rather than with the lender. 
Mrs A and Mr and Mrs B clearly have  grave  concerns about how G advised them and Mr C 
in arranging the mortgage with Halifax. But, theyd need to complain separately to G about 
that. In making  that observation, I am making no recommendation that they should make  a 
separate complaint, and they should  draw no inferences on what  the merits of such  a 
complaint, if made, might be. But I wouldnt be able fairly to hold Halifax  liable for any acts or 
omissions there could  have been  on Gs part. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our rules require me to determine a 
complaint by considering all of the evidence  from both parties  in order  to decide whats fair in 
all the circumstances.  Where the available evidence  is contradictory, incomplete, or even 
missing altogether, I reach my conclusions on the basis  of what is most  likely to have 
Ref: DRN99033453happened on the balance of probabilities. Thats the same  approach  that the courts  use in 
civil cases.
There are two issues for me to decide;  
did Halifax cause detriment to Mrs A and/or Mr and Mrs B by allowing someone to 
impersonate Mrs A in order to register Mr Cs address as theirs on its system: and
did Halifax refuse the shortfall sale offer unfairly?
I understand why Mrs A and Mr and Mrs B think the answer is yes on both counts, but after a 
great deal of thought, Im afraid I cant agree with them. Ill explain why.
The available evidence doesnt  point to Mr Cs address being recorded as applying to Mrs A 
as a result  of anything  sinister; rather, the most  likely reason is, as Halifax  has said, that 
Mr C registered it for himself (which,  of course, he was entitled to do) and then the limitations 
of Halifaxs legacy system determined how it was applied. The migration to the new system 
provided the scope  to correct that, but the correction  could only happen once the anomaly  
came to light. 
Thats now taken place,  but I understand Mrs As very real worries that in the meantime, her 
personal information could have been  disclosed to Mr C. Halifax has tried to assure that that 
hasnt happened, and that the only material sent to Mr C is that which his status as joint 
borrower allows him to see in any event. Based on everything the parties  have said and 
provided for me to consider, Ive no basis to conclude otherwise.
If Mrs A were to come forward  with evidence that Mr C had been  given personal information 
about her, and that disclosure had caused  her damage, then its something Halifax would 
have to consider  as a new complaint, and which Mrs A may be able to refer to us 
subsequently, assuming  our rules allowed us to consider it. But as thing stand,  I cant fairly 
conclude that theres  been a disclosure of information that has caused Mrs A detriment.
On the point about Mrs A and Mr and Mrs B potentially  being unaware of the legal action, 
this too appears  to be something that could have happened but didnt. I appreciate  theyd 
not have known about the legal action if the mail hadnt been  collected from the mortgaged 
property. But the fact is, the mail was collected, and they did find out about  the action. We 
dont award compensation for something that could have happened  but ultimately  didnt.
As far as the sale of the property is concerned, the starting point is that a lender can 
reasonably object to a sale taking place unless all of the money  owed to it is repaid. If thats  
not achievable, it can then legitimately decide whether to waive the shortfall  or seek the 
borrowers repayment proposals. The latter judgement is what  Halifax was asked to make a 
number of years ago, and it decided not to write off the shortfall. I dont believe it would be 
fair of me to interfere with that judgement, with the benefit of perfect hindsight.   
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from their submissions the intensity  with which Mrs A and Mr and 
Mrs B have brought the complaint. They see error or wrong-doing in almost everything the 
business has done (or not done). Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely 
understandable; this matters to them.
Ref: DRN99033454Be that as it may, I have  to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at 
things subjectively,  sometimes  taking a step back from the fine detail and instead focussing  
on the broader picture. Thats what Ive done. 
my final decision
Mrs A and Mr and Mrs B are in an unenviable position, and Im not at all unsympathetic 
towards them. But for all the reasons Ive set out, I dont find their situation was either  
created or made worse,  by errors  or omissions on Halifaxs part. Thats why I dont uphold  
this complaint or make any order or award against Bank of Scotland  plc.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means 
Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr and 
Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9903345