K820x#14complaint
Miss S complained because Lloyds Bank PLC refused to refund her for 15 cash  withdrawals, 
totalling £6,191.25, which she said she hadnt authorised.
background
Miss S said that on 6 May 2019  she logged on to her Lloyds account. She noticed that there  
were transactions which she hadnt authorised. She transferred  the remaining money to 
another account with Lloyds. She didnt contact Lloyds immediately, but the next day she 
went to a branch  to report fraud.  She was put through to the phone  fraud  team.
Miss S told Lloyds that she hadnt authorised 15 cash machine withdrawals,  which had taken 
place between 16 February and 2 May. The total was £6,191.25.
Miss S explained that she didnt use the account  very often.  She said she had kept her card 
in her purse, and hadnt realised it was missing.  She said that she hadnt revealed her PIN to 
anyone, and had destroyed the PIN notification  when it had originally been sent to her. 
Lloyds investigated  but didnt uphold  Miss Ss complaint, and refused to refund her for the 
disputed transactions.  It said that based  on the information on its systems,  and the 
information Miss S had provided, there was nothing to suggest the transactions had been 
carried out by someone  who had fraudulently obtained her security information.
On the phone, Miss S accepted the outcome and said she was happy  for the complaint to be 
closed. But she later decided to complain to this service.
The investigator didnt  uphold Miss Ss complaint. He noted that the withdrawals had been 
made using  the genuine  card and PIN. He considered the options: that a third party  unknown  
to Miss S had made the withdrawals; that someone  Miss S knew had made them;  or that 
Miss S had made them  herself. He noted  some inconsistencies  for example, Miss S had 
said shed forgotten  her PIN when she tried to make a withdrawal in January 2019.  But the 
banks computer records all attempted withdrawals, and there  wasnt  one recorded. The 
investigator concluded that it was most  likely that Miss S had carried  out the withdrawals 
herself.
Miss S didnt accept  this. She said one of the strongest  points was the fact she believed  
Lloyds had the responsibility and should take ownership of the fraud. And she said her father  
received texts from his bank, which wasnt Lloyds, every Monday.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Miss S has said that she believes Lloyds is responsible  and should  take 
ownership of the fraud. But the way it works  is that there are regulations,  which set out what  
factors need  to be considered, in order to determine whos  responsible, and who pays for, 
the disputed transactions  Miss S, or the bank. So Ive looked at those regulations.
The relevant  regulations  which govern disputed transactions during 2019 are the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017. In summary, these say that the consumer is liable for 
Ref: DRN95797462transactions which theyve authorised, and the bank is liable for transactions  which  were 
unauthorised. So the issue for me to determine is whether a consumer  authorised the 
transactions.
First, I have to look at the technical  part of the transactions, which  is called authentication. 
Thats a procedure by which  the bank verifies  the identity of the payment service user. Here, 
Miss Ss genuine card, with the genuine  chip,  was used. This is picked up by the audit trail 
which is computer generated. So I accept that the disputed transactions  were authenticated  
using this method.
The second  part is whether Miss S did or didnt authorise them  in other  words,  whether 
she consented to the transactions. When evidence conflicts,  I look at whats  more likely to 
have happened.
Here, its key that the genuine card and the correct PIN were  used. Miss S said she 
destroyed the notification of the PIN when it arrived, and she hadnt written it down. Miss S 
said she didnt realise the card was missing from her purse  until 6 May.  But even if the 
genuine card was stolen from Miss S at some point, without her realising it, that doesnt 
explain how any third party could have known the correct PIN number. 
Also, any third party fraudster would  typically  take as much  money  as possible, as quickly as 
possible, before the fraud could be detected  and stopped. Thats not the pattern here. There  
were 15 withdrawals between 16 February  and 2 May, and on each occasion there was 
money left in the account after the withdrawal. Thats not typical  of a third party fraudsters 
withdrawals.
I also note that Miss S didnt report the transactions promptly. It was a long time from the first 
one on 16 February, to 6 May when she reported them. Miss S told Lloyds that she didnt 
check her account regularly because she had another account.  But I think  its reasonable to 
expect a customer to keep an eye on all their accounts. And Miss S did make  other 
transactions such as transfers out from this account,  using online banking.  And there were 
payments into the account from her employer, which were  different every month. So Id have 
expected Miss S would have wanted  to check that shed been paid the right amount. Shed  
have seen the balance and the withdrawals when she did so.
Ive also looked  at the locations for the withdrawals. Several of these  were  carried  out near 
to where Miss S says she works. And they were made at a cash  machine which  Miss S had 
previously used herself for withdrawals which she hasnt disputed.
Taking these factors  into account, I find that its unlikely that a third party unknown to Miss S 
made the withdrawals.  Its not impossible that someone made the withdrawals with Miss Ss 
consent. But it doesnt make any difference to the outcome, whether  Miss S made  the 
withdrawals herself, or gave someone else the details so they could make the withdrawals. 
The bank isnt responsible for the payments in either of those situations. I consider its most 
likely that Miss S made  the withdrawals  herself.
Finally, I note that in her objection to the investigators view,  Miss S said that her fathers 
bank sent him a text every Monday. Its not clear what  this text said  presumably the 
balance of his account. Its not for me to comment on another banks procedures.  But if Miss 
S had wanted to know her balance every Monday, there was nothing  to prevent her from 
logging on to check, using the log-on  details  which the records  show  she possessed. 
Ref: DRN95797463my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I consider it most likely  that Miss S 
carried out the disputed withdrawals herself.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 May 2020
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9579746