K820x#14complaint
Mr V is unhappy with the increases in premiums on his home insurance with St Andrews 
Insurance plc.
background 
Mr Vs home insurance policy with St Andrews  started in 2006 and he was charged £204.53 
in premiums for that year.  This increased  over the years and in 2018  the premiums  were 
£1,693.19. When  Mr V originally took out his policy in 2006 he took out buildings  cover only.  
He added contents cover to his insurance  in 2008. 
Mr V says his premiums have been excessively high every year. He says he was burgled  in 
October 2016 and made a claim on the policy  and the following year his premium  doubled. 
He thinks hes being discriminated  against and says his premium is constantly being  
increased because  of a river close by. 
Mr V says he was charged  too much compared  to what is being  paid by others in his 
neighbourhood and he should  be compensated for the extra he had paid over the years. He 
says the money  he was charged for his premium couldve been put to better use. He chose 
not to renew his policy in 2018.  
St Andrews  didnt think it had acted  unfairly  and our investigator agreed.  Mr V disagreed 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would be, in 
effect determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role. But I 
can look at whether St Andrews has treated Mr V fairly throughout the period he held his 
insurance. 
In July 2006 Mr V took out his insurance policy, costing £204.53 for the year. Mr V agreed  to 
take the policy out at this price and he hasnt said he was unhappy with the initial price. 
Mr Vs premiums  began  increasing over the following years.  If St Andrews increased the 
price just because Mr V didnt engage  at each renewal, that wouldnt be fair. Looking  at all 
the facts, Im not persuaded it did so.
I say this because  Mr V appears to have engaged with St Andrews about his premiums on a 
number of occasions over the years he held the policy.  I note that in October  2008  he called 
to add contents cover to his policy, causing  the premium to increase by £98.89 per year. 
And, in June 2010 the excess on the policy was increased at Mr Vs request from £250 to 
£750. 
In August  2012  Mr V again appears to have  spoken  to St Andrews about the price of the 
premium, and their records show he was told there were no discounts available. I can also 
see that in June 2017 Mr V engaged with St Andrews about his premium and agreed to 
renew it. I think  this shows that on the whole Mr V was engaged with and aware  of the cost 
Ref: DRN95916152of his premiums throughout the time he held his policy. If he hadnt wanted to pay the 
premium St Andrews was offering, he could have  gone elsewhere  for his insurance. 
St Andrews  isnt obliged to explain  to its customers how its priced  its policies. But it does 
need to send renewal offers a reasonable amount of time before the policy  renews so they 
have the chance to shop  around or discuss the price  with St Andrews if theyre  unhappy. Its 
for consumers to decide whether they want to pay for the cover theyre offered at the price 
theyre offered.  I can see that the price offered to Mr V in 2018 was ultimately unacceptable 
to him and he chose  not to renew  his policy.   
St Andrews  has also shown there were a number of legitimate reasons for the increase in 
premiums over the years. Mr Vs premium  rose from £911.68 in 2016 to £1,567.82 in 2017. 
Mr V is particularly  unhappy about this increase. But St Andrews has explained that Mr V 
made a claim on his policy in October  2016 for £7,862.51. As a result of this, in 2017 the No 
Claims Discount on his building and contents  cover  was removed, causing the premium to 
increase. So I think  there  was a legitimate risk related reason for the premium increasing at 
this time. 
Mr V says his insurance is constantly being  increased because of a river close by his home. 
Each insurer, in determining its policys costs, is entitled to form its own view of risk 
regarding things such as flooding. And from this, it decides the costs associated with the 
risk. Insurers  often  use independent organisations to help determine flood risk ratings  
associated with properties or areas.  Insurers will typically,  over the years,  revisit  and 
reassess the risk  using more up to date and refined models.  I appreciate Mr V might not 
agree with St Andrews risk assessment but ultimately it is St Andrews decision as to how 
much risk a property represents  and in turn the cost it sets for the insurance. 
So, from what Ive seen,  there seem to be legitimate  risk related reasons for the premium  
increasing. Overall I dont think St Andrews acted unfairly.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9591615