K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc have been completing his Department  for Work and 
Pension (DWP) forms incorrectly which has had an impact on his mortgage balance  which  
meant HSBC started repossession.  He is also unhappy that they didnt  communicate  with his 
partner from April 2016  September 2017  when he was unable  to do so. He was also 
unhappy with legal  fees that had been  charged and unhappy with HSBCs actions against a 
court order.  Mr H is being represented on this complaint by Miss B.
background
Mr H is unhappy as he believes  that HSBC have been incorrectly completing DWP forms 
since 2016 and this has caused HSBC  to start repossession proceedings because  the 
mortgage has fallen  into arrears. The mortgage  balance was around £57,500 and the 
arrears balance as at April 2020 was £12,490.50.
Mr H complained to HSBC in 2018.  HSBC said they received Mr Hs forms in May 2016 and 
June 2017 which they then sent to DWP.  They  said that DWP then requested  further 
information from HSBC  regarding the borrowing, but there  was a delay in them responding. 
Mr H said he sent a copy of the request to HSBC  in September 2017 for this to be looked 
into. However, HSBC  said they didnt pass this on to the correct  team.  Once this request  
was actioned, the information was submitted to DWP in September 2018.  The DWP forms, if 
approved, would have supported the mortgage with interest payments.
HSBC have paid Mr H £1,000 in compensation for the delays and a further gesture of 
goodwill of £200.  HSBC said that they havent  received  any further payments from DWP to 
the mortgage account.
In February 2016,  Mr H was taken  seriously ill and was sadly unable to communicate.  His 
only income was through benefits  and his partner, Miss B, became  his full-time carer. Miss B 
contacted HSBC in April 2016 to inform them of Mr Hs situation and to discuss the account. 
HSBC explained  that they wouldnt be able to speak with her about the account and would 
need a letter of authority from Mr H and further medical evidence in order  to be able to 
discuss the mortgage with Miss B. 
HSBC said they had to comply  with data protection legislation  and once they received the 
information they needed, they were able to speak to Miss B from September  2017. They 
paid £100 as a gesture of goodwill and appreciated the situation was difficult,  but they said 
they had to follow the legislation. 
As the mortgage  account continued to fall behind, HSBC proceeded with litigation and Mr H 
said that they charged around £2,500 worth of legal  charges which  he believes is unfair 
because it was their choice to take the matter  to court  so they should be liable for the legal 
fees.
On 21 March 2019, a court hearing  took place and the judge ordered HSBC  to produce 
evidence on several  areas. A further  hearing  was due to take place on 23 May 2019, but 
HSBC said this was adjourned  because the matter  had been brought  to our service  and this 
is the normal course of action they take.  They said that adjourning court proceedings 
minimises further costs  being incurred and gave  the complaint the opportunity  to be 
resolved. HSBC also said that they adhered to all orders listed  by the judge.
Ref: DRN96826922Mr H has said that HSBC  have not adhered to the orders  listed by the judge  and would like 
the legal  charges removed as this is preventing him from setting up a payment plan. Mr H 
also said he didnt receive the £1,000 compensation and would like this paid to him with 
additional compensation for the emotional toll this has had on him.
Mr H brought the complaint to our service where  it was looked at by one of our investigators. 
Our investigator didnt  think that HSBC had acted  unreasonably. 
Mr H, through his representative, didnt agree so he asked for the complaint to be looked at 
by an ombudsman, so it has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly  like to clarify, that Mr H also made  an additional complaint about an equity release 
loan he took out in 2004. He wanted to borrow more money at the time and didnt realise that 
taking equity release  would  mean remortgaging his property rather  than a separate  loan 
being taken alongside his existing mortgage.
This part of the complaint has already been dealt  with by our investigator and he said it was 
a complaint that we couldnt look at as it was brought to us too late  as per the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  and the dispute  resolution rules in the FCA handbook (DISP  rules). 
Both Mr H and HSBC agreed to this so I will not be commenting on this any further  in my 
decision.
Completion of DWP  forms
Mr H believes  that HSBC  have completed the DWP forms incorrectly  since 2016  which  has 
had a negative  impact on his mortgage balance. He said that had the forms been filled in 
correctly, HSBC would not have started repossession  proceedings.
It is not in dispute  that HSBC have made errors here. Having looked through the system 
notes and information that HSBC  have provided,  they have acknowledged that errors were 
made with the completion of the DWP forms and delays in sending  them  to DWP. 
They paid £1,000 compensation for the inconvenience to Mr H on 7 September  2018. I 
appreciate that Mr H has said he hasnt received this payment but from what I can see, this 
has been paid by HSBC so he may want to go back and check  his bank account. HSBC  also 
offered an additional £200 as a gesture of goodwill to Mr H which  I believe he has not 
accepted yet.
Having looked  through the notes,  I can see that HSBC have returned  forms to DWP in 
September 2018 and March 2019, but HSBC have  said that no further payments have been 
credited to the mortgage account.  The initial  information which was missing  which  caused 
some delay - was information  about the borrowing itself and Im persuaded from what  I can 
see, that HSBC  have  sent the information  that was required.
Ref: DRN96826923Mr Hs mortgage account has been in arrears  for some time. I appreciate and have been 
sorry to hear that he has been going  through a very difficult time. But his mortgage was 
already in arrears  and from the mortgage  statements I have seen,  the DWP missing 
payments alone  is not what has caused  the account  to have fallen behind. HSBC have 
explained that they have  previously capitalised arrears on the mortgage account   in 2009  to 
help Mr H. But it seems the mortgage  account  fell into arrears again shortly after. I 
understand that Mr H has made some payments to try and reduce the arrears and I can also 
see there have been payment arrangements put in place.
HSBC, as Ive already  mentioned, have  since returned the DWP forms but no further 
payments have been made to the mortgage  account. If Mr H was entitled to further DWP 
payments, we would  have  expected  these to have credited the account. Its not clear if Mr H 
has contacted  DWP about his payments, but if he hasnt, it might be worthwhile  him doing so 
to understand  the current situation.
From what  I have  seen, I cannot  agree that the errors made by HSBC  regarding  the DWP  
forms is what has resulted in HSBC starting  litigation action.  I also think the amount they 
offered in compensation is fair.
Communication with Miss B
 
Mr H is unhappy that HSBC would not speak to his partner, Miss B when he was unwell and 
in hospital. I can see from the call notes that Miss B contacted HSBC in April 2016 to inform  
them of Mr Hs situation. HSBC explained to Miss B that they would need a letter of authority 
from Mr H or some  medical evidence in order to be able to speak to Miss B about the 
mortgage. 
I appreciate this must have been  a very difficult and sad time for both Mr H and Miss B and it 
probably wasnt what she wanted to hear when she was only trying  to get things in order. But 
as difficult as it was, I do understand why HSBC asked for further evidence to ensure that 
they had the authority to speak to Miss B. They did have to follow data protection legislation  
and satisfy themselves  that that the person they were speaking to about  the mortgage,  was 
someone that Mr H gave authority to  or this could  have  caused issues  down the line.
I have looked  at various file notes which show that HSBC  did speak to Miss B to see how 
she was getting  on with providing  what they needed.  Miss B was able to do this eventually 
and they had permission to speak  to her from September 2017.
I cant say that HSBC were unreasonable in wanting  to carry out their own checks and at the 
same time adhering  to legislation around data protection. I appreciate it was a difficult  time, 
but I cant agree that HSBC did anything wrong here.
Court order  and legal fees
Mr H has complained about the legal fees that have been added  to his mortgage  account. 
He said these are unfair because it was HSBCs decision to take the matter to court  not 
his. There was an initial hearing date on 21 March 2019 and a further hearing date in May 
2019. The May 2019 hearing date was adjourned because Mr H brought  his complaint to our 
service. He said that legal  fees should not be paid by him especially as it was HSBCs  
decision to adjourn  the hearing.
Ref: DRN96826924HSBC started litigation when the arrears on the mortgage account were not being reduced. 
Taking matters to court means  that legal work is carried out in order  to prepare for the court 
hearing itself. HSBC have  provided us with invoices  for the work that they were  charged for 
by their solicitors with regards to this matter. The invoice is quite detailed in that it shows the 
work carried out, the numbers of hours this work took and how much was charged.  These 
charges totalled  around £2,500.
The charges  appear  to be in line with the actions that were  taken on the account and for the 
periods between March 2019  May 2019. There were witness statements that were 
prepared for by the solicitors for HSBC which were disclosed  at the hearing on 21 March 
2019.
Having looked  through these invoices, there is nothing  on here that looks  unreasonable.  And 
having looked through the terms and conditions of the mortgage account,  they are clear in 
stating that customers  are liable for any fees for the costs of recovery  of the mortgage debt. I 
therefore cant agree that the costs  should not have been charged to Mr H. The solicitors 
charged HSBC for this work; they then had the right to pass these costs to Mr H. 
At the hearing  in March 2019, HSBC were ordered to comply  with certain actions  which 
they have said they have  fulfilled. HSBC have told us that the adjournment of the hearing in 
May 2019 was not an attempt by them to avoid  going back to court. Our service tends to ask 
lenders to put legal  action on hold while we look into complaints so this would not be 
unusual. I think it is reasonable that this has been done here.
Mr H has said that he doesnt believe that HSBC have adhered to the order  they were given 
at the hearing  in March 2019.  The court order said that HSBC,  amongst other  things, had to 
provide evidence of them  completing  and submitting the DWP forms. They also had to show  
that they had complied  with the mortgage  pre-action protocol (MPAP) checklist which shows  
what a lender must do when a borrower  falls into arrears on their mortgage.
I have been provided with the witness statement dated 16 April 2019 which says that HSBC 
have completed the relevant actions that were needed from them.  They provided evidence 
to show how they carried out each point  including the mortgage  pre-action protocol (MPAP) 
checklist. HSBC included  arrears letters and other  correspondence they had sent to Mr H. 
Mr H still believes  that HSBC havent done  what they should have regarding the court  order  
 although Mr H hasnt  explained what he thinks HSBC hasnt done.  Although  I have been 
provided with the witness statement which shows me the actions of HSBC   it is not for me 
to decide whether they have fulfilled  their obligations. This would  be a matter  for the court.  If 
Mr H wants this to be looked  into, he has the option  to take this to court for them to decide.
I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed with my decision and acknowledge that HSBC did 
cause some errors with the DWP forms. However, I think  they have done enough to put this 
right for Mr H, so I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
Our investigator gave  Mr H information about  who he can contact if he needs  advice or 
support if he is still experiencing financial difficulties. This is something that is still open to  
Mr H should he need the additional support.
Ref: DRN96826925my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. If Mr H would still like to accept 
the £200 that HSBC have offered him, he should contact them  to arrange this  if it hasnt 
since been paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2020.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9682692