K821x#15complaint
Mr Fs representative,  a claims management  company  (CMC),  complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
(the business). 
In summary  the CMC says the investment  was too high risk. It suggests Mr F shouldve used 
the funds to reduce his mortgage  and retained funds  for emergencies and unexpected future 
spending.  
background
Between October 1997 and November  2002  Mr F contributed  £48.30 a month into a 
Prudential Managed Trust Fund PEP, subsequently  changed to M&G Episode Growth
Fund Stocks and Shares ISA (the investment).
Between December  2002 and November 2008  he contributed £50 a month. He made no 
withdrawals until 2008 when he withdrew £7,009. The £182 left was withdrawn in September  
2014 and the investment was closed.   
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary he said:
Theres no evidence that Mr F was made aware  what a medium attitude to risk 
meant, or that Mr F had accepted getting less than he invested. 
Mr F was on a low income at the point of sale and shouldnt  have been advised to 
invest half of his money. He was left with very little for unexpected future expenditure.  
Although he owned  his own property,  he had a substantial mortgage  outstanding. 
Its unclear how he acquired  the shares that he had. Nevertheless it doesnt prove 
that he was aware of the risks associated with the recommendation. 
Whilst Mr F may have been contributing to the family income,  the advice was given 
only to him. 
Overall hes not satisfied that the amount invested or the associated  risk of the 
investment is suitable. 
Mr F should  be given redress based on the 50/50 benchmark.   
The business disagreed with the adjudicators view. In summary it said: 
The investment  risk would have  been  explained  to Mr F. 
The fact find at the time didnt have a documented risk explanation, but this doesnt 
mean that the risk wasnt explained  to Mr F. 
Mr F would have  been given the Key Features Document (KFD)  at the point of sale 
which made clear the risk factors involved on the very first page.  
The recommendation was suitable. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN96956432Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence, and on balance,  despite what  
the business says, Im not persuaded that the recommendation  was suitable. 
Whilst its fair to say certain  questions were asked of Mr F to arrive  at the conclusion that he 
was a medium risk investor, Im uncertain as to the reasoning behind this being identified as 
his attitude to risk. 
I note Mr F wasnt an experienced  investor, he had a fairly substantial mortgage  outstanding 
and little money set aside  for future unforeseeable spending or emergencies. Overall, Im not 
persuaded this was an accurate or correct assessment of Mr Fs attitude to risk.  
Im not suggesting that Mr F was risk averse  or that he wasnt  willing to take any risk all. Im 
just not satisfied that he was aware  of the level of risk, so wasnt  willing to take that risk in 
order to achieve  capital growth. And there appears  to be no reason for him to go beyond the 
scope of products  which offered anything other than a low/cautious  risk.
I appreciate that just because the fact find at the time didnt have a documented risk 
explanation, doesnt mean it wasnt explained  to Mr F. But this doesnt automatically  mean  
that it would  have been explained to him either.  On a balance of probabilities, on the face of 
the evidence I cant safely say that it was.  
I also appreciate the points made  about  the KFD, but I think its likely that Mr F relied on the 
advice that he was given rather than the documentation. And Im conscious  of the business 
reasons for recommending a higher  investment amount,  but I dont think  it was suitable in 
light of his overall financial circumstances either. 
Because Mr F was prepared to take some  risk, as opposed to no risk at all, I dont think  the 
adjudicators recommendation to use the 50/50  bench mark is unsuitable.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr F 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I take the view that Mr F would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr F's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
what should  the business do?
To compensate Mr F fairly, the business  must:
Compare the performance of Mr F's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
the business should  also pay interest  as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Ref: DRN96956433investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
The 
Prudential 
Managed 
Trust Fund 
PEP 
subsequent
ly changed 
to M&G 
Episode 
Growth 
Fund 
Stocks and 
Shares 
ISA.  
surrenderedfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  the business  
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
the business totals all those payments and deducts that figure  at the end instead  of 
deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr F wanted  capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
Ref: DRN96956434The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
I consider that Mr F's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr F into that position. It does not mean that Mr F 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker fund.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise  that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr F could  have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
The Prudential Assurance Company  Limited should  provide  details of its calculation to Mr F 
in a clear,  simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
..
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9695643