K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about AXA PPP Healthcare  Limiteds refusal to pay for a claim under 
his private medical  insurance policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision, which is attached  to, and forms part of this final decision,  in 
October 2018. In my provisional  decision I explained why I didnt  think Mr Ss complaint 
should be upheld.  I asked both parties  to send me anything else they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision  by November 2018.
AXA responded to say it had nothing to add. Mr S responded  to say he didnt agree with my 
provisional decision, and he made the following key points:
Many  of the arguments  in my provisional decision are based  upon the fact that 
technically the treatment  is held to be unproven, even though extensive trials show 
that the treatment  substantially  reduces the need for surgery.
AXA would pay for surgery  (even  though its expensive) but only after the hands are 
permanently damaged.
Surgery is invasive, expensive, doesnt  return the hand to full functionality and 
requires six months  of occupational therapy afterwards
The progression of the disease  would have been  a severe  handicap for Mr S.
The treatment Mr S has received  has been  successful and he would be happy  to 
submit a medical assessment of the effectiveness of the treatment if required
By funding the radiotherapy treatment himself, Mr S has saved AXA the inevitable 
cost of future surgery
AXA is the only major health insurance  provider that doesnt fund this treatment
A number of NHS Trusts do offer this treatment routinely  Mr S called the Trusts and 
got this confirmation. Mr S is therefore  disadvantaged through  the extensive  
premiums hes paid to AXA each year.
Mr S also said that as a compromise he would accept AXA reimbursing the cost of the 
treatment in return for his commitment that should  surgery be required at a later date, he 
wouldnt ask for any contribution toward  the cost. I put this to AXA and asked for its 
comments, but AXA didnt agree to Mr Ss suggestion.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to maintain  
my decision  not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.  But Ive addressed Mr Ss key points below.
Mr S has said that many  of my reasons not to uphold  his complaint are based  on the fact the 
treatment is said to be unproven, despite the fact extensive trials  show the treatment 
reduces the need for surgery. However,  as I explained in my provisional decision, in order 
for the treatment to be covered,  it needed  to meet the policy definition of conventional  
treatment. In this case this means the treatment needed to be shown to be effective through 
substantive peer reviewed  clinical  evidence, in published authoritative medical journals; or 
be approved by NICE as a routine treatment. 
Ref: DRN99232132I explained that, based on my research and the available evidence, other than the studies  
Mr Ss consultant referred to (many of which  were  completed before NICE  didnt  approve  the 
treatment as a routine  treatment), few other studies and trials have been  undertaken. And I 
referred to an article published  in 2017,  in The Journal  of Hand Surgery  which stated 
radiotherapy should be seen as an unproven treatment for early Dupuytrens  because of the 
scarce evidence base  and unknown long-term  adverse effects.  So while there  may have 
been trials which show the treatment reduces the need for surgery, this evidence  still doesnt 
mean the treatment  meets the policy definition. And for this reason, while  I can understand 
Mr Ss disappointment,  the available evidence  is such that I dont think AXA has been  
unreasonable in declining  his claim.
I understand why Mr S is unhappy that AXA wouldve paid for surgery,  despite its cost, but 
only after his hands would  be permanently damaged. Its completely understandable that   
Mr S decided to opt for the treatment he did in the hope  that it would have a better outcome 
than surgery. But this doesnt mean  AXA should cover the radiotherapy when Mr Ss policy  
is quite clear in what it does and doesnt cover.
I can also appreciate Mr Ss frustration that AXA wont accept his claim given his 
understanding that other insurers do fund this treatment, but ultimately it is up to AXA to 
decide what its policies  will cover. 
Finally, Mr S says he called a number  of NHS Trusts,  and all of them told him they do offer 
this treatment routinely.  Whilst  I accept  Mr S mightve been told this, Im not persuaded 
radiotherapy is routinely provided to treat Dupuytrens. I say this because Id be very 
surprised if this was the case given NICEs conclusions, and I dont know who Mr S spoke 
to, or what was discussed.  Im also mindful  that one NHS Trust that does provide this 
treatment publicises the fact that it is one of the only NHS sites in the country to offer it. And 
as I explained  in my provisional decision, what it said about the treatment in relation to 
Dupuytrens, suggests that it is undertaking research rather  than providing  the treatment 
routinely.
However, even if Im wrong about  this, and lots of NHS Trusts are providing this treatment 
routinely, it wouldnt  automatically  follow that AXA should accept Mr Ss claim. This is 
because the treatment still wouldnt meet the necessary  policy definition at present.
I know Mr S feels strongly about the matter, and Im aware hell be disappointed  by my 
decision, but I dont think AXA has done  anything wrong in declining his claim, for the 
reasons Ive given.  And for the same reasons, I dont think  AXA has been unfair in refusing 
to reimburse the cost of the treatment,  even if Mr S doesnt ask for any contribution for any 
related future surgery.
my final decision
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S, but for the reasons Ive set out above, and in my 
provisional decision, I dont uphold his complaint  against AXA PPP Healthcare Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Katie Doran
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99232133Provisional decision  copy
complaint
Mr S has complained about AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds refusal to pay for a claim  under his private 
medical insurance policy.
background
Mr S has early Dupuytrens contracture. He asked AXA to pay for radiotherapy to treat his condition.
AXA refused to cover the cost of the treatment because it thought it was unproven/ experimental and 
there was no equivalent treatment. It therefore said this wasnt covered by Mr Ss policy. Mr S wasnt 
happy about this so he made a complaint.
AXA didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said that it didnt cover unproven or experimental  treatment and 
it said for treatment to be covered it must be shown to be effective through  appropriate clinical  trials  
and assessments, or be approved by NICE  as safe and effective.
Mr S remained unhappy and so he referred his complaint to us.
An investigator looked  into Mr Ss complaint and she upheld it. She thought  the use of radiotherapy  to 
treat Dupuytrens contracture had been shown  to be effective  through clinical trials, and this 
effectiveness had been  published in medical journals.  She also highlighted that the NHS  provided this 
treatment in some  locations.
AXA didnt agree  with the investigators opinion. It maintained that NICE hadnt approved  the 
treatment for Dupuytrens  and the clinical trials the investigator had referred  to hadnt been peer 
reviewed.
The investigator maintained  her view. She said she thought it was likely the clinical trials had been 
peer reviewed given they were mentioned on the British  Dupuytrens Societys  website. The 
investigator also asked Mr S to get written confirmation from his consultant that the treatment had 
been shown to be effective through clinical trials and assessment and that the results had been 
published in authoritative medical  journals.
Mr Ss consultant provided information to show  the effectiveness  of the treatment,  including a list of 
publications to show there was high grade peer reviewed  evidence. 
AXA explained that the evidence Mr Ss consultant  had referred to were case series audits not clinical 
trials. It added  that given the variable disease  progression (which  was referred to in the NICE 
guidance) it was necessary to conduct a randomised  controlled trial looking at people treated versus 
those who hadnt been or those who had been given a standard treatment. It also thought one 
publication couldnt be looked at in isolation which  is why an overview (which NICE had provided) was 
so important.
The case was then passed  to me for decision. I asked for Mr Ss consultant to comment on AXAs  
most recent  view.
He said the evidence AXA had referred to wasnt a case series audit. He explained it was a 
randomised controlled trial comparing two radiotherapy dose levels.  He accepted the control group 
wasnt randomised, but the treated and untreated groups had almost exactly  the same baseline 
characteristics. He also explained the difference in outcome between  the groups  was so large that 
this provided strong  support  that the treatment was effective.
Mr Ss specialist also said that NICE felt there was enough evidence to support the use of 
radiotherapy if the appropriate  audit and governance was performed.  He also didnt think the NICE 
Ref: DRN99232134ruling was relevant as it only applied to resource allocation in the NHS, and so it wasnt relevant to 
private medical insurance. He explained there  were  many NHS  centres that already provide this 
treatment, so he felt it was unfair and arguably discriminatory that a patient  with private medical 
insurance had less access  than an NHS patient.
I asked AXA for its comments on Mr Ss explanation. It said Mr Ss consultant has incorrectly 
interpreted the NICE guidance. It also said the information hed provided hadnt been  substantively 
peer reviewed and werent published in authoritative  medical journals which is the standard required 
by the policy. It further explained that case series audits arent substantive evidence,  and hed 
provided evidence from chapters from books, not medical  journals. AXA also explained that the 
information sources Mr Ss consultant had provided  pre-dated the NICE guidance.
AXAs Chief Medical Officer  (CMO) also explained that the evidence Mr Ss consultant had referred to 
didnt meet the relevant policy  definition. He added that the 2015 Royal College  of Radiologists  
guidance is superseded  by the NICE guidance of 2016, and he said that doctors who collectively call 
themselves a society and agree with each other about a treatment doesnt equate  to peer reviewed 
substantive evidence. He also reiterated that the case series referred to by Mr Ss consultant in 
Seegenschmiedt 2001, 2012 and 2017  arent  substantive evidence.
Mr Ss consultant sent us an extract of what NICE had said about  the treatment. 
Im now in a position to make a provisional decision  on Mr Ss complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr Ss policy doesnt cover unproven or experimental  treatment.  It only covers conventional 
treatment.
AXA has confirmed that in Mr Ss policy, conventional treatment is defined as treatment  that:
is established as best medical  practice  and is practiced widely in the UK; and 
is clinically appropriate  in terms of necessity, type,  frequency, extent, duration and the facility 
or location where the treatment is provided; and has either
been  shown to be effective for your medical condition through  substantive peer reviewed 
clinical evidence in published authoritative medical  journals; or
been  approved by NICE (The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence) as a 
treatment which may be used in routine practice.
So Ive considered  the evidence in order to decide whether it was reasonable for AXA to turn down  Mr 
Ss claim. Having done  so, Im not persuaded there is enough evidence to show that the treatment 
has been shown to be effective through substantive peer reviewed clinical evidence in authoritative 
medical journals. And I dont think NICE  has approved the treatment in routine  practice. Ill explain 
why.
In its 2016 guidance, NICE said the use of radiotherapy to treat early Dupuytrens  contracture raised 
no major safety concerns. But regarding  the effectiveness of the treatment, it said the evidence is 
inadequate in quantity  and quality, and is difficult to interpret because of uncertainty about  the natural 
history of Dupuytrens disease. Therefore,  this procedure  should  only be used with special 
arrangements for clinical  governance, consent and audit or research. It also concluded that there 
should be further research  into radiation  therapy, including randomised controlled  trials. 
So while NICE suggests the treatment is safe,  it doesnt say the treatment  is effective. And it seems to 
me that its due to the lack of evidence  supporting its effectiveness  that NICE has only approved its 
use with special  arrangements. This means NICE hasnt approved its use in routine practice.
Ref: DRN99232135Mr Ss consultant has provided evidence to show that the treatment has been peer reviewed. But Im 
in agreement with AXA; in general these studies dont appear to have been published  in authoritative 
medical journals (such as the British Medical  Journal or the Lancet). 
In my opinion,  its arguable  that one of the sources of evidence  Mr Ss consultant has referred  to - The 
International Journal  of radiation oncology, biology  and physics - is an authoritative medical journal. 
But the policy  terms  explain that the effectiveness  of the treatment  must be substantive and published 
in journals rather than one journal. And I cant  see that the study/trial referred  to has been  widely 
reported on by other authoritative journals. Based on my research,  few other studies and trials  have 
been undertaken; and, as AXA has highlighted,  many of the studies  Mr Ss consultant refers  to were  
completed before  NICE  produced its guidance.  
Furthermore, an article published in 2017 in The Journal of Hand  Surgery entitled Radiotherapy in 
Dupuytrens disease:  a systematic review  of the evidence  states,  On balance, radiotherapy should  
be considered  an unproven treatment for early  Dupuytrens disease due to scarce evidence  base and 
unknown long-term adverse effects.
So, based on the evidence available to me, Im not persuaded the treatment has been shown  to be 
effective for (your) medical condition through substantive peer reviewed evidence  in published 
authoritative medical  journals.
For all the reasons Ive set out above, on balance, I dont think the treatment meets the definition  of 
conventional treatment  in Mr Ss policy.
Mr Ss consultant has argued that many NHS centres are already providing this treatment, and so 
AXA has been  unfair and arguably discriminatory  in turning down Mr Ss claim. He has provided a list 
of hospitals where he says this treatment is funded. I have looked on the websites for all the hospitals  
Mr Ss consultant has mentioned, and other than one particular hospital, I cant  find anything 
persuasive to show that early Dupuytrens  is treated  with radiotherapy  at these  hospitals. And even if I 
accept, on the face of it, that these hospitals are providing  this treatment, I dont know what  context 
this is in. Given NICE has encouraged further research on this treatment,  I have to consider that these  
hospitals might be conducting clinical  trials  to determine  the effectiveness  of treating early 
Dupuytrens with radiotherapy. 
In support of my view, I can see that one of the NHS  Trusts  on Mr Ss consultants list explains that it 
is our intention to raise the profile  of this simple, effective treatment for Dupuytrens disease.  It 
explains it is one of the only NHS sites in the country to offer radiotherapy to early  Dupuytrens 
patients. And it says that patients who receive this treatment  are audited once  the treatment  has 
finished at regular intervals to check for side effects and efficacy. So it seems to me that this particular 
NHS Trust is undertaking research into the efficacy of treating early  Dupuytrens with radiotherapy.  I 
therefore cant  agree  that this treatment is provided at many NHS centres (certainly not routinely  
and Mr Ss consultant has said its not routinely commissioned by the NHS),  or that Mr S generally 
has less access to this treatment than NHS patients.
So while I sympathise with Mr Ss situation,  for the reasons Ive set out above, Im not currently 
minded to conclude AXA has been unfair in deciding to turn down Mr Ss claim.
Ref: DRN99232136my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont intend to uphold  Mr Ss complaint against AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited.
I now invite  both parties to provide me with any further comments or evidence  theyd like me to 
consider before I issue my final decision.
Katie Doran
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9923213