K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank  Plc  trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester Plc (Lloyds)  - mis-
sold them  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out PPI policies alongside their mortgage and further advances in 2004, 
2007 and 2003. They paid a monthly amount for each policy.  All the policies  were  in Mr Bs 
sole name. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
With each policy, Lloyds  should have made it clear to Mr and Mrs B that they had a choice in 
buying the PPI. Mr and Mrs B say it they were  led to believe they wouldnt get the borrowing 
if they didnt take the PPI. Lloyds has said Mr and Mrs B wouldve been aware they had a 
choice about buying the policy  each time.  And its provided us with copies of the lending  and 
PPI documents  Mr and Mrs B completed  at the time of each sale. 
I can see on the mortgage application  form and for each additional borrowing application 
form, there was a section  for the PPI. In this section  it asks applicants to tick to confirm they 
either wanted to take out the policy or that they didnt  want to. There  is nothing to say that 
the lending is reliant on the PPI being taken. If Mr and Mrs B didnt want the PPI, they 
couldve ticked to say they didnt.
There is a separate  proposal form for the PPI which  for all three applications - has been 
completed for each  policy and Mr and Mrs B have also signed.  This leads me to think  that 
there was a discussion, on each occasion,  around  the policy and Mr and Mrs B have 
selected the level of cover which  best suited their circumstances at the time. 
So taking everything into account, I think its most likely that Lloyds made Mr and Mrs B 
aware one each occasion that they had a choice about buying the PPI, and they chose to 
take it  although I can understand why they cant remember this now. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B for all three  borrowings so it had to make 
sure each policy was right for them. From what Ive seen, they seem  to have been suitable  
for them based on Mr Bs circumstances at the time. Ill explain  why:
Mr B met the policies requirements  so were eligible  for it.
Mr B says he wouldve  received  sick pay benefits from his employer. In the event of a 
successful claim  each  PPI cover wouldve paid their mortgage  repayments for up to 
Ref: DRN9353399212 months if Mr B was unable to work  due to being too unwell. It would have also 
covered them if Mr B became unemployed. The policies wouldve paid out alongside  
his employee benefits. 
Mr and Mrs B say they didnt have  any other  means of making their repayments  
such as savings. So I think the PPI wouldve been useful to them. 
It doesnt look like there was anything about  Mr Bs circumstances that wouldve 
made it difficult for him to claim. For example, Mr B didnt have any unusual  working  
patterns or existing  medical conditions. Ive noted Mr and Mrs Bs comments  about 
Mrs B not working at the time,  but as each policy was in Mr Bs sole name, this point 
doesnt change  my decision.  
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policies better than it did. But even if it had, I 
think Mr and Mrs B would still have bought  them. Mr and Mrs B were taking on a number of 
large financial commitments secured against  their home.  And it looks  like Mr B was the sole 
earner. So I think they wouldve  wanted the security of knowing their mortgage repayments 
were covered if Mr B too sick to work or became  unemployed. And it doesnt  look like the 
policies were unaffordable for them.  
As well as making sure the PPI was right for them,  Lloyds shouldve  taken  reasonable steps 
to point out the main things each policy didnt cover  to Mr and Mrs B. I dont know if Lloyds 
did point these things  out. But Ive explained  why I think the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs B. 
And I dont  think clearer information wouldve changed their decision. I think they still would  
have bought it. I say this for the same reasons I think the policies were suitable for them. 
So taking everything into account, I dont think Mr and Mrs B have lost out as a result of 
anything Lloyds mightve done  wrong. 
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Mr and Mrs B some  of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Lloyds 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs B paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage or subsequent lending.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9353399