K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about a central heating insurance policy  provided by British Gas 
Insurance Limited. 
background
Mr M held plumbing and drains, home  electrical  and kitchen appliance insurance cover  with 
British Gas. On 26 January 2018, he contacted British Gas to discuss cover for his central  
heating system, which was faulty. British Gas apparently told Mr M that the Air Source Heat  
Pump (ASHP)  which provides his home with heat, wasnt covered but it could be added to 
his policy  (for an additional £23 per month) and a repair carried out for a fixed fee of £99. 
An engineer  attended that evening to look at the ASHP and confirmed there was an 
electrical fault and said he would return to complete a repair. However, after Mr M chased up 
British Gas he was told the repair would not be done and it could not provide cover  for the 
system.
Mr M is very unhappy about  this and has asked that British Gas carry out the repair; provide 
cover according to its promise for a year free of charge; and compensate him for the 
additional electricity  used to heat his property. 
Mr M also made a claim for a leaking toilet in early 2018 and says that as a result of the 
repair not being completed properly,  there  was water damage to his ceiling. He has asked 
for £160 towards the repair of the ceiling. Mr M is also very unhappy  that British Gas failed to 
respond to his complaints. 
British Gas says it cant provide cover for ASHPs.  It says it made it clear to Mr M that it 
would assess if it could  cover the system when the engineer attended and if it couldnt  do the 
repair/cover it, he would not be charged. It does not cover ASHPs, as they are not standard  
domestic heating systems  and require specialist repairers. The first engineer assessed it on 
26 January 2018  and said it could  not be covered. It sent another  engineer  for a second 
opinion. British Gas did, however, offer £50 compensation for the handling of the matter. 
British Gas initially said it was not responsible for the water  damage to Mr Ms home  but it 
has now paid Mr M the £160  claimed. I dont therefore need to make any findings about this 
part of the complaint.   
British Gas also disputed  that we have  the relevant jurisdiction to consider the complaint, on 
the basis that there was no contract  between  it and Mr M in relation to the ASHP.  I 
considered the jurisdiction  issue separately and issued a decision that we do have 
jurisdiction to deal with the potential sale of the policy. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He acknowledged that British Gas 
apparently told Mr M that cover for this could be added to the policy but this is not correct  
and the investigator  didnt  think  it should  be bound by this, given that it does not provide  
cover for such heating systems. Our investigator acknowledged that this must  have  been  
disappointing for Mr M but he didnt think British Gas had acted unreasonably. 
British Gas accepts the investigators assessment but Mr M does not, so the matter has 
been referred to me. Mr M says that British Gas made  a verbal contract  with him, which  was 
Ref: DRN98208002confirmed at a managerial level; by offering compensation, British Gas has accepted liability 
and it also ignored  his complaint and failed to follow  its own guidelines about this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas agreed to come out and try and repair the pump. It says it made it clear to Mr M 
that it might not be able to do so and that a final decision would be made by the attending 
engineer. Mr M disputes this and says it is bound by its verbal  agreement. Even if I accept 
that it did not warn  him that it might not be able to do the repair and cover the system going 
forward, I do not agree that British Gas is bound  by this. 
British Gas says it doesnt have the expertise to deal with this type of heating  system and no 
policy was issued. Insurers  are generally entitled to decide what cover  they want  to provide. I 
cant reasonably  direct  that British Gas provide insurance cover  for a heating  system that it 
cannot repair.  
As I do not consider that British Gas is responsible for the AHSP not being repaired, it is not 
responsible for any increased electricity costs,  or other consequences of it not working. His 
position in this regard was not changed by anything British Gas did. 
However, I do consider  that British Gas should have told Mr M that it was unable to cover the 
heating system sooner  than it did. I agree that the £50 already  offered as compensation is 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
British Gas also failed  to respond  to Mr Ms complaints in a timely  manner  however  it did tell 
him that he was entitled to bring his complaint to us, within the timescale  that it is required to 
do so. So while I can understand the frustration of not receiving a substantive response form 
British Gas, I am unable  to make any order or award in relation to this.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint,  as I consider British Gas Insurance Limited has already made  a 
reasonable offer in settlement. If Mr M wishes to accept the offer of compensation, he should  
confirm acceptance  of this decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9820800