K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy ReAssure Limited declined his claim and says the policy  was mis-sold.
background
Mr D had an accident protection  policy  with ReAssure.  The policy is designed  to pay a lump 
sum if the policy holder is involved in an accident,  subject  to relevant terms and conditions. 
The policy also offers  hospitalisation benefit  which pays  money for the time the policy  holder  
is in hospital. 
Mr D was involved in a car accident in November 2017 which  resulted in a five night  stay in 
hospital. He claimed  on his policy  but this was declined. Mr D would like his premiums 
returned, with interest  and to receive  compensation. 
ReAssure said it declined  Mr Ds claim because he didnt meet the policy  terms. He was 
hospitalised outside the United Kingdom and so was not covered by the policy. Mr D didnt 
accept this and subsequently said the policy was mis-sold because he was told it offered 
cover within Europe. He also said he was never sent a copy of the terms and conditions and 
has since suffered loss of vision,  which he wants ReAssure to consider a claim for. 
Our investigator didnt  think ReAssure  had declined his hospitalisation claim unfairly. He 
thought the term was clear that the hospital must be in the UK. He also found no evidence  to 
persuade him the policy was mis-sold. He referred  Mr D back to ReAssure to raise  a claim 
for his loss of vision as this wasnt raised as part of this complaint.
Mr D didnt agree for mainly the same  reasons  already  given and so its for me to make  a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered Mr Ds arguments Im not persuaded that ReAssure has made  
an error in declining his claim or that it mis-sold the policy. My reasons are largely similar to 
those already explained by our investigator, Ill explain why.
This was an advised sale that took place  in in 2011. Ive seen  notes of the 
conversation, including the demands and needs, key facts  document and the policy  
terms. I take on board Mr Ds understanding was that this policy  was supposed to 
offer cover  outside of the UK. But I wasnt present at the time of sale and so I cant 
say with any certainty what was said between him and the advisor.  But what I have 
seen is enough  to persuade me that he does not meet  the policy terms. And thats 
because he was hospitalised outside  the UK. The relevant term in his policy  says;
hospitalisation benefit is only payable  if the hospital is in the United Kingdom
This term is included in the policy terms with prominence and so I also think  it clear.  
Mr D said he didnt receive  the policy terms, but I note they were sent, along with the 
welcome letter and key facts document. I also noticed Mr D mentioned  hed received 
other letter from time to time, including when the business had changed its name. 
Ref: DRN95094452And so I have no obvious reason to doubt  ReAssure sent him all the necessary 
information. 
I dont think ReAssure  mis-sold the policy either  because the cover was suitable.  I 
say this because  in the demands  and needs  statement,  Mr D said he didnt have any 
other accident protection and ReAssure  had highlighted a need  for it. Mr D then 
selected the level of cover. I understand Mr D said he was told the policy  provided 
cover outside of the UK, but as Ive just explained,  theres no evidence of this. 
Further, Ive not seen anything in the notes of the sales  process  that identified a need 
for cover outside the UK. And so on balance,  I dont think  this was discussed. And so 
because the cover  was suitable, I dont think it was mis-sold. 
I note Mr D has raised a separate point about  his loss of vision  since the accident. I 
agree with the recommendation made  by our investigator in that he should  discuss  
this directly with ReAssure as its likely it would need  to raise a new claim. However, I 
note the policy states;
blindness  permanent and irreversible  loss of sight to the extent that even  when 
tested with the use of visual aids, vision is measured  3/60 or worse using the Snellen 
eye chart
And so Id recommend Mr D think carefully  about  whether he meets this term before 
deciding whether to go ahead with submitting a claim.
 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9509445