K822xcomplaint
Mr B is unhappy with the settlement paid to him by Amtrust Europe Limited in respect of his 
Landlords Insurance claims for malicious and accidental damage and escape  of water in 
respect of his let property,  
background 
In November 2017 after his tenants  left, Mr B was advised  by his managing agents of the 
state of his property.  There was substantial damage to all areas. This included  all the doors,  
windows, plaster, flooring  and kitchen appliances  and units. Mr B made  a claim to Amtrust. It 
appointed loss adjusters who identified a number of areas of damage but advised initially  
that most  of the damage appeared to be due to lack of maintenance, general neglect  and 
wear and tear. They advised that the damage  didnt  appear to be malicious or accidental.  
The loss adjusters noted that there was damage  to the floor in the living  room  due to an 
ongoing leak from a radiator which would have to be separately claimed as an escape of 
water.
Amtrust agreed to pay the water damage  claim in accordance with Mr Bs contractors repair  
invoice, for £3,875, net of the policy excess. It subsequently agreed to cover damage to the 
kitchen floor as accidental damage, and paid £1,000. After Mr B complained, insisting that 
the damage not paid for was either  malicious  or accidental, Amtrust reviewed the claim 
again. And in May 2018 it accepted that the damage to two of the windows could be 
malicious, because  of cracked panes.  It agreed  to pay £1,000.  And it further accepted  as 
malicious damage Mr B's claim for the internal doors and to pay a further  £1,500 for this. 
Amtrust pointed out that in respect of a malicious  damage claim by persons lawfully  in the 
building, there  was a policy limit of £5,000. It also agreed to pay one months  loss of rent. It 
agreed that it should have made  an offer in respect of the malicious damage earlier and paid 
Mr B compensation of £50 for this.
Mr B wanted  to claim for four months loss of rent as that was the length  of time it took to 
carry out repairs and to re-let the property. He said that clearly all the damage  was either 
malicious or accidental. He also felt that he should receive compensation for the amount of 
time he had to spend arguing the claim.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Amtrust should pay for the remaining 
windows and the two extra doors, along  with the damage to the window handles. He thought  
all those items looked like they were  maliciously  damaged from the photos. He proposed 
that Amtrust pay further loss of rent. He didnt  think that the other  damage  could  be classed 
as malicious or accidental. He noted  that Amtrust had paid the electricity costs but didnt 
think it was liable for gas or water charges. He proposed that Amtrust pay an additional £100 
compensation.
Amtrust agreed to pay for the extra windows and doors, and to pay the £100 compensation. 
The claim payment brought the amount it was liable for in respect  of the malicious damage 
up to the £5,000 total. It also paid the further months loss of rent. 
Mr B was still dissatisfied. He thought he should have all four months loss of rent and 
additional compensation.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.  
Ref: DRN97819672my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As far as the malicious damage claim is concerned, I have to bear in mind  that Amtrust  has 
paid out for the damage to the maximum of its liability  under the policy.  Even if Mr B were 
able to show that there were other items  which suffered malicious damage, Amtrust would 
have no further  liability under the terms of the policy to pay those.
I have considered the state of the property as the loss adjusters found  it when they 
inspected in late November 2017.  They observed that the damage would appear to be more 
consistent with general  dilapidation of a tenanted  property and poor ventilation as opposed  
to a malicious act. The photos show peeling wallpaper, mould,  cracks  in the plaster,  loose 
tiles and carpets soiled  and stained, with the wardrobes and beds needing replacing. 
None of the damage described above  appears to me to be due to a malicious act. As it isnt 
defined in the policy this services practice  is to regard accidental damage as damage which  
is caused unintentionally and is unforeseen. The damage here doesnt appear to me to be 
accidental damage   the cover for this is subject to an exclusion for gradual deterioration or 
wear and tear. I should add that its also not possible to claim under the policy for accidental 
damage which could  also be malicious  damage. The accidental  damage cover is also 
excluded where  the damage is due to any of the other insured perils.
Ive considered the damage that has been  paid, either as a result of Amtrusts  review of the 
claim or following our investigators view.  I would agree that the damage to the window 
catches looks malicious to me  every one of them seems  to have been broken off. And 
there is clear  impact  damage to the locks of the external doors. So it is fair that Amtrust  pay 
for those. 
As for the rest of the damage I do think that it appears more consistent with damage caused 
gradually in light of the photos as Ive described  them. The damage to the tiles in the 
bathroom appears to me to be most likely due to general deterioration or damp  than 
malicious or accidental damage.
Ive noted that the appliances in the kitchen were  replaced. Mr B has told us they had to be 
replaced as they were  not working. Theres no note of any damage to these in the loss 
adjusters reports,  so the fact of them not working  doesnt appear to me to be consistent with 
accidental or malicious damage. Theres no other evidence of the reason for them not 
working which leads  me to believe that they were most likely neglected or allowed to fall into 
disrepair, so the damage is not claimable.
Mr Bs policy  covers  additional utility costs  incurred by him as a result  of the damage claimed 
for. Amtrust  has paid £60.00 for the 489 units of electricity used. The water charges are not 
metered and so wouldnt fall to be paid under the policy. The property was vacant for four 
months but as Mr B had a duty under the policy to keep the property heated  and as it doesnt 
appear that the repairs were delayed due to any fault on Amtrusts part or that gas was used  
as part of the repairs, I wont require it to pay the gas charges.
In respect of the council tax payment, again this isnt payable  under the terms of the policy.  
Amtrust did however  agree to pay a further £100 compensation in view of the fact that there  
Ref: DRN97819673was a delay in agreeing  the malicious damage  claim and in agreeing  to pay a further loss of 
rent. Our investigator, while  appreciating that Amtrust wasnt liable under the policy  for 
council tax nevertheless  thought Amtrust should pay £100  which  is roughly the amount of 
council tax Mr B had to pay and I think thats reasonable.
And as far as loss of rent is concerned, Mr B wants to claim for the entire period that the 
property was unoccupied, four months.  Amtrust  has agreed to pay for two months. Under  the 
policy the cover is:
As a consequence  of Damage to the Buildings  by an Insured Peril  We will pay up to 20% 
of the Buildings  Sum Insured under Section 1 for the Loss of Rent if the Buildings  become 
Unoccupied or partly Unoccupied and cannot  be let out.
Loss of rent is:
The amount by which the Rent during the Indemnity Period falls short  of the Rent which  but 
for the Damage would have been received.
The indemnity period  begins with the date the damage occurred and lasts for up to twelve 
months. The effect of these policy terms is that loss of rent is payable where the loss is due 
to the insured peril i.e. malicious  or accidental  damage or escape of water. Here the damage 
was partly due to those  insured perils. But Ive noted  the general state of the property and 
that repairs had to be carried out to parts of the property affected by damp,  general  neglect 
or gradual  deterioration,  none of which are claimable  under the policy.  And Ive noted that 
the tenants' deposit of a months rent was forfeited, which  Mr B has told us has been applied  
to uninsured damage.
My conclusion from this is that I think it was fair for Amtrust to pay loss of rent for two 
months. Its likely that the property would in any event have had to be unoccupied for around 
another two months due to having to carry out repairs to the uninsured  damage.
compensation
Mr B has claimed further compensation for the amount of time it took him to argue his claim 
and for the stress and inconvenience caused  to him. Whist I understand what  he says, it was 
for him to prove his claim and produce evidence of his costs, under the terms of the policy. 
And given  the circumstances of this claim, it was always going to be stressful for him. The 
damage wasnt reported to the police so assessing  it and deciding whether the damage was 
malicious or accidental was something the loss adjusters had to assess. And whether the 
damage was covered  wasnt in my view cut and dried.  Amtrust  has paid a total of £150 
compensation which reflects its part in the delay in Mr B being paid for his claim. Overall I 
think that was reasonable and I dont propose  to make any further award  in that respect.
my final decision
I have noted that Amtrust Europe  Limited has paid further costs  of the claim and 
compensation. In light of that I dont propose to make any further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Ray Lawley
Ref: DRN97819674ombudsman
Ref: DRN9781967