K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) unfairly  declined  her claim on
her home insurance policy. Mrs S is represented  in this complaint by Mr S.
background
Mrs S says she came home from holiday  to find water covering half her lounge carpet. She
says her neighbours told her there had been  heavy rain a few days  before. And that the
council found  a nearby external drain  was blocked with a failing gully, which wasnt taking
water away.  Mrs S says she replaced the carpet, due to the smell. And that the council
repaired the drain and gully. But, as it wouldnt take responsibility for her carpet, she claimed
on her policy.
Great Lakes considered the claim under  the buildings section of her policy. It declined it
saying what happened  couldnt be considered a storm. And that it wasnt a flood. This was
because there was no evidence of large  standing volumes of water entering  the house,  as
only half Mrs S lounge  carpet got wet.
Unhappy with this, Mr S raised  a complaint with Great Lakes. And it arranged for a loss
adjuster to assess what had happened. The loss adjuster said water  got in through an open
vent in Mrs S lounge  wall, which was only partially  covered by tarmac, as the lounge floor is
lower than the pavement. It said the council had now blocked this off and repaired the
external drainage. And, while it believed the carpet  was damaged beyond repair, it said the
water from the drainage  wouldnt  have come in if it wasnt for the open vent. So Great Lakes
maintained its decision,  saying  the wind wasnt high enough for there to have been  a storm.
And that, while the rainfall was quite  high, it wasnt enough to be classed as a rainstorm,  and
it didnt cause a flood either.
Mr S brought Mrs S complaint to our service.  Our investigator looked into it and said Great
Lakes should  have considered the claim under the contents section of her policy,  as
opposed to the buildings  section. She said the blocked drain and gully led to a build-up of
water, which  surrounded  the area outside  Mrs S lounge. And the open vent wouldnt have
been an issue if not for the flood, as it wasnt one before. So she told it to settle  Mrs S claim
for her carpet on the basis it was caused  by a flood  and pay her £100 for the distress and
inconvenience it had caused to her by refusing her claim.
Great Lakes didnt agree.  It maintained there wasnt a flood,  as the damage didnt submerge
the entire carpet. And it said carpet falls within the buildings section of the policy, as it cant
be easily taken away from the house.
As Great Lakes didnt agree with our investigator,  this complaint has been passed to me to 
consider. And I felt it should  be upheld, but for different reasons to our investigator. So 
I issued a provisional decision. In that decision, I said:
To reach a fair and reasonable  outcome in this type of case, I think its appropriate to view a
flood as a build-up  of a body of standing water,  irrespective of how long it took to build  up or
what caused it to. But I think Great Lakes position that there  wasnt  a flood here is
reasonable. This is because the build-up  seems to have been quite short-lived and more of
an overflowing of a gully than a body  of standing water outside  Mrs Ss house.  And - while
Mrs Ss carpet clearly  got wet - it doesnt sound  like there was a build-up of a body of water
in her home.
Ref: DRN98705512But, Mrs S is covered under her policy for escape of water from a fixed  water  installation, so
Ive also considered whether Great Lakes should  meet her claim as a result of this.
While Mrs S policy doesnt define a fixed water  installation,  I think its something water  was
supposed to be contained or carried within. I think drains and gullies fall within this category,
as theyre intended  to carry water.  And given the water that damaged Mrs S carpet  escaped
from a drainage gully, I think the damage to her carpet was caused by the escape of water
from a fixed water installation. I appreciate it wouldnt have got in to the property but for an
air vent,  but this doesnt alter the fact it escaped from a gully and caused damage.
During the claim Great Lakes referred  to the gradually operating cause  exclusion.  And this
is a general exclusion  in the policy, so would apply to damage caused by escape of water.
But the damage to Mrs Ss carpet  only happened over a fairly short period of heavy rain
while Mrs S was away. And she was prevented from stopping  more water  getting in as she
wasnt aware it was happening. So, even if it could  be said it happened  gradually, because
she wasnt aware it was happening,  I dont think it would produce a fair and reasonable
outcome in this case if I were to allow Great Lakes to rely on the gradually operating cause
exclusion.
In summary,  I think the damage to Mrs S carpet  was caused  by an escape  of water, which  is
covered under her policy. While Mrs S replaced her carpet before making her claim,  due to
the smell,  she would  have  always  had to do this given Great  Lakes declined  her claim. So a
fair and reasonable outcome is for Great Lakes  to pay Mrs S a reasonable cost for her new
carpet, based on commercial market  rates, less the policy  excess. Whether it does so under
the building  or contents section of the policy isnt material, as the excesses are the same.
But, for clarity, our service considers carpet  as contents.
Great Lakes should  also pay Mrs S £100 in compensation for failing to consider her claim as
an escape of water claim, as this clearly  caused her unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. And I think it should have  been clear to its claims handlers this needed to be
considered without her needing to point this out.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  above, I currently intend to uphold this complaint and tell Great Lakes
Insurance SE to:
Pay Mrs S a reasonable  cost for her new carpet, based on commercial market rates,
less the policy excess. To this it should add 8% simple interest  per annum to this
from the date she paid for the carpet to be replaced  to the date of settlement.1; and
pay Mrs S £100 in compensation.
Mrs S and Great Lakes  told us they accepted  my provisional decision.  Mrs S also provided a 
copy of the invoice showing she paid £620 for her new carpet, following the escape of water. 
And said this was for the same type of carpet shed had before. 
I provided Great Lakes  with the invoice  and explained that my final decision was likely to tell 
it to reimburse Mrs S for the £620 she paid for her new carpet, instead of telling it to pay her 
a reasonable cost.  Great Lakes hasnt made any further comment on this. 
The case  has now come  back to me for a final decision. 
Ref: DRN98705513my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  agreed to my provisional decision,  and the conclusions I came  to within it are 
largely still the same. So I see no reason to depart from it, with one exception. 
Rather than choosing a different, or more expensive, new carpet following the escape  of 
water, Mrs S has replaced it with the same one she had before. And the £620  she paid for 
this doesnt seem unreasonable in the circumstances.  So I think a fair and reasonable 
outcome is for Great Lakes to pay Mrs S £620.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold this complaint and 
require Great Lakes  Insurance SE to:
Reimburse Mrs S the £620  she paid for her new carpet, less the policy  excess. To 
this it should add 8% simple interest per annum  from the date she paid for the carpet 
to be replaced to the date of settlement1; and
pay Mrs S £100 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
1 If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs S a certificate
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if
appropriate.
Ref: DRN9870551