K821x#15complaint
Mrs C says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mrs C took out in 1999. It was added to her 
account when  she applied for the card in person.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint  because:
Barclays recommended  the policy to Mrs C but I dont think it was right for her. I say this 
because Mrs C has told us about  a medical condition she had when  she bought the policy 
which wouldnt have been covered.  Mrs C has told us that she was taking medication  for the 
condition and that it affected  her on a regular basis.
Although Mrs C hasnt been  able to be specific about the amount of time she took off work 
due to her condition as it affected her on a regular  basis I think she would have seen the 
condition to be a likely  reason she might  want  to make a claim under the policy. I dont  think 
Mrs C wouldve bought  this policy if shed understood that she wouldnt be able to claim for 
it. So I think shes lost out because of what Barclays did wrong.
So, for the reasons mentioned above,  I uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
putting things right
Barclays should put Mrs C in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out 
PPI.
A.Barclays should  find out how much Mrs C would have owed when she closed her credit  
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mrs C owed when she closed 
her account  and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN95317342If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.Barclays should  add simple interest  on the difference between what  Mrs C would  have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Barclays works out what Mrs C would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs C paid more than enough to clear her balance,  Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs C paid. And it should  carry  on paying  interest  until the point 
when Mrs C wouldve owed Barclays something  on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
D.Barclays should  tell Mrs C what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mrs C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9531734