K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited insisted he take advice before he was 
able to transfer his pension.
background 
Mr C has a pension with a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) benefit.
In August  2016  Aviva wrote to Mr C to explain his retirement date was coming up. It said he 
had a number  of options to consider.
In December 2016 Aviva wrote to Mr C again.  It said the transfer  value of his pension was
£37,092.87 and the cost of providing the GMP was £26,810.00.The letter asks Mr C to get 
independent financial  advice if he wants to transfer  his pension.  Mr C said advice was 
unnecessary, and he wanted  to transfer  his pension without it. Aviva didnt agree, so in
May 2017 Mr C confirmed he had taken advice. He then took his tax free lump  sum and 
transferred the rest of his pension to another provider. The advice cost Mr C £500,  and he
would like this reimbursed.
When the transfer happened  the value of Mr Cs pension was £57,424.41  and the cost of 
providing the GMP was £30,295.00.
Mr C complained about Avivas requirement on him to take advice. And about  the service  it 
provided during  the transfer. Aviva  acknowledged  some of the information it provided was 
not as clear as it ought to have been.  It offered Mr C £100 for the confusion  caused.
However it maintained  that advice was always required.
An investigator looked at Mr Cs complaint and felt Aviva hadnt been clear  in the figures  it 
provided Mr C to help him make  a decision.  She therefore felt an additional award for 
distress and convenience caused  was due. She recommended a further  £100.  Aviva didnt 
agree; it felt its original  offer was fair. Mr C didnt accept the investigators findings either. So 
the complaint  came  to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said Aviva had caused confusion, but I dont think 
Mr C would have managed his pension differently. And so hadnt lost out financially.  I also 
awarded a further  £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
In my provisional decision I said:
The requirement to get independent  advice
When considering  this case I need  to take into what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, taking  into account  relevant law and regulations and good industry practice 
at the time.
The Pensions Schemes  Act 2015 places a requirement on some individuals  to take financial 
advice before they can give up a benefit such as a GMP. In particular, if the total value of the 
safeguarded rights  exceeds £30,000  advice is required. This requirement is also confirmed 
in guidelines published by the Department  for Work & Pensions. Since the cost of providing
Mr Cs GMP was less than £30,000 in December 2016 there  was no legal requirement for
Mr C to take advice. And I think it was misleading  for Aviva to tell Mr C there would be a 
breach of HMRC  rules if advice wasnt taken.
Ref: DRN90434592Aviva has now said it uses  a calculation  assumption  which is based on the overall value to 
decide when a customer needs  to take advice or not. And this assumption  led it to believe
Mr C did need to take advice. While the cost of providing Mr Cs GMP was close to £30,000, 
it was actually below the threshold required by The Pensions Schemes Act 2015.  So in 2016 
there was no legal requirement  on Mr C to take advice, regardless of how prudent Aviva  
thought it may be. However  at the time of transfer,  in May 2017, the cost of providing the
GMP was over £30,000. So at the time of transfer,  advice was required.
So I need to consider how Mr C managed his pension and if he would have done anything  
differently had the requirement for advice been  explained correctly in 2016. Mr C wasnt due
to retire until the following year. The questions he was asking at the time also seemed to 
suggest Mr C was considering delaying the transfer. And by waiting until May 2017  to take 
his benefits, the transfer value of his pension increased substantially.  
So although  it seems  Aviva caused  confusion;  I dont think Mr C would have managed  his 
pension differently. And he was considerably better  off financially, having waited until May 
2017. But since the cost of providing the GMP  at the date of transfer was over £30,000,  I 
think advice was required.
The rules  around how GMPs  are valued for the purposes of the advice requirement  have  
changed more  recently.  But Im satisfied that at the time (May 2016), advice was required.
So I dont  intend  to ask Aviva to refund the fee Mr C paid for advice.
the information and service  provided
Having considered the timeline of events  I can see Aviva  provided Mr C with incorrect 
information on a number of occasions.  Aviva has recognised it did this in one piece of 
correspondence. In it Aviva gave incorrect figures for Mr Cs pension. Aviva  awarded Mr C
£100 to recognise  the inconvenience caused.
But Ive seen a number of occasions  on which Aviva caused confusion  by phone  and letter.
For example Aviva  tells Mr C the requirement  to give advice is based on the value of the 
entire pension. On another occasion its adviser explains to Mr C and his representative that
Aviva has an in house rule that means  any pension with a total value of over £15,000  
requires advice. Aviva  now recognises this wasnt  explained correctly.
Considering this, I minded to conclude that Aviva should give Mr C a further  £100  for the 
distress and inconvenience caused, making  the total £200.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr C responded to my decision. He said he didnt feel the amount of compensation 
suggested recognised the distress and inconvenience caused. He also said an extra  £100  
didnt send the right message to Aviva. He felt an additional £200 would be more 
appropriate. Aviva didnt provide any further  comments.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN90434593I think an additional £100 is fair and reasonable. Awards for distress and inconvenience 
arent intended to fine or punish businesses-this is the job of the regulator. But instead 
awards are to recognise the emotional  and practical impact  on that particular customer.  And 
in this case I dont  think Mr C would  have managed his pension differently,  and ultimately 
was better  off having waited longer. However,  I can see confusion  was caused by some of 
the information Aviva provided. Because of this I think a total payment of £200 recognises 
the distress and inconvenience  caused.  
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint.  I direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay 
Mr C a further £100 to recognise the distress  and inconvenience caused to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019..
Kinjal Vadgama
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9043459