K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that National  Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) doesnt  record  a telephone 
number on the back of his debit card that can be used to call it to report a lost or stolen  card.
background
Mr G says that in January  2019  he lost his NatWest account card. He says he was worried  
about that as his account card had a contactless feature. Mr G had previously made a note 
of the telephone number  on the back of the card but says that number cant be used to 
report the card as lost or stolen. Mr G doesnt  believe NatWest  is doing everything it can to 
prevent fraud and would  like it to record a number on the account card that can be used to 
report a lost or stolen  card.
NatWest says there is little point  recording such  a number  on a card thats  either lost or 
stolen. It says it takes customer security seriously  and provides a number that can be 
accessed online to report lost or stolen cards. NatWest  has given Mr G a number that can be 
used for future use if needed.
Mr G didnt accept that view and brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didnt  think it 
was our role to tell NatWest how to run its business  but thought it had acted fairly by 
providing a number for any future  use.
Mr G doesnt accept  that view and says the number on the rear of the card is for customers  
to have a number for immediate use that can be noted for any future  use. He says 
NatWests response doesnt take into account  that internet use might be unavailable  and 
that other  banks and building  societies do provide the relevant number on their account 
cards.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise  Mr G will be disappointed  by my decision.
The adjudicator has explained that we are not the regulator of banks and building societies. 
So its not our role to tell a business  how it runs that business and how it exercises  its 
commercial judgement. Im satisfied  that Mr Gs complaint is that a number should be on an 
account card for reporting stolen or lost cards. Im satisfied that its up to NatWest  to decide 
such matters and I cant fairly tell NatWest  what information it records  on its cards.
I also accept what NatWest says about such matters, that it would be pointless in any event 
if the card is lost or stolen. I appreciate Mr G says that the information can be recorded in 
advance in case of lost or a stolen card. But Im satisfied that NatWest has provided Mr G 
with a number  he can record and use in exactly the same  way. I also make  it clear that I can 
only look at Mr Gs complaint and not look at this complaint from the viewpoint of other 
NatWest customers, as for the same  reasons  that we are not the regulator. That also means 
that I cant consider  what other banks or building societies choose to record  on their account 
cards.
Overall for the reasons  Ive explained  I cant fairly ask NatWest to do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint or fairly order it to change its business  practices.
Ref: DRN99805312my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  by 4 July 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9980531