K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) will not refund any 
commission it received from his mortgage  payment  protection insurance (MPPI) premiums 
for the policy he took out in 1992.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mr Ns complaint  about  commission. Thats because 
this service looked at the mis-sale of Mr Ns MPPI  in 2016, and we didnt think  the policy had 
been mis-sold. 
Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr N, so Ill explain why. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where MPPI  was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the 
MPPI policy  more than 50% of the MPPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then 
that could create an unfair relationship  between  the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said 
that businesses  should pay back the amount  of commission and profit  share that was more 
than 50% of the MPPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
NatWest has given  me information that shows Mr Ns mortgage was redeemed in 1999. So 
based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the 
FCA in relation to the non-disclosure  of commission  apply here.
So NatWest  doesnt  need to refund any of the commission Mr N paid for the MPPI  he had 
with his mortgage. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Ref: DRN98702882Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9870288