K822xcomplaint
Mrs P brings this complaint on behalf of the estate  of Mr K. She is the co-executor  of the will. 
Mrs P is represented by Miss P who has the legal right to act on her behalf. The daughter of 
Mr K, Ms B, is acting  as a correspondent.
Mrs P complains that following Mr Ks death,  National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  
wasnt able to locate  documents held in safe custody following Mr Ks death and she is 
unhappy with the way this matter was handled by the bank.
background 
In May 2018, following  the death of Mr K, Ms B went to a branch of NatWest to obtain  a copy 
of his will which was being  held in safe custody  NatWest was also co-executor of the will. 
She travelled with her uncle, Mr Ks brother. Ms B says they were told there was an 
envelope in safe custody  but they couldnt  view the documents as neither of them  were  
executors of the estate. At this point they were informed that Mrs P would be the only person 
entitled to view the documents and so arrangements  were made for Mrs P to visit the 
branch.
Ms B told us, when  they returned to the branch with Mrs P, NatWest refused  to let them take 
copies of the documents  Ms B says this contradicts the conversation held with the 
NatWest estates team who agreed  copies could be given. They  returned  again the following 
day and after more  conversations between the branch and the estates team,  they were 
finally allowed to take the required copies of the documents. 
The documents in this envelope didnt include a full copy of the will, just an amendment.  
NatWest couldnt  locate a record of where  the will was stored and had to undertake a search 
to find the document. Ms B says this took a further  two weeks to locate.
Ms B complains  that the banks poor safe keeping of the will caused great distress to Mrs P. 
She is unhappy that the branch staff were  allowed  to open and review  the documents in the 
sealed envelope  she believes this should  only be handled by those in the banks estate 
team. She said she felt the staff were rude and unhelpful in their dealings  with them.  And 
having to travel to the branch, which isnt local, has impacted on Mrs Ps health.
NatWest accepted it had initially  misplaced the will and it recognised  it should  have  provided  
a better  service. It offered to pay £252  for the cost of the journeys made to the bank to sort 
out this issue  and an additional £200 as compensation.
Our investigator thought it was reasonable that a member of staff opened  the sealed 
envelope in the bank  to find out who was the co-executor of the estate. And they were 
satisfied that, although  the will wasnt located  initially, it was being held in safe custody. The 
investigator felt that the amount of compensation offered should have been £400 and so 
they recommended an additional amount of £200  should be paid to Mrs P.
NatWest accepted the investigators view. But Ms B said she felt we had only scraped the 
top level of the complaint. She said NatWest acted with a lack of understanding and 
professionalism and requested that an ombudsman review the complaint.
Ref: DRN90413792my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find that I agree with 
the recommendations made by our investigator. Ill explain why.
On the first visit to the NatWest branch, it would appear that neither Ms B and her family, nor 
NatWest, were aware the will was not contained within  the initial documents.  Ive noted  Ms B 
was unhappy  that the staff opened the sealed envelope and didnt think the NatWest branch 
staff were entitled to do that. However,  I cant  see that there was any other  option  available 
at that time - so it seems  reasonable NatWest  allowed a staff member to open the envelope  
to check the documents. And it was only at that point  it became clear Mrs P was the co-
executor and that the actual will was missing. 
I understand why Ms B is frustrated the will couldnt be found  initially  she said she wanted 
to check if there were any specific funeral arrangements her father had put into the will. And 
not knowing if she was going against the wishes of her father when making  arrangements  
would have been particularly upsetting for the family. The misplacing of the will shouldnt 
have happened   but sometimes things  do go wrong. Ms B was concerned  for the 
whereabouts of the document and who could have  had access  to it. But from what  NatWest 
has told us the will was found in the safe custody area and so it wouldnt have been 
available for viewing by anyone without  authority  to do so. I hope  that helps to reassure 
Ms B about the security  of the documentation during  this time. 
There does appear  to have been mis-communications between  the individual branch of the 
bank and the estates team which handles these matters. This led to Ms B and Mrs P having 
to make several, somewhat fruitless, visits to the branch. Im in no doubt this would  have 
been frustrating  and it appears  this was extremely difficult for Mrs P who is suffering from ill 
health. Ive noted NatWest  didnt think it was made aware of Mrs Ps ill health  which Ms B 
disputes. I cant know for certain if NatWest was told but I think its more likely Ms B did 
make it aware about Mrs Ps personal  situation  at some point and I think  NatWest could 
have been more sympathetic and considered alternative solutions  to make this process  
easier for her.   
NatWest has already reimbursed Ms B for the travel costs of £252 for the multiple visits to 
the branch and considering these  were, in the main, unnecessary, I think thats the right 
thing to do. But its clear  this has been a very upsetting time for Mr Ks family  and Im sure 
this is not what Mr K imagined  would happen  when  he entrusted  his will with the bank. 
Compensation should be awarded for the distress  the poor handling  of this matter  has 
caused. The £200 already  offered by NatWest goes some way towards  this but I agree with 
our investigator that a more appropriate figure would be £400 - which considers the 
difficulties and inconvenience caused  to Mrs P in particular. So I think NatWest should make  
an additional  payment of £200 to the estate. Bearing in mind NatWests role as executor, it is 
open to it to make this payment directly to Mrs P should  it consider it appropriate  to do so, 
though I dont make this specific  direction.   
Ms B has also mentioned that she doesnt think NatWest should profit from the estate  as a 
result of this error. She has said she feels NatWest should cover the solicitors fees. I 
appreciate Ms Bs point of view,  but I dont think this would  be a fair way to settle this 
complaint. The events in question occurred  at the very beginning of the process  and Im not 
of the opinion that NatWests actions would have severely impacted the way the estate was 
finalised following this. I am therefore satisfied that the offer of compensation, along with the 
Ref: DRN90413793reimbursement of the travel costs incurred,  is a fair and reasonable outcome of this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc needs 
to pay £200 (in addition  to the sums it has already paid) as compensation for its poor 
service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P, on behalf 
of Mrs P, to accept or reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9041379