K820x#14complaint
Mrs C, on behalf of the estate of Mr T, says The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited 
failed to follow regulations and acted  unfairly when it sold the late Mr T annuities in 1999 and 
2003.
 
background
Mr T was a member of an occupational pension scheme. He decided to transfer his pot to a 
personal pension  plan with, the then, Britannia Life. Several years  later,  it wrote  to Mr T to let 
him know his fund was approaching maturity and about how he could take his benefits.
As part of this process, Mr T was informed about the open market option  (OMO)  - his ability  
to use his fund to purchase  pension benefits  from other companies. He did this, entering into 
a contract with Prudential  for an annuity and taking tax free cash  (TFC).
Important context in this case is the Pensions Review, which was established in 1994 by the 
then regulator,  the Securities and Investment Board. It was an industry-wide  look at the 
practices of certain  firms between April 1988 and June 1994.
The regulator was concerned some  consumers mayve been  given inappropriate  advice to 
transfer deferred pension benefits  from employers occupational schemes  to personal 
pension plans. Mr Ts transfer happened during this period and so he qualified  for a review.
In 2003, Britannia Life wrote  to Mr T informing him about the audit  it had conducted. This 
used economic and financial assumptions laid down by the regulator to model whether hed 
been disadvantaged by moving from his occupational pension scheme. Britannia Life 
concluded Mr T had suffered a loss and it offered him compensation to put things right.
Part of the compensation package offered by Britannia Life was the purchase of a top-up to 
the annuity hed bought in 1999. Again, this was arranged with Prudential.
Mrs C, the late Mr Ts sister-in-law, has several concerns about what happened. For 
example, she says:
-Prudential  ignored regulations about the sale of annuities both in 1999 and 2003.  No 
questions were  asked  about Mr Ts health, nor his wifes. And she thinks it shouldve  
made him aware of the possibility of enhanced annuities.
-It set-up  Mr Ts additional  annuity  in 2003 without his signature.
-Prudential  also ignored client money regulations when dealing  with the redress  payment 
it received from Britannia  Life.
Prudential noted  Mrs C was a member of its direct sales force  team for nearly a decade and 
was present at the sale of Mr Ts annuity in 1999. It said shed received commission on the 
sale.
Prudential said Mr T originally held a pension plan with Britannia Life. Rather than take his 
pension benefits  through that firm, he used flexibilities available  to him under the OMO to 
transfer his benefits.  It says it didnt offer enhanced  annuities. And it wasnt responsible for 
providing guidance or advice about  what other products other  companies  could  offer.
Ref: DRN94257742Prudential says it acted  on instructions  from Britannia  Life in putting  Mr Ts top-up annuity in 
place in 2003. This was part of the redress  from Britannia  Life following the pension review  
to make good the loss hed suffered, at that time,  from the transfer of his occupational  
pension scheme  to a personal pension plan.
Prudential refuted various allegations raised  by Mrs C about its non-compliance with 
processes, for example  she asserts it breached client money  handling regulations.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. Mrs C disagreed  and so her complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Im grateful  to Mrs C for her detailed testimony,  which has been helpful to me in 
understanding the context, chronology and detail of her complaint. I hope  she will forgive me 
in not providing  a detailed  response  to all the points shes raised. Thats  deliberate; ours is 
an informal service for resolving disputes  between financial businesses  and their customers.
Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant and at the heart of her complaint. 
So, if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because  I didnt 
think it was material to the outcome.
The sale of Mr Ts annuity  in 1999
From the mid-1990s until August 2001,  there werent regulatory requirements or industry  
codes saying providers  had to disclose the existence of the OMO. But most  did, as was the 
case here. Buying  an annuity was an irreversible  decision, and in many  cases  the possibility 
of the OMO  was set out in the consumers plan  providers  usually  reminded  people  about 
this.
When Britannia Life wrote  to Mr T in June  1999 to let him know about  his pension fund it set 
out how he could  use his pot to buy certain benefits from it. And it alerted him to his right to 
move to another provider. It said:
The full cash fund under the policy is available as a transfer  to another  insurance 
company for the provision  of pension benefits. If you wish to investigate this option, please 
contact an Independent Financial Adviser [IFA]
I dont know whether Mr T contacted an IFA, but we do know  he decided to buy his annuity  
with a different  provider.  Mrs C told us he chose the Prudential because its annuity rates 
were in the upper quartile of the market. And because shed worked at the firm for several  
years. So, I think its reasonable to conclude Mr T was aware he had options  about how he 
could proceed  with his fund.
Mrs C is adamant that Prudential shouldve made  Mr T aware  of the possibility  of shopping 
around for an enhanced annuity.  She said hed been  a smoker and suffered from asthma 
and chronic obstructive pulmonary  disease. While I understand her argument,  I think its 
important to bear in mind  the circumstances at the time of the sale.
Ref: DRN94257743The main  responsibility  for informing  Mr T about what options  he had for using his pension 
pot rested with Britannia Life. It told him about OMO. And it suggested he seek  the advice of 
an IFA. 
The requirements businesses are required to operate  to nowadays are different.  For 
example, they must make clear  the availability of enhanced annuities. But its also important 
to note that at the time of the sale of Mr Ts annuity in 1999,  providers  werent required to 
outline what things  other firms might take into account to improve  the annuity  rate, such as ill 
health.
Mr T chose  Prudential  as the company he wanted  to buy an annuity from. And at that time, it 
didnt offer enhanced annuity products. Prudentials advice was provided on a restricted 
basis. It couldnt give recommendations  on the products other  businesses  had. This was 
confirmed in the terms of business letter that Mr T wouldve  received at the point  of sale:
Regulators statement. Those who advise on life assurance, pension or unit trust products 
are EITHER representatives  of one company OR independent advisers
your adviser represents  the Prudential Assurance Company Limitedand  acts on its 
behalf. Your adviser can only give you advice on the life assurance, pensions and unit trust 
products of the PrudentialBecause your adviser is not independent,  he or she cannot 
advise you on products of this type available from companies other than the Prudential
Mrs C says Prudential never asked about  Mr Ts health. Given my prior findings,  the 
significance of her argument  here isnt telling. Nevertheless, Ive looked at the paperwork 
that was completed  for the sale of his initial annuity.
The Personal Financial  Review (PFR)  took place in June 1999 and captured Mr Ts details, 
financial circumstances and attitude to risk. It provided a framework for discussion about  his 
pension benefit  options, set out recommendations and his choices.
Mr T opted for a joint-life annuity payable monthly  in advance, on a level (non-revalorised)  
basis. So, his wife wouldve received 100% of this income  in the event  of his passing.
I can see a question on the form which asks if Mr T and his spouse enjoy good health. A box 
is ticked to say they do. Ive no reason to doubt  that Mrs C genuinely  believes Prudential  
didnt ask any questions  about Mr Ts health during the meeting. But Prudential says its 
representatives were  trained and compliant in how PFRs were completed.
I must consider that memories can and do fade. I also have to give some  weight to 
contemporaneous information that suggests Mr Ts health was discussed, albeit I suspect 
only briefly.
So, taking all these matters into account,  I dont think Prudential acted unreasonably in the 
way it sold Mr T his annuity in 1999.
Establishing the top-up to his original annuity  in 2003
In 2003, Britannia Life wrote  to Mr T informing him about the audit  it had conducted into the 
transfer of his occupational pension scheme into a personal pension plan. Using a 
methodology laid down by the regulator it concluded  that hed lost out as a result of what  had 
happened. It was required to make  good the loss calculated.
Ref: DRN94257744There were various elements to the redress  Britannia Life provided Mr T in 2003. It worked 
out:
-The TFC Mr T shouldve received in 1999 and made up the difference  between  this 
and what he actually  received and added  interest  to it.
-What his pension payments to date shouldve been from 1999 and made  up the 
difference between  this and what hed been  receiving and added interest to this.
-What Mr Ts future pension payments should  be and funded a top-up to his original 
annuity to deliver the difference between what hed been receiving  and what  he 
shouldve been  getting paid.
Regarding the annuity set-up  in 2003, Mrs C says Prudential failed to take into account Mr 
Ts circumstances. In particular, his wifes health had deteriorated  since  1999. She says, for 
example, that this made another joint-life annuity  inappropriate  because  his partner had a 
serious condition  which she couldnt  have known  shed survive.
I understand the point Mrs C is making, but I disagree with her.
The supplementary annuity established  in 2003 was part of a compensation package 
Britannia Life offered  Mr T. This was because  it had found hed suffered a loss when 
comparing the benefits he couldve had from his former occupational pension  scheme,  to 
those he could reasonably have anticipated  from his personal pension  plan,  at the time of 
the pension review.
The total additional pension payment Mr T was due from 2003  onwards, flowing from the 
pension review, was a calculated sum. Part of this was to be delivered  through  the purchase 
of a top-up annuity, established on the same basis as the original. The point of the pension  
review was to make  good the loss which had crystallised in 1999.
Had that original  annuity  been  taken with a different provider and on an enhanced basis,  
then the top-up flowing from the pension review  redress  wouldve been established on the 
same basis.  But we know that wasnt the case. And I wont rehearse the arguments about  
the 1999 sale again.
So, I cant see that Prudential has been  responsible for any financial loss to the late Mr T or 
his wife as a result of the top-up to his original annuity that was put in place from 2003.
Matters of proper administration and process  
Mrs C has raised  several concerns about Prudential not fulfilling its regulatory obligations in 
the administration and handling of Mr Ts annuities. For example, she says it didnt obtain his 
signature in 2003  in order to set-up  the new annuity.
Mrs Cs arguments arent  without basis. I can see for example that Mr and Mrs T signed an 
application for the top-up  annuity in August 2003 (and in the wrong  part of that form). But by 
the time funds had been received a new quotation  was necessary and there doesnt appear 
to be a signed application associated with that.
But Ive seen enough evidence of Mr Ts wish to proceed with the arrangements. For 
example, in its letter to him at the beginning of August 2003, Britannia  Life notes that Mr T 
had indicated he wanted the additional  annuity to be bought  from Prudential.  And I can see a 
Ref: DRN94257745return slip associated with the final quote issued by Prudential  has been signed  by Mr T in 
October 2003 to say he accepted the supplementary  annuity.
Mrs C says Prudential breached client money regulations when dealing with the redress  
payment. She says this was received in September 2003, but it wasnt  until over a month  
later it set-up Mr Ts annuity.
I think the main obligation  on Prudential here was to make sure Mr T received the 
compensatory top-up to his annuity,  the amount  and timing  of which  was determined by the 
pension review outcome.  I note initial payments  werent quite right,  for example there  was a 
delay. But I can also see matters were  put right by Prudential  and Britannia  Life.
Im not going  to explore  every technical matter  of process or administration that Prudential 
may or may not have  got wrong  according to Mrs C. Im mindful  that when she brought  her 
complaint to this Service, we asked how she would like matters put right.  She said:
I would like Prudential to admit that they failed in their duty of care towards my brother [and 
sister]-in law, both in 1999 and 2003.  And put them (their estate)  back in the position they 
should have been in had the sales been compliant.
Ive already set-out my main findings  in relation to the sale of Mr Ts annuity  in 1999, and the 
basis for the supplementary annuity  established  in 2003. 
While Mrs C may be able to point to certain  aspects of Prudentials handling and processes 
that went wrong, even  if these had been conducted  perfectly, I dont think it wouldve 
resulted in any material change in terms of the annuities Mr T ended  up with.
Mrs C notes Prudential were fined  last year for breaches of FCA principles  on management 
and control, and having due regard to its customers interests, specifically in relation to its 
annuities business.  
While these findings were  in relation to failings between 2008 and 2015, the reason for her 
raising this complaint stemmed  from the regulators suggestion that where people had 
concerns about  sales in prior years, they should approach their providers for information and 
answers.
I understand the argument Mrs C is making.  It is of course a matter for the regulator to 
address any systemic  failings across the industry  or within certain businesses. This Service 
is concerned with the circumstances  and merits of individual complaints. 
Mrs Cs approached Prudential for an answer  in relation to the sale of annuities to Mr T. She 
was dissatisfied  with its response and exercised her right to bring the matter to this Service. 
And in that regard,  Ive set out why I dont think Prudential acted unreasonably or unfairly  in 
this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs C complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Ref: DRN94257746Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9425774