K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  has incorrectly  recorded some information  on 
an insurance database and this has impacted the cost of insurance quotes hes obtained.
background
Mr D has a buildings insurance policy with a high street bank. This policy  is underwritten  by 
Aviva and as its ultimately  responsible for the complaint Ill refer to it throughout. 
Mr D contacted Aviva when he suspected a leak at his property. Aviva arranged  for the leak 
to be investigated  but the source of it couldnt  be found. Both parties agreed the claim didnt  
proceed.
Aviva recorded the incident on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange  (CUE) database. 
Mr D says when he came to shop around for insurance, the information  Aviva had recorded 
on CUE meant the quotes he was given  were higher than before.
He complained to Aviva.  It explained  that the claim hed made was showing as withdrawn  
and closed on CUE and has therefore been  recorded correctly. They also confirmed that the 
withdrawn claim  wouldnt  affect  his no-claims discount.
Mr D wasnt happy with Avivas response  so he complained to us. Our investigator said, in 
summary, Aviva had a duty to record the incident  on CUE and the costs it had incurred 
during the investigation. She was satisfied the incident had been  recorded accurately on 
CUE.
Mr D wasnt happy with this and asked an ombudsman to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator.  I realise this will disappoint Mr D so Ill explain my 
reasoning.
My role here is to decide whether Aviva has fulfilled its responsibilities and acted reasonably  
in recording the information it has. Ill only comment on the impact  of its actions on the cost 
of the quotes Mr D has subsequently  obtained  if I decide it hasnt acted  fairly.
CUE is a database of property, motor and personal injury incidents.  It was set up to identify 
misrepresentation and prevent fraud. Not all insurers  are signed up to it but the majority, 
including Aviva, are. 
Where an insurer is signed up to CUE, it will record any incident its made  aware of whether 
it leads to a claim or not. Insurers have to record what  they pay out in relation to the incident 
and have a duty to record incidents accurately.
Its standard practice  to add all costs relating to a claim  on CUE whether the claim is paid or 
not. In this case, the investigation  into the leak didnt find its source so the claim didnt 
proceed. But Aviva incurred costs undertaking the investigation and thats what  it recorded 
on CUE. Our services  established approach is that its reasonable for insurers to do this.
Ref: DRN99904592Having seen a copy of whats recorded on CUE, Im satisfied this has been done  correctly. 
The claim is showing as withdrawn and details the costs Aviva incurred. And because of 
that, Im satisfied Aviva has acted  reasonably  in fulfilling its responsibilities and so I wont  be 
asking it to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9990459