K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains because  Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV)  cancelled  her travel 
insurance policy. 
background
Mrs T bought a travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV. 
After buying the policy,  Mrs T contacted URV to declare prescriptions and hospital treatment. 
URV said itd no longer  be able to offer Mrs T cover, so offered her the option  of cancelling a 
pre-booked holiday or a refund of 50% of the policy premiums. Mrs T bought travel 
insurance with another provider and complained to URV.
URV didnt  initially  give Mrs T a detailed response  to her complaint, so she contacted this 
service. URV later sent Mrs T an explanation of what had happened, saying the decision to 
withdraw cover had been wrong and what it should  have done  was exclude cover  for a 
specific medical condition.  URV  offered to refund all of Mrs Ts policy premiums and send 
her a £50 voucher. 
But, Mrs T then experienced problems  with the validity  of the voucher.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended  that URV should  refund the full 
policy premiums and pay Mrs T £100 compensation. 
Mrs T accepted our investigators  recommendations but URV  didnt  respond.  So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.  
Ref: DRN94425772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that URV made an error  here, so the only issue  which I need to consider is 
what I think URV needs to do to put things right. 
URV has now offered  to refund  all of the premiums Mrs T paid for the policy.  And I think  its 
right for URV to do this. 
But I wont be recommending that URV should  refund  the difference in premiums which 
Mrs T paid to the other  insurer. Even  if URV hadnt made  the error in cancelling the policy, it 
would never  have offered cover for one of Mrs Ts conditions anyway. Different insurers  
have different criteria for what they will and wont insure  and we cant  force  an insurer  to 
offer cover for a risk it doesnt wish to accept. So Mrs T may still have chosen to buy a policy 
elsewhere with another insurer who would provide her with full cover. 
I also wont be recommending that URV cover the cost of Mrs T obtaining a fit-to-fly 
certificate from her doctor. I cant see that URV asked  Mrs T to get this, and it may well have 
been something shed have needed anyway. 
But, I dont think the £50 voucher which Mrs T was offered is fair compensation for the 
impact of URVs mistake on her in the circumstances. 
Mrs T shouldnt have  had her policy cancelled. And, shell need to answer  any questions 
asked about previous policy cancellations  honestly on future insurance applications  which 
may involve  having  to explain what happened  to other businesses. 
Ive thought about the inconvenience  Mrs T experienced  because of URVs mistake,  having 
to chase URV for an answer and having to arrange  another policy.  And, I think an overall 
payment of £100  would  be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
Union Reiseversicherung  AG must refund  Mrs Ts policy premiums  in full, together with 
interest at 8% simple  per year. Union Reiseversicherung AG must also pay Mrs T £100  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  she has suffered.  This is in addition to the 
£50 voucher already offered. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9442577