K820x#14complaint
Ms A has complained that Lloyds  Bank  PLC Lloyds  mis-sold her a Silver packaged bank 
account.
Ms A has said that she was led to believe that having a Silver Vantage packaged  account  
was the only way to get an overdraft.
background
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. 
Ms A disagreed and asked for her complaint to be look at by an ombudsman.
As well as complaining  about her packaged  account being mis-sold, Ms A had also 
complained that Lloyds  changed how it calculates overdraft charges and says the changes 
caused her to suffer from financial hardship. However,  when our adjudicator  addressed 
these points, Ms A said that her complaint was not about those issues. Therefore, although 
Ive read what Ms A has said about the overdraft changes, I havent addressed them in this 
decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr As complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the packaged account to Ms A. Id 
like to explain why I think thats the case.
It may help for me to explain that where  matters  are in dispute,  as they are here, I have to 
make my decision  based on what I think is most likely to have happened.  And in working out 
what I think is most likely  to have happened, I have to think about everything I've been told 
together with everything else I've been  provided  with and see how this fits with what I do 
know. 
Ms A has been very firm in saying that she was led to believe,  during a visit to a Lloyds 
branch, she had to get a Silver Vantage account to get an overdraft.  So Ive carefully 
considered Ms As recollections of the sale alongside the evidence that Lloyds has provided.
The bank statements that Lloyds has provided show that Ms As account was opened as a 
fee-free Classic Vantage  account on 13 August 2013. And the statements show that an 
overdraft of £3,500 was added to the account on 26 November 2013. The statements also 
show that the account then changed to a fee-paying Silver Vantage account on 10 December 
2013. Lloyds has also been able to provide  screen  shots of their system records  which  show  
that the above changes  to the account  happened on those dates too.
Therefore, having  weighed  everything up, it appears that Ms A held a fee-free account with 
Lloyds and was able to add an overdraft  to it, before the account was changed to a fee-
paying Silver  Vantage account.
Ref: DRN93507292Ms A says that the upgrade took place in a branch, whereas Lloyds has provided  system 
records which say that the upgrade to the Silver Vantage account  took place over the 
internet. Even if I accepted Ms As version of events as being correct i.e. that the upgrade 
happened in branch rather  than online,  Lloyds has provided evidence that shows  Ms A was 
given a sizeable overdraft  facility on her account  before it was upgraded to the Silver 
Vantage account.  Because  of this, I dont think its likely, given  the evidence  that is available,  
that Ms A was misled into thinking that she had to have  a Silver Vantage packaged  bank 
account to get an overdraft.
At the time the account was taken out, the main  benefits that the Silver Vantage account 
came with were European travel  insurance,  breakdown cover, mobile  phone  insurance, card 
protection cover and a £50 interest  free portion  for overdrafts. I understand that Ms A has 
said that she didnt  have a need for the account  benefits. But overall, I think that Ms A knew 
she didnt have to have the Silver Vantage packaged account. I say this especially as I can 
see she held packaged accounts and fee-free  accounts with Lloyds previously. So overall I 
think that she agreed to taking out the account knowing that she did not have to.
I understand that Ms A did drive, so couldve made use of this benefit as well as the £50 fee-
free and interest free overdraft benefit. However,  I accept that Ms A may not have been 
given all the information about  the account  and the associated benefits  during the sale. But 
Ive not seen anything specific about her circumstances  at the time that makes  me think  she 
wouldve been put off from upgrading to the Silver Vantage account, had she been given 
more information  about it. 
So based  on everything that I have  seen, I dont think  that the Silver Vantage account was 
mis-sold to Ms A.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9350729