K821x#15complaint
Mr E complained that he incurred a tax bill because of inappropriate advice given by a 
representative of Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd. This was to pay a pension  contribution  
from his severance pay into his employers group personal pension  (GPP).
background
Mr E approached Intrinsics adviser for advice about  making a pension  contribution.  There 
was a meeting  on 7 March 2017.  Following  this Mr E provided  a copy of the proposed  
severance package  from his employer to the adviser. That appears to have been at a 
meeting on 7 July 2017. The severance  package was for a total of £95,630. It was broken 
down between notice  payments; a statutory redundancy payment and discretionary  
enhanced redundancy  severance.
I have seen a trail of emails starting  from 10 July 2017 from Mr E to the HR department  at 
his employer. The adviser was copied in to the emails. 
Mr E started by asking  his employer for confirmation  that after the £30,000 tax-free amount 
any further severance payment he chose to contribute to his pension  would be an employer 
contribution. The HR consultant confirmed  that the maximum amount he could pay into his 
pension plan from the severance  would  be £63,750.  It is at this point the adviser  asked Mr E 
to ask his employer for confirmation that this would be made as an employers  pension  
payment.
I have seen a retirement  options report dated 12 July 2017 and a financial plan; both 
prepared by the adviser. The financial plan explained  that Mr E had informed the adviser  that 
his employer would be sacrificing part of his redundancy  payment to make an employer 
contribution into his GPP.
Mr E signed  the settlement agreement after reviewing it with his legal adviser. This has a 
number of sections.  I think sections 2 and 3 are particularly relevant to this complaint. These 
deal with the notice and statutory redundancy; as well as compensation.
An amount  of £19,462 is referred to as being  in lieu of salary and benefits for Mr Es notice 
period. A statutory  redundancy payment of £4,401 was also included.  The compensation 
payment was for £64,250  including £500 contribution towards  legal costs.  This was defined  
as the severance  payment. After £500 was deducted £63,750 of the severance payment 
was to be made as a pension contribution.
In section 4 the taxation of the payment  was discussed. This explained  that the Company 
and the employee  believed  that the first £30,000  of the statutory redundancy payment and 
the compensation payment could  be made  without deductions for income  tax.
The payment into the GPP was made  and the balance of the severance  payment made  to 
Mr E. A statement showing details of the payment made was then sent to him. This showed 
the total severance payments of £12,319 after the pension  contribution  was made.  This was 
£17,681 less than Mr E was expecting to receive  as his tax free severance  payment. It is at 
this stage he complained. He initially  complained to his employer, but they said they had 
made the payment in accordance with the signed severance agreement.
Ref: DRN98929252Mr E then complained to Intrinsic. Intrinsic did not uphold his complaint as the adviser  had 
confirmed that a maximum payment into a pension of £63,750  could be made using  carry 
forward. Intrinsic  said that the mistake  did not appear to have been made by the adviser, but 
was due to the incorrect  information provided  by Mr Es HR department.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and recommended it should be upheld. 
He thought that Intrinsic should  compensate Mr E for the extra  tax he had to pay. 
I wrote  to Intrinsic and set out the background above. I explained that I thought the employer 
had not answered  some  of Mr Es questions fully or correctly. But the adviser saw the 
correspondence. It was the adviser who recommended that the payment was made as an 
employer contribution. I thought this was the key reason why Mr E did not receive £30,000 of 
his redundancy  payment tax free. So I thought Intrinsic should compensate Mr E.
Intrinsic didnt agree. They said that 
Intrinsics advice  to Mr E was limited  to confirming that the figure provided to Mr E by 
his employer was within  his annual pension allowance. The adviser did confirm to 
Mr E that his employer had a history of making  errors in their settlement offers. 
Which should  have made him aware the settlement should be reviewed very carefully  
to ensure it was correct before  he signed.
Mr E had specifically confirmed to his employer that he wanted  the full £30k tax free 
allowance to be paid to him. The settlement agreement should have been completed 
taking this into account.
Mr Es legal adviser went through the details of the agreement  with him before he 
signed. Intrinsics adviser was not in a position  to highlight this to Mr E. Therefore, if 
this was not made clear to Mr E by his legal adviser, the legal adviser  should  be 
accountable for this rather than Intrinsic. Mr E could have  asked his legal adviser to 
query the figure with his employer before signing to ensure  the £30,000.00  he had 
requested was available. A revised  agreement  could then have been  drawn  up.
The actual settlement Mr E signed  was not produced or signed  until after his 
employment had ended on 24 July 2017; so the adviser could not have reviewed  it 
on 7 July 2017.
Section 6, headed Pension,  confirmed that the employer would also make  a further 
pension contribution as follows:
However, a pension payment, based on the Companys current contribution level, 
will be calculated  for the period  equivalent  to the Employees notice and paid as a 
lump sum into the Employees pension  
This should also have  impacted on the amount  the company confirmed could be paid 
from the settlement.  This did not appear  to have  been taken into consideration in the 
figure provided to Mr E by the company,  which he provided to the adviser,  and could 
result in him making total contributions over his annual allowance.
The adviser also provided some further comments. These can be summarised  as follows:
The settlement agreement mentioned in the complaint letter  was not a settlement 
agreement, but a sample agreement. The meeting  focussed on cash flow modelling,  
and the maximum amount  that Mr E could pay into his plan. 
Ref: DRN98929253At no point was the adviser ever a party to the settlement agreement,  or asked to 
advise upon it, as he was not qualified to do so. Mr E was taking separate  legal 
advice on the agreement.
Suitable warning was given in relation  to ensuring the agreement  was correct, hence  
the emails Mr E sent to his HR department.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
Intrinsic should pay compensation to Mr E. Let me explain why.
I think the reason  Mr E did not receive a payment for the full £30,000 tax-free  from his 
redundancy payment is that the pension contribution was made as an employer contribution. 
There were a number of people involved in that decision. I have thought about why that 
happened and who, if anyone, is responsible.
My starting point is that Mr E approached Intrinsic for advice.  This was about the pension 
contribution he could make. It was established  that he could make a contribution  of £63,750 
using carry forward. I think this figure is correct.
It was the adviser  who recommended that the contribution should be made  as an employer 
contribution. I can see that Mr E asked his employer to confirm what the maximum 
contribution was that could be made  after his £30,000  tax free allowance.  The answer given 
by his employer  was £63,750. But, in my view, crucially this did not say that it could be made 
as an employer contribution. The adviser  then asked Mr E to confirm with his employer that it 
would be paid as an employer contribution. Mr E then sent an email to confirm  this to his 
employer.
In my view, the emails  show that some  of the answers given were not complete, or were  
wrong. As the pension payment was to be made as an employer contribution  it had to come 
from the statutory  redundancy  and compensation payments. If it had been  paid in as an 
employee contribution  I see no reason why it could  not have been deducted from the pay in 
lieu of notice as well. 
The HR consultant  didnt answer the question posed by Mr E fully. But I think the adviser  
had enough information to see that the question  hadnt been answered. 
The amount  Mr E could  pay into his pension was limited by the annual allowance.  This was 
an important issue that should have been considered. The calculation  of the carry forward 
limits shows  the adviser was thinking  about  the maximum  amounts that could be invested. In 
my view, he should have  considered whether any contributions should be paid by Mr E or his 
employer.
Ref: DRN98929254I accept that Intrinsics adviser  did not see the actual settlement agreement. Its possible that 
the legal  adviser  could  have spotted  the payment was to be made from the statutory 
redundancy and compensation payments. The settlement agreement is broken down into a 
number of different  parts. It is difficult to identify the impact that a pension contribution will 
have on the tax treatment of the first £30,000 of the payment. In my view,  this is part of the 
technicality of making  pension  contributions. And it was Intrinsics  adviser  who made that 
recommendation. I think it would have been  difficult for the legal adviser to understand the 
impact of paying the pension contribution as an employer  contribution. Although I accept it is 
arguable they should have done.
However, it was Intrinsics adviser who was giving advice about the pension contribution. As 
Ive said, it was the adviser  who recommended  that the contribution be paid as an employer 
contribution. In my view,  it was for the adviser to ask the right questions before giving that 
advice. Whilst this was a difficult issue to deal with I think the adviser ought to have identified  
the potential problem.
I think if the right questions had been asked that the pension contribution  could have been  
paid as an employee contribution; or as a combination of employer and employee  
contributions. This would have maintained the £30,000 tax free limit for the redundancy 
payment. It would then have allowed  Mr E to benefit from the tax relief  available by making 
pension contributions. 
If Intrinsic  does  wish to take an assignment of any rights of action Mr E may have against  
any other party he should co-operate with Intrinsic. That is if Intrinsic  pays  compensation to 
Mr E in full.
In summary,  whilst I accept that Mr E received legal advice and his employer could have 
provided information more clearly,  I think the losses flow from the advice to pay an employer 
contribution into the GPP.  As Mr E asked for advice from Intrinsic about  the contribution into 
his GPP I think Intrinsic is liable for that loss.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr E in the position  that he would have been  in, if he had been  given 
suitable advice.  I think that should  have been to make  an employer contribution of £46,069 
and a personal contribution of £17,681 (gross).  
Mr E has provided evidence that he paid higher rate tax for the 2017/18 tax year. The loss is 
therefore the income tax paid by Mr E on £17,681.  He has calculated  this to be £7,072. I 
agree with that figure.
If Intrinsic  does  wish to take an assignment of any rights of action Mr E may have against  
any other party he should co-operate with Intrinsic. That is if Intrinsic  pays  compensation to 
Mr E in full.
I think Mr E has been caused  some  distress and inconvenience by the error. I think  a 
payment of £200  is appropriate to compensate for this.
Ref: DRN98929255my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd must now pay Mr E the loss set out 
above.
If my award is not paid within  28 days of the date Intrinsic is notified that Mr E has accepted 
my decision  simple interest is to be added  to my award at a rate of 8% gross a year from the 
date of my decision until the date payment  is made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9892925