K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading  as Sunny irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 6 instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr S between  January 2016 
and March 2017. Mr Ss borrowing history  is as follows:
Loan Date taken Date repaid Instalments Amount Highest combined  
monthly repayment
1 10.01.2016 30.01.2016 6 £100.00 £37.75
2 29.02.2016 18.07.2016 6 £200.00 £74.95
3 05.04.2016 16.09.2016 6 £750.00 £339.06
4 25.10.2016 29.04.2017 6 £300.00 £113.95
5 19.12.2016 14.08.2017 6 £200.00 £152.16
6 10.03.2017 Not repaid 6 £200.00 £184.47
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ss complaint and thought the loans 3 to 6 shouldnt  have
been given to Mr S. The adjudicator didnt think these loans shouldve been given due to the 
repayment amount  and the impact on Mr S. She also thought  that loan 6 shouldnt  have 
been given as by this stage Mr S had become reliant on short term lending. 
Sunny didnt agree with the view, explaining that it carried out adequate checks and Mr S 
was left with adequate disposable income. But it made an offer on loans  4 to 6. This offer 
was outlined to Mr S but he chose not to accept it.  
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  was passed to me  an ombudsman  for
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages
of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate. But certain factors might point  to the fact that Sunny should  fairly and
reasonably have done more able for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
Ref: DRN99544432meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Sunny  needed to do any more  when it lent Mr S loans 1 and 2.
Mr S didnt disagree with this so I wont be making further findings on these loans, but I
have considered them when looking at Mr Ss borrowing history  and his financial situation
overall.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ss complaint and said that loans 3, 4 and 5 shouldnt  have  been
given he would not be able to sustainably  repay  them.   Sunny  didnt  agree,  and said it 
carried out a sufficient and robust assessment of Mr Ss circumstances. 
I agree  with our adjudicator and I think  if Sunny had properly  considered  Mr Ss financial 
situation and the lending  I think it would  have seen that Mr S was not in a position to take on 
this borrowing. I say this because Mr S was borrowing was borrowing £750 for loan 3. This 
was a significant increase in capital compared  to loans 1 and 2. And Mr S still had loan 2 
running when  he took out loan 3. This meant  that Mr S would be repaying up to £339.06 
from his monthly income of £1,200  towards  loan 3. The repayment  represented  a significant 
proportion of Mr Ss income  and I think Sunny  ought to have realised this and the potential  
for Mr S to struggle to make the repayment.
Given Mr Ss income and borrowing, it seems there was a significant chance of Mr S
having to borrow  again to meet his commitment under this loan. Sunny says that Mr S was 
still left with adequate disposable  income  for loan 3. But the fact the repayment represented 
such a significant  portion  of his income  indicates Mr S may not be able to sustainably  repay 
his borrowing. Sunny was under a duty to ensure the lending  could be sustainably repaid  
and in Mr Ss case I dont think it was. And I think this wouldve been clear  to Sunny at the 
outset when it gathered  information from Mr S. By loan 4 Mr Ss disposable  income had also 
Ref: DRN99544433dropped significantly  and Sunny agreed to make an offer on this loan onwards. But I also 
think loan 3 was inappropriate and shouldnt have been given  to Mr S. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr S with a view to
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think  that this point  was reached by
loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr S was not managing  to repay  his loans 
sustainably. Mr S had taken out six loans in just around 14 months. Loan 6 is still 
outstanding and some  of Mr Ss loans were overlapping. So Sunny ought  to have 
realised it was more likely  than not Mr S was having to borrow further  to cover the 
hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ss 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ss first loan was for £100  and his subsequent loans varied  in amount
considerably. But most  importantly there  didnt seem  to be a downward  trend  in the
amount Mr S was borrowing and loan six was for £200. At this point Sunny ought  to 
have known that Mr S was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall  in his 
income but to meet an ongoing need.
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan six was
taken out over a year after Mr Ss first. Mr S had also paid large amounts of interest 
to, in effect, service  a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
I think that Mr S lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from loan six
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr S borrowed was likely  to
have had negative  implications on Mr Ss ability to access mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loan six and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Elevate Credit International Limited shouldnt have given Mr S three to si.
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back  if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Sunny is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
 
A)Sunny  should  add together  the total of the repayments  made  by Mr S towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything  Sunny has already refunded. 
Ref: DRN99544434B)Sunny  should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual payments made by 
Mr S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint  is settled. 
C)Sunny  should  remove all interest,  fees and charges  from the balance  on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made by Mr S as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr S having 
made overpayments  then Sunny should  refund these overpayments  with 8% simple  
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Sunny  should  then refund  the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step E.
D)If there  is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts  calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should  be paid to Mr S. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable  repayment plan 
with Mr S. 
E)Sunny  should  remove any adverse information  it has recorded  on Mr Ss credit file in 
relation to loans  3, 4 and 5. The overall  pattern of Mr Ss borrowing for loan 6 means 
any information recorded about  them is adverse, so Sunny should  remove this loan 
entirely from Mr Ss credit file. If Sunny  has sold any of the loans it should ask the 
debt purchaser  to do the same. Sunny does not have to remove  the outstanding loan 
from Mr Ss credit  file until its been  repaid, but it should still remove any adverse 
information recorded about this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  you to deduct tax from this interest.  Sunny  should give Mr S a 
certificate showing  how much tax youve deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ss complaint. Elevate Credit International 
Limited should put things right for Mr S as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Mr S to accept  or reject my decision before 
27 May 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9954443