K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that the Student Loans  Company Limited (SLC) didnt correctly  deal with a 
payment deferment  in 2007, causing him subsequent difficulty and upset.
background
Mr W had three student loans from SLC - Loan  A, taken out in 1997; Loan B taken in 1998  
and Loan C taken in 1999.  During  1999  Loan A was sold to a third party, H, as part of a 
package. Loans B and C continued to be administered by SLC, which  also maintained 
responsibility for requests to defer repayments on Loan A.
Mr Ws repayments were  deferred successfully on all his loans until 2005.  At this point, SLC 
told Mr W his monthly  income was over the threshold for deferment.  Mr W queried this 
decision and continued to submit deferral requests in respect  of all three loans.
Its unclear whether any of these requests were subsequently  accepted by SLC. But in 2007, 
Mr W contacted  SLC about Loans  B and C. He said hed started  his own business, that his 
financial circumstances had changed,  and that he wasnt able to complete the usual form, as 
it didnt provide for his situation.
Mr W indicates he discussed  matters  with SLC at some length. He provided it with a letter  
outlining his circumstances  and a statement for his new bank account. He says he didnt 
hear anything further from SLC and assumed payments had been further deferred.
However, Mr W later began to receive correspondence from SLC to say Loans B and C were  
in arrears and needed  to be repaid. Mr W says he wasnt in a position to repay the loan 
balances and that he wasnt given any further opportunity to defer or to discuss  other 
options. He describes SLCs approach to collection as aggressive  and threatening, including 
contacting family and neighbours,  and says this led to him suffering long-term illness.
Mr W says that some  time later  possibly in 2014  an SLC investigator  visited his home to 
discuss his situation  and agreed  that his loan payments  should  have been deferred in 2007.  
Mr W adds that the investigator led him to believe matters SLC would sort things out and, as 
he didnt hear again  from SLC, that this had been done. But no deferment  was granted.
In 2014 Loans B and C were included  in the sale to E, who contacted him about repaying  the 
loan balances. This prompted Mr W to complain  to E (and later to H, about Loan  A). Those  
concerns are the subject of separate complaints to us, and I mention them  here only by way 
of background.  E responded to say that it had been in touch with SLC,  who retained 
responsibility for the deferment process.
Mr W doesnt appear to have pursued matters with SLC at that time.  Rather,  he contacted  
SLC in April 2017  to do so. He says SLC was unwilling to assist,  and after receiving its 
records, that the key period (2008 to 2014) is missing.
SLC acknowledges that Mr W wrote to it in December 2007, providing  a single bank 
statement. It says this wasnt  enough to qualify for deferral, and that it wrote back to Mr W in 
response to his letter, and again  in January 2008.  It has provided a copy of a default notice it 
sent Mr W in March  2008 relating to Loans  B and C, indicating that monthly payments were 
due but not made, leading to arrears.  SLC doesnt accept Mr Ws concerns over its collection 
activity, and maintains  its position regarding its decision to decline deferral in 2007.
Ref: DRN97852712our initial assessment
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who found that while  SLC made 
mistakes and couldve better handled Mr Ws deferment application, this wouldnt have 
resulted in him being in a different  overall  financial position. She thought it appropriate that 
SLC pay Mr W compensation for the distress and inconvenience  he was caused  by the way 
it dealt with his deferment, which she assessed at £150. But she felt that Mr W had enough 
experience of the deferment process  to have realised that he needed to complete an 
application every  year. He hadnt  done  this after 2007.
Our investigator was unable to find any evidence to support  Mr Ws concerns over collection 
activity, or that it had discussed his financial situation with family  or neighbours. Nor was she 
able to establish that an SLC representative visited his property or said that the loans 
shouldve been  deferred. She didnt recommend SLC take any action or pay compensation 
in this respect.
SLC didnt dispute our investigators assessment, though it didnt say whether it agreed to 
her recommendation. Mr W didnt accept the investigators conclusions.  He said, in 
summary:
the conclusion  was flawed because SLC wouldnt release information  or transcripts  
of his conversations with them to show how obstructive theyd been. Their practices 
were completely unfair and theyd been required to change  the way they operate and 
collect accounts now.
That information would have proved he made  numerous attempts to try and resolve 
the situation but SLC would not speak to him. Their  collections  department  said his 
only option was to pay in full; this left him nowhere to go and eventually he gave up 
trying.
SLC wouldnt speak  to him and he was waiting for it to action what its representative 
said it would. As SLC wouldnt speak with him, he had little option other than wait, 
assume the account was deferred  and look for further correspondence from it. He 
heard nothing for years until E contacted  him in 2014.
As matters remain unresolved, the complaint has been passed  to me for review  and 
determination.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the 
light of the available evidence.
my power to deal with the complaint
Mr Ws loans appear to be mortgage-style  loans, of the type provided to students that 
started courses in or before 1998.  While the precise date that Mr W started  his course hasnt 
been stated, there are several factors that lead me to conclude that they are mortgage-style 
loans. For example, the first loan appears  to have been provided in 1997. In 1999  and 2014 
SLC sold Mr Ws loans to H and to E respectively, as parts of packages. Both of these 
companies managed  student loans taken out by students who began courses between 1990  
and 1998.
Ref: DRN97852713This is relevant because  as mortgage-style  loans,  Mr Ws student  loans wouldnt qualify  for 
the exemption from regulation under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 that applies to income-
contingent loans  provided to students  on courses  that started from 1998. Because Mr Ws 
loans are not exempt, I can look at activity relating to the loans  on or after 1 April 2007, when 
SLC became  subject  to our consumer credit  jurisdiction.
I further note that while Mr Ws complaint arises from events  dating  back to late 2007 and 
thus potentially  raised  outside the time limits in our rules, SLC has consented to us 
considering matters.
Based on these factors, Im satisfied  I have the power to deal with Mr Ws complaint, at least 
in relation to SLCs activity between 2007 and 2014  (when the loan was sold to E).
SLCs contact records
I take Mr Ws point  about the shortage of information relating to SLCs  activity between 2008  
and 2014. It would be considerably easier if I were  able to see precisely what  happened, and 
what both parties said to one another throughout this time. But that doesnt mean SLC is 
withholding information from our investigation. It may simply be the case that there was 
limited contact between  the parties. While I appreciate Mr W has very strong  views  in this 
respect, I cant  reasonably share his view that I can therefore  conclude SLC acted 
unreasonably in its attempts to collect payments.
What I have been able to see from SLCs  records are its attempts to contact Mr W about the 
arrears during 2008. This shows  only some  sporadic  contact, with little evidence of any 
conversation with Mr W until January  2009, after the outstanding  balances were passed  for 
collection. At that point, there  was some discussion about the arrears  balance and the 
reason payments werent  deferred in 2007. However,  telephone  contact between the parties  
then appears to have  effectively ceased  until 2014,  which is consistent with the beginning of 
Es involvement. Based on Es letter to Mr W in 2014, I understand SLC to have  undertaken 
some collection  activity  in the interim,  though  this hasnt been substantiated.
I do have some difficulty in accepting the accuracy  of Mr Ws account of events. I mean  no 
criticism of him in this respect;  the events  he complains about took place many years ago. 
But it has been difficult to reconcile the timeline  he provided with the events themselves. For 
example, Mr Ws timeline includes his interaction  with H as well as with SLC. And it suggests 
the SLC representative  visited  in 2014, whereas in his response to our investigators 
assessment, he indicates this took place some  years  earlier.
Overall, Im satisfied it would be right for me to base my findings on the available  evidence  
and on the background Ive set out above.
the 2007 deferment request
While SLCs records dont show that Mr W made numerous attempts to discuss the situation, 
Im prepared to accept he may well have  spoken  to it more often than it recorded. Its also 
possible that when  attempting to contact Mr W, SLC spoke with family members.  One of the 
file notes refers  to a brother, though  this appears  to be in the context of attempting  to trace 
Mr W after post was returned to it, rather than in discussion  of his financial situation.
But what  is apparent  is that at no point in (or after) the 2007 discussions did SLC tell Mr W 
that his loan payments were deferred.  On the contrary, SLCs  notes in 2007 and 2009   and 
the default notice it sent in March 2008   indicate  to me that SLC made it clear that it had 
declined to defer.
Ref: DRN97852714Mr W may not have agreed  with SLCs decision.  But he couldnt  reasonably  have assumed 
that SLC had agreed to his deferment request simply because  he didnt hear back on his 
December 2007  letter. And like the investigator, I think Mr W was sufficiently aware  of the 
deferment process to know that he needed to apply each year to defer.  So even if he had 
assumed hed been granted  a deferment  in 2007, he would have known this would  be no 
more than 12 months.
I agree  with our investigators finding  that SLC could  have better dealt with Mr Ws 2007  
request. Although the letter wasnt framed quite as clearly  as Mr W now indicates, it set out 
the fact that he had recently started  his own business and had no evidence of income to 
supply. That ought  to have prompted a more tailored response from SLC than sending  out a 
further deferment pack. I understand  that it may also have resulted in a different provisional 
outcome in respect of deferment, given  that Mr W was in his first year of self-employment.
However, as this would  only have taken  Mr W up to the following  year,  as Ive already 
observed it would have been  necessary for him to seek a further deferment rather  than 
assume one had been granted. So overall,  I dont think I can rightly  conclude this caused  
any actual loss to Mr W. Nevertheless, I share  the investigators view that Mr W should  
receive compensation to recognise  his distress and inconvenience caused by the confusion 
SLC could (and should) have done more to avoid.
In assessing a suitable amount, Ive thought  carefully about what  Mr W has said about the 
effect events have had on him. Having done so, Im minded to make a slightly  higher award 
than was proposed  by our investigator. I assess appropriate compensation at £350.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out here, my final decision is that the Student  Loans  Company 
Limited should pay Mr W £350 to settle this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Niall F Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9785271