K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Covea Insurance plcs decision  to decline his claim made on a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
All references to Covea  in this decision include its appointed claims-handling agents.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August  2019.  It included the following:
Mr S suffered back problems and was signed  off work by a GP in the Republic of Ireland 
(RoI). It became apparent  that Mr S needed longer off work  and he sought treatment in a 
country other than RoI, which  Ill refer to as country A and where  English isnt the official 
language. He made a claim on the policy for disability benefits  with Covea.
Covea assessed  the claim and decided  not to accept it. Covea explained that the policy 
terms required claims for back  problems to be supported by relevant  evidence from a doctor 
registered with the Irish Medical  Organisation (IMO). As the evidence  had come from a 
doctor in country  A, and not RoI, Covea wouldnt accept the claim.
Unhappy with Coveas  response, Mr S complained to us. One of our adjudicators  looked  into 
the complaint  and recommended  that it shouldnt be upheld on the basis that Covea had 
dealt with Mr S claim fairly.
Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicator and so the complaint was passed to me to review 
afresh.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, in this decision Ive focused on what  happened when Mr S tried 
to claim on the policy. Ive not dealt with the sale of the policy  which was carried  out by a 
different financial business  and not Covea. 
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not currently in dispute  that Mr S was suffering with back  problems, or that he stopped 
working as a result. But Covea says the policy terms its relied on require more  than that 
before benefits  will be paid. Coveas pointed out that the policy excludes back claims:  
unless a Doctor provides medical evidence (e.g. radiological evidence, MRI scan  or 
x-ray) showing definite  symptoms of restriction of movement
The policy defines  Doctor as: 
A medical practitioner, other than You or a member  of Your family, who is registered 
as a medical practitioner with the Irish Medical Organisation and entitled  to practice 
as such in the Republic of Ireland.
Ref: DRN95836952On that basis I believe  it was fair for Covea to write  to the doctor from RoI, that had initially 
signed Mr S off work,  for more information.  Specifically, it wanted to know  if they had had 
sight of radiological evidence showing the back condition  had resulted in definite symptoms  
of restriction of movement. It asked how the condition  affected him functionally  and in what 
ways movement was restricted. 
The GP replied that hed signed Mr S off work  for a week. He didnt have any radiological  
evidence regarding the condition. He said Mr S was prescribed medication. It appears  the 
GP wasnt able to provide medical evidence  showing definite symptoms  of restriction  of 
movement as required by the above  policy terms.
So, on a strict interpretation of those policy  terms, it might appear Covea was entitled to turn 
down Mr S claim. 
That said,  Mr S has provided medical  evidence  of his ongoing condition  and its causes,  
albeit this apparently  hasnt  come  from a doctor entitled to practice  in the RoI by way of 
registration with the IMO. Instead,  the informations come from a doctor practising in country 
A, who Covea hasnt yet contacted directly.
In the circumstances, I think it would be fair for Covea to further  consider Mr S claim by 
contacting his doctor in country A for any further  information it needs. I realise that doctor 
isnt a doctor as defined  by the policy, but that seems to me to be a technicality  that doesnt  
fairly justify  Coveas decision to decline the claim at this stage.
Im aware of the reasons  Coveas given for not accepting claims such as these, including  its 
potentially compromised  ability to adequately  assess the claim and possible higher  
assessment costs. But I doubt this is a situation that it would have to deal with regularly. 
Presumably, most consumers taking out the policy would seek treatment in the RoI. It just so 
happens that Mr S isnt originally from RoI and that English isnt his first language. As such,  I 
think its entirely understandable that hed seek treatment in country A. 
Whats more, Mr S has tried to assist Covea by providing English translations of much  of the 
medical evidence  hes obtained from country A. If Covea requires more information,  I note it 
would be open  for Covea  to rely on the policy term that states:
If further supporting  evidence of Your entitlement to claim is required You must 
provide it at your own expense.  
Taking all of the circumstances into account,  I dont believe Mr S should  be prevented from 
being able to claim on the policy.    
Finally, I see that Mr S has recently  queried who is now insuring him under the policy.  
Having contacted Covea, I can confirm that it ceased to act as the insurer from the end of 
March 2019 due to Brexit.  And the insurer Mr S referred to in his recent letter  (received by us 
in July 2019)  took over the policy from that point. If Mr S wants  to look into the possibility of 
continuing his cover, he should contact the new insurer as soon  as possible.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  Im minded to uphold this complaint. I provisionally require Covea 
Insurance plc to reassess the claim without reference to the policy  term requiring that Mr S 
Ref: DRN95836953medical practitioner be registered with the IMO and entitled to practice as such  in the RoI, 
and in line with the remaining terms of the policy.
I asked the parties  to send me any more  comments or evidence  they wanted  me to consider 
before I revisited the complaint. 
Mr S asked if my provisional  decision  was effectively recommending that Covea pay his 
claim. He also wanted to know if the fact that hed stopped paying the PPI premiums (due to 
his ongoing complaint) would have any effect on the claim and asked who to send evidence 
of his continuing disablement to given the insurer had recently  changed. 
Covea said it didnt  accept my provisional findings  and restated its previous  arguments as to 
why it required evidence  from a doctor  registered in the RoI. Covea added that the evidence  
from Mr S didnt  show definite symptoms of restriction of movement or that he was unable to 
work. It also said the policy excluded claims by those who cease to be a resident in the RoI 
and that, given the length of Mr S absence from the RoI, he was no longer resident.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld to the extent I set 
out in my provisional  decision.
To answer  Mr S question about  what I was requiring Covea to do in my provisional decision,  
I was expecting it to reconsider the claim without further reference  to the policy  term 
requiring that Mr Ss doctor  be registered with the IMO etc. I intentionally didnt go so far as 
to recommend that Covea go ahead and simply pay the claim.
The reason  I didnt ask Covea to pay the claim was because, as far as I could tell, it had 
stopped short of fully assessing the claim once it had decided the policy  terms it cited  
applied to Mr S claim. I was wary  that there  might  be other  reasons as to why Covea might  
decide not to pay the claim and thought it would be unfair for me to deny it the opportunity  to 
properly assess the claim now.
I cant advise Mr S as to what will happen as a result of his non-payment of the premiums as 
that may well depend on whether his claims payable. 
As it happens, Coveas  now raised other  grounds on which  it wouldnt be prepared to accept 
Mr S claim. Its not for me, in this decision, to consider whether Covea entitled to rely on 
those new grounds.  Rather Covea should,  once its fully assessed the claim as per my 
provisional and final decisions, explain its position to Mr S directly.
If Mr S isnt happy with Coveas final word on these new aspects, it would be open for him to 
bring the matter  to us separately to this complaint. We would,  of course, endeavour  to deal 
with any new complaint as a priority  given the time its taken for the matter to be dealt with 
up until now.
Ref: DRN95836954my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance  plc to reassess  the 
claim without  reference  to the policy  term requiring  that Mr S medical practitioner be 
registered with the IMO and entitled  to practice  as such  in the RoI, and in line with the 
remaining terms of the policy.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9583695