K821x#15complaint
Mrs O complains that Capquest Debt Recovery Limited contacted  her regarding  a debt 
which doesnt belong  to her.
background
Mrs O is represented in her complaint by her husband Mr O. To make  my decision as 
straightforward as possible, I will be referring to steps having been  taken by Mrs O even 
though I realise  that sometimes it will have been  Mr O taking these on behalf  of Mrs O.
In 2011 a catalogue shopping account with limited company S was opened in the name of 
Mrs O using an address that shed  recently  left.
After Capquest purchased  the outstanding  debt on the account,  it wrote to Mrs O at her new 
address in September 2013. Mrs O told Capquest  that the debt didnt belong to her and that 
shed already involved the police.
Mrs O says that she supplied Capquest with further information but it doesnt have a record 
of receiving this. Although  Capquest paused its collection activity for a period of time,  it was 
later restarted.
Mrs O raised a dispute about the outstanding debt with one of the credit  reference agencies 
in 2015. But in 2017, Capquest passed  the debt to D, a firm of solicitors. Despite Mrs O 
telling D that she hadnt opened the account with S, it doesnt appear that Capquest followed 
this up again with Mrs O.
Before this service became involved, Capquest agreed that there had been some 
communication problems  between it and D. Capquest first offered to pay Mrs O £75, later 
increasing the offer to £125.
The investigator recommended  that Mrs Os complaint be upheld.  The investigator  was 
persuaded that Mrs O didnt open  the account  with S.
The investigator didnt  think that £125 was adequate compensation. The investigator 
recommended that Capquest  increase  the offer by £275.
Since this service became involved Mrs O was able to provide Capquest with a letter from 
the council. This letter  confirmed  the date on which Mrs O had left the address used  to open 
the account with S.  As a result, Capquest now agrees that Mrs O wasnt Ss customer.
Capquest says that if Mrs O had given it this evidence  earlier  the dispute would have been 
resolved much sooner. So Capquest doesnt  agree  that it should pay Mrs O £400.
Mrs O doesnt think  the investigators  recommendation  to pay £400 is fair. She wants  
Capquest to pay her nearer £10,000.  Mrs O points to the many times that she tried to 
resolve the issue with Capquest  and D. Mr O also thinks  that Capquest is responsible for his 
ill health.
Ref: DRN94937092my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Capquest now agrees that Mrs O didnt  open  the account  with S. As it seems  to me that this 
aspect of Mrs Os complaint is no longer in dispute, I dont intend saying more  about it.
The issue  that remains in dispute is about the level of compensation that the investigator  
recommended. Capquest thinks that its too high and Mrs O doesnt  think that its high 
enough.
Even before Capquest  wrote to Mrs O in 2013, shed made various  companies  and the 
police aware of potentially fraudulent activity involving  her old address. So when Capquest 
told Mrs O that it had purchased the debt, she was already frustrated with the situation, 
having previously  told S that the debt didnt belong to her.
Capquest thinks that if Mrs O had just supplied the information shes now been able to give, 
it could have resolved  the matter more quickly. But Im not persuaded that Capquest 
adequately explained to Mrs O what information  it needed to see as part of its fraud  
investigation. 
Even as late as January 2019,  Capquest  was asking for evidence  that Mrs O couldnt give 
as she had been living with family members when the account with S was opened. This 
meant Mrs O didnt  have documents such as a tenancy agreement or utility bills in her own 
name. So I consider  that Capquest missed a number of opportunities to better  explore  with 
Mrs O what information she was able to provide to prove that she wasnt  living at the 
address at the time that someone  else opened  the account with S. 
On and off over a period of six years Capquest and then D contacted Mrs O about  the debt. I 
agree with the investigator that £125  doesnt  adequately reflect  the upset that this prolonged 
activity will have caused to Mrs O.
I fully understand  why Mrs O would  like Capquest to pay her substantially more  
compensation than the £400 the investigator has recommended. Mrs O says she and her 
husband felt harassed and threatened  and that this affected Mr Os health. 
I dont mean  to downplay  the upset and hurt that both Mr and Mrs O have felt but under the 
rules that govern this service I can only compensate Mrs O for the loss that shes  suffered. 
So I cant make  any award  to Mr O for the upset or frustration that hes suffered trying to sort 
matters out. Or for the impact that resolving  the problem has had upon Mr Os own health.
I also take account of the fact that although  it took a number of years for Capquest  to 
acknowledge the mistake; there  were periods of time when the account was placed on hold. 
So Mrs O wasnt  continually being  asked for payment over the entire  six years. 
Overall, I consider the investigators recommendation  to pay Mrs O a total of £400  is fair and 
reasonable. Im sorry if this comes as a disappointment to Mrs O.
Ref: DRN94937093my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require 
Capquest Debt Recovery Limited to:
pay Mrs O a total of £400 compensation;
if it hasnt already done so, remove any reference to the debt from Mrs Os credit  file; 
and
direct  D to remove any information about  the debt from Mrs Os credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9493709