K820x#14complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the amount  of compensation HSBC  UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) has 
offered to refund the excess commission,  over 50%,  paid as part of the premiums  for a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In 2016 Miss C complained to HSBC that she had been mis-sold PPI with a number of loans 
and her credit card. 
In May 2016  HSBC  wrote to Miss C upholding her complaint that the PPI with her loans  had 
been mis-sold but did not agree the PPI with her credit card was mis-sold. Miss C was also 
told in that letter if she wasnt happy  with what HSBC had said she could bring  her complaint 
to this service. But Miss C signed  the acceptance of the offer, didnt dispute that the credit  
card PPI had been mis-sold and she was paid the compensation,  in accordance  with the 
offer and her acceptance.
As the PPI on her credit  card was found  not to be mis-sold HSBC  recently  considered if 
Miss C was due to be refunded any excess commission, over 50%, on the premiums  she 
paid for the PPI with her credit card.  This is in line with the court decision  of Plevin. HSBC 
offered Miss C £762.40 as compensation for this excess commission.
Miss C didnt accept this offer as she said she paid much more than £762.40 for the PPI. 
She put forward again that the PPI was mis-sold and she should get all her premiums  back.
HSBC said that it had already dealt with Miss Cs complaint about the mis-sold PPI; it hadnt  
upheld her complaint  that the PPI with her credit  card was mis-sold  and Miss C had 
accepted this in 2016. So it wasnt now looking  at the mis-sale  issues.  It was only 
considering whether Miss C had paid any excess commission on the premiums paid that 
should be refunded. The premiums on her credit card hadnt been refunded in 2016  because 
the PPI wasnt mis-sold.
Miss C didnt agree with HSBC and said all her premiums should be refunded.  So she 
brought her complaint  to this service. Our adjudicator said what HSBC had offered to settle 
the matter about  excess commission  was fair. 
Miss C still remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman  to consider her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2016 Miss C accepted HSBCs offer in full and final settlement and this included  that the 
PPI associated with her credit card wasnt mis-sold.  Miss C had the opportunity to question  
further whether  the PPI with her credit card was mis-sold at that time and didnt do so. 
Therefore I cant consider  further, any issues related to the mis-sale of PPI with her credit  
card.
Ref: DRN97028572I am only looking at whether what HSBC has offered as the amount to refund any excess  
commission that was included as part of the premiums Miss C paid for the PPI is fair. 
This amount is not the total amount Miss C paid for the PPI, only the amount of commission  
over 50% of the premiums she paid and any extra interest she may have paid because the 
commission was included  in her credit card balance. 
The calculation provided by HSBC shows it has taken into account  any amounts over 50% of 
the premiums that Miss C paid in commission and has refunded  these as part of the 
compensation. It has also included any interest  at the card rate that was caused by the 
excess commission and also some compensatory  interest for any times Miss C was out of 
pocket. 
I think what HSBC has worked  out as the compensation due to Miss C for the excess 
commission is fair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out I think the offer of £762.40 compensation that HSBC  Bank  UK 
Plc has offered  to refund  the excess commission paid by Miss C is fair. So I am not 
upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9702857