K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain about  the poor handling  of their claim for accidental  damage to their 
skylight on their flat roof, under their building insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc.
background
Mrs N said their skylight cracked  and AXAs contractor fitted a replacement,  but it had to be 
replaced twice following  leaks, and problems still occurred. She said contractors visited  five 
times and told them  to make further  claims which increased their premiums. Mrs N said AXA 
caused delays  and sent the same contractors  instead of an independent expert  to survey the 
work. She said they paid to repair the roof themselves as water was leaking into their home. 
AXA said it offered  a cash settlement but Mr and Mrs N requested its contractor  do the work. 
AXA said the work was followed  by a re-seal and repainting and when the skylight cracked 
again a new claim  and replacement was needed,  costing Mr and Mrs N a second excess 
payment. AXA said they made another claim for a damp patch in their kitchen, but its loss 
adjusters found  no evidence  of storm damage or other insurable cause and it was declined.  
Mr and Mrs N moved  in January 2017  and told AXA about a leak from their bath, and also 
claimed for the skylight and for damp  to their kitchen following  heavy  rain. AXAs  contractors 
put in a new skylight in March 2017  and then re-sealed  the unit, but said theres no evidence  
of storm damage and declined the claim saying the roof had deteriorated.  Mr and Mrs N got 
their own builder to lay a new layer  of felt laid which they paid for themselves. The skylight  
cracked again and after a new claim AXA replaced the unit in May 2017.
In January 2018 Mrs N told AXA about  further  water  ingress at the skylight. AXAs surveyor  
said the additional layer of felt had trapped water underneath and it was peeling  around the 
skylight. The surveyor said lead flashing  around  the skylight might need to be replaced, but 
the point of ingress is unknown. He said Mr and Mrs N should confirm  that they had all the 
repairs completed. Mr and Mrs N got another builder  who said the skylight wasn't well fitted 
with water coming in. He estimated  for work to remove  slabs  from the parapet, strip off old 
felt and fix new rafters, raise the pitch of the flat roof, and replace all lead work. 
AXAs contractors re-inspected the skylight and said the felt around the unit needed to be 
properly sealed.  Mr and Mrs N said AXAs contractors hadnt  sealed the lead properly, but 
the contractors said they werent required to move it to install  the skylight.  
AXA said Mr and Mrs N notified five claims in a year and its surveyor  and contractors said 
their latest  claim was due to the condition of their roof. AXA said Mr and Mrs Ns builder had 
also said that the issue was with the felt on their roof. AXA declined their claim as the policy  
excludes faulty workmanship, general  maintenance and upkeep  of the property. Mrs N said 
AXAs surveyor told her the roof was in good condition  and the leak was around the skylight.
The investigator said the complaint should  be partly  upheld.  She said the skylights  were 
damaged by the same problem and this shouldve been treated as one claim with one 
excess charge. She said AXA should  refund the other excess  charge with interest. 
The investigator said the parties  disagreed  about  the cause of recent  damage,  with Mr and 
Mrs N saying its due to poor workmanship by AXAs contractor, and AXA saying its the felt. 
She said from the reports, damage was more  likely  to be due to the way the felt was laid and 
that previously damaged  felt wasnt removed. She said Mr and Mrs Ns builder quoted for 
Ref: DRN94103822much more work than just around  the skylight and she couldnt ask AXA to pay for this. She 
said the skylight was replaced on a like-for-like  basis and thats all AXA was required to do.
Mr and Mrs N disagreed,  saying they paid for the new layer of roof felt but nothing else as 
the roof was less than two years  old. They said the roof didnt leak but the skylight did and 
by January 2018 the corners of the unit were cracked and water came in. They  said it 
wouldnt be possible to move the unit without touching the felt, and it wasnt replaced  like-for-
like or sealed properly. They agreed  they shouldnt have paid two excesses  and said their 
premiums should be reduced.  They said they should  be compensated for the hardship they 
suffered because of the botched work  and requested an ombudsman  review their complaint.
AXA said its decision to treat the replacement of the skylight a second time as a separate  
claim was correct in the circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence,  including photos from both parties, and arguments 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully  at AXAs decisions and handling of Mr and Mrs Ns claim  to see if it has 
acted in accordance  with the terms of their policy and to see if it has treated  them fairly.
Mr and Mrs N said the latest problems with ingress of water  through  their roof were due to 
the poor workmanship of AXAs contractors when  replacing the skylight  unit the year before.
When the parties disagree about  a decision on a claim by an insurer, or the quality of 
workmanship carried out following a claim,  we are guided by expert reports  and photos 
provided by the parties. In this case AXAs surveyor said the edge of the lead flashing 
around the skylight had lifted and the felt was peeling  away.  Mr and Mrs N said that the felt 
and lead werent tucked in when  AXAs contractors completed the skylight work.
When AXAs  contractors first visited  Mr and Mrs N's home in February  2017,  they could see 
there had been  water  ingress but said this wasn't related to the damaged skylight. Mr and 
Mrs N paid for a new layer of felt themselves and so it would appear that they accepted  that 
the skylight wasnt the cause of that problem. 
In January 2018 AXAs surveyor said that the felt may need  to be fully replaced in order to 
make the roof watertight.  Mr and Mrs Ns builder  said the skylight  was leaking, but he set out 
comprehensive roof repairs which went well beyond ensuring the skylight was secure. The 
work recommended by the builder was to replace lead, strip off all old felt, fix new rafters and 
change the pitch  to the roof. 
Both parties  appear to have agreed that Mr and Mrs Ns roof needed  all existing felt stripped 
off, and this would indicate that their previous work of just adding another layer of felt didnt 
work with reports indicating that water became trapped between  layers.  I can understand 
why Mr and Mrs N wanted to minimise  the expense of the estimated roof works in 2017, but 
the extent of the work set out by their builder the following  year indicates to me there were  
many more problems with their roof than just the skylight. This work might be part of a 
successful claim  for storm damage, but there  is no evidence of storm damage in this case.
Mr and Mrs N had another layer of felt added to their roof, but water later became trapped 
under the felt. There were clearly issues concerning the lead and felt around  the skylight,  
Ref: DRN94103823and Mr and Mrs N said this didnt happen  before the new skylight was fitted, but AXAs 
contractors said they didnt move the lead to fit the skylight.  I think  it likely that there were 
problems with Mr and Mrs Ns roof aside from the skylight, and I think that the expert 
evidence suggests  adding a new layer of felt to the roof caused moisture  to be trapped and 
led to further problems. This would fall within the exclusions for faulty workmanship and wear 
and tear within Mr and Mrs Ns policy and so I cant tell AXA to pay for further repairs.  
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs N for the problems with their flat roof, but I havent seen 
anything to suggest that the skylight itself has leaked and so the design of the unit wouldnt 
appear to have caused a problem. And based on what I have seen I dont think  the fitting of 
the skylight was the cause  of the roof problems. It follows  that I think it was fair for AXA not 
to do further work on the skylight, or roof.
Mr and Mrs N said it was unfair to have to make  a further claim through no mistake of their 
own. I think they are correct to expect  the initial fitting of the skylight  to have been of a good 
standard and so I agree that they have been  unfairly penalised by AXA by having to claim 
twice. I agree with the investigator that AXA shouldve treated  the skylight repairs as a single 
claim and it should  refund  the second excess together with interest  to Mr and Mrs N for their 
loss of use of the money.
I can see what from Mr and Mrs N have said that they suffered a lot of inconvenience at a 
difficult time for their family as a consequence  of the multiple  visits by AXAs  contractors to 
fix their skylight.  I think AXA should pay them £200  compensation  for the trouble that this 
has caused them.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld  in part. I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to reduce the number of claims recorded on internal  and 
external databases  against Mr and Mrs N. I realise that Mr and Mrs N made other  claims so 
the amount Mr and Mrs Ns premiums increased  when their policy  renewed  may not have 
been less with one fewer claim, but if this isnt the case then AXA should refund their 
monthly premiums accordingly.  
I also require AXA Insurance UK Plc to refund Mr and Mrs Ns second  excess payment to 
them. AXA must also pay interest on this amount at the simple rate of 8% per year* from the 
date they made their payment  to the date AXA makes  the payment.
I also require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs N £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience the multiple visits by its contractors to fix the skylight  caused 
them.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  31 August 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN94103824*HM Revenue and Customs requires X to take off tax from this interest. X must  give a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken  off it if C asks for one.
Ref: DRN9410382