K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe) Limits pet insurance policy 
renewal documents  are misleading. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
Mr C will see that my decision is about a different business than referred to in our 
investigators correspondence (which was Red Sands agent). Red Sands  is the insurer of 
the policy and the correct  business for my decision to be about.  Red Sands hasn't objected  
to the change. The change to the business hasnt altered the outcome of my decision.
background
Mr C has pet insurance with Red Sands for his dog who is over 10 years old. 
Mr C complains that the 2018 policy  renewal documents are misleading.  He says the policy 
schedule shows death benefit cover for his dog is up to £750 but the policy  document says 
death of a dog aged  8 years or over is excluded. He also says the policy  schedule  shows his 
dogs date of birth so Red Sands is aware of his dogs age and there  should  be no value  
given for the death benefit cover. He thinks  the renewal documents  could unfairly  influence  
consumers to renew the policy. 
Mr C wants Red Sands to acknowledge its renewal documents  are misleading, re-issue  the 
documents with the correct information and confirm it will change  all policy  renewal 
documents where the same  issue  applies.
Red Sands  said the policy  renewal  documents had to be read with the policy and policy  
summary/key facts  documents. 
Our investigator thought Red Sands had done enough to make Mr C aware of the detailed 
policy conditions relating to the death  benefit.  
Mr C disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans  decision. He said it wasnt  fair for Red Sands to 
hide the exclusion  in the policy and the renewal documents  should  provide the main  
exclusions. He referred  to a 2002  newsletter on our website which his said supported  his 
view that a consumer  is able to rely on the policy headlines to judge what cover  the policy 
provides. He also said Red Sands email sending the renewal  documents  referred  to an 
increased co-payment due to his dogs age so Red Sands could detail that specific  issues 
changed due to a pets age.
Before I made my decision I asked Red Sands to send us the documents it had sent to Mr C, 
which it provided.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide whether Red Sands has made  the terms of the death benefit cover 
sufficiently clear to Mr C, and I think it has. I dont  uphold  this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Cs says the policy schedule makes no mention at all that death cover is totally excluded 
due to his dogs age. But death cover isnt totally excluded for his dog. 
Ref: DRN92344512The policy is clear that as Mr Cs dog is over 8 years old Red Sands would pay 25% of the 
price he paid if his dog died due to injury. Its only if his dog died due to an illness  that the 
benefit would be excluded due to the dogs age. Injury and Illness  are defined in the policy.  
Red Sands, and our investigator,  told Mr C that not all the death of pet benefit is excluded  for 
his dog.
Mr C doesnt dispute that the policy terms are clear about the death benefit cover. His point 
is that the renewal  documents are mis-leading and he ought to be able to rely on those 
documents to give him the main  details about the policy.
Ive seen the policy renewal documents Red Sands sent to Mr C.
The policy schedule details the maximum benefit  for different types  of cover,  including the 
death of pet cover for £750. But importantly the schedule starts by saying: 
This document together  with Your Complete Guide to Your Pet Policy  outlines the basis  on 
which we are able to offer your renewal. You may find that some of the benefits and/or 
excess have changed. Please read the documents carefully to ensure that what  we are 
offering meets with your individual requirements.
Red Sands  has been  clear that the schedule needs to be read with the policy  to see if some 
of the benefits  have  changed. So I dont think it's reasonable for Mr C to understand that the 
schedule sets out all the details of the cover  for the death of a pet (or any other cover) 
section.
Ive also seen the Insurance  Product Information Document Red Sands  sent Mr C, which  
hes referred to. That document starts by saying:
This document provides  a summary  of the main  policy coverages and exclusions and is not 
personalised to your specific needs.
The document also says complete contractual information is the policy documentation.
The document goes on to detail some of the insurance cover  which  includes If your pet 
passes away during the policy year we will pay a percentage of the market  value,  the price  
you paid or your policy limit. But as the document is clear  its just a summary  of the main 
cover areas, not personalised to Mr Cs dogs circumstances, Mr C cant  reasonably  
understand the document is giving him full details of cover.
The renewal  documents  are very clear  Mr C needs  to refer to the policy, not just the 
information in the renewal  documents, to get the details of the policy  cover thats relevant to 
him.
Ive seen Mr C's comments about the exclusion for death benefit being  hidden away in small 
print in the policy and his quotes from one of our newsletters on our website. 
All pet insurance  policies have exclusion and restrictions. We generally  say that if there  are 
significant and/or unusual  exclusions/restrictions on cover they must be highlighted by the 
insurer. We also generally say putting the information in a policy  summary/key  facts is a 
reasonable way to highlight such exclusions/restrictions.
Ref: DRN92344513The exclusion for death benefit  due to illness for a dog over a certain age isnt unusual.  Its 
standard in most pet insurance policies. Red Sands considers its a significant exclusion and 
has detailed the exclusion for death due to illness of a pet aged  8 years or older  in its policy  
summary.  
Red Sands  has sufficiently highlighted the age related exclusion to the death benefit cover  
due to illness by putting the information  in the policy summary, as well as the full policy 
document.
The age related 25% payment for death  by injury restriction is detailed in the full policy  
document. Its not highlighted in the policy  summary document, and I dont think  it needs to 
be. Its not an unusual or significant restriction for a pet insurance policy. 
Im satisfied that Red Sands renewal documents aren't misleading. Red Sands doesnt need  
to detail the full exclusions/restrictions for the death  benefit cover or give bespoke 
information on that matter in the renewal policy documents. Red Sands has given clear 
enough information.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9234451