K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them  a regular payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
In 1995 Mr and Mrs H took out a joint mortgage  with Lloyds. At the same time they took out 
a PPI policy. The policy was in Mr Hs name  only and covered their mortgage payments  if Mr 
H was unable to work  due to accident or sickness or lost his job. Mr and Mrs H also took out 
a further advance on their mortgage  in 2000  and at the same  time increased their PPI cover 
to reflect  the extra borrowing.
Our adjudicator didnt  think their complaint should be upheld.  He thought Mr and Mrs H 
wouldve understood they had a choice in taking  the policy  and it wouldve suited their needs 
at the time. 
Mr and Mrs H disagree,  they say they didnt know the policy was optional.  
So their complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI was optional  and not a condition of the lending.  Mr and 
Mrs H say this wasnt  done but havent given us much detail about what  was said to make 
them think  this. But I think thats understandable as the PPI was sold a while  ago. So Ive 
relied more on what  the documents  from the sales show.
Lloyds have given  us copies of Mr and Mrs Hs signed mortgage applications from both 1995 
and 2000. In both applications there  are separate sections  that deal with PPI. I can see on 
the 1995 application a tick has been placed in the yes  box to take PPI with 100% cover 
taken in Mr Hs name.  If they didnt  want PPI there  was the option to tick the no box.
And I can see on the 2000 mortgage  application  it gives the option to select  to take PPI with 
a tick box. I can see that a tick has been placed in the box to select PPI. If Mr and Mrs H 
didnt want PPI they couldve left the box empty.
Given the importance of the financial commitment Mr and Mrs H were making I think its 
likely they read the applications forms before signing  them. And because  Mr and Mrs H 
signed the mortgage application forms after the section on PPI I think its likely they wouldve  
seen the different options available in relation to PPI and understood they had a choice in 
taking it and chose  to take cover  just in Mr Hs name despite being  jointly  responsible for the 
mortgage.
To be fair to Mr and Mrs H Im treating  the sales of PPI as if Lloyds  advised  them  to take it. 
What this means is that Lloyds not only had to provide information about PPI in a clear,  fair 
and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs H could make an informed choice about buying  
Ref: DRN95085932PPI. It also had to make  sure that if it was to recommend PPI that the policy was suitable for 
their needs  and circumstances.
I dont know if Lloyds  did take all the steps it shouldve.  But I think PPI was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs H for the following  reasons:
From what I know about PPI policies Mr H was eligible for the cover and it doesnt look 
like he wouldve  been caught  by any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions 
of the policies which couldve made  it difficult to make  a successful claim. 
At the time of the sales Mr H says he was entitled  to some sick pay and had savings he 
could use to make their mortgage payments  if he was unable to work.  But the policies 
wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and savings and for potentially  longer for 
up to 12 months if he was unable to work  due to accident  or sickness  or if he lost his 
job. 
So I think the PPI wouldve  provided  a useful  benefit to Mr and Mrs H in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment and had other  debt which  was of concern. Given the implications if 
they were unable to meet  their repayments I think they wouldve been  interested in 
protecting them.  
There was nothing  to suggest  that the PPI wasnt affordable  to Mr and Mrs H at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted PPI they couldve cancelled it.
I also need to consider  whether Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs H information in a way which  was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the polices out. I dont know if Lloyds did give all the information as it 
shouldve. But for the same reasons  that the PPI was suitable  and based on what  Mr and 
Mrs H have told us about their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out 
PPI if Lloyds had given them all the proper information.  
This means  Mr and Mrs H arent worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Lloyds.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against 
Lloyds Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2019. 
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9508593