K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a credit card account sometime between 
January 1996  and January 2000.  
As theres  only limited  information available now, neither Lloyds nor Mr P can say how or 
when PPI was sold to Mr P.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagrees with our adjudicators  view.  He 
said he wasnt told PPI was optional  and wouldve declined  it had he been. He said PPI was 
added without his authority.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   based on whats available.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know what was discussed with Mr P, if anything, when he took out PPI. To decide  
what most likely  happened at the time,  I must consider the wider  circumstances. I cant just 
rely on Mr Ps memory, particularly given how long ago this sale took place. 
Lloyds no longer has a copy of Mr Ps credit card application  from the time of sale. Its sent 
in a sample copy of the type of application form it says was being used around that time to 
sell PPI to customers.  I havent seen  anything to make me think  that Lloyds wasnt  following 
its usual sales practice  in Mr Ps case.
Looking at the credit card application, I think it likely that Mr P wouldve had to select  a box 
on the application form for PPI to be added. I dont think PPI wouldve been automatically 
added without him selecting it. So, based  on the limited information now available, I think  it 
more likely that PPI was added because Mr P said he wanted it, knowing he didnt have to 
take it. I can understand why he may not recall it this way now,  particularly given how much 
time has passed.
Ive treated this as an advised sale. This means  Lloyds not only had to give Mr P policy 
information in a clear, fair and not misleading  way. Importantly, it also had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommended  was suitable for his needs. 
Ive looked carefully  at whether I think the policy was suitable for Mr P. I think  it was. I say 
this because looking at the policy terms that likely  applied over this period:
he appeared eligible to take out the policy;
Ref: DRN94146562I cant see that he was affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions on the 
cover. So, I dont think having more,  or better,  information about  these things 
wouldve led him not to take out the cover. I think he couldve benefitted  from 
everything the policy offered;
the policy appeared affordable and Mr P couldve  cancelled it at any time. I havent 
seen anything to make me think that Lloyds led Mr P to believe that he had to have  
PPI the whole time he had the card;
Ive taken into account Mr P benefits through his work and his other resources. But, I 
cant see that meant the policy was clearly unsuitable for him. The policy wouldve 
paid out on top of his work  benefits. He said he wouldve got around 6 months worth 
of pay from work  if he was off sick.  He  also said he had an endowment  policy he 
couldve cashed in. But, I think the policy couldve still offered useful protection. It 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim, so for longer than Mr P 
wouldve possibly got through work.  Its possible that he wouldve lost out financially if 
he had to cash in his endowment early.
Mr P said he had another policy that wouldve paid out up to £8,000 if he had an 
accident. But, I cant see that this provided him with enough  of a safety net to remove  
the need for PPI, or that it provided  him with duplicate  cover.  The PPI policy wouldve 
also paid out in the event Mr P lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
So, I cant see that the policy was unsuitable  for him, in his circumstances. 
Based on what weve  learnt  about  these sales, some of the information  Lloyds gave  Mr P 
about the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. For example, I dont know  if 
Lloyds properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might  pay out if Mr P made  a 
claim. But, as Ive said, it seems to have been affordable  for him and suitable. And Mr P 
couldve cancelled the policy  at any time if his circumstances changed or he no longer 
wanted to pay for it. It also seems  likely  that he opted to take out the cover. 
Taking everything into account,  I havent seen enough to make me think that its likely Mr P 
wouldve made a different  decision,  if better information had been  provided. On balance,  
I think hed still have  taken out the policy. Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr P. But Lloyds has paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr P 
because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN94146563my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9414656