K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that DJS (UK) Limited (trading as Piggybank)  lent him money that he 
couldnt afford to repay.
Mr C wants Piggybank to refund remove the negative entries from his credit file, pay him 
compensation and write off any outstanding balance.
background
Mr C took out one loan with Piggybank in August  2015. He borrowed £750 repayable in five 
monthly repayments of £259.70.
Piggybank didnt agree that it was irresponsible to lend. It said Mr C declared  his monthly net 
income to be £4500.  Mr C told Piggybank his outgoings were £1425. Piggybank also carried  
out credit  checks and included any undeclared credit commitments as part of its affordability  
assessment.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint be upheld.  He thought Piggybanks  
checks went far enough. Based on the information  Mr C gave Piggybank and the checks it 
carried out, the adjudicator thought it was reasonable to agree the loan. 
Mr C disagrees  with the adjudicators recommendation  he says his credit file shows  how 
much credit was outstanding and should  have  cast doubt on his stated outgoings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators recommendation. 
Piggybank was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make sure that Mr C could afford  
the loan repayments. There wasnt a set list of checks  that Piggybank had to carry out. But 
the checks needed to be proportionate to things such as the amount of each repayment,  the 
length of the agreement and any borrowing history.
Piggybank expected Mr C to repay  a very small proportion of his declared net income  each 
month. I think  it wouldve  been reasonable of Piggybank  to agree loan one based on 
knowing Mr Cs income alone.
Piggybank went further than this and asked Mr C about his living costs and regular credit 
commitments. From what  Mr C told Piggybank, he was left with a monthly  disposable 
income of £3075. 
Piggybanks credit check showed  other  credit commitments but even when these  were  
factored in it still left Mr C with enough  disposable  income to meet the repayments.
I think it was reasonable  of Piggybank  to agree  loan one based on the information Mr C gave 
and what it knew about him.
Ref: DRN90444342I can appreciate that Mr C didnt tell Piggybank  about all of his short term liabilities and I 
dont doubt that he was in difficulty. But I dont consider  that proportionate checks  would 
have revealed  this at this stage in the lending relationship.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9044434