K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Bank  of Scotland plc (BOS) didnt default their accounts  after 
they entered into a Debt Arrangement Scheme (DAS).
background
Mr and Mrs L both have  accounts with BOS. In 2018, Mr and Mrs L entered into a DAS  
which is a Scottish scheme  to help people repay their debt to their creditors  in a manageable 
way.
Mr and Mrs L feel that BOS should  register a default  against them  for their accounts  which 
are in arrears. And they believe this should be backdated to the date they entered  into their 
DAS. BOS has said that it wont be registering a default against them as that doesnt fall in 
line with the scheme.  Mr and Mrs L complained. They believe that BOSs actions means 
their credit files will be affected for longer and this will cause detriment to their family.
Our investigator didnt  think BOS  had done  anything  wrong.  He explained that under a DAS, 
BOS has to cease all activity to recover the money  which includes not defaulting  the 
account. Mr and Mrs L disagreed. They believe that they are in a debt management plan and 
that BOS isnt following the guidance from the Information Commissioners  Office  so a 
backdated default should be entered on their credit file.
As an agreement hasnt been  reached  it has been passed  to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs L have explained that they feel BOS should be following the Information 
Commissioners Office  guidelines for their debt management plan, and consequently feel 
BOS should have defaulted  their accounts some  time ago. However, the DAS that they 
entered into isnt the same as a debt management plan.
The DAS is a scheme that runs in Scotland. It provides people with a way of repaying their 
debt in a manageable way. It is not a debt management plan. When Mr and Mrs L entered 
into their DAS, and created a debt payment programme (DPP), BOS  was bound  by this as 
well. This means that BOS, as a creditor, had to do the following:
Cease any planned enforcement actions
Stop any correspondence with the debtor seeking payment for the debts whilst the 
DPP is on-going
Not attempt to persuade  the debtor to withdraw from the programme or to make  
additional payments in respect of a debt included in the programme
Freeze all interest,  fees and charges on the debts in the DPP from the date the DAS 
administrator or money adviser  submitted  the application for a DPP
Upon request provide necessary information  to assist the management of the DPP
Because of this, I dont think BOS has done  anything wrong in not entering a default against 
Mr and Mrs L for their accounts  that are in arrears. The accounts are part of the DPP and the 
Ref: DRN97757182debt is being repaid.  Once the DAS has completed, the accounts will be settled. Therefore 
there wont be a default recorded on the credit  file  unless Mr and Mrs L dont keep up their 
repayments under their DAS.
I understand that Mr and Mrs L believe that they are at a disadvantage now because a 
default hasnt  been registered,  so they feel that in six years  they will be in a worse position 
than if BOS defaulted their accounts.  But once they have  repaid their debt under their DAS,   
the account will be settled  without the need for a default being entered  onto their credit file. 
And it isnt BOSs responsibility  to explain the effects  of entering into a DAS. 
In summary,  I dont think BOS has done anything wrong by not registering a default against 
Mr and Mrs L. It has followed the guidelines  set out under the DAS.  So I wont  be asking it to 
do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  31 August 2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9775718