K820x#14complaint
Ms P has complained about  CIS General Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim 
under her home insurance  policy for damage  to her conservatory roof.
background
In March 2018, following a heavy snowfall,  Ms P found that water  was entering through her 
conservatory roof. She made a claim to CIS which arranged for its conservatory specialist to 
inspect the property. The specialist concluded that the problem was caused  by a 
combination of wear  and tear and faulty  workmanship.  CIS declined the claim.
In January 2019, Ms P again experienced a problem  of water ingress into her conservatory  
following heavy snowfall.  She again contacted CIS which again arranged  for its conservatory 
specialist to visit. After inspecting the conservatory roof, the specialist was unable to confirm  
the exact cause  of the leak but again said there was evidence of wear  and tear along with 
construction issues. CIS again declined the claim.
Ms P obtained her own report from a local roofer which concluded there were no issues with 
the conservatory roof and it was well-maintained. The roofer thought the cause of the leak 
was the weight of snow  pushing down  on the back elevation which created a gap between  
the rubber and the roof. He quoted  a cost of £2,400 to replace the conservatory roof sheets.
In light of this report, CIS agreed to send its surveyor  to look at the property. The surveyor  
concluded there was no one-off insured event which had occurred to cause damage to the 
conservatory roof. On this basis, CIS continued to decline  the claim.
Ms P was unhappy  at CISs decision. She referred  her complaint to us. She considered that 
the conservatory specialist wasnt qualified to assess the problem and that their report 
should therefore be disregarded. She maintained it was the weight of snow  in 2018  which  
caused the roof to become damaged and thus to let in water. She therefore thought  CIS 
should pay for any necessary repairs.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold  the complaint.  My 
findings were as follows:
Ms Ps policy provides cover for damage caused  by certain  insured  perils. It doesnt provide 
cover in other circumstances. The policy specifically excludes damage caused by poor 
workmanship or wear and tear.
The investigator said that snow damage wasnt an insured peril under the policy.  This isnt 
strictly true. The policy provides cover for damage  caused  by storms and the policy defines 
snowfall of at least  30cm in a 24-hour  period as a storm.  I understand from CISs file that the 
snowfall in 2018 met this criterion. However,  it is up to Ms P to demonstrate  that this is the 
cause of the damage.
Ms P has explained that the leak in her roof occurs only following snowfall. She believes that 
the damage occurred  following the heavy snowfall in 2018. However, it is for Ms P to 
demonstrate that this was the one-off event which caused the damage  and I dont believe 
she has done so. 
Ref: DRN95241392I note that Ms Ps roofer believes the likely problem is that when there  is a certain  level of 
snow on the roof, the weight of this causes a gap to occur  between the rubber and the roof 
and that this results  in a leak as the snow melts.  However, even if the roofer is correct,  this 
doesnt show that the roof became damaged suddenly following the snowfall in 2018.
Neither CISs conservatory specialist nor its surveyor could find evidence  of damage 
consistent with a one-off event and the conservatory specialist pointed out certain issues 
such as missing end caps  and the low pitch of the roof. And although Ms P has cast doubt 
on his credentials, I see no reason to dismiss the conservatory specialists  opinion.  Given  
that the problem apparently only manifests itself following snowfall, I consider  it reasonable 
to conclude that it is more likely due to a design defect, in that the roof fails to cope with a 
certain weight of snow, perhaps  in combination with wear and tear issues. The snowfall in 
2018, and again in 2019, thus simply highlighted  the problem with the roof rather than 
caused it.
In light of the above, I consider it was reasonable for CIS to decline Ms Ps claim on the 
basis that there was no damage due to an insured peril.
I invited both parties to comment  my provisional  decision.
Ms P didnt accept my provisional decision. She reiterated her opinion  that CISs 
conservatory specialist  wasnt  qualified to assess the problem. She further said that CISs 
surveyor was wrongly  looking for storm damage rather  than snow  damage.  She maintained 
that the weight  of snow had caused  the roof to bow. She considered the claim should 
therefore be accepted.
CIS didnt  comment on my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P has reiterated some of the arguments  she put forward previously. However, she hasnt  
provided any new evidence. She makes  reference to CISs  surveyor wrongly looking for 
storm damage rather than snow damage  but there  is no difference  in this case  because the 
policys definition of storm damage  encompasses snow  damage.
As I explained, it is for Ms P to show that her roof has been damaged by the one-off event of 
heavy snowfall in 2018. She hasnt done  this. Her roofer  has speculated as to why the roof 
might be allowing snow to enter but he hasnt pinpointed any damage  that can reasonably  
be attributed to this particular event.
In light of the above, and for the reasons I have already given in my provisional decision,  
I consider it was reasonable for CIS to decline the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2020.
Ref: DRN95241393David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9524139