K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy  over the phone when they remortgaged in 2001.  
Santander merged  with the business that Mr and Mrs E dealt with originally when taking out 
the PPI and it is responsible for dealing  with their complaint. So to keep things simpler, Ill 
just refer to Santander as the seller in my decision. 
background
The mortgage was in joint names and the policy covered Mr E. It protected their mortgage 
monthly repayments in the event of accident,  sickness and unemployment.
This complaint was looked at by an adjudicator  who didnt think  it should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs E didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings. They mainly complain that it was 
added to their account without their knowledge.  They told us they had no idea that they had 
PPI on their account as they didn't ever take out this kind of policy.  
Theyve asked for a review so this complaint  comes  to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Where theres disagreement about what happened, I have to decide  what I think  is most 
likely taking into account all the information Ive got and the wider circumstances. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
I think Santander made Mr and Mrs E aware that they had a choice about buying the PPI, 
and they chose to take it. Theres no recording of the phone call when Santander sold the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs E. And Santander cant supply a call script  to show  how its advisors were 
instructed to explain and present PPI. 
Its also completely understandable that Mr and Mrs E mightve  forgotten  some of the details 
of this sale as it was so long ago. This means that what they say about  how they were sold 
the PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint.
Looking at what this service knows about the way Santander sold PPI around this time, and 
what Santander has told us, I think its likely  that Mr and Mrs E wouldve had to apply 
separately for the cover if they wanted  to have  it. Theres nothing  mentioned  in the mortgage  
application they completed thats  likely to have made them  think they had to have PPI  and 
it wasnt included automatically. 
Ref: DRN96944012So although  I havent seen how Mr and Mrs E applied for PPI it looks like Mr E must have 
filled in a separate application form in order to have  it added on to the mortgage. I say this 
because Santander  sent a welcome letter to Mr E in August 2001 which said Welcome  to 
mortgage payment  protection with Paymentcare (this is what Santander called its PPI). This 
letter thanks them for choosing Paymentcare. And it says that as well as the schedule  of 
insurance (showing the cover theyd taken)  a policy booklet was enclosed  (telling  them about 
the policy). 
I dont know what was discussed during the call with the advisor  about  PPI. But Mr E 
couldve queried the PPI when  he got the welcome letter if this wasnt  something  they 
wanted. From what Ive seen, it doesnt look as if that happened. So, on balance,  I think  the 
paperwork Ive seen  is enough to show that:
Mr and Mrs E wouldve been  able to see that cover had been  sold to them, and
Santander gave  them enough information  to make them aware  that it was up to them 
to choose whether  to take out PPI and they couldve taken  their mortgage without 
PPI if they hadnt wanted to have the cover.
So, I find its likely that Santander  did enough to make Mr and Mrs E aware that the PPI was 
optional. And it was added to their account when  they indicated  they wanted to have it.
Santander says it advised Mr and Mrs E to take out the policy.  So it had to make sure this 
was a suitable recommendation for them, as well as providing them  with clear information so 
they could decide if it was right for them.
The policy covered Mr E for accident,  sickness and unemployment for up to12 months per 
claim and repeat claims were  possible.  So the policy wouldve given Mr and Mrs E long term 
cover whilst they were paying off their secured borrowing.  Their mortgage was a major 
financial commitment and Mr and Mrs Es home  wouldve  been  at risk if the mortgage 
payments werent  kept up to date. I think  its likely that losing Mr Es income wouldve had a 
significant impact on their joint finances  even if Mrs E was still earning. So, I can see why 
they mightve felt it was useful having  PPI to protect  his income. 
Looking at what theyve  told me about their circumstances, I think  having PPI couldve  been 
helpful for Mr and Mrs E, even if theyve forgotten now why they decided to have it. 
Mr E told us that he wouldnt have got any sick pay from his employer. And although they 
had equity in their home, I dont think its likely theyd  have welcomed having  to remortgage 
again just because they couldnt afford  to make their monthly  mortgage  repayments. Having 
PPI gave Mr and Mrs E security and peace of mind  that their mortgage repayments would be 
protected even  if Mr E couldnt  work
So I think PPI was suitable for them.
Its possible some of the information  Mr and Mrs E were given about  the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. There were some  things the policy  didnt cover. But it doesnt  look as if 
those applied in Mr Es case. So I think its unlikely  that knowing more about  this wouldve 
put Mr and Mrs E off taking out the PPI.
Ref: DRN96944013I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs E when they bought  the policy. 
But looking  at the welcome letter it appears Mr E had signed an instruction form to his bank 
to cover the monthly  cost. And they wouldve been able to see this payment shown on their 
bank statements. So it seems Mr and Mrs E were happy at the time to pay for it and the 
policy appears to have  been affordable for them. And as they were  paying for the PPI 
monthly, they could  cancel it without extra cost if their situation  changed  or they no longer 
wanted it.
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs E still wouldve decided to buy the policy  even if theyd been given clearer 
information as it gave them useful protection in their particular circumstances. 
This means  I dont  find that Mr and Mrs E lost out as a result of anything that Santander did 
wrong when it sold them  the PPI. So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 July 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9694401