K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Cheetham Jackson Ltd took steps without  her permission to withdraw 
her pension and then incorrectly told her this couldnt  be undone. She also says that she 
was badly advised about her tax position and as a result she now owes HMRC a large 
amount of money.
background to the tax issue
Ms M was a client of Cheetham Jackson and she had an income drawdown account with a 
pension provider.
In April 2017 Ms M took her tax-free cash entitlement of just over £43,000 and an income 
payment of £84,000.  She was advised  against taking the income by Cheetham Jackson due 
to the tax implications.  But Ms M was adamant she wanted to take income.
Ms M received the income payment net of tax and so was paid just under £48,000  with 
£36,000 taken  as tax.
This was taxed using  the tax code 1150L  which  was an emergency tax rate. Ms M got in 
touch with HMRC and filled in forms to claim back some of that emergency tax. She says 
she was told to expect  a rebate of around  £10,000.  Ms M was expecting  this to be paid 
directly to her.
In May 2017  the pension provider was informed that a rebate was due into the pension as 
HMRC said the tax code  BR (basic rate) was now applicable and so Ms M had been overtaxed.
At around the same time in late May, Ms M decided  to withdraw the remainder  of her 
pension. On 7 June the payment was made.  The pension provider confirmed that when this 
income payment  was made it included the rebate amount. So instead of the remaining 
balance of approximately £46,000 being  paid, Ms M was instead paid £56,000 with the 
additional £10,000 being the rebate.
Ms M said she didnt receive  any paperwork from the provider  but noticed the £56,000 come in 
to her bank  account.  So, Ms M asked her adviser at Cheetham Jackson to confirm the tax paid.
On 9 June, the adviser sent information to Ms M about the tax paid but mistakenly read the 
£10,000 as being tax paid rather than a rebate added to the pay-out. So Ms M was given 
incorrect information.
On 29 June, Ms M requested a copy of her p45 from her adviser  to confirm the tax paid as 
she still hadnt received any information  from the pension provider. The adviser said she 
would email it to Ms M.
In January 2018 Ms M emailed her adviser at Cheetham Jackson to say that she was 
confused with her tax situation. She said she was under the impression she had paid 
£36,000 originally  and another £10,000 after the second withdrawal. 
Ref: DRN95282642Ms M asked whether it had been  paid back into the pension and asked the adviser to clarify  
what had happened. After  some  back and forth, the adviser then confirmed that the £10,000 
had been a rebate. The adviser said Ms M may be due some more tax back  but it depends 
on Ms Ms other income received and she wouldnt know  until HMRC does its calculations 
for the end of the tax year. The adviser said she wasnt sure if further tax would be due as 
she wasnt a tax expert. The adviser  told Ms M to get in contact with HMRC.
However, at the end of the tax year, HMRC said that Ms M owed over £20,000  in tax from 
the various withdrawals  in the tax year 2017/2018. And Ms M had already spent all the 
income received.
background to the final pension  withdrawal
April 2017  - Ms M withdrawals a tax-free cash lump sum and income. 
Early May 2017 - Ms M decided contacts the adviser requesting the withdrawal 
of the remainder of her benefits  
23 May - Ms M asks the adviser  when  the forms will be ready to take out the 
remainder of her pension.
25 May - Adviser letter addressed to Ms M. Which said following  discussions  
on 19 May you wish to take the remainder of your pension. Ive done everything  
to dissuade  you and I advise you not to do this but you wish to proceed  in any 
event. The letter  mentions the tax consequences already faced  with the initial  
withdrawal in April.  And asks Ms M how she would  survive  if she was to split 
with her partner. The letter  included a place for Ms M to sign her agreement.
25 May  Cheetham Jackson contacted the pension provider to start the 
process of withdrawing the remaining funds.
5 June  Ms M sends a text message  to the adviser to say shell  be in on 
Thursday (9 June) to sign the forms.
6 June  Ms M sends a text message  about  selling  her house to her son. 
Her son replies to say that this is a better  idea than taking out the pension.
7 June  Ms M sends a text to her to son to say shell accept the offer on 
the house. 
7 June  £56,000 sent by the pension provider is received by Ms Ms bank
8 June  Ms M contacts the adviser to say shes received £56,000  from the 
provider. She says she has not signed  the forms yet and asks the adviser to 
find out what  has happened and how much tax shes  paid. 
8 June  Ms M misses  a call from the adviser and sends her a message to say 
shell call her back. Later the same day, Ms M asks the adviser to call her.
Ref: DRN952826438 June  Ms M says a call took place  and she asked the adviser to cancel the 
pension withdrawal.  But the adviser said that this couldnt  be done. Ms M hasnt  
been able to provide any evidence of this call
9  June  the adviser sends information about  the tax paid to Ms M and asks for 
the forms to be signed.
17 June  Ms M sends  the adviser a message to say she has dropped off the 
signed forms
Subsequently Ms M says that Cheetham  Jackson shouldnt have instructed the 
pension provider  to pay her before she signed forms.  And that Cheetham 
Jackson shouldve  instructed the provider to take the money back and cancel 
the payment when  she asked.
background to the complaint so far
After Ms M realised  that she owed so much  to HMRC, she got in contact with Cheetham 
Jackson, HMRC and the pension  provider  to try to understand what had happened. And if 
anything could be done about  her situation.
Ms M said that she had spent the money  on rent, general spending and house renovations.  
And she is now in financial difficulty due to the unexpected tax bill.
Cheetham Jackson looked  into Ms Ms complaint but it didnt think  it had done anything 
wrong and so it gave  Ms M referral rights  to this service. The pension provider also 
investigated but didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. The case  was considered by another  
dispute resolution service  who found  that the pension provider wasnt at fault. From what  I 
understand HMRC  has agreed a payment plan with Ms M.
Our investigator considered Ms Ms complaint but he concluded that Cheetham  Jackson 
didnt need to do anything to put things right. In summary he believed whilst  Cheetham 
Jackson did make an error regarding the rebate, it wasnt responsible for tax advice. And the 
adviser had previously made Ms M aware  that there  might be tax implications. 
In terms of the withdrawal  issue, the investigator said Cheetham  Jacksons  agreement  with 
Ms M was that it would  act on verbal instructions  in some instances before confirming in 
writing. He also said that the whole way through the process, Ms Ms communication with 
the adviser indicated  she wanted  the withdrawal to be carried  out as soon as possible. And 
that there  was no evidence that Ms M had told Cheetham Jackson to cancel the withdrawal  
or to try and return the money. 
Ms M didnt agree and asked for the case to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think its important to explain the role of this service and our approach.  We 
are an informal dispute  resolution service  and part of my role as an ombudsman is to decide 
what I think is important and relevant to the case.  Ms M has provided a lot of information and 
Ref: DRN95282644raised a number of issues and points throughout the time this case has been with the 
service. Whilst  Ive considered all the points shes made, its impractical for me to address 
them all here in this decision. So I dont mean it as a dis-service to Ms M that Ill not address 
every point that shes made. My decision will be structured to concentrate  only on the key 
aspects of the case.
Secondly, its important  to explain  that when evidence is unclear or incomplete, we work on 
the balance of probabilities or what is most likely to have happened. Much of the 
communication between  both parties  was carried out via text message and not much  was 
recorded formally.  A substantial amount  of the case file is pictures of text messages 
provided by Ms M and there  are gaps in the information that have to be filled in to work out 
what most likely  happened.
The key issue I have  to decide is whether Cheetham  Jackson did anything wrong and if so, 
is it responsible for any financial  loss that Ms M has suffered.
More specifically, was Cheetham Jackson wrong  to instruct the pension  provider  to finalise 
the withdrawal of funds  before Ms M had signed  the forms? Did it fail to put things right when 
Ms M says she told them she didnt want the funds after all? And does Cheetham Jackson 
have some responsibility for the tax situation that Ms M now unfortunately finds  herself in?
Regarding the withdrawal  issue,  the investigator  looked into the terms of agreement that Ms 
M had signed with Cheetham Jackson. This said We prefer our clients  to give us 
instructions in writing,  to aid clarification and avoid future misunderstandings. We will 
however, accept oral instructions provided  they are confirmed  in writing.
As the investigator  said, I think its reasonable to conclude it will accept and act on verbal 
instructions in situations where this can be confirmed later in writing.  And this is exactly  what 
happened in this situation. However, what the terms say is not the only thing to consider 
here, Ive also thought  about whether what Cheetham Jackson did was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Having looked  at the communication  in the lead up to the withdrawals, its clear  the adviser 
didnt think Ms Ms plans to make  large  withdrawals  were  a good idea. Both formally in 
writing and in text messages, the adviser  warned against what Ms M wished to do. In one 
text message when  Ms M told the adviser she wanted to withdraw income  as well as tax free 
cash, she said I think youre mad . And its clear  from the correspondence between  Ms M 
and the adviser  that Ms M was aware the adviser didnt think income  withdrawals were  in her 
best interests.
Ms M had contacted  the adviser to see if the forms were  ready  early  on in the process and 
right up to a few days before the withdraw took place  she had said she was ready to sign the 
forms. The previous  withdrawal in April, Ms M had also been  very keen to get the money as 
soon as possible as well.
I think from the advisers point of view there was no question whether Ms M wanted to take 
the income and there was some  pressure to get this done quickly. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable to do so before Ms M signed  the forms. The verbal instruction had been given 
and Ms M had also made  a written instruction via text message. 
Ref: DRN95282645I dont think Cheetham Jackson did anything wrong here. I know  Ms M has placed  a lot of 
weight on the fact that the instruction to withdraw wasnt made  by her adviser but another  
person at Cheetham Jackson. However,  I dont think this has any real relevance,  Ms M had 
said she wanted to withdraw the money and the provider accepted the instruction from 
Cheetham Jackson.
Moving on, Ive looked at whether Cheetham Jackson was responsible for not reversing  the 
withdrawal when Ms M says she asked  it to do so.
Ms M says that she did speak to the adviser  on the day the money was received but she had 
told her that it was too late and the withdrawal  couldnt be reversed. But there is no record of 
this call. There is a record  of missed calls but not a record  of an answered call. Thats  not to 
say a call didnt take place. 
However, Ms M had sent a text to the adviser  earlier in the day to say shed received the 
money. Whilst she seemed surprised  that it had been paid as she hadnt signed the forms, 
she asked what tax had been paid and didnt say anything to suggest  she didnt want  the 
money. I think  its fair to say that if Ms M had been  unhappy about  receiving the money, she 
likely wouldve made mention of this then.
Furthermore, I have to take into account  that Ms M still signed the forms after the money had 
already been received. There was quite  a bit of communication by text after the payment and 
before the forms were  signed - there  is no indication that Ms M is unhappy. At no point does  
she indicate that she didnt want the money and she seemed happy  to sign the forms.
I appreciate that Ms M did text her son telling him she had requested to withdraw her 
remaining funds from her pension and he did tell her to instead sell the house (which she 
did). But the evidence suggests  that she didnt tell the adviser  this. And she also texted her 
son after she received  the money to say she thought it was from her pension but there is no 
indication that she didnt want it or that she would ask for it be returned.
Whilst its possible a call did take place  that day, the adviser disputes that Ms M ever asked  
for the withdrawal to be returned. So where recollections differ as they do here,  the 
surrounding evidence  takes on more weight  and Im afraid the evidence doesnt  support 
what Ms M has told us.
Moving onto the key point of complaint, the tax bill that Ms M received from HMRC. Firstly,  
Id like to say that I can understand why this has caused Ms M a lot of distress and Im sorry 
to hear of the situation she has found  herself  in.
Usually, pensions are taxed at source by the pension provider. Its my understanding  that the 
provider receives instruction from HMRC about what tax code to use. In Ms Ms first 
withdrawal the tax was taken at source.  But then the provider was informed that too much 
had been taken, the tax code was changed and a refund was sent to the provider.
Ms M was aware at the time that shed been taxed too much, as shes told us she had 
contacted HMRC after the initial  withdrawal  as she was taxed at an emergency rate. And 
shed filled in a form and was expecting a rebate  of around £10,000.
The mistake  that Cheetham Jackson  made  was that it originally  told Ms M that £10,000 had 
been paid as tax rather than realising  it was a tax rebate paid to Ms M. The adviser  had 
misread the information she had and said £56,000 had been paid to Ms M as income  and 
Ref: DRN95282646£10,000 paid in tax, totalling  £66,000.  When in fact the correct  information shouldve been  
that £46,000 had been paid as income  and a £10,000 tax rebate had been paid on top of 
this. This information was sent in an email  and the adviser did not state  whether  this meant 
all the tax had been settled.
Ms M says its this mistake alongside  the adviser telling her all the tax had been  paid that has 
caused her to be facing  a huge tax bill, having already spent all the money  from her pension.
At this point I think its important to say that even  aside from the human error with the tax 
information, I think the service provided by the adviser following the final withdrawal was 
sub-standard. The adviser ought  to have realised something didnt seem right with the tax 
when she saw the details of the payment. It wasnt what  the adviser had told Ms M to expect 
in terms of tax. Furthermore, the adviser previously seemingly hadnt updated Ms Ms 
address with the pension provider, meaning  that Ms M didnt receive information from the 
provider. And when Ms M asked for information  from the provider about the tax paid, the 
adviser failed to send  this on to Ms M.
But at the same time, I need to consider that the advisers responsibility was to give Ms M 
advice about her pension, which she had done so. It wasnt  the advisers  role or 
responsibility to look after Ms Ms tax affairs and so it may be why she didnt give Ms Ms 
queries regarding the tax paid her full attention.
So whilst I agree with Ms M that Cheetham  Jackson made mistakes  and couldve provided a 
better service, I need to consider whether  ultimately  this is enough to say it is responsible for 
Ms Ms situation. To do this I also need  to consider what  Ms M did and what she wouldve 
known at the time.
Ms M knew she had approximately £45,000  in her account when she came to make the final 
withdrawal. Shed been told and was aware  that she should expect to pay a large amount of 
tax on that figure. However, she was paid a sum of £56,000. I think  this ought  to have raised 
questions about  the amount shed been  paid. And the incorrect tax information that was 
provided by the adviser. 
The adviser told her the tax paid was £10,000  on a total of £66,000. This is less than basic  
rate and the tax figure matched the tax rebate Ms M knew  she was due. I think she ought  to 
have had some doubts about this information.  The adviser also didnt say that there wouldnt 
be more tax to pay. I dont  think Ms M ought  to have been confident enough in this 
information to spend all the money  she received without thinking there might be further tax 
due. Especially as it seems Ms M had never received any confirmation  from the pension  
provider or any other source about  this payment and the tax paid. 
Ms M told us as part of her complaint submissions she was aware that the provider had her 
incorrect address for over four years. She relied  on information from the adviser who wasnt  
always proactive in making  sure Ms M got copies of what she needed.  Potentially  because 
the adviser didnt  realise that Ms M wasnt getting this information from the provider.
But Ms M was aware of this at the time but apart from the one request after the withdrawal 
asking for confirmation  of the payment and tax paid and mentioning  the address issue,  I 
cant see that she did much about  this. Ms M couldve contacted the provider herself  to get 
the paperwork, I can see she said she tried but she didnt have the correct contact details. 
But I think this could  easily have  been found. And she could have chased the adviser again 
and made  it clear she needed this information or asked further questions about it. 
Ref: DRN95282647Ms M knew she was expecting a large  tax bill on the final withdrawal, she hadnt received  
any paperwork or confirmation of the amounts from the provider (or the adviser), she knew 
her spending  plans left little in reserve and I think she ought to have known that the one bit 
of tax information she had received was questionable.
Despite this, it wasnt until six months later in January 2018, seemingly after having  already 
spent all the income, that Ms M contacted the adviser to say she was still confused  with the 
tax situation. It was then that the adviser realised that the £10,000 was in fact a rebate and 
not tax paid. She told Ms M she wasnt sure if shed need to pay more  tax and it would 
depend on other income shed received. The adviser told Ms M to get in contact  with HMRC 
as she couldnt  tell her any more.  
Had Ms M got back  in contact with the adviser  at the time of the receipt of income in June, 
she would  have received the same answer and advice but six months  earlier. The mistake  
wouldve been corrected  and it wouldve been  up to her to get tax advice elsewhere or 
contact HMRC. And for the reasons explained earlier,  I think  Ms M reasonably  had cause to 
find out more  at the time and contact  the adviser earlier than she did. And certainly, before 
spending all the income.
Whilst the adviser did make a mistake and didnt provide Ms M with documentation when 
requested, I think this is only a small part of the picture. For the reasons explained, I dont 
think it was reasonable  for Ms M to rely on one incorrect figure in an email from the adviser. 
The email  wasnt a formal  document; it was simply an email  with a couple of figures provided 
without any commentary. And the adviser hadnt  said all the tax had been paid. 
So just considering the above, I dont think its fair or reasonable to place too much  
responsibility on the adviser for Ms Ms tax situation.  And looking at the wider  circumstances, 
I think the importance that can be placed  on the advisers mistake  is lessened even further. I 
say this because  even if the adviser  had given the right figures and sent Ms M the 
documentation shed  requested, it wouldnt have changed the root cause of Ms Ms tax 
issues. All that wouldve changed  is Ms M wouldve known shed received a rebate of 
£10,000 instead of thinking  shed paid £10,000 in tax.
The root cause of the situation  Ms M has found  herself in is that for some reason she wasnt  
taxed fully at source on her pension withdrawals as is usual. It looks like the tax code wasnt  
updated to reflect Ms Ms earlier income  shed taken. But ultimately HMRC  is responsible for 
the tax paid on pension withdrawals and it is best placed to explain why something  different 
happened here.
So even if the adviser had not misread the tax information shed been  given,  it would still 
have required awareness on Ms Ms part to work  out shed need to pay further tax before 
spending all the income.
In reality, Ms M unfortunately  didnt  have this awareness. I say this because  the £10,000  she 
incorrectly thought  shed paid was still significantly less than what  she should have expected  
to pay and significantly less than what HMRC subsequently asked  for. But Ms M still spent 
all the money she had received without considering that further tax could be payable. So had 
Ms M been told the £10,000 was a rebate instead of tax paid, I dont  think its likely she 
wouldve done anything  differently. To discover  that there was further tax due she wouldve 
needed to take action  such  as contacting  HMRC,  getting tax advice or to look more closely  
Ref: DRN95282648at all her income and taxation  before  spending  the income. And unfortunately, she didnt do 
this in reality when she ought reasonably  to have known  further tax would be due.
In conclusion of the tax issue, the adviser at Cheetham Jackson did make  a mistake and her 
administration and the service that she provided Ms M couldve  been better. But ultimately 
Ms M spent the income without any guarantee or reasonably held knowledge that she 
wouldnt be taxed further. Thats  not to say Im not sympathetic to Ms Ms situation and its 
very unfortunate that the tax wasnt taken correctly  at source. Had this happened,  I dont 
think this issue wouldve ever occurred.
In conclusion of the complaint as a whole, Cheetham Jackson was responsible for providing 
Ms M with pension advice. Whilst its administration  and communication with Ms M ought to 
have been better, it did tell Ms M not to make the income withdrawals that she did. It was clear  
in warning her of the tax implications of this, that it wasnt financially sensible and that Ms M 
could find herself with very little to live on. I think that it did its job in terms of advising Ms M of 
the potential consequences of her choices. I dont think it did anything wrong in processing  
Ms Ms instructions before she signed  the paperwork. And the evidence doesnt  support that 
Cheetham Jackson told Ms M that the final income withdrawal couldnt be returned.
Im sorry  to hear of the problems that Ms M is facing and the impact that this has had on her. 
But I dont think Cheetham Jackson is responsible for this.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained I do not uphold this complaint and make no award against 
Cheetham Jackson Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9528264