K821x#15complaint
Ms J complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  have handled  a claim on her 
legal expenses insurance policy. 
background
Ms J made a claim on her policy to cover the legal costs of pursuing compensation for a 
personal injury she sustained abroad. 
UKI referred  the claim to its panel solicitors who said the case  had reasonable prospects of 
being successful.  So UKI funded the claim.  Ms Js complaints are, in the main, about  what  
happened after the matter was passed  to the panel firm. In particular, she says:
the panel firm handled the case poorly  and caused delays,  and she frequently  had to 
chase them to progress  it;
despite being told she had a strong case for three years,  the panel firm told her 
shortly before the time limit for issuing  proceedings that her claim didnt have 
reasonable prospects of being  successful in court  and funding  was withdrawn;
because of this, she missed the deadline  to take her case  to court  and is now time 
barred;
she was told to reject an offer of £1,000 as her case enjoyed  reasonable prospects of 
successfully recovering more than that, and she has now missed  out on this 
settlement.   
Our investigator upheld  Ms Js complaint in part. She said that whilst she couldnt  look into 
any of the concerns about the solicitors, she felt UKI should be responsible  for the decision 
to withdraw funding so close  to the dealing for court proceedings.  So she asked them  to pay 
some compensation. 
Both Ms J and UKI disagreed with the investigator.  Ms J says that UKI should be held 
responsible for the actions of their panel  firm. And UKI says that whilst funding  was 
withdrawn, the panel firm offered to issue proceedings  for free  subject to Ms J paying the 
court fee  so that her position  was protected. This would have left Ms J enough time to find 
a new solicitor or obtain a legal challenge before proceedings had to be served.  
As neither party agreed, the case has been  passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by explaining that I cant look into the actions of the panel firm. Solicitors are 
independent professionals  with their own regulators and complaints procedures. UKI 
underwrites the costs,  but the panel firm wasnt acting as UKIs agent;  they were  acting for 
Ms J. So I wont  be able to address any complaint  points that relate solely  to the actions of 
the panel firm. And Ms J didnt raise any concerns with UKI earlier, so it wasnt  aware of any 
issues. I understand Ms J has complained to the solicitors. If she remains  unhappy with their 
response she can complain to the Legal  Ombudsman. 
It is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies  that a claim must have a reasonable 
prospect of succeeding.  Ms Js policy is no exception. It says that for cover to be granted,  
reasonable prospects of success must exist for the duration of the claim. The policy says 
Ref: DRN91790232UKI can refuse to pay further legal  costs if it is no longer more likely than not that [you]  will 
be successful with your claim. 
I dont think this is unfair. It means the insurer doesnt have to pay the costs  of a claim that 
isnt likely to succeed.  Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt  
want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed and I wouldnt expect a legal 
expenses insurer to either.
Where an insurer has withdrawn funding,  it isnt for me to consider  the merits of the 
underlying legal dispute. What I can look at is whether the insurer  has dealt with the claim 
fairly and in line with the policy terms. So long as it has got advice from suitably  qualified  
lawyers, I wont  generally question decisions based on that advice, unless it was obviously 
wrong or based  on factual mistakes. UKI relied on legal advice and I think  it was reasonable 
to do that. Whilst the panel firm was initially satisfied that the claim had reasonable 
prospects of success,  a barrister advised in 2018 that it didnt.  Based on this new advice, 
UKI was entitled to withdraw from the claim.  
That said,  Id still expect  an insurer to act fairly  when  withdrawing cover  and not leave their 
customer in a difficult position. So Ive thought about whether UKI did enough  when it 
decided to withdraw funding from Ms Js claim so close to the limitation  date. 
UKI says Ms J was informed of the unfavourable  barristers opinion  on 23 November 2018. 
And I can see from the file that UKI officially withdrew funding on 10 December 2018.  The 
limitation deadline was 28 December 2018.  
As Ive said,  I cant look into the actions  of the solicitors or whether any delay by them  led to 
Ms J not being able to pursue her court case. And I appreciate that the panel firm offered to 
issue court  proceedings free of charge. But Ms J would still have been required  to pay the 
court fee. And I dont  think its fair to assume  that Ms J would be in a position  to find the 
funds required within less than a month, especially so close  to Christmas. Having her 
funding withdrawn at that point  would have been  very upsetting for her. I dont think the 
panel firms offer went far enough to ensure Ms J wasnt  prejudiced  by the late withdrawal of 
funding. 
UKI could  have done more to help Ms J, for example by funding  the issue of court 
proceedings, including the court fee, to protect  Ms Js position  whilst she decided  what  
action she wanted  to take. In my judgment, failing to do this left Ms J in a very difficult  
position. So I think its fair to compensate her for the distress this caused.  And taking into 
account her circumstances at the time,  I think  £400  is a reasonable sum.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  in part and direct UK Insurance Limited to pay 
£400 compensation to Ms J for the distress  and inconvenience caused to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9179023