K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains about four instalment loans that he took out with Provident Personal  Credit 
Limited, trading  as Satsuma Loans,  (SL),  which he said were unaffordable.
background 
Mr F was given  four instalment loans  by SL from November 2016 to September  2017. A 
summary of the loans  taken out by Mr F is shown below:
Loan number 
Date of loan Repayment date
Loan amount 
Repayment amounts  
1. 17/11/16 26/1/17 £100 12 monthly repayments of  
£16.60
2. 8/2/17 26/5/17 £220 12 monthly repayments of 
£36.52 
3. 30/7/17 30/9/17 £300 12 monthly repayments of 
£49.80
4. 5/9/17 2/10/17 £100 12 monthly repayments of 
£16.60
SL said that it had carried out a credit  check before each loan and asked Mr F for details of 
his income and expenditure. SL also applied extra safeguards and buffers to Mr Fs declared 
expenses to reflect the information  it obtained from its credit check. 
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator recommended that all the loans should be upheld. He said that 
proportionate checks would have shown Mr F was having problems managing his money as 
he was borrowing from multiple  payday lenders.
SL disagreed and said that its credit  checks didnt indicate that Mr F had other payday loans 
at the point of application.  SL said that all its loans had been repaid early  and there were no 
issues with the repayment of the loans.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr F 
and to SL on 24 September  2019.  I summarise my findings:
I noted that when  SL lent to Mr F the regulator  was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  
and relevant regulations and guidance  included  its Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  
The CONC  contained guidance for lenders about  responsible lending.  
I said that SL needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr F 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
Ref: DRN93393732But certain factors might  point to the fact that SL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that SL was required to establish whether Mr F could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Fs complaint.
I could see that SL had made  a number of checks before  it lent to Mr F. It had asked him for 
details of his income  and expenditure. Mr F had declared his monthly income as £1,250 and 
his expenditure  as £705 before Loan  1, his income as £1,250 with expenditure of £630  
before Loan 2, his income of £1,250  and expenditure of £730 before Loan  3 and his income 
as £1,300 and expenditure of £430  before Loan 4. And SL had increased  Mr Fs declared 
expenditure in its assessments  of Loans 1 to 4 to reflect what it had seen in its credit checks  
and internal models. 
Id also noted  that SL had checked Mr Fs credit file before agreeing  to the loans. SL had 
provided this service with a summary of its credit checks. I could see that there was one 
active credit  account with payments in arrears in the previous six months before Loan 3 and 
no payday loan accounts were shown  before any of the loans. Other wise,  I couldnt see any 
adverse information  on SLs credit checks that I thought should  have caused additional 
concerns to SL. Mr F has provided this service with a copy  of his credit report. I could see 
there were other short term loans  shown on that report.
But I was also aware that when  a lender carried  out a credit check, the information it saw 
didnt usually provide the same level of detail  that a consumers credit report would  and it 
Ref: DRN93393733wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might  only see a small portion of a borrowers credit 
file, or some  data might be missing or anonymised. I was also aware  that not all payday and 
short term lenders  reported to the same credit  reference agencies. So, this might  have  
explained any differences between the information provided by SLs credit check and Mr Fs 
actual situation.
Id noted that all the loans  were repayable over 12 months. So the amount that Mr F needed 
to repay  each time was smaller than if hed taken a normal payday loan. But of course he 
was committing to making those repayments over a far longer period.
 
I could see that Loan  1 was for £100  repayable by 12 monthly repayments of £16.60. This 
was repaid early  after around two months.  Loan 2 was for £220 with 12 monthly repayments 
of £36.52. SLs credit  check before both loans showed that Mr F had no active  accounts  
which were in arrears. SL said that Mr F had a disposable income of £247.77 before Loan 1 
and a disposable income of £426.94 before Loan 2 after its safeguards had been applied to 
Mr Fs expenses. 
On balance, I thought that the checks SL carried out before agreeing Loans 1 and 2 were 
proportionate. The repayments that Mr F needed to make on Loans 1 and 2 were relatively 
modest compared to the income that hed declared  to SL. And I didnt think the repayments  
were so large that it was obvious they wouldve caused Mr F financial difficulty.
So given Mr Fs repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, and his history  with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve  been  proportionate for SL to 
have asked him for the amount of information  that would have been needed to show  the 
lending was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr F provided or the information  SL shouldve  
been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what  he was 
saying. So I didnt think SL was wrong  to give Loans  1 and 2 to Mr F.
Loan 2 was repaid early.  I thought that behaviour might have caused SL some  concerns 
about Mr Fs finances. Loan 3 had increased  to £300 and the twelve  monthly repayments 
had increased  to £49.80. SLs credit check before Loan 3 showed that there was one active  
credit account with payments in arrears in the previous six months. 
I appreciated that SL had asked Mr F for his income  and expenditure. But I thought the 
pattern and increasing amount of Mr Fs borrowing with repayments  over a long period 
together with the arrears shown in SLs credit check were such  that it wasnt  reasonable for 
SL to rely on that information. So I thought  this should have prompted  SL to do some 
additional checks such as asking Mr F for more information about  his other short  term 
borrowing commitments.
Id looked at Mr Fs credit report  to see what proportionate checks might  have shown.  Id 
seen one other short term loan on Mr Fs credit  report  which  was repayable  at the same  time 
as Loan 3. On balance,  I didnt think this suggested  that Mr F was having significant 
difficulties managing his money.  So I couldnt  safely say that SL shouldnt have given Loan 3 
to Mr F. 
Loan 4 was taken out whilst  Loan 3 was still outstanding and was Mr Fs fourth  loan in 
around nine months.  By the time of Loan  4, I thought SL should have been concerned that 
Mr F might have  become  reliant on its lending. And he wasnt  showing any signs  of getting to 
Ref: DRN93393734grips with his borrowing.  So I didnt think it was reasonable  for SL to base  its assessment 
before Loan 4 on the information provided  by Mr F. I thought it would have again been 
proportionate here for SL to do some additional  checks such  as asking Mr F for more  
information about his other short term borrowing commitments.
Had it done so, SL would  have discovered  that Mr F was borrowing from at least  eight other 
short term lenders  and was committed to repaying them at the same time as hed be 
repaying Loan 4. I had seen these loans on Mr Fs credit report.  So I thought it would  have 
been clear to SL if it had done  proportionate checks that Mr F was facing significant 
problems managing his money  and unlikely to be able repay Loan 4 in a sustainable 
manner. So I didnt  think SL should  have provided Loan 4 to Mr F.
Id noted that SL had said that there were no issues with repayment  of the loans. But I 
thought SL would (or ought  to) have known from previous  decisions that this service 
considered there would be times  when the pattern of lending alone  was enough to indicate 
that a consumer was likely to be in financial difficulty  or would otherwise be harmed should  
relending have continued.  So it followed that successful repayment of a loan didnt 
automatically mean it was repaid sustainably.
Subject to any further representations by Mr F or SL my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  SL to put things right as 
follows. 
putting things right  what SL needs  to do
with regard to Loan 4, refund all the interest and charges that Mr F has paid on this 
loan;
pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
remove all adverse  entries about  Loan 4 from Mr Fs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Mr F a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr F responded to my provisional decision to say that that he had nothing  else to add.
SL hasnt provided a response  to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Mr F and SL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision. It follows  that I uphold  part of the 
complaint and require SL to pay Mr F some compensation as set out below.
Ref: DRN93393735my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma  Loans,  to:
1.With regard to Loan 4, refund all the interest  and charges  that Mr F has paid on 
this loan;
2.Pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;  and
3.Remove all adverse entries  about Loan 4 from Mr Fs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Mr F a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9339373