K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) to Mr L. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in July 2003. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  Nationwide disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Nationwide has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
This is because Im not satisfied the information Nationwide  gave Mr L about  the limitations 
on claiming for customers in seasonal  and temporary work  was as clear  as it should have 
been. 
According to Mr Ls credit agreement he was with his employer for two months at the time of 
sale. He told us that this was seasonal work   and Im persuaded on balance  that this was 
the case. This would  have made it difficult for him to make an unemployment claim. Had the 
information been made clear I dont think he wouldve chosen to take the policy.  
Nationwide has disputed  that Mr Ls employment  was seasonal. It says Mr L had the option 
to declare his employment status as part time on the credit  application.  I can see that Mr L 
has ticked the box to say he was in full time employment. But I note there is no option to 
select seasonal or temporary employment. So this point doesnt change  my decision.  
Nationwide says the job role that Mr L had cannot  be considered  seasonal  and notes that no 
documentary evidence  has been  provided to support Mr Ls testimony. This took place many 
years ago so I wouldnt expect Mr L to be able to provide documentary evidence.  Looking at 
the type of work, the employer and the location  of the role, together  with Mr Ls testimony  I 
believe its plausible that he went into this role believing it was seasonal  in nature. 
Nationwide have questioned why, if his role was seasonal, he left it shortly  before Christmas 
of that year.  Mr L has explained that he requested  to be kept on after the summer season  
had ended. This doesnt contradict what hes told us previously. Im still persuaded that at 
the time he took out the policy, he was in a role that he believed  was seasonal  and would 
come to an end when the season did. With this in mind  I believe clearer  information about  
the PPI wouldve made  him question whether the policy was value for money for him.  
Ive thought about all the points made by Nationwide and have considered carefully all 
evidence before me. On balance I think Mr L has lost out as a result  of Nationwide's failings 
in this case  I dont think hed have taken  out the policy if hed been properly informed.
Ref: DRN90668972fair compensation
Nationwide Building  Society should  put Mr L in the financial position hed be in now if he 
hadnt taken out PPI.
A.Nationwide Building Society should find out how much Mr L would have owed when he 
closed his credit  card account  if the policy hadnt been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Nationwide Building  Society should  then refund the difference between what  Mr L owed 
when he closed his account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr L made  a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Nationwide  Building Society can 
take off what he got for the claim  from the amount it owes him.  
B.Nationwide Building Society should add simple interest on the difference between what 
Mr L would have owed when  he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets 
the refund. The interest  rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Nationwide Building Society works  out what  Mr L would have  owed each 
month without  PPI  Mr L paid more than enough to clear  his balance,  Nationwide  
Building Society should also pay simple interest on the extra  Mr L paid. And it should 
carry on paying  interest until the point when Mr L wouldve  owed  Nationwide Building 
Society something on his credit  card. The interest  rate should  be 8% a year.
D.Nationwide Building Society should tell Mr L what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide Building Society  to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide Building  Society must give Mr L a certificate showing how much  tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
I require Nationwide  Building Society  to pay Mr L compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9066897