K820x#14complaint
Miss D and Mr T are unhappy that in respect of their home  insurance  claim for a lost ring, 
AXA Insurance UK Plc wont pay the full cash value.
background
In December 2018 Miss D lost her engagement ring whilst at a function in a hotel.  The police 
were called but the ring wasnt found. She reported the claim  to AXA and provided  it with a 
recent valuation with photo.  AXA gave  the details to its jewellery specialist who confirmed it 
could remake the ring through its personal jewellery service. It offered to Miss D to do this. It 
valued the ring at £9,900.  It gave  her the alternative  of jewellery gift cards.  The jewellers 
reported back to AXA that the cash value to AXA with discounts was £6,138. Miss D was 
unhappy as she said the ring was bespoke,  she wanted to have the ring made by the former 
manager of the jewellers who had made the original ring. 
AXA was only prepared  to offer Miss D the discounted cash value if she wanted the ring 
made elsewhere. It pointed out that the policy terms entitled it, where it offered a cash  
settlement, to pay the amount  it would have paid its preferred  supplier.  It further  said that the 
jewellery cards were not in fact an option  in this case, as its supplier was able to make the 
ring. It apologised for that and paid £100 for the distress and inconvenience.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that as AXA was able to replace the ring on a 
like for like basis, it had acted  reasonably. He also said that it had paid reasonable 
compensation for its failures of service.
Miss D didnt agree and pointed out that her ring was a bespoke one which could only be 
made by the original  maker of the ring. And that this service, as evidenced by its guidance 
notes on our website, had previously supported that approach. 
The case  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D has been offered  the services  of a AXAs jewellery specialist with a view to having 
the ring remade. The case notes and communications with the said specialist indicate that it 
was confident it could remake the ring. And, as it had a recent  valuation,  with photo  it 
advised AXA that it could make an exact replica  of the ring. It also said that its personal 
jewellery service would include visiting Miss D at her home to enable  her to satisfy  herself  
with any design  etc.
I can understand that Miss D would prefer that the jeweller who made the original  ring 
remakes it. As I understand  it that jeweller is no longer in business but Miss D says the 
former manager is willing to have the replacement made. But as the ring is worth £9,000, the 
cash settlement offered  to her in order for this to be done would fall far short of that. But I 
dont think this is a case of a personal  jeweller  having designed  a bespoke ring being the 
only one able to remake it. I havent  seen any evidence from Miss Ds preferred jeweller that 
only he could remake the ring.
Ref: DRN90870622Given that AXAs specialist is confident  it can remake  the ring, I think it reasonable that AXA 
should offer this service. Clearly whoever remade the ring it would have to be a replica  (or 
any alternative design Miss D might  prefer). The policy terms say:
Where  we can offer repair or replacement  through a preferred supplier, but we agree to pay 
a cash or cash alternative settlement, then payment  will not exceed  the amount we would 
have paid the preferred supplier.
Im aware that this arrangement benefits  AXA as it has the advantage of negotiated 
discounts though its preferred suppliers. But I dont think its unfair of it to apply the term in 
this case.
It does appear that AXAs  jewellery specialist offered Miss D the option of jewellery gift cards  
to buy jewellery through high street retailers. AXA wasnt in fact willing  to offer that option. 
Notwithstanding that Miss D didnt want that settlement either, I think AXAs payment of £100 
compensation for misleading her was reasonable. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2020.  
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9087062