K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs E in 1987  in 
connection with a loan secured on their home. The policy provided cover  for Mr E if he 
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs E disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Es needs?
-Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs E the information they needed  to decide whether to take out 
the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether 
Mr and Mrs E are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Mr and Mrs E have  clearly put a lot of effort into making their complaint.  Id like to assure 
them that Ive noted everything theyve said, even if Im not able to address every  point 
theyve raised in this decision. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Es complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs E say PPI wasnt discussed when  they took out their loan with Halifax,  and they 
didnt know it had been added to their account. They say they didnt  tick the PPI box on the 
loan agreement, and that the way the cover was presented meant they thought  the PPI was 
a condition of getting the loan.  
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr and Mrs E and 
Halifax when the loan was arranged. Im also mindful that these  events took place many 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Ref: DRN94732702The loan agreement  included  Yes  and No boxes, which had to be completed to show  
whether or not the customers  wanted  PPI. The Yes box was ticked  on Mr and Mrs Es loan 
agreement.
Ive noted everything  Mr and Mrs E have said about the circumstances  in which  the 
agreement was completed. But from what Ive seen, I havent been able to safely  conclude 
that Halifax didnt  make them aware that the PPI was optional. I think  the Yes and No 
boxes on the agreement wouldve made  it clear  to them that there was a choice about taking 
the PPI.
Halifax has accepted  that it advised  Mr and Mrs E to take out the PPI  although I appreciate Mr 
and Mrs E dispute this. Advising Mr and Mrs E to take out the cover  meant  Halifax had to check 
that it was suitable for them. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt  
look like it was unsuitable for them. I say this because:
-Mr E was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions. 
-Mr E says he was entitled  to generous  sick pay from his employer, so I can understand why 
he might  consider he didnt need  the policy. Its not clear  whether the conditions of 
employment Mr E has provided were  applicable when he bought the PPI. I accept, 
however, that after four years  service employees were entitled to full pay for 100 working  
days, followed by half pay for 100 working days,  and that the employer had discretion to 
increase this.
Mr E has told us he worked for thirty  eight  weeks per year.  So it seems he was entitled to 
full pay for roughly half a working year, followed by half pay for a further half of a working 
year. He may have received discretionary sick pay in addition to this, but as this wasnt 
guaranteed I havent taken it into account for the purpose of assessing whether the PPI 
was suitable for him.
The policy wouldve paid disability benefit for up to two years,  which was longer than the 
employer sick pay Mr E was entitled to. The policy wouldve  paid out in addition  to Mr Es 
employer benefits,  and would mean those benefits could be used to pay for other expenses 
if Mr E couldnt work. 
The policy would also pay unemployment benefit for up to two years. 
So overall, from what Ive seen, I think Mr and Mrs E would have had some use for the 
policy despite their existing arrangements.  
-Mr E wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he 
could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he and Mrs E needed  
better advice or information about  the policys exclusions  and limitations.
-The PPI cost was set out on Mr and Mrs Es loan agreement. So I think  they wouldve 
known how much they would be paying for the cover and found  it acceptable.  The policy  
was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think  it unlikely Mr and Mrs E 
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
Ref: DRN94732703Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs E about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr E wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs E would have made  
a different decision if better information  had been  provided  overall, I think they would still have 
taken out the policy.
Ive noted what  Mr and Mrs E have said about it not being possible to cancel  the policy. But my 
understanding of the policy terms is that the insurance would be cancelled  if the monthly premium 
wasnt paid. So Im not persuaded that the PPI couldnt be cancelled,  and this point doesnt alter 
my overall conclusions about the complaint.
I realise my decision is likely to be disappointing to Mr and Mrs E, but I hope  they will 
understand why I havent been able to uphold their complaint on this occasion.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9473270