K820x#14Mr A is unhappy because Experian  Limited (Experian) wont  remove  information from his 
credit report  that he says doesnt  belong to him. 
background
In November 2018 Mr A contacted Experian to say that his identical twin brothers 
information was showing on his credit report.  Mr A provided Experian with proof of identity 
for both him and his brother. 
Experian looked at the paperwork  Mr A provided.  But wasnt  persuaded the information  on 
his credit report related  to a different person. 
Mr A complained to Experian. He wanted  his brothers information removed from his credit  
report. He was also concerned that Experian  told him that his brothers record had been 
separated from his, when  this wasnt the case. 
Experian apologised to Mr A for providing misleading information about  his report being  
separated from his brothers. It looked again  at the information Mr A provided, but still felt 
there wasnt enough evidence to suggest the information recorded wasnt his.   
Mr A referred his complaint to us. He said Experian were wrong to include his twin brothers 
information on his credit report. Mr A felt hed provided Experian with enough evidence to 
show the recorded information wasnt his. He was also unhappy that Experian  told him the 
files would be separated when they hadnt.  Mr A wanted all information  not relating  to him 
removed from his credit report.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought Experian had done enough to 
satisfy itself the information  on Mr As credit report related to him, not to another  person. Our 
investigator also explained to Mr A that because Experian gets information about him from 
the data provider, in this case the banks, Mr A should also contact the banks  direct  if he 
thinks there has been a mistake. 
Mr A didnt agree and so his case has been  passed to me to decide. Mr A said Experian  
should amend  his credit report because the information didnt relate to him. He said Experian 
had lied to him and hadnt  treated him fairly. He wanted to know  what more he could do to 
show Experian the information recorded on its credit report  didnt belong  to him. Mr A said 
he was happy  to send birth certificates  for him and his brother.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
Experian is reliant on the data provider giving it accurate information. Experian  cannot act 
independently to remove or change  information  on its records.  When a customer  raises a 
query about the accuracy of Experians records, wed expect it to look into that query, 
contact the data provider, and consider any evidence provided.  
Im satisfied Experians done all its required to do in looking  into the query  Mr As raised. 
Experians provided me with information about  the checks  it did on the documents  Mr A sent 
and explained  why it doesnt  think its seen  enough  to change its records.  It also contacted 
the bank involved. Ive seen nothing to suggest Experians done anything  wrong. Mr A needs  
to provide Experian with evidence to show the information on his credit  report  isnt his. If 
Ref: DRN93130312Mr A wants  to provide  Experian with more evidence,  such as birth certificates, then he can 
do so. 
Before completing its investigation, Experian told Mr A that its records  had been updated to 
show that he and his brother were separate individuals. But it hadnt actually done this. This 
was unfortunate  and I can understand how Mr A was then confused about what Experian 
had done. Experian contacted Mr A three days later to explain why it couldnt remove the 
information as it hadnt seen enough  evidence to show another persons details were  on 
Mr As credit  report. I dont  think  Experian  intentionally lied to Mr A. It made a mistake, but it 
apologised to Mr A and explained to him what the outcome of its investigation was. I dont 
think Experian needs to do anything more  to put things right.    
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Anna Jackson
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9313031