K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the decision by Covea Insurance  plc to turn down  his personal 
accident claim. 
background
In February 2014,  Mr D had an accident  and injured his right hand. He later made a claim 
under the policy  for loss of use to his thumb and two fingers.
After considering the medical evidence, Covea  turned down Mr Ds claim.  It didnt think  there 
was enough evidence for it to conclude that Mr Ds loss of function resulted from his 
accident. Unhappy  with this, Mr D brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He accepted  that Mr D had 
suffered loss of function. However, he didnt  think Mr D had shown that this resulted from his 
accident. The investigator noted  that Mr D has degenerative arthritis,  and that Covea thought 
this may have led to the problems he was experiencing with his thumb  and fingers. He didnt 
think that was an unreasonable  conclusion for Covea to reach, based on the available  
evidence. 
Mr D didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed  to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr D is claiming  for loss of use to his thumb, index finger and little finger on his right hand. 
The policy provides benefit in the event of loss of use of a thumb  and any finger in the event 
of an accident.  
Loss of use of a thumb or finger is defined in the policy as:
means total, permanent  and irrecoverable loss of use or loss by physical separation  of the 
entire thumb, finger
Accident is defined as:
means a sudden and unforeseen event which happens by chance after the start date and 
results in bodily  injury.
Bodily injury is defined as:
means injury  to your body (excluding  sickness, disease or any naturally occurring condition  
or degenerative process) resulting from external violent and visible  means.
For Mr Ds claim to be payable, he needs  to show that its more  likely than not the loss of 
use to his thumb and fingers resulted from his accident. Ive therefore considered  the 
available medical  evidence. 
Ref: DRN96133942A medical  report completed  following the accident  confirmed  that Mr D had a fracture to the 
right thumb, and a rupture  to the little finger.  
Mr Ds GP has completed a medical  form which says that the accident left Mr D with a loss 
of sensation to his little finger, and around  60% loss of function to his index finger. 
In December 2014, Mr A (registrar in handsurgery) said that following Mr Ds accident  in 
2014, he had diminished sensibility in the fifth finger of his right hand. Mr A said there  was 
an indication  that there  was a compression of the right ulnar  nerve at his elbow.
Mr A didnt mention  Mr Ds thumb or index  finger,  and only commented  on how Mr D had 
experienced reduced sensation in his fifth finger  following  the accident. However, I note from 
Mr Ds medical  records  that he has a complex  history with respect to his right hand, and in 
particular his little finger.  In 2012 (two years before the accident), he reported grossly 
decreased function  to his right hand, due to a previous injury to his little finger. He was also 
noted to have osteoarthritis affecting his right thumb,  which was apparently provoked by the 
same injury.  Its unclear  whether Mr A was aware  of this previous  injury and the effect it had 
on Mr Ds little finger.
In August  2015,  Mr P (clinical fellow in trauma  & orthopaedics) said that Mr D had two 
problems with his right elbow. One of those being degenerative arthritis  with loose bodies 
within the joint, and the second  being significant ulna nerve entrapment.  
In October  2015, Mr D was assessed  by Mr L (consultant orthopaedic surgeon).  Mr L said 
Mr D had a combination of pain at the elbow,  together with altered sensation and function in 
the right hand.  He said Mr Ds primary problem  was a loss of manual dexterity to his hand 
but also loss of sensation.  And that this appeared to be in the territory  of the ulnar  nerve, but 
lately Mr D had also felt sensation diminishing  in his thumb, index and middle fingers.  Mr L 
said an MRI scan  of the elbow suggested high grade chondral thinning  and loose bodies. 
There was also thickening  of the ulnar  nerve,  and nerve conduction studies were suggestive 
of a compressive  ulnar  neuropathy.  Mr L thought decompressing the ulnar nerve may offer 
Mr D some relief.
Mr Ds GP has also confirmed that Mr D has degenerative arthritis on his right side. 
Based on the above evidence, it appears Mr Ds symptoms affecting his thumb and fingers 
in his right hand  were  caused by ulnar neuropathy. We also know  that Mr D has 
degenerative arthritis on his right side. Coveas medical officer  says that ulnar neuropathy is 
often linked to arthritis, and theres nothing to suggest that Mr Ds ulnar neuropathy was 
caused by his accident. He makes the point that an MRI scan taken of Mr Ds ulnar nerve  
shows no evidence of injury to the nerve  (that couldve been caused by his accident). 
Ref: DRN96133943I think Coveas medical officer makes reasonable points here. I appreciate  Mr Ds GP said 
the accident left Mr D with loss of function,  however Mr D has since had investigations and 
has been seen  by a specialist (Mr L). Mr L concluded that Mr Ds symptoms were  caused by 
ulnar neuropathy, but crucially he didnt  refer to Mr Ds accident as being the cause of this.
Given that Coveas  medical officer has confirmed theres a link between Mr Ds existing 
condition of arthritis  and his diagnosis of ulnar neuropathy, and in the absence of evidence 
from Mr L to support that Mr Ds ulnar  neuropathy was caused by his accident, I think it was 
reasonable for Covea to conclude that Mr D hasnt shown the loss of use to his thumb  and 
fingers was caused  by his accident.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9613394