K820x#14complaint
This complaint is being made  by Mrs B, on behalf of her husband, the late Mr B, and herself.  
In the hope that Mrs B wont mind,  I will refer to the late Mr B as Mr B throughout this 
decision.
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) will not refund any of the commission it 
received from their PPI premiums for the policy that they took out in 2002 to cover  their 
mortgage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about commission.  Thats  
because Mrs B has told the service that this is all she would like us to look in to. 
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came  into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need  
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would  still need  to be covered by the Consumer  Credit  
Act on this date.
On 31st October  2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began   and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. It was possible for mortgages taken out 
before this date to become regulated, if a change was made to the mortgage   such as a 
further advance  or interest rate switch. Different  lenders took different  approaches to this. 
Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage  in 2002. From the information BoS has provided, Mr 
and Mrs B took out a further  advance  in 2005.  BoS has told us the entire mortgage became 
regulated at that point. Based on what we have seen and what we know  about how BoS 
arranged this further borrowing, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage  did become 
regulated.
As Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage became regulated before 6 April 2008 it was no longer covered 
by the Consumer Credit  Act. This means  the FCAs rules and guidance dont apply. So BoS 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs B paid for the PPI they had with 
their mortgage.
Ref: DRN97741272my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 June  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9774127