K821x#15complaint
Mr Ds complaint is that HBS (Financial  Planning) Limited (HBS) gave him unsuitable 
investment advice in 2011, which caused  the value of his two self-invested personal  
pensions (SIPPs)  to decrease substantially.
background
In January 2006, at the age of 60, Mr D was advised by HBS to transfer the protected rights 
element of his personal pension plan into a pension provider  #1 SIPP. The non-protected 
rights benefits were transferred to a SIPP  with pension provider #2.
At the time of transfer, the total value of the personal pension plan was around £310,000. 
According to HBS, Mr Ds attitude to risk was described at the time as moderate  to 
adventurous.
In his e-mail  to HBS dated  10 November 2011,  Mr D said that he was getting  nervous again 
in that there appeared to be an inevitability about  an Italian default and a massive  fall in the 
stock market. And that at his age [66] he could not take the chance of this happening.
 In its reply dated 11 November 2011,  HBS said that it had reviewed his portfolio (which  was 
adventurous) and recommended  allocation  to safer assets.
In 2012, when Mr Ds portfolio  was reviewed, he apparently informed HBS again that
his circumstances  had not changed.
In January 2013, Mr D wrote to HBS to raise concerns. In summary, he said that his SIPP  
had fallen in value from around  £338,000 to around £238,000 in the last 12-18 months.  In 
July 2007, his SIPP had been  worth about  £440,000;  and, he had been assured it would be 
possible to return to that value but he had given up on that possibility.
In February 2013,  HBS replied and said It understood that he wished to increase  the value of 
his pension to £440,000  however, he had also withdrawn £58,450.
The performance of two property schemes in the SIPP had been disappointing. However, 
68% of his pension  was invested in precious metals and resources stocks and a further  
5.6% was invested  in Index Linked Gilts.
Following a meeting,  it was recorded that Mr D wanted to reduce the amount of risk in his 
pension from Adventurous to a Moderate Risk approach.
It suggested that he authorise it to use the Discretionary Management Service, which would  
allow it to buy and sell investments without needing his permission,  thus potentially  
delivering better results.
In June 2014, Mr D wrote to HBS again.  In summary, he said:
He was distressed  and confused  about  why his pension had fallen in value again.
He had given  HBS his authority to buy and sell without notifying him, but it seemed
It had not been  successful  in increasing  the value of his pension.
Ref: DRN96616802Most  of his shares  had lost money  or were  worthless; only a few had made money.
HBS had admitted,  after the 2008 crash, that it had made mistakes; however, this
had now happened  three times.
Given his age [of 68], he thought that more prudency in the investment  selection 
would have been appropriate. His pension fund would now need to increase by more 
than 100% to get back to its highest value.
In May 2015, Mr D wrote to HBS and complained that his pension  portfolio had suffered  
very significant losses under its management. In addition,  despite his instruction that his 
pension should  not fall further in value and despite authorising HBS to buy and sell 
investments without referring  to him, his pension had continued to fall in value.
Included in its final response letter to Mr D of July 2015, HBS said that since 2011 there had 
been a number of meetings to discuss the portfolio and what  should be done about the 
falling value. There was no obvious  solution,  however, the recovery  from January 2009 had 
been largely based on a rising gold price,  which in September 2011, it had no reason to 
believe would not continue.
In July 2015, dissatisfied with HBSs response, Mr D said to it However from 2011
the fund started  to go down again.  I had meetings  with HBS normally  twice a year and also
attended their annual conference. Any suggestion  from myself  that we should consider
moving at least some  of the fund out of commodities, particularly gold, silver and junior  
mining stock was derided. Any suggestion I made that my fund would never recover to
what it used to be was met with the same response.  I was given assurances that they had
learnt from the 2008 crash and would not make the same mistake.
On 10 August 2015, Mr D signed our complaint form where his occupation  was given as a 
printer. In September  2015, HBS told us that it was to enter into liquidation.
In a Jurisdiction Decision of 29 December 2016,  an Ombudsman decided  that the advice 
that Mr D received in 2006 was time-barred. However, we were  able to consider the merits 
of the advice that Mr D received from HBS in 2011.
On 6 February 2017, one of our adjudicators wrote  to the business  and set out the reasons 
why he believed that the complaint should be upheld. In its reply  of 27 March 2017, the 
solicitors acting for the business said it disagreed with this because:
HBS disagrees with the Ombudsman's decision on limitation  and remains  firmly of 
the view that the Ombudsman, in her [Jurisdiction]  decision  of 29 December 2016 
had dealt with matters about which Mr D had not made any complaint. In doing this, 
she had exceeded  the limits of her authority. 
In the interests  of fairness and justice,  it must  be recognised that Mr D has not 
complained about  any investment advice given to him in 2011.
HBS therefore  reserved its right to challenge, by way of judicial review, the 
Ombudsman's decision on limitation / jurisdiction dated 29 December 2016.
Ref: DRN96616803Mr D was aware at all times of the risk rating of his investment portfolio, and the 
corresponding risk to his investment capital in continuing to invest  as advised by 
HBS. This was evidenced by the documents taken from HBS's file.
On 26 May 2011, Mr D signed HBS's  Performance Related Portfolio Service 
agreement. This said: My investments may be focussed on a narrow sector  of the 
market according to where  HBS sees the highest  potential growth. I accept this is 
potentially more  risky than spreading my investments across a wider cross-section of 
sectors. I realise there are many  potential risks associated in investing in individual  
shares and that by focussing on a specific area my portfolio may experience 
heightened volatility. I accept and understand this risk'.
Having experienced the significant growth  of his portfolio  until 2008, followed by a 
large slump in its value  and a steady increase, he had seen first-hand the risks 
associated with investing in the SIPPs. Had he truly wanted to ensure that his fund 
was not at risk of a reduction in value from 2011 onwards, he could have instructed 
HBS to liquidate  his investments and re-invest them in areas involving less risk.
On 11 November 2011, HBS emailed Mr D having reviewed the level of risk of his 
portfolio and the asset allocation. It said that the portfolio had a risk rating of 6.85. 
And this was deemed to be an "adventurous" portfolio. As Mr D wanted to reduce  the 
overall level of risk, it made a number of recommendations to reduce the level of risk 
and increase the allocation to safer assets and precious metals. Mr D replied to HBS 
on the same day accepting these recommendations; the effect of which was reduce 
the risk rating of his portfolio to 5.86 (i.e. moderate to adventurous).
HBS's  annual valuation and report to Mr D dated 21 May 2012 confirmed that his 
portfolio was classified  as being "moderate to adventurous".
Mr D also said in an email to HBS dated 20 September 2012 that "I have complete 
trust inHBS, I am aware of any financial risk I am taking and senility has yet 
completely set in (sic)".
Given the length of time for which  Mr D had been investing with HBS,  there  can be 
no dispute that he was fully aware  of the risks of investing and that, if he objected  to 
the same, he should have raised  it with HBS. He did not.
Included in his letter and e-mails  to us between 17 April 2017 and 10 May 2017,  Mr D:
Said that between  2011 and 2014  that he received 23 e-mails consisting  of 149 
pages which all dealt  solely with HBS strategy and why it was correct  in that strategy 
and encouraging further investment. 
Said that this showed that HBS were basically ignoring the request to reduce risks 
and to stop the losses by continually responding with e-mails  and letters to buy even 
more high risk gold and silver.
Mr D has provided a copy of an e-mail  to HBS dated  18 November 2014 which  he said 
clearly showed his concern in 2014.  And which also referred to a letter  sent in 2013 which  
said that the portfolio must not be allowed to fall further and that steps  should  be taken to 
stop it falling  further in value.
Ref: DRN96616804As agreement has not been reached  the complaint has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties  to this complaint have made  substantial  submissions. I am grateful for these. But I 
trust all parties will understand that I only intend  addressing those issues  I consider relevant 
to my decision.
In respect of jurisdiction, the Ombudsman  set out in her Jurisdiction Decision of 29 
December 2016  why she considered that we were  able to investigate  the merits of the 
advice that took place  in 2011. I have noted HBSs disagreement with that conclusion.
In essence its argument,  set out in its letter to our adjudicator of 27 March 2017,  is:
HBS disagrees with the Ombudsman's decision on limitation and remains  firmly of the view 
that the Ombudsman in her decision of 29 December 2016 has dealt with matters  about  
which Mr D has not made any complaint.
In doing this, she has exceeded the limits of her authority. In the interests  of fairness  and 
justice it must be recognised that Mr D has not complained about  any investment advice 
given to him in 2011. Neither  we nor HBS consider the Ombudsman  has any statutory  or other 
inquisitorial powers to beyond the ambit of Mr D's complaint.
HBS's position is, to the extent the FOS has any inquisitorial powers (which are not 
admitted), they must be defined and limited by the extent  of the complaint under investigation. 
On any view, the FOS is not empowered  to investigate and adjudicate matters  that do not 
form part of the complaint, such as in this case,  events that occurred in 2011.  It is therefore 
entirely inappropriate  that the Ombudsman has breached the limits of her own jurisdiction to 
reach a conclusion that largely ignores the scope of the complaint altogether.
I do not agree this is an accurate representation  of the position.
The remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service, further details of which are available  on our 
website, clearly explains that unlike the courts, we are not limited to looking only at the 
issues a complainant has focussed  on in their complaint. Our approach  is inquisitorial  rather 
than the adversarial procedures of the courts.
By law, we are required to resolve  complaints fairly. This means we set the pace and decide 
what questions to ask in order to acquire the information and evidence we consider 
necessary to reach decisions that are fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances.  
We therefore concentrate  on the actual facts of the case rather than the complaint as 
presented or which party presents the most  persuasive legal arguments.
I therefore have  nothing further  to add on the matter  of jurisdiction other than to say I agree 
with the conclusions of the previous ombudsman that this service  can consider the merits of 
the 2011 advice given  to Mr D.
Ref: DRN96616805In its letter  of 9 July 2015, HBS suggested  Mr D was partly  responsible  for the fall in value of 
his portfolio to the extent that his complaint should be seen as without merit as he had been  
made aware  of the investment risks he was endorsing because he did not challenge HBSs 
investment recommendations. 
I do not agree. In my view, Mr D was entitled to rely on HBSs  professional  judgment as his 
financial adviser.
HBS also said in that letter that in 2006  when the original advice was given, that Mr D had a 
risk profile of moderate to adventurous. But in my view,  that is not relevant to Mr Ds 
complaint here. It is about advice from HBS in 2011, not 2006. So HBSs  advice in 2011 
should have taken account  of Mr Ds circumstances  in 2011 and not those in 2006.
In his e-mail  to HBS of 10 November 2011,  Mr D said that he was getting  nervous again in 
that there  appeared to be inevitability about  an Italian default and fall in the stock market.
And that at his age, 66, he could  not take the chance of this happening  with the likely 
adverse impact on his pension investments.  
In its e-mail reply  of 11 November 2011, HBS said that it had reviewed his portfolio (which 
was categorised as adventurous ) and recommended allocation to safer assets.  
But it was only in its Annual Valuation, sent to Mr D on 21 May 2012, that this meant his 
portfolio had reduced in risk from adventurous to moderate to adventurous.
In respect of this, Mr D said that from 2011 the fund started to go down again. He had 
meetings with HBS normally  twice  a year and also attended its annual conference. Any 
suggestion from himself that moving  at least some of the fund out of commodities, 
particularly gold, silver and junior  mining stock should be considered was derided.
Mr D added that any suggestion he made  that his fund would never recover  to what  it used 
to be was met with the same response. And he was given assurances that HBS had learnt 
from the 2008 crash and would not make  the same  mistake.  
In my view, HBSs professional obligation  was not to re-assure him that the losses would be 
made up, but rather to advise him of the most  suitable course  of action, i.e. pursue a more  
diversified and less risky strategy  altogether. 
I am not persuaded that moving  his portfolio  to a risk rating from adventurous to moderate 
to adventurous  properly  reflected the risk that Mr D ought to have been advised by HBS that 
it was safe for him to bear, given all his circumstances. 
In any event, it is unclear  to me how an overall portfolio can be meaningfully classified as 
moderate to adventurous . If it can though, I think it would require a degree  of investment 
experience and understanding not available to Mr D.
In 2012, when Mr Ds portfolio  was reviewed, he apparently informed HBS again that his 
circumstances had not changed.  
In January 2013, when his portfolio was reviewed again, Mr D apparently ticked  a box 
indicating he had a Moderate Risk  attitude.  According to HBSs letter of February 2013, it 
Ref: DRN96616806was recorded  that Mr D wanted  to reduce the amount of risk in his pension  from 
Adventurous to a Moderate Risk approach.
But in my view, Mr D had already told HBS in 2011, either implicitly or by inference,  that his 
attitude to risk should be seen as moderate .
According to HBS, in July 2014 Mr D signed a declaration agreeing  to maintain an
Adventurous Risk;  but, he also indicated that he wished to reduce the risk of his portfolio
to Upper  Moderate  when appropriate.  I do not therefore consider that Mr D could  have 
been consistently classified as an Adventurous investor. In my view, it suggests  that Mr D 
did not understand the risk ratings  by which HBS measured portfolio risk.
 
I am not persuaded that a relatively  inexperienced investor such  as Mr D would have 
properly understood the risk distinctions  between moderate, moderate to adventurous, 
adventurous and upper moderate.
I do not think it was fair or reasonable for HBS to take Mr Ds acceptance of these general 
and broad categorisations as evidence  that Mr D understood that its specific  investment 
recommendations met his actual risk profile. 
In my view, HBS ought to have made much more effort  to properly interrogate Mr Ds 
understanding of the recommendations it was making, notwithstanding that I think  HBS 
should have been making lower risk recommendations to Mr D given his circumstances  and 
capacity for loss. 
In other  words, simply  asking  Mr D if he understood the risks and taking his responses that 
he did at face value, was not consistent  with HBSs  regulatory obligations.
Taking everything into consideration (including  that Mr D was aged  66 in November  2011),  I 
think that these  investment recommendations since 2011 were too high risk - thus making 
the investment  selection as a whole  unsuitable  for Mr Ds circumstances. 
Mr D does not appear to have had any previous experience investing in metals  or physical 
assets, such as property, (which made up a significant part of his portfolio) and there  is no 
evidence he had other pension provision or savings to rely on in retirement. Therefore, I 
consider that the risk of significant losses, which was a reasonably  foreseeable possibility 
with these types of investment, meant that the investment recommendation was unsuitable.
Although HBS said in its e-mail reply of 11 November 2011 said that it had reviewed  his
portfolio (which was then adventurous ) and recommended allocation to safer assets, 
HSBs subsequent letter of February 2013  indicated that Mr D still had an adventurous 
portfolio (and that he still wanted  to reduce the amount of risk in his pension.
In my view, had HSB recommended  a medium or moderate risk portfolio on 11 November 
2011, I consider  that that Mr D would have  acted upon that advice. And, taking into account 
typical buying and selling  turnaround  times at that time such a new medium  risk portfolio 
could have been in place  on 25 November 2011.
I have noted that in its response to our adjudicators  conclusions, on 27 March  2017, HBSs 
representative said that:
Ref: DRN96616807Mr Dwas aware at all times of the risk rating  of his investment portfolio and the 
corresponding risk to his investment capital in continuing to invest  as advised by HBS.
HBSs representative  attached various  documents in support of its position. I have carefully 
considered these. I agree that in the main,  they made Mr D aware  of the risks.  But I am not 
persuaded that being made aware  of risks correlates to understanding  the risks. 
For example, in its email  to Mr D of 11 November, HBS set out a series  of proposed 
changes to Mr Ds portfolio. The email extended to 3 pages and set out over ten proposed 
changes to the portfolio both by way of asset  allocation and specific stock  recommendations. 
Most of the latter included  website links providing  further details of the stocks  recommended.  
Yet despite  the complexity  and extent of what was being proposed,  Mr D responded less 
than two hours later. He made no further enquiry of the proposed changes,  saying only:
Thanks for the time and effort,  much appreciated. Please proceed with all the changes you 
suggest.
This was not, in my view,  the response to be expected of an experienced investor with a full 
understanding of all the risks in each of the proposed investments. Rather,  I think  it shows, 
as Mr D was entitled  to, his reliance  on HBS that what was being proposed by his 
investment adviser  was in his best interests  and suitable  for his circumstances. 
In support of my conclusion that contrary to HBSs assertion that Mr D was aware of the 
risks and thus culpable  for his losses as an experienced and knowledgeable  investor, I have 
noted a particular comment in this email.  
It said the portfolio risk in November was 6.85 and this has reduced in part due to the 
changes I made in November and also due to the fall in the shares.
In other  words, HBS appeared  to be saying to Mr D that his risk profile had been reduced 
because his portfolio  had fallen in value. There may, or may not, be a rational explanation 
underlying this logic. But I would have expected an investor aware  of the investment  risks of 
his portfolio to have  at least queried how this could be the case. 
In the event, Mr D made no further  enquiry of HBS.
A further  document  HBSs  representative  enclosed was the HBS Annual  Valuation  sent to 
Mr D on 21 May 2012. It included a request for Mr D to complete an updated  Financial and 
Risk Questionnaire.
Notwithstanding that the valuation was complex, offered reasons or opinions  on why specific  
investments in Mr Ds portfolio had fallen in value  (but may recover in time), made no 
comment on a significant fall in value of Mr Ds property assets other than HBS was happy  
with the current  portfolio  allocation. and made observations on the prevailing economic 
and political climate,  Mr D did not respond on any of these matters.  
Mr D also did not respond on the discrete  issue of the Financial and Risk Questionnaire. In a 
follow up telephone  call from HBS to Mr D about this, Mr D said (according  to an HBS call 
note) and later email  exchange, he did not wish to disclose his financial details although  the 
Ref: DRN96616808earlier call note records that he apparently said he was happy  for the portfolio to remain at 
current risk level.  
However, it seems (as evidenced by the later email exchange)  that Mr Ds reluctance to 
complete the questionnaire was because  Mr D thought he was being asked to do so by the 
regulator rather than HBS. This apparent  confusion  appears not to have  been  resolved.
I have also note that HBSs representative relies on a comment from Mr D (in an email  of 20 
September 2012) to HBS,  to further  support its position that Mr Ds complaint is without 
merit. Mr D said he had complete trust in (HBS  adviser) and HBS and I am aware of any 
financial risk I am taking. 
But I infer from this comment  that Mr D was reaffirming his reliance  on HBS to provide him 
with suitable advice. And although he said he was aware of the financial risks he was taking, 
as I have explained above,  I am not persuaded this meant he understood the risks.
I note that in this email,  Mr D also said:
.& senility has not yet completely set in. In my view, this was no more than a flippant  
comment by Mr D in the context of his annoyance  that he understood that he was being 
asked to provide  what he considered personal details to the FSA. In my view, it has no more 
significance than that.
I am not persuaded that any of the responses  above  from Mr D were  consistent with what 
HBS ought reasonably to have expected from an investor it says was experienced and 
financially engaged.  
In my view, it ought to have made  considerably  more effort  than it did to substantiate Mr Ds 
apparent confirmation  that he did actually understand the risks, notwithstanding that the 
investment recommendations in 2011  were anyway unsuitable for him.
It follows that I do not agree with HBSs assertion in its response to our adjudicator  of 27 
March 2017 that:
Given the length  of time for which Mr D. had been investing  with HBS there can be no 
dispute that he was fully aware of the risks of investing  and that, if he objected to the same, 
he should have  raised it with HBS.  He did not.
I am not persuaded that just because Mr D was a longstanding client  of HBS that he 
understood the risks of the advice, which in any event in my view was unsuitable,  that he 
was given in 2011.
It is not disputed  that Mr D, prior to 2011, had at times, seen the value of his portfolio rise 
significantly on the advice  of HBS. But prior suitable or profitable investment advice cannot  
mitigate later, unsuitable advice.
In my view, the advice  in 2011 was unsuitable given all Mr Ds circumstances at the time. 
Had Mr D had the risks properly explained  to him and so put in a fully informed position, I am 
not persuaded he would have endorsed the recommendations  from HBS.
my final decision
Ref: DRN96616809I uphold Mr Ds complaint  about  L in respect of the advice he received in 2011.
I direct  HBS (Financial Planning) Limited  to undertake a loss assessment  for each SIPP  
investment on the basis set out below and if a loss is identified  to pay redress.
It is not possible to say precisely what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied
what is set out below is fair and reasonable, given Mr Ds circumstances and objectives 
when he invested.
The amount  of compensation that I can award in a final decision is limited  to £150,000 (with 
any interest and costs in addition). In the event that the identified  loss exceeds  £150,000 I 
also make  a non-binding  recommendation  for HBS to pay Mr D any excess  above  that. 
In doing so it is unlikely that a consumer who accepts an Ombudsmans final decision would 
be able to go to court and ask for further  compensation  in excess  of the maximum £150,000 
awarded by an ombudsman. Mr D may want to consider getting  independent  legal advice if 
he is concerned that the compensation that I am setting out may exceed  our limit.
HBS must also pay Mr D £300 for the trouble and upset the unsuitable advice has caused.
what must  HBS (Financial Planning) Limited do?
My aim, as far as possible, is to put Mr D back in the position he would have been in but for 
the unsuitable advice from HBS.
To compensate Mr D fairly, HBS should compare the performance of Mr Ds investments 
from 25 November 2011 with that of the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total return Index 
benchmark (now the FTSE  UK Private Investors  Income total return  index)  and pay the 
difference between  the fair value  and the actual  value of the investment to the date of the 
calculation. 
If the actual  value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
HBS should also pay additional interest of 8% simple a year on any loss from the date of the 
calculation to the date of settlement.
And it must provide the details of the calculation to Mr D in a clear, simple  format.
In the unlikely event that the SIPP or another pension provider is unwilling to accept the 
redress then the amount  may be paid to Mr D making allowance for his notional  rate of tax.
However if it is not possible to augment Mr Bs SIPP arrangements  with a net relievable 
contribution then HBS should pay him a cash lump sum direct  instead. This lump sum 
should take into account the tax free cash that would  have  been  available and also Mr Bs 
marginal rate of tax in retirement.
actual value
This means  the transfer value  of the SIPPs.
fair value
Ref: DRN966168010This is what  the sums  transferred from the previous plans would have been worth, at the
calculation date, had they produced a return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation
from when it was actually  paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments, including tax-free cash, 
should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid, so that it ceases  
accruing any return in the calculation from that point on.
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if
HBS total all those  payments  and deduct  that figure  at the end instead of periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because Mr D wanted income with some  growth  
and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The WMA  index is made up of diversified indices representing different asset classes, mainly 
UK equities and government  bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone prepared  to 
take some  risk to get a higher return.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money since the 
end date.
further information
Further information about the WMA Index is on the Wealth Management Association and
FSTE Group  websites. 
Examples of how the calculation should be carried  out are available  on our website.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.                             .                                                 
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9661680