K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited cancelled his motor  insurance 
policy from the outset.  
background
In July 2017, Mr M used  two price comparison websites to obtain  quotes for motor 
insurance. He subsequently took out a policy with Skyfire, administered by First Central, a 
broker. 
First Central asked Mr M for clarification  in relation to some of the information hed provided. 
As it wasnt happy with his response, it cancelled his policy  from the outset and refunded his 
premium. 
First Central said that Mr M had deliberately misrepresented the time the named driver had 
been resident  in the UK, which  had led to a much  reduced premium. The named driver had 
been in the UK since a date in August  2011 but Mr M said that shed been  in the UK since a 
date in November  2005. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Mr M had been  treated unfairly.  He said:
Mr M was asked  a clear question about how long the named driver had been  in the 
UK.
Mr M got five quotes around the relevant time, four of which  included  the named 
driver. He said that the named driver had been in the UK for five, 11 and 32 years.      
Mr M told First Central that he used different dates to find the cheapest quote. 
Whilst Mr M was genuinely remorseful,  First Central acted reasonably  in coming  to 
the view that Mr M had deliberately provided incorrect  information,  which  significantly 
decreased the premium.  
He didnt think Mr M had acted unfairly  in cancelling  the policy from the outset.
Mr M didnt  agree with the adjudicator and responded at some  length. In summary, Mr M 
said:
The adjudicator  had ignored  that Mr M makes mistakes due to his advanced age. 
If he had wanted  to save money, he would have given incorrect answers to other 
questions. 
He said several times that hed made a mistake and only once said that hed given 
incorrect information in order to get a cheaper  premium and that was because he 
was under pressure  and didnt understand the question properly.
He accepted his mistake  and corrected it straight away  when it was pointed out to 
him.
First Central  and this service also make mistakes.
He wants the decision  to cancel his policy from the outset  to be reversed. 
The adjudicator  was wrong  to base his decision on what he thought. 
First Central  should have warned him that they were  recording the phone  call. 
There were further exchanges  between this service and Mr M, which  I wont  set out here. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
Ref: DRN95216612my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its clear that Mr M has very strong  feelings about  this matter. Hes provided  detailed 
submissions to support  his complaint,  which I have  read and considered.  However, I trust 
that he will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the central  
issues.     
Where a complaint  arises  from non-disclosure of information important  to an insurer, we look 
to see that it asked a clear question when the policy  was taken out. We check  that the 
information given  would  affect whether a policy  was offered or its terms. And we check  
whether the policyholder has taken reasonable care to provide accurate information. If not, 
we consider whether he or she did so deliberately,  recklessly  or carelessly.   
Im satisfied that Mr M was asked a clear question  about how long the named driver had 
been resident  in the UK. That information  was important to the insurer  as the incorrect 
answer Mr M gave led to a lower  premium than if hed given the correct  answer.  
Mr M says that the error was simply careless  but, considering everything,  I dont think that 
the insurer was wrong  to decide that Mr M acted deliberately here.  Thats because of the 
pattern of behaviour shown in the other quotes and because he told First Central that he 
gave the incorrect  information in order to get a cheaper quote. 
Ive listened to the phone call between  Mr M and First Central  in which  he said that he gave  
the incorrect information in order to get cheaper insurance. Mr M volunteered that 
information when  First Central asked why hed given different dates when he got other  
quotes. I dont  think  that First Central  put undue pressure on Mr M in that phone call and it 
doesnt appear to me that Mr M misunderstood the line of questioning. 
Im afraid that I dont accept that Mr M made  the mistake because of his age. Ive noted  what  
he says about  making  other errors but I dont think that alters the outcome here.  
Its not persuasive that Mr M would have given other incorrect  answers if he wanted  to 
reduce the premium  the fact is that the incorrect answer he gave significantly reduced the 
premium. Its not for Mr M to decide  what is and isnt important to the insurer. Hes obliged to 
answer accurately  the questions hes asked. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr M but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  his complaint. 
Ref: DRN95216613my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9521661