K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2003 Mr and Mrs S took out bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) at the same 
time as they applied  for a mortgage in one of the banks branches.  The policy  was in Mr Ss 
sole name and included PPI which gave him protection against accident, sickness  and 
unemployment. They paid a monthly  amount for it.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  I have 
based my decision  on the balance  of probabilities   in other  words,  on what I consider is 
most likely in the light of the available evidence and what we know  about how Halifax sold 
PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S say there is no way Halifax made them aware of any PPI and they 
wouldnt have taken  it as finances  were tight.  Halifax hasnt got all the paperwork 
from the sale. But this isnt surprising as it was so long ago. And I cant know  what 
was said in the meeting. But based on what we know about the banks sales process 
at the time, I think its most likely Mr and Mrs S completed a TMPP application form 
selecting which elements of the cover they wanted  for Mr S, after discussion with the 
bank. I say this as Halifax has provided samples of the documents it used when 
selling TMPP at this time.  I cant find enough  evidence to conclude  that it didnt  follow 
its standard sales process here.  
I have thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs S said. And whilst  I dont doubt these 
are their honest recollections of the meeting,  I have  to take into account that it was 
over 15 years ago and that this might affect what they now remember. 
Overall, I think its most likely Halifax made  it clear  Mr and Mrs S had a choice about 
PPI - and they opted to take it out for Mr S.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr S, and it seems to have been right for him based 
on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. Mr S told us he was entitled to 
between three and six months  sick pay but the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
any work benefits and for up to 24 months for all accident, sickness  and 
unemployment claims. Mr and Mrs S had no savings  or other  insurances.  
Ref: DRN93179682They were  borrowing quite a large sum over a long period, secured on their home.  So 
the effects of not keeping up the repayments  could have been  serious  for them. 
Overall, I think the PPI would have  been useful for Mr and Mrs S if Mr S was sick, had 
an accident or lost his job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs S all the information they needed before 
they decided to buy PPI. I dont  know  when  it made  the cost clear,  but the PPI was 
competitively priced. Mr and Mrs S have said finances were tight but I havent seen 
any evidence that the PPI was unaffordable.  I also dont know  that it pointed  out the 
main things  the policy didnt cover. But Mr S doesnt appear  to have been affected  by 
any of those things.  This means,  overall, I dont think better  information  wouldve 
changed their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs S have lost out because  of any problems with the sale.  
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs S paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs S back  some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr and Mrs S.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9317968