K821x#15complaint
Mr B says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial Insurance 
Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to FICL  in this decision, rather than any other  business.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mr B took out in 1998.  It covered his 
payments in case he was off sick or out of work.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.  
Ive decided this PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
It doesnt look like FICL  recommended the PPI to Mr B, so it didnt have to check  it was right 
for him. But it did have  to give Mr B information  about the PPI that was clear, fair, and not 
misleading  so he could decide  for himself  whether  it was right for him.
The policy excluded any claims resulting from a condition the customer knew about, should 
have known about, or got any advice or treatment for in the 12 months before the start. And 
Mr B had a condition which wouldnt have been covered.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mr B. His condition was a potentially  serious  one, which was 
likely to have affected his day-to-day  life and was a long-term issue.  He was diagnosed in 
the year before taking the PPI and had to have treatment. Further, Mr Bs condition  couldve 
lead to serious complications, some life threatening. I think Mr B wouldve considered this 
condition to be the most likely one to cause him to take time off work.  And this policy  
excluded any claims that resulted from his condition  which  potentially  cast a wide net of 
things he couldnt  claim for. So Mr B couldnt  have claimed on the PPI for everything he 
wouldve expected  to be able to.
I cant see that FICL gave  Mr B clear information about this significant exclusion at the time 
of the sale. If it had given  him clear enough  information, then I think its most likely  he 
wouldnt have bought the PPI. 
putting things right
FICL should put Mr B in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr B would have owed when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
Ref: DRN90070932So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr B owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr B made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him. Similarly, FICL can take off any refund  that Mr B 
has already received for the commission part of this PPI policy,  so that he isnt given a 
refund of the same amount twice.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr B would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% simple  a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr B would  have owed each month without  PPI  he paid 
more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr B paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mr B 
wouldve owed FICL  something on his store  card. The interest rate should again  be 8% 
simple a year.
D.FICL should tell Mr B what  its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. Financial Insurance  Company 
Limited should put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9007093