K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold Mrs O payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs O disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Mrs Os  comments. However, Ive decided  not to uphold this 
complaint. I will explain  why:
I think Nationwide made Mrs O aware that the PPI was optional,  but that she still chose  
to take it. The mortgage form presents the PPI as a choice, and I can see that Mrs O 
was sold a non-standard PPI, which covered only unemployment without the usual 
accident and sickness cover.  So this suggests  there was a conversation  about  what  
Mrs O wanted.
Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs O, as being particularly suited to her 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs O to decide  whether it was suitable. But even if it had made a 
recommendation, I think it would probably  have been an appropriate one in her 
circumstances at the time. Not being able to pay a mortgage can cause significant 
difficulties, and the PPI would have  paid out in addition to any employer redundancy 
benefits, and would  have put off the time Mrs O would have to fall back  on the family 
help she has mentioned. So it would have been potentially  useful.  
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained  the cost of the policy.  But I dont anyway 
think full and clear information  about  the costs  would  have affected whether Mrs O took 
the PPI.
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. 
But its unlikely Mrs O would have been affected  by any of these.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN92624782Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9262478