K820x#14complaint
Mr M says poor handling of the administration of one of his pension schemes by Rothesay  
Life Plc caused him and his wife considerable concern and trouble.
background
Mr M receives a small annual pension from his Rothesay Life policy. Last year the payment 
was about £265. In December 2018  Mr M informed Rothesay Life that he wanted the money  
paid into a different  bank  account.
Mr Ms request to change  his payment arrangement  was made  too late to be effected in 
2018. But he had several concerns about  how his enquiry was dealt with by Rothesay  Life. 
For example, he says there was an unacceptable delay in responding to his initial  request. 
His records couldnt be found. There were problems passing security. And he couldnt  get 
the clarity  he needed about what was happening  with his request.
Rothesay Life acknowledged things didnt go smoothly for Mr M. In particular, it agreed his 
initial communications shouldve been  dealt with sooner. It said it understood his frustration 
and offered him £25 as a goodwill gesture. It later increased this to £50. But Mr M wasnt  
satisfied with the outcome.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. Mr M disagreed so his complaint has come to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ive 
arrived at broadly the same conclusions as the investigator and for similar reasons. 
Theres no dispute Rothesay Life didnt provide Mr M with the service he shouldve  
expected. For example,  there was a delay of a month  in responding to his email about 
wanting to change his pension payment arrangements.
When contact was established between Mr M and Rothesay Life in January  2019, there  
were further  issues. Records  of his policy couldnt be located  and there were  problems  with 
getting through security checks. In addition, Mr M couldnt get an answer about whether  
changes to his pension payment arrangements could be made  retrospectively.
I can see that by the second week of January 2019  matters had largely  been  clarified  for Mr 
M. For example, Rothesay Life had acknowledged he was a policy holder. It explained why 
things had gone wrong at its end - thered been an office reorganisation.  And it confirmed 
any new account arrangements he wanted  would only apply from 2019.
Later, in response  to Mr Ms formal complaint Rothesay Life offered him £50 compensation 
for what it had got wrong. He thought he should receive at least £100.  
Mr M has told us about the impact  on him and his wife of what had happened.  He said:
it had introduced  considerable  financial worry to a man of 80 at Christmas, when the 
money in question consistently failed  to appear in the account  requested,  and which 
Ref: DRN97180242incidentally required a number  of 10 mile round trips to visit the bank, at a cost in both fuel, 
time and frustration, you will perhaps  begin to appreciate why I consider the proffered 
compensation to be both insufficient and insulting.
Ive no doubt Mr M was frustrated by events here - thats clear  in his communications  with 
Rothesay Life. I can see it took time and effort for him to sort things out. But Im not 
persuaded by some  of the impacts  he attributes to Rothesay Lifes failings. For example, I 
dont think he shouldve  been expecting his pension to appear in the account  he wanted  to 
change to, because  he hadnt given Rothesay Life the necessary details at that stage.
Mr M now understands even if Rothesay Life had dealt effectively with his request to change  
the account his pension  was paid into, it couldnt have been done in time for his annual 
payment in 2018. I can see from the correspondence between parties this was something 
hed really wanted to happen. So I think some of his frustration and disappointment was 
related to this outcome.
Were all inconvenienced occasionally in our day-to-day lives,  including in our dealings with 
other people, businesses and organisations. When Im deciding how to sort out a complaint 
like this, Ill think about whats fair in terms of the compensation  for trouble and upset.  
This isnt intended to fine or punish  a business   which is the job of the regulator. But when 
somethings gone wrong, a businesss recognition of the emotional  and practical impact can 
make a real difference.
Rothesay Life accepted what it had got wrong. It explained what had happened  to Mr M. It 
apologised and offered him a moderate  sum in compensation. From what  Ive seen it treated 
him with courtesy.  So, I think  its done  enough  to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im not upholding this complaint.
Rothesay Life Plc has offered to pay Mr M £50. I conclude that such an offer is fair 
compensation in the circumstances. So my decision is that - if it hasnt done so already  - it 
should pay him within 28 days of receiving Mr Ms notice of his acceptance of my decision.
Mr M should note that if he accepts  my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties and 
he probably then wouldnt  be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation.
If, however,  Mr M rejects  my decision, although  his legal rights will remain  intact,  itll be 
purely a matter between  him and Rothesay Life Plc as to whether its offer remains  open for 
acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror  after rejection of it has 
been communicated.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9718024