K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Phoenix  Life Assurance  Limited (Phoenix) applied  incorrect charges to 
his plan when  he transferred his personal  pension to another  provider.
background
Mr P held two personal pension plans  non protected  rights  and protected rights  invested 
in With-Profits funds with Phoenix.  The plans  had normal retirement ages of 65, so if Mr P 
switched out of that fund to a different one or to a new pension provider before then Phoenix 
might apply a Market Vale Adjustment (MVA).  
In May 2018  Phoenix wrote to Mr P setting an invitation for an offer that would allow  him to 
access his funds or transfer  them or switch them to another Phoenix fund  without incurring  
an MVA. Mr P completed an application to take up the offer and called Phoenix shortly after 
to confirm the plan values.  He was made aware  of an exit charge of up to 1% of the fund that 
might apply on transferring, and was informed that the values he was given werent 
guaranteed.
But a switch was only applied to one of the plans and Mr P wanted his other plan to benefit 
from the offer as well. Eventually both switches were agreed and Mr P was advised that he 
would be able to transfer his benefits to another provider  without an MVA  from 
29 May 2018. But Phoenix  wasnt able to complete the transfer then as it didnt hold Mr Ps 
correct address details,  so a further day was required  to confirm the correct  address and the 
transfer took place on 31 May 2018. 
After the deduction of all charges the final amount  transferred to the new provider was 
£150,670.96 on one plan and £11,0512.19 on the other.  The exit charge, which was only 
applied to the first plan,  was £807.37  and was higher than the amount Mr P had previously 
been advised. So when he discovered  the actual transfer value Mr P raised  a complaint with 
Phoenix as he believed that additional exit penalties had been applied to his pension  fund.  
He wanted Phoenix  to make up what he believed was a shortfall of over £1,500.  
But Phoenix didnt  uphold his complaint on the basis that the agreed exit fee it charged on 
transfer was greater than that quoted owing to the increase in capital units  and a fall in the 
value of the pension whilst the transfer was taking place. It did however offer Mr P £50 
compensation for the time it took to resolve his complaint.
But Mr P wasnt  satisfied  with that explanation and brought his complaint to us, where  one of 
our adjudicators investigated  the matter. After  hed started investigating the complaint 
Phoenix confirmed  that no additional capital units were created by switching from the With-
Profits fund to the Cash Fund. Therefore the difference in the quoted transfer  value and the 
actual one wasnt caused by this. 
The adjudicator thought  that the drop in the total transfer value  was because of adverse 
market movements within the Phoenix managed  fund, and a deduction from the capital units 
(which he thought Phoenix  was entitled  to deduct)  following receipt of the request to transfer 
the pension to another provider.
The adjudicator said that Phoenix  should have told Mr P  before  the transfer was 
completed, that a deduction  would  be made  from the capital units. However, Phoenix 
confirmed that if an MVA  had been  applied it would have been £3,517.94. So the adjudicator 
thought that, on balance,  even if Mr P had been informed of the costs of the capital  unit 
Ref: DRN98705022deductions, the MVA offer meant  it was likely that he would have  still switched out of the 
With-Profits fund and transferred his whole pension.
Mr P didnt agree and said the other plan hed switched had the same charges and 
deductions applied  as those quoted initially. Mr P was under the impression the two Phoenix 
plans were identical. But the adjudicator explained that the second plan was a protected 
rights one. He explained  that, unlike the first plan which held both capital units and 
accumulation units, the protected rights plan held only accumulation units, therefore the 
charges applied to the first plan as a result of capital  units  didnt apply to the second plan. 
But Mr P wanted his complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman so its been  passed to me 
for a review  and a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I find Im in 
agreement with the adjudicators final assessment and for broadly the same reasons. I 
realise Mr P will be disappointed with this outcome, and I can understand his frustration here 
over the explanation of whats happened  to his plan values. But I dont think Phoenix has 
acted unfairly here so Ill explain  my reasoning.
Mr P says that when  he spoke with Phoenix he was told the value of one of his policies was 
£152,734.98 and had an exit fee of £491.82. But when  the transfer took place the value had 
fallen to £150,670.56 with an exit fee of £807.37. So he says he was over £1,500  worse  off 
and he wasnt made aware  that the value  he was given within the original offer could fall. 
In order to set out exactly what  has happened here its important to explain how the two 
plans were set up and how this affected their values when the funds were switched internally 
to another Phoenix fund before being  transferred to another provider.
Capital units
Mr P held two plans with Phoenix. One contained  the benefits accrued from opting  out of the 
state earnings related pension scheme (protected  rights contributions)  and was set up using 
accumulation units. This meant the value of the plan increased with the accumulation of 
more units with any growth reinvested  into the plan. The other plan  for the non-protected 
rights contributions  was also was invested in accumulation  units, but initially  held some 
capital units. These  carried higher charges and were used to recoup  the plans initial costs 
on the basis that Mr P continued with his plan until his normal retirement date  in this case 
65. 
When Mr P received an invitation to switch to another Phoenix fund, these capital units  were 
also switched across   which had two main  consequences.  Firstly,  as Mr P hadnt reached 
his normal retirement date, these initial charges still needed to be recouped  as they were  
based on him holding the plan until he was 65. So the exit charge was imposed to get back 
these costs. Secondly when the MVA  was removed following the switch  this had the effect  of 
increasing the fund value  and therefore the capital charge. 
Ive looked very carefully at all the information Ive seen relating to the values of the plans 
and the fees that were deducted. In the case of the increased exit charge,  Im satisfied this 
Ref: DRN98705023occurred because of these capital units and I think Phoenix has calculated the deductions 
due on that element of the plan according  to how it said it would do. 
Mr P has asked  why this exit charge didnt apply  to his other plan and I hope  Mr P can now 
understand that as the other plan didnt have  any capital  units  Phoenix didnt therefore need  
to apply an exit fee. So I dont think Phoenix has done anything wrong here.
Loss in value of Mr Ps non protected rights  plan
Apart from the increased exit charge that Mr P suffered on his plan he also complained  that 
its transfer value  had reduced  between Phoenix  notifying him of an initial  value and the 
completion of the transfer to a new provider.  And I can understand Mr Ps frustration having 
carefully considered  the invitation he was sent in May 2018.  But Mr Ps non-protected rights 
plan was invested across  two funds. The With-profits Fund which  Phoenix had suggested he 
should switch  from to avoid an MVA, and a managed  fund. 
The managed fund worked differently  and its value was based on the total value of the units 
invested at any one time. The price  of the units could  fall as well as rise. In Mr Ps case  the 
value of this fund simply fell between the time he applied for the switch and the money being 
transferred. This didnt  have anything to do with exit charges or capital units  but simply the 
rise and fall of funds  according to market  conditions.
I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  that Phoenix  guaranteed Mr Ps transfer values  
when he applied to switch from the With-Profits fund into a different fund. And it said it would 
calculate the value of the plan when it received all its outstanding transfer requirements.
So I dont  think Phoenix did anything wrong here by simply reflecting the value of the 
managed fund before it transferred to the new provider.
Should Phoenix have  explained things better? 
The issue  of capital units within personal  pension plans can be confusing and difficult  to 
understand. So I can appreciate why Mr P would  have  assumed that the exit charge  he was 
quoted would have been the same that was deducted from his plan when it was transferred. 
Phoenix did explain how the exit charge worked in its invitation an exit fee of up to 1% of 
your fund value may apply if you go on to take your pension  savings  or transfer  to another  
provider. If this affects you, we will show it on the enclosed personal pension  savings 
summary. And it did make Mr P aware of this charge in its communication  with him. But I 
dont think it made it completely clear that the charge could increase in line with the capital 
units. I think it could  have been  clearer in its explanation here.
But I note that Phoenix  sent Mr P a cheque  for £50 in recognition of how long it took to 
resolve his complaint. I think  that payment is a fair and reasonable reflection of the 
inconvenience Mr P was caused by the delay but also for any lack of clarity  over the exit 
charge. So Im not going to ask Phoenix  to do anything further.
What should have happened?
Having explained  how the charges themselves were calculated  and applied, I have gone on 
to consider what Mr P would have done if hed been made aware  that the final transfer 
Ref: DRN98705024values and exit charges  might be different from the values he was given initially within the 
offer.
Phoenix has provided a calculation  showing the relative position  of the plans when  
comparing the exit charges  against  the MVA.  And I can see that Mr P was significantly better 
off with the values  that he did receive following the transfer when compared  to the value of 
the plans had they been transferred with an MVA applied.
So, on the basis that Mr P was always  aware  that some  kind of fee would be applied, even if 
Phoenix had explained  things more  clearly, I think its more likely  than not that Mr P would 
have gone ahead with the switch and transfer  that was offered to him in the invitation of 
May 2018. And it follows therefore that Mr P would be in the same position  as he is now, 
even if Phoenix had been clearer about the possibility of the exit charge, and the managed  
fund value changing.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mr Ps complaint.
I think the compensation that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited has already paid Mr P is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9870502