K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Tandem Bank Limited  wont refund to him the money that he paid for a 
pair of shoes and that it didnt make a chargeback request  for the payment.
background
Mr M used  his Tandem Bank  credit  card in August 2018 to pay £23.10  for a pair of shoes 
when he was overseas.  He says that holes  developed in both shoes after approximately  a 
month of wear.  He asked  Tandem Bank to make a chargeback for the money that hed paid 
for the shoes but he wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She was satisfied  
that, had Tandem Bank raised the chargeback, there was little prospect of it being 
successful because Mr M had use of the shoes for almost two months before he raised his 
issues. And she said that the shoes werent  defective when  Mr M bought them.
Mr M has asked  for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary,  
that:
the shoes  werent of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose;
holes shouldnt appear in a pair of shoes soles after only two months and the 
adjudicator didnt correctly balanced  the issue of satisfactory quality/fit for purpose 
against wear and tear;
Tandem Bank's failure to file the chargeback meant that he had no remedy against  
the supplier of the shoes and has denied him the right of arbitration under the 
chargeback rules;  and
its delays in processing his complaint and subsequent denial were poor customer  
service.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made. But if the right 
to make a chargeback  claim  exists under the applicable scheme  rules   and if theres a 
reasonable prospect of success  I consider it to be good  practice for a chargeback  claim to 
be made.
Mr M bought  the shoes  in August 2018.  He contacted  Tandem Bank about making a 
chargeback for the shoes about  six and a half week later because  the shoes had developed 
holes in them. Tandem  Bank replied to him just over a month later and said that it wouldnt 
be making a chargeback claim because the shoes  were  bought  in a shop and Mr M saw the 
state of them  before buying and hed stated  that hed worn  the shoes for over a month so 
may not qualify for the merchants return or refund policy.
The shoes had cost £23.10 when  Mr M had bought them overseas and hed used  them for 
more than a month before  he contacted Tandem Bank about holes developing in them.  Mr M 
says that a pair shoes  should last longer than that  but I consider that that depends  on how 
theyre used. 
Ref: DRN94520442Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the shoes werent of 
satisfactory quality or fit for purpose when they were  bought by Mr M. And I consider that 
there was no reasonable prospect of a successful chargeback claim in these circumstances 
because of the use that Mr M had had from the shoes.  So I find that it wasnt unfair or 
unreasonable for Tandem Bank  to decide not to make a chargeback  claim for Mr Ms 
payment.
Tandem Bank declined Mr Ms request for a chargeback within  five weeks  of his claim to it  
and it sent him its final response letter a month later. Im not persuaded that the customer  
service that Mr M has received from Tandem Bank has fallen below an acceptable level. So I 
find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to refund to Mr M the money  that 
he paid for the shoes,  to pay him any other compensation  or to take any other action in 
response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9452044