K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mrs J says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
The PPI started with the mortgage. Mrs J has said she didnt know  the PPI had been added.  
But she took out the mortgage well over twenty years ago. So if shed  been  aware  she was 
taking PPI at that time, it wouldnt be surprising if she no longer remembered this. With this 
in mind, what Mrs J has said isnt enough on its own to make  me think  that Lloyds added PPI 
to her mortgage without  asking or telling her. And I havent seen anything  else to make  me 
think that Lloyds  added  the PPI without asking Mrs J or getting her permission.
Also the mortgage  application form Mrs J wouldve  used at the time had a separate  section 
for the PPI. This asked  whether cover  for accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment 
was required,  and had boxes to tick in response. And I think  its likely Lloyds only started the 
PPI after it received a signed form from Mrs J with the PPI section ticked  to indicate  that she 
wanted the cover.
Taking all this into account, on balance I think Lloyds likely made it clear  that Mrs J didnt 
have to take the PPI  and she chose  to take it.
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs J, it had to do more  and check  the PPI was right for 
her. Lloyds thinks it mightve  recommended  the PPI. So I think  its fair to assess Mrs Js case 
on that basis  as it places on Lloyds more  responsibility for the sale.  But based  on what Ive 
seen of Mrs Js circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was right for her. 
For example, Mrs J wasnt affected  by any of the limits to or exclusions on the cover (like 
any exclusions for existing health problems).  And Mrs J seems to have had a need for the 
cover. It was cover to help protect a mortgage - a significant liability secured on Mrs Js 
home. From what Mrs J has told us, her work sick pay wouldve halved after six months. For 
a successful disability  or unemployment claim,  the PPI would pay out for up to twelve  
months - and in addition  to Mrs Js work  benefits.  Mrs J has said her family couldve helped 
pay her mortgage instead. But other peoples circumstances and ability  to help can change.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs J about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think she chose to take the cover  so it looks to me like Mrs J wanted  this type 
of sickness and unemployment cover. And, for the reasons Ive given above, it seems  like 
the cover  wouldve been  useful for Mrs J if something went  wrong. It also seems like the PPI 
was affordable. Taking everything into account,  I dont  think  better information about the PPI 
would have put Mrs J off taking the cover.
Ref: DRN99282412Ive thought about all Mrs Js points, including what shes  said about her partner being  able 
to pay the mortgage instead. But if Mrs J suffered a loss of income due to unemployment or 
disability, I think the policy benefit couldve still been useful to her even if her partner was 
able to help with the mortgage payments. So, for the reasons Ive already  given  and in the 
light of all Ive said above, these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019 .
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9928241