K820x#14complaint
Mr C is complaining that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) didnt cover a 
claim that he made on his breakdown repair cover policy.
background
Mr Cs car broke down and he contacted his roadside assistance recovery agent to attend.  
The recovery agent said that the exhaust  rear box had fallen off. He put this into Mr Cs car 
and Mr C drove away. He initially got a quote from the cars manufacturer who quoted 
around £1,400  to do the repair. Mr C thought this was excessive so sourced a replacement 
part himself  and took it to a garage  to fit it.
Acromas discussed the matter with the garage and it thought it was a failure of the exhaust 
system. And it said that the terms of the policy dont cover exhaust systems. Mr C doesnt 
agree that Acromas  should have declined  the claim. He says its the centre section of the 
exhaust that failed. He says this section consists of the diesel particulate  filter (DPF)  and 
catalytic converter. He says that the exhaust forms three parts   the front, centre  and rear. 
He said that he would  consider the exhaust system  to be the front and rear section of the 
exhaust. But he says that the centre  part consisting  of the DPF and catalytic  converter would 
not be considered  part of the exhaust system. He says that Acromas  should have worded 
the terms of the policy more clearly if it wanted  to exclude this part of the exhaust system.
Mr C further says that Acromas has never inspected the car, so he queried how Acromas 
could decline this claim given it never  inspected the car. He also said that Acromas  had said 
the garage said the exhaust had snapped. But he disputes that the garage ever said that it 
was snapped  as he said he was standing next to the engineer  when he was speaking  with 
Acromas. And he is adamant that the engineer  never said that. 
Mr C is also unhappy with the quality of the breakdown report.  He thinks the recovery  agent 
has put incorrect information on the report which has caused further confusion.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He was satisfied that it was a part of the 
exhaust system that had failed. So he didnt think it was unfair  for Acromas to decline the 
claim. 
Mr C maintains that the section that failed  wasnt part of the exhaust system, so he doesnt 
think Acromas  was allowed to decline the claim. And he asked for an ombudsman  to review  
the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
I should first state that I cant look at the actions of the recovery  agent when the car first 
broke down.  This service was provided  by a separate company so Acromas  isnt responsible 
for that. 
Ref: DRN94851812Theres no dispute that the terms of the policy exclude damage to the exhaust system. But 
Mr C disputes that it was the exhaust system that failed. He would consider the exhaust 
system to be the front and rear section of it. But he thinks the centre section, which  consists  
of the catalytic converter and DPF, isnt part of the exhaust.
So I think that the key issue in this complaint that I have to decide is whether  the part that 
failed formed part of the exhaust  system. Ive taken  Mr Cs comments  into account  and 
listened to the telephone calls that hes had with the garage and the investigator.  I 
understand his thoughts, but I disagree that it wasnt part of the exhaust system that failed. 
I think the exhaust system  contains a number  of elements  including  pipework,  the catalytic 
converter and the DPF amongst others.  I dont disagree with Mr C that the exhaust system 
would typically form three sections  front, centre and rear. But I dont agree that the centre 
part doesnt  form part of the exhaust  system.  There are separate parts within  it which I would 
agree should  be considered separately. And in fact the terms of the policy distinguishes this 
too as Acromas does  specifically cover the catalytic converter but separately  sets out that it 
doesnt cover the fuel particular  filters   which I would consider to include the DPF. 
I understand that the failed part was the exhaust flange. Im satisfied from reviewing the 
photos of the damage that it was a bit of the pipework that has failed  not the catalytic  
converter or the DPF. I think  this does form part of the exhaust system  and I think  it was fair 
for Acromas to say that its not covered.
Ive taken into account Mr Cs comments that the terms  of the policy  arent clear enough. But 
I dont agree. It specifically sets out that the exhaust  system isnt covered. I appreciate it is 
open to interpretation as to what constitutes the exhaust system. But Im satisfied that it can 
reasonably be considered  that it was a part of the exhaust system that failed in this case.  
And I dont  think it was unreasonable for Acromas to have come to this conclusion by 
considering photos of the failed part, coupled with the conversation with the repairing garage 
and the breakdown recovery report.
Ive also listened  to the telephone call Mr C had with the garage. I dont dispute the 
terminology Acromas has used in saying that the part had snapped isnt a word-for-word 
repetition of what the engineer said. But I dont think its a reasonable interpretation of what  
was said. 
I appreciate that Mr C feels strongly about  this. But I cant  say that Acromas has treated him 
unfairly in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9485181