K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) avoided  (treated it as
if it never existed) their home insurance  policy, refusing to pay their accidental  damage claim
as a result.
background
In May 2018, Mr and Mrs P took out their policy with RSA through  an insurance broker.  They
applied online,  answering questions to obtain a quote. Mrs P called the broker and
discussed the cover and agreed to go ahead  with the policy  during the call.
In January 2019 Mr and Mrs P claimed  for accidental damage  to their sons  mobile  phone.
Later that month, RSA said it was avoiding their policy and refusing their claim, as theyd  not
disclosed all the home insurance claims theyd  made in the four years prior to taking out the
policy. It said while they disclosed  an accidental damage  claim for a mobile phone from July
2017 that was settled  for £240,  they failed to disclose  an earlier claim for £200 from May
2015, also for accidental damage to a mobile phone. RSA said it wouldnt have  covered
them if it had known  about the earlier claim. So, it avoided Mr and Mrs Ps policy and
refunded their premium.
Mrs P told RSA she didnt withhold this information on purpose. Mrs P said she used  a
renewal document  from their previous insurer  to help complete the application, which shows
they were four years  claim free for contents  as of May 2017. And that this led her to believe
theyd had no other claims in that time, other  than the one in July 2017.
Mrs P also said RSA should have checked  their claims history at the time of sale, as the
impact of avoiding a policy is life-changing. And she pointed out the follow  up documents
didnt give the timeframe needed  for their claims history, so she couldnt check shed given
correct details on the application.
Mr and Mrs P were  also unhappy it took nearly  three weeks for the claim  investigation to
take place, when they were told it would take five working days. And that they didnt hear
back on whether their policy was still active during that time, which  caused  them  to worry
and spend hours getting quotes  for a new policy.
In response, RSAs  position remained the same.  It said policies are given  on the principle of
utmost good  faith, which means customers are relied on to give honest and accurate
information during  an application. It also said, while Mr and Mrs Ps broker  was responsible
for the sale and wording  of the policy documentation, it asked them to check  the information
included, as a record of their statements. And said if they provided  incorrect information a
claim could  be rejected or the policy invalid.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to our service, saying what
happened was an innocent error.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. She said,  while  the policy
documentation didnt  repeat that RSA needed to know about their claims in the last four
years, they were  asked a clear  question about this on the on-line application, which Mrs P
answered incorrectly. And she was satisfied  RSA wouldnt have covered them  if it had
known about the earlier claim. She also said the policy documentation asked Mr and Mrs P
to check the information theyd given  was correct. And that we dont normally expect an
Ref: DRN90508262insurer to check claims history at the point  of sale. So, she didnt think  Mr and Mrs Ps
complaint should  be upheld.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  agree. Mrs P has said innocent non-disclosure shouldnt  result in a
policy being avoided.  And RSA could  have considered mid-term cancellation  instead.  And
legislation is in place  to protect customers from being penalised  for innocent mistakes.  She
says she took reasonable care, as she answered  the question about  previous claims to the
best of her knowledge  and belief, relying  on her memory and the renewal document from
their previous insurer.
Mrs P also says she cant be expected  to have a precise recollection of when events
happened, especially as the claim she didnt declare was a small claim for their sons  mobile,
that didnt stick in her mind, having taken place  nearly three years before  she applied for the
policy with RSA.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 January 2020 in which I said the following:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive provisionally decided
to uphold it.
The relevant  law here is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act
2012 (CIDRA). This gives RSA certain remedies if, when  Mrs P applied  for the policy, she
made what the Act describes as a Qualifying Misrepresentation. The Act required Mrs P to
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she took out the policy. And if
she didnt take reasonable care. And RSA can show that  if she had - it wouldnt have
offered the policy or it would have offered it on different terms, then Mrs P will have made a
qualifying misrepresentation. The standard used to decide whether Mrs P failed to take
reasonable care is that of a reasonable consumer.
Mrs P wasnt  asked  about claims history during the call in which she agreed to go ahead
with the policy.  But she had already answered a question about this online.  Ive not seen the
actual on-line application Mrs P made with the answers she gave, as this is no longer
available, but Im satisfied  from the evidence that both RSA and the broker have provided
that Mrs P was asked  in the on-line application:
Have you or any person  usually living  with you, made any claim or suffered any losses,  at or
away from home in the within the last 4 years?
Im also satisfied Mrs P answered  yes to this question. And further down the application she
was asked How many claims  have you made  in the last 4 years?.  And Im satisfied from
what shes said, and the evidence provided by RSA, that she answered 1. Below this, there
were boxes to input details matching the number of claims disclosed.  And Mrs P entered the
accidental damage  claim  made  in July 2017.  This was confirmed later in the Statement of
Fact sent to Mr and Mrs P after Mrs P had agreed to go ahead with the policy.
While Mrs P wasnt asked  about  claims again when she spoke to the broker,  Im satisfied  the
questions she was asked  on-line were clear  and specific. And, as evidence  shows  Mr and
Mrs P had made two claims  in the four years  before  taking out the policy with RSA, its also
clear she answered the second question about the number of claims incorrectly.
Mrs P has explained how she referred to the renewal notice shed got from her previous
Ref: DRN90508263insurer at renewal in April 2017, when she was completing the on-line application for the
policy with RSA and speaking to the broker. And shes  explained that this showed  she and
Mr P had had four years claims free for contents.  The claim she disclosed from July 2017
was after this. And she was aware  of it, as the confirmation of payment for it was near the
top of the same insurance paperwork in which she found her 2017  renewal schedule. She
realised this wouldnt have affected  the claim free period shown on this renewal  notice, as
the schedule was issued prior to this claim. But the schedule made her think they hadnt
made any other claims for their contents  in the previous four years.
Ive also taken into account the fact that there was nothing in the application process  to
suggest Mrs P needed to specifically check with their previous insurer to establish  exactly
what claims she and Mr P had made.  Plus, Im satisfied  with Mrs Ps explanation that shed
just forgotten  about the other incident involving her sons  mobile  phone. A lot of things
happen in the course  of a busy family life and most people dont recall exactly  what
happened several years ago. And Mrs P recently  explained to me her sons had had various
incidents of damage  to their mobile  phones  over the years. And some theyd claimed for and
some they hadnt,  but she just didnt recall  the incident in 2015 specifically or claiming for it
under their home insurance  policy. I accept  this and can see why shed have relied on the
renewal document  she had in front of her from her previous insurer.
I asked Mrs P why she didnt refer to the renewal schedule her previous insurer  had sent her
prior to renewal in 2018. She said she doesnt recall getting this and now cant  locate a copy
in her paperwork, so she just relied on the 2017  one, which I accept, and think was
reasonable in the circumstances.
Bearing all this in mind, especially the fact Mrs P was understandably relying on a document
provided by her previous insurer, I dont think she failed to take reasonable care not to make
a misrepresentation  when  she took out the policy with RSA. And this means I dont think
RSA should have avoided Mr and Mrs Ps policy and refused their claim.
It follows that I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for RSA to reinstate
Mr and Mrs Ps policy and consider  their claim under it. RSA must also remove any record of
their policy being  avoided from its own records and any central databases  or systems.
RSAs decision to avoid  their policy clearly caused Mr and Mrs P a great deal of distress and
inconvenience. But I need to bear in mind this was partly because Mrs P - understandably  -
forgot to disclose a previous claim. But that doesnt alter the fact I think  RSA made the
wrong decision. So, I think it should  pay some  compensation for the distress and
inconvenience this caused. And I think its fair and reasonable in this case  for it to pay £200.
Mrs P has also explained  she and Mr P took out a new home insurance policy at some point
after RSA avoided their policy. She would probably have needed to declare the fact she and
Mr P had had a policy avoided and this may have  affected the premium.  But she can ask her
current insurer to amend the premium retrospectively once my final decision is issued. But
this will still mean  Mr and Mrs P have paid extra for the period  up to when their policy  with
RSA should have ended.  So, I think RSA should cover the cost of this.
I note RSAs representative told Mr and Mrs P the premium for their policy would be
refunded and they should contact their broker about  this. If Mr and Mrs P did get the full
premium back, theyll need to give this back to RSA now that their policy  is to be reinstated.
It may be easier  if RSA accept Mr and Mrs Ps claim and add the other  amounts  Ive said it
needs to pay, for it to deduct what it is due to pay from the refunded premium. And this will
Ref: DRN90508264mean Mr and Mrs P will just have to pay RSA back the balance or if RSA owes  them
something RSA will just have to pay them this amount. If either party wants  to comment  on
this in response to this provisional decision they should do so.
I gave Mr and Mrs P and RSA until 21 January to provide further comments.  
Mrs P came back  and queried the fact Id said she and Mr P would need to give back the 
premium for their policy  which RSA had refunded  through their broker. She was also 
concerned that their new insurer  wouldnt  amend the premium theyd paid when they took 
the policy out retrospectively  to reflect the fact the avoidance of their policy with RSA would 
be removed from all records. And  she was also concerned it might not do the same  if, by 
the time I issued my final decision, theyd renewed  their policy  or taken  a new one with a 
different insurer whod also factored in that theyd had a policy avoided when working out the 
premium to charge.  
RSA has said it is concerned that Mrs P only looked  at the 2017  renewal schedule when 
arranging her policy and not the one shed have received  for the 2018  renewal. Its 
questioned how Mrs P could have known  the price  was too high with her current insurer  if 
she didnt have the 2018 renewal schedule. Its said it had unable to get a copy of the 2018  
schedule from Mrs Ps previous insurer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate RSAs concerns about  Mrs P using the 2017 renewal schedule when she took 
out her policy  with it. I asked her about  this before issuing my provisional decision and I 
explained in it that I had accepted her testimony  that she didnt look at the 2018 renewal 
schedule from her previous insurer prior to take out the policy with RSA. This doesnt mean  
Mr and Mrs P didnt  receive it. I just accept  Mrs P didnt refer to it and assumed  the premium  
with her current insurer would be too high based on what it charged in 2017. Mrs P has 
explained this was the document  she had to hand. And she assumed the price for the 
forthcoming year wasnt going  to be lower  than what she and Mr P had paid at renewal in 
2017. And, it remains my view that in doing so, and seeing that it said shed  be claim free for 
contents for four years, she took reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation about 
previous claims and losses. I think she made a reasonable  assumption in the circumstances 
and took the standard  of care Id expect of a reasonable consumer. And this means Mrs P 
didnt make a qualifying misrepresentation. And I dont  think RSA should  have avoided Mr 
and Mrs Ps policy on the basis she did. 
I appreciate I could have  asked Mrs P to obtain  a copy of the 2018 renewal schedule from 
her previous  insurer and provide it to me. But I accept  even if she received it - she didnt 
look at it, so I dont think I need to see it to decide  the fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. 
Mrs P has now checked with her and Mr Ps current insurance broker  and its confirmed their 
new insurer will amend the premiums theyve paid to reflect the fact they dont  have an 
avoided policy once  Ive issued my final decision.  So, RSA needs to refund the extra Mr and 
Mrs P had to pay for their new policy up to the point their policy  with RSA should have 
ended. But this can be based on the revised premium reflecting the removal  of the 
Ref: DRN90508265avoidance by their previous insurer. The broker has also confirmed this can be reflected  in 
their premium for the forthcoming year as well. 
In summary,  I still think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for RSA to 
reinstate Mr and Mrs Ps policy, subject to them returning the premium RSA refunded via 
their broker.  And RSA should remove any record of the avoidance and deal with Mr and Mrs 
Ps claim  for their sons mobile phone in accordance  with the policy terms. Plus,  RSA should 
pay Mr and Mrs P £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience and refund the extra  
premium theyve had to pay as a result of having  to take out a new policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint and order Royal and Sun Alliance Plc do the following:
Reinstate Mr and Mrs Ps policy and deal with the claim they made  under  it in
January 2019  in accordance with the policy terms and conditions, subject to Mr and
Mrs P returning the premium they got back via their broker.
Remove any record of their policy being avoided from its own records and any
central databases and systems.
Pay Mr and Mrs P £200 for distress  and inconvenience.
Pay Mr and Mrs P the extra theyve had to pay for their new policy  (once the
premium has been  amended as required) for the period from when they took this out
to when their policy with RSA would have  ended.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2020.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9050826