K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  about the suitability of the advice they were given by
The On-Line  Partnership  Limited, trading as In Partnership. They  say they have lost out 
financially, as a result of being advised to invest in self- invested  personal pensions (SIPPs),  
instead of a Small Self Administered Pension Scheme (SSAS).
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to the business as In Partnership in the rest of this decision.
background
In 2016, Mr and Mrs A wanted to purchase a commercial  property they already owned, via 
their personal pension schemes.  They sought  advice from In Partnership.  They were 
advised to set up SIPPs to purchase  the commercial  property through. 
They initially  signed a fee agreement confirming they would  pay an initial 3% adviser fee, 
plus an ongoing advice  fee of 0.75% per annum.  The initial  fee was later reduced to 1.5%, 
as Mr and Mrs A felt the fees were too high. 
A SIPP was set up for each of them. The first SIPP company wouldnt allow  them to 
purchase the commercial  property through their SIPPs because there were problems with 
the lease arrangements.  So, they transferred to a new provider and purchased  the 
commercial property through  their SIPPs as planned.
In 2017, Mr and Mrs A complained to In Partnership.  They  felt that a SSAS  wouldve  been 
more suited to their needs as property developers. They questioned why a SSAS  wasnt  
considered as part of the advice. They also felt the advice  theyd  been  given was fee driven,  
and not in their best interests. 
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and recommended it should not be 
upheld. He found the SIPPs were  fit for purpose and suited their needs. He accepted  that 
there wouldve been other alternatives available on the market at the time, but didnt think  
this made  the use of a SIPP unsuitable.  
The adjudicator said he didnt think the fee was linked to the type of product Mr and Mrs A 
were advised to take. He said, in his experience, the providers set the fees for SIPPs  and 
SSAS. These may be either  fixed or percentage based, depending on the providers fee 
structure. He said up front advice fees were  usually determined by the business and In 
Partnership had told Mr and Mrs A what their initial advice fee was at the outset. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt  agree with our adjudicators recommendation.  Their main point was that 
they hadnt been given  the choice to decide  on the type of product recommended  to them,  
because they hadnt been given information about the alternatives. They also felt the advice 
they were given was fee driven, and that a SIPP was recommended  because  it had a 
percentage based fee. 
my findings
Ive consi dered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this comp laint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for much  the same reasons.
Ref: DRN98452972fee structure
Mr and Mrs As dissatisfaction, in part, seems  to come down to the fact that the fees were  
percentage based, and they believe that the fees for a SSAS  wouldve been  less. They said 
that a SSAS wouldve been more suitable from a cost,  control  and benefit perspective.
In Partnership clearly told Mr and Mrs A at the outset, what  they would be paying  by way of 
fees. It went on to reduce  its initial advice fee by half when Mr and Mrs A said they were not 
prepared to pay this. The 0.75% ongoing adviser fee was agreed at the start. 
Its possible there may have been other  SIPP products  on the market with a different fee 
structure. Its also possible  that there may have been SSAS products available  with a fixed 
or percentage based fee structure. But, I dont think the fee structure is necessarily governed  
by whether its a SIPP or a SSAS.  Instead, its down to the individual providers business 
terms. So, I dont share  Mr and Mrs As view that In Partnership recommended a SIPP  rather 
than a SSAS to benefit from the fee structure that applied to SIPPs. 
I havent seen  anything to make  me think that In Partnership acted in an unfair or 
unreasonable way as regards the fees Mr and Mrs A had to pay. I cant see evidence of In 
Partnerships recommendation being  based on the fees they would derive from a SIPP, 
compared to a SSAS.
suitability
Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs A were  given suitable advice to invest in SIPPs, to 
purchase the commercial  property they already owned, via their pensions schemes. I think  
the advice they were  given was suitable. I say this because it was in line with Mr and Mrs As 
risk profiles, their stated  objectives and priorities, it provided tax efficiency and offered them  
the flexibility to purchase  the commercial property they wanted to buy via their pension  
schemes. 
Mr and Mrs A think they were given unsuitable  advice because  they werent  advised  on the 
full range of options, in particular about  SSASs.
I note from the recommendation report that Mr As objectives and priorities  were  recorded as 
being:
We discussed your aims and objectives and you wish to ensure that your current  pensions 
are utilised in the best way. You have confirmed that you wish for me to review your existing 
plans with [then  provider] and recommend any changes I feel are appropriate.
You are specifically interested in purchasing a commercial property via your SIPP  and you 
have identified a suitable property which is already owned by your business.  I am providing 
no advice on the specific property and my advice  focuses  on providing an appropriate 
pension vehicle to assist your plan.
You have  been  happy with the service provided by [then provider] on your current pension  
plan as you have  found their call centre helpful  on the occasions you have used it. You 
would therefore  prefer to maintain a relationship with this provider should they offer a 
suitable option. You wish to ensure  that the property  purchasing process  and management 
is supported by a high level of service and support.
Ref: DRN98452973Mrs As objectives and priorities were recorded as:
Your husband is specifically interested in purchasing a commercial property via your SIPP  
and you have identified  a suitable  property  which  is already owned by your business. You 
are happy  to defer I am providing no advice on the specific property and my advice focused 
on providing an appropriate pension vehicle to assist your plan.
You wish to ensure  that you have a similar  plan to your husband as you [sic] aware that the 
property purchase will require both your available pension funds.
So, it seems  that Mr and Mrs A appeared to want  to purchase the commercial property via 
their SIPPs.  
A SIPP met their requirements in that: 
The investment  choices suited their needs and requirements; 
They were able to purchase the commercial property via the SIPP;
There was a transparent charging structure;
The charging structure didnt appear  unaffordable or inappropriate; and
The provider was able to provide a high level of service and support.
SIPPs are personal pension schemes. Mr A indicated that he wanted a high level of support 
and service from the provider. The SIPP was far more likely to offer this than a SSAS.  I cant  
see anything in what Mr and Mrs A said that wouldve  alerted  the adviser to the fact that a 
SSAS may be more  appropriate, in their circumstances.
A SSAS  is an occupational scheme , set up and primarily run for the directors or senior 
employees of a company. At the time, Mr A was director of seven different companies. The 
SSAS wouldve  needed to be connected to a sponsoring employer.  In Partnership said 
SSASs are sometimes taken where additional features are required,  for example the ability  
to borrow funds, use a syndicate or where a specialist product is needed. 
In Partnership said, Mr and Mrs A didnt appear  to need these things and that a SSAS was 
generally more cumbersome to run. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs A transferred their pensions funds and made  employer pension  
contributions, which  taken together, mainly covered the purchase price of the commercial  
property they wanted  to buy. I cant see that at the time it was apparent that they wanted  to 
take advantage of any of the additional  features a SSAS might offer. 
Based on Mr and Mrs As objectives and priorities at the time of advice, I cant see that the 
adviser provided them with unsuitable  advice when he recommended they take out SIPPs. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs A have since set up a SSAS and consider this better  suits their 
needs going forward. However, that doesnt necessarily mean  that the advice they were  
given at the time was unsuitable.   For the reasons Ive explained,  I think  the advice  Mr and 
Mrs A were  given by In Partnership was suitable  given  their objectives and circumstances at 
the time.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. 
Ref: DRN98452974Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9845297