K821x#15complaint
Mrs S has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has declined her claim for the 
cancellation of a flight booking following a diagnosis made in relation to her former husband.
background
In September  2018, Mrs S booked flights for a trip starting on 7 February 2019. In 
December 2018,  her former husband  was diagnosed with pancreatic  cancer.  Mrs S 
cancelled her trip and contacted Aviva to claim under the cancellation section of her travel  
insurance policy.
 
Aviva declined Mrs Ss claim.  It referred  her to the cancellation section of her policy which  
states as follows:
"If one of the following occurs
2 a close relative, close business colleague,  or the person you were going  to stay with is 
seriously injured,  falls seriously ill or dies "
In the policy, the definition  for 'close  relative' is as follows:
"Your mother, father, sister,  brother,  partner, fianc(e), daughter, son, grandparent, 
grandchild, parent-in-law,  daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, step-
parent, step-child, step-sister, step-brother, aunt,  uncle, cousin, nephew, niece, legal 
guardian or foster child " [my emphasis added].
"partner  is defined in the policy  as:
The person that the account holder  lives with at home in a domestic  relationship, whether 
married or co-habiting  (as if husband and wife or civil partnership), regardless of gender, 
who is under  70 years  of age at the start date of the trip."
Aviva has said that because ex-husband isnt included in the definition of partner,  the 
policy doesnt cover  a claim in Mrs Ss circumstances.  
Mrs S has explained that she continues to have a cordial relationship with her former  
husband. He is the father  of her children. Neither of them has remarried.  She is providing the 
domestic care and support he needs through  his illness. She argues that her relationship 
with him is closer than some of the relationships  included within the definition of close  
relative. She thinks that Aviva should show some compassion.
Following Avivas rejection of her claim, Mrs S brought a complaint to this service. Our 
investigator acknowledged that if the strict wording  of the policy  were  to be applied,  Aviva 
was correct in rejecting  her claim. But she considered  that in the circumstances it would be 
the fair thing  to do for Aviva to accept Mrs Ss claim.
Aviva doesnt agree  with our investigators  view. It argues that the policy  wording should be 
followed and that its unreasonable for our investigator to attempt to override  the relationship 
requirements in the policy. Its asked  that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.  The 
complaint has therefore been passed  to me for a final decision
Ref: DRN93453602my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint  and 
Ill explain  why.
Ive looked that the terms of the policy which  Aviva rely on for rejecting  Mrs Ss claim.  I agree 
that a former husband isnt included within the definition  of a partner or any other close 
relative, and that on a strict reading of the policy Aviva is entitled to reject her claim.
But Im also required to determine a complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case [Disp 3.6.1]. And the circumstances  of 
this particular case lead me to the view that the relationship between  Mrs S and her former 
husband is, in reality, closer than that of others who are included  within  the definition of close 
relatives.
 A couple  who have  been married for nearly  30 years,  and who have brought up children 
together, although  now no longer  married,  may well continue to have  a closer relationship 
with each other than with, say, a cousin, who is included within  the definition of close 
relative. A cousin can be a very distant relation. 
I think its also relevant to consider the impact  that the death or serious  illness of another  
might have on an insured  person, and therefore  the need for them  to cancel their travel 
plans. Mrs S cancelled her trip because she felt she needed to support her former husband 
through his illness  following his diagnosis.  She has since assumed the role of his carer.  He  
benefits from the support that she provides for him in many areas. She might not have felt 
the need to do that had it occurred to someone falling within  the definition  of close relative.  
In the particular circumstances of this case,  I think its unfair and unreasonable  for Aviva not 
to accept the very reasonable grounds  that Mrs S had to cancel her trip and to decline her 
claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im going  to uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs Ss claim in full subject to any other  policy terms 
or limits and to any excess.
I also require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay interest  on the sum payable at the simple  rate 
of 8% a year from the date Mrs S made her claim to the date payment is made to her.
If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much  its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs S a certificate  showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Ref: DRN93453603Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9345360