K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with the debt management advice they received from 
Gregory Pennington  Limited (GPL).
background
Mr and Mrs J entered  into a debt management plan (DMP) with GPL in 2007 in order to 
reduce their debts with a number of creditors and they added  other debts  to the arrangement  
in future  years..
The DMP was subject  to regular reviews and in 2014 GPL advised  them  to end it and enter 
into a linked individual voluntary arrangement (IVA) with their creditors. At this point, GPL 
passed their details to an insolvency  practitioner  to arrange and manage the IVA.
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy their debts have not been  repaid despite  the amount  of time 
theyve been under the DMP and IVA. They  feel they shouldve been  advised to enter the 
IVA sooner and that overall, they were misinformed  and misled.
Ive already corresponded informally with both parties in order  to explain which aspects of 
this complaint I had the power to look into, given our rules about time limits and jurisdiction. 
And what I thought  about the merits of the complaint points that I could  look into. I explained, 
in summary, the following.
The rules  under which we operate say we cant consider a complaint if the complainant  
refers it to us more than:
six years  after the event complained of, or (if later)
three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become  aware) that he had cause for complaint
That is unless the failure to comply with these time limits was a result of exceptional 
circumstances. Or the business  being complained about consents to us looking at the case. 
GPL had not consented to us looking at the complaint, so I considered if it was raised in 
time. I noted:
The event Mr and Mrs J complained  about was the advice to enter into the DMP. This 
happened in 2007,  so they had until 2013  (six years from the event)  to complain, but 
they didnt do so until October  2018.
Mr and Mrs J said the DMP was unsuitable  because it didnt ensure their debt was 
repaid. But they knew,  when the DMP ended and the IVA started in 2014 that there was 
still a debt outstanding. So I thought they ought  reasonably to have  become aware the 
DMP might  not have been suitable  at that point. And that means they had three years 
from then to complain  which took them  to 2017  but they didnt do so until 2018.
I hadnt seen  any exceptional circumstances that prevented Mr and Mrs J from 
complaining in time. Mr J told us hed had some health problems. But it was apparent  he 
and Mrs J were  in contact with GPL in relation to their DMP over the years, and I could 
see no reason why they couldnt  similarly  raise  any concerns about the advice with GPL 
or this service during this same period.
Ref: DRN90327982So I didnt think Mr and Mrs J had complained in time about the original advice to enter into a 
DMP. But the evidence  GPL provided  indicated it carried  out periodic reviews of the DMP. 
And I thought, each  time it did so, it was giving Mr and Mrs J fresh  advice about the 
suitability of the DMP given their circumstances at the time. And, as Mr and Mrs J 
complained to GPL in October  2018, I thought I could consider any review that took place in 
the six-year period leading up to that.
The evidence indicated a review took place  in 2013  and I thought the advice to remain  in the 
DMP at that time was suitable given Mr and Mrs Js circumstances. It also seemed likely  
GPL had made  clear the terms of the arrangement at that time, including the amount owed 
and the amount of time it would take to repay  the debt.
The evidence also indicated a review  took place in 2014. I was satisfied I had jurisdiction to 
look into the advice  GPL gave at this point  to end the DMP and enter  an IVA. And I saw 
nothing which suggested that advice was unsuitable.  I also explained why I didnt have 
jurisdiction to look into a complaint  about the insolvency  practitioner to which GPL referred 
Mr and Mrs J to arrange and manage the IVA.
GPL accepted my findings.  But Mr and Mrs J still had some concerns  they said,  in 
summary that:
They realise now that they shouldve  raised  a complaint sooner. But they trusted GPL to 
act in their best interests and thought they would be made bankrupt,  lose their home and 
could be prosecuted if they didnt follow GPLs advice.  They  didnt realise they could 
complain to GPL or this service. And they said that if GPL truly believed it had acted in 
their best interests then they should  consent to us looking at the complaint. 
Theyre also unhappy more generally  with GPLs management of the DMP. Mr J was a 
vulnerable adult due to his ill health  and if GPL had explained  this to their creditors  its 
entirely possible a more favourable repayment  agreement couldve been reached.  This 
wouldve resulted  in them being  charged  less in fees and interest and ensured full 
repayment of the debt by 2013.
Most  of their communication  with GPL took place by phone  and they didnt receive 
written confirmation of the review that took place in 2013. Nor do they understand why 
the IVA became more suitable in 2014.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, for the reasons set out in my previous correspondence and summarised 
above, Im not persuaded to change my mind  about the outcome of this complaint.  I wont  
repeat what Ive already said, but I will address the main points Mr and Mrs J have made in 
response.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs J say they trusted  GPL and didnt realise they could complain. But I 
still think they ought to have  realised, at the latest,  when  the DMP ended  and the IVA began 
that they might have  cause for complaint  given  the debt that was still owing and the length of 
time the DMP had been running.  They had three  years from then to raise a complaint, but 
Ref: DRN90327983didnt do so. GPL isnt obliged to consent  to us looking  into the complaint and still hasnt 
done so. 
Mr and Mrs J have provided  more information about why they think  they should have been 
treated and advised differently. But, Ive already  explained why I can only consider  the 
events that took place  from the review in 2013 onwards. So I cant  consider the concerns 
theyve raised about the advice GPL gave before then. That includes their assertion that if 
alternative, more  appropriate agreements had been brokered with their creditors at outset or 
at various points along the way then their entire  debt wouldve been cleared  or written off by 
2013.
When considering  the advice  that was given at the 2013 review, my role isnt to say what 
GPL should  have done with the benefit  of hindsight. Ive considered whether or not GPL 
gave unreasonable or unfair  advice  in recommending that Mr and Mrs J remained on the 
DMP in 2013 (but then switched to an IVA in 2014), based on the information available  to it 
at the time. 
With that in mind, an IVA is an agreement  with creditors to repay debt, either partially  or in 
full. The creditors that hold 75% of the total debt need to agree with the proposal  before it 
can be put in place. Because of this, its wasnt simply  a matter of GPL or Mr and Mrs J 
deciding when it would be best for them to enter  into an IVA. GPL needed to consider their 
circumstances in the round, but it also needed to consider whether or not their creditors were  
likely to agree to an IVA.
At the time of the 2013 review, GPLs records suggest Mr and Mrs J were  happy with the 
repayment arrangement  and aware  of its terms. And GPL has said it considered the option  
of an IVA, but because  of Mr Js debt with the DWP  it didnt feel an IVA proposal  wouldve 
been accepted by 75% of Mr and Mrs Js creditors. On that basis  it felt continuing the DMP 
was the best option. I still think that was a suitable  advice based  on the information available  
at that time.
Mr and Mrs J have since said the DWP  debt was disputed,  indicated  that GPL shouldve  
disputed this for them and that GPL shouldve allowed the DWP to take legal action and 
pursue them  through  court. Theyve  said a more reasonable repayment plan wouldve then 
been ordered which covered all their creditors. But I havent seen anything to indicate GPL 
knew the debt with the DWP was disputed or that this has actually been confirmed. So I 
dont agree GPL shouldve done more to try and help.  I also dont agree GPL shouldve 
based its decision on what  mightve happened  in court.
Mr and Mrs J have also said GPL didnt explain in writing the reason why an IVA wasnt  
recommended in 2013, and that meant they werent given the opportunity  to dispute this. 
But, they do seem to accept that a conversation took place and so it seems that GPL kept 
Mr and Mrs J informed. And they could decide  whether or not they wanted  to accept the 
advice they were given  and/or ask for clarification if required. 
Finally, as Ive said before, Mr and Mrs J seem  to suggest that they were  generally happy 
with the advice given in 2014 to enter into the IVA  the main  thrust  of their argument is that 
an IVA shouldve been put in place sooner  and I have no concerns about  its suitability at 
that time.
my final decision
Ref: DRN90327984My decision  is that I am unable to consider some aspects of Mr and Mrs Js complaint and I 
dont uphold the aspects I am able to consider.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 February  2020.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9032798