K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP lent him money  he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr H took out three loans  with Uncle Buck as follows:
 
No date applied for 
loanamount instalments Repayment date
1 07/01/2018 £200 2 @ £96, 1 @ 
£9431/01/2018
2 14/04/2018 £500 3 @ £190, 1 
@ £18230/04/2018
3 05/08/2018 £800 3 @ £324, 1 
@ £312outstanding
Mr H says he borrowed money  from a number of lenders. Mr H says he was a gambling 
addict. Mr H thinks that if Uncle Buck had asked to see bank statements, it wouldve 
discovered how bad his addiction was at the time.
Mr H wants Uncle Buck to refund the interest and charges that hes paid to reduce his 
outstanding balance.
Before agreeing to lend each time,  Uncle Buck asked Mr H for details  of his net monthly 
income and outgoings. It recorded an income figure of £3,250 with monthly outgoings  of 
£1,000.
Uncle Buck  also carried  out credit  checks which it says didnt  reveal anything  of concern 
such as defaults  or a County Court Judgment. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint be upheld.  She thought that Uncle  
Buck did enough  checks  before agreeing the loans.  The adjudicator thought  the three loans 
appeared affordable. 
Mr H doesnt agree with the adjudicators recommendation. Mr H says he was asking  to 
borrow more money  each time. Mr H says that he had spent many thousands of pounds  
online gambling and owed large sums to various credit card companies and other payday 
lenders.
Mr H thinks that his request to borrow £800  at the time of loan three shouldve prompted 
Uncle Buck  to carry out better checks.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Uncle Buck  was required to make  sure Mr H could repay any money that it lent to him. Any 
checks had to be proportionate to things  such as the amount of the loan, the repayments 
and any borrowing history. But there  wasnt  a set list of checks  it had to carry out.
Ref: DRN98210342Im satisfied that Uncle Buck carried out adequate checks  each time.  And that based on the 
information Mr H gave  about his finances  and Uncle Bucks own credit checks; it appeared 
that Mr H could afford to repay the loans.
Although Mr H asked to borrow more money than before when it came to loan three, he was 
due to repay the loan by instalments rather than as one lump sum payment. This means that 
I still consider Uncle Bucks checks went far enough before loan three.
I havent seen  anything in the credit search  results which shouldve reasonably prompted 
Uncle Buck  to ask more  questions than it did. There were some gaps in between  the loan.  
Although these werent long enough to effectively break the chain  of lending, I cant  say that 
Uncle Buck  missed any obvious signs of a reliance on short  term lending.  
Throughout all of the time that Mr H was borrowing money from Uncle  Buck, I dont think  it 
was reasonable  to expect Uncle Buck to independently verify the information that Mr H gave 
by asking to see bank statements for example. This means that Uncle  Buck couldnt have 
known about Mr Hs gambling addiction unless hed disclosed it.
I appreciate that Mr Hs financial situation  was worse than he told Uncle  Buck but I dont 
consider proportionate  checks wouldve revealed this. Its for this reason that Im not 
upholding Mr Hs complaint. I understand that Mr H is likely to be disappointed and Im sorry 
about this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9821034