K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a regular premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover his credit  card repayments.
background
Mr S applied for a credit card by post in 1995. At the same time he took out a PPI policy to 
cover his credit card payments. The policy cost £0.69 per £100  of the balance on Mr Ss 
credit card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding  balance 
for up to 12 months per claim if Mr S was unable to work due to accident or sickness  or lost 
his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ss complaint should  be upheld because  she thought Mr S 
wouldve understood he had a choice  in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mr S disagrees. He says he wouldnt of taken out PPI because he didnt  take it out with his 
mortgage and that he didnt know he had PPI as if he did, he wouldve  claimed  on the policy 
when he was made redundant. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
The PPI was applied  for by post in 1995  when Mr S completed a postal application for a 
credit card. I understand  Mr S doesnt remember this which  is understandable given its been 
over 20 years. But Barclays have given  us a copy of the application  form Mr S completed. I 
can see on it there is a received stamp and on the bottom of it it says moisten  and seal 
which I think indicates it was a self-sealing  application which was to be posted back  to 
Barclays.
Theres a separate  section on the application  form that deals with PPI. It gives the option to 
select PPI by ticking the Yes box or to decline PPI by ticking the No box. I can see on Mr 
Ss application form a tick has been placed  in the box to take PPI. If Mr S didnt want  PPI he 
could have ticked to decline  cover instead.  
So I think because Mr S selected to take PPI with a tick he understood he had a choice in 
taking the policy and wanted  the cover. But again   given the length  of time that has passed  
- I can understand why he might not remember  this or that he had PPI.
Because the PPI was taken out through the post I dont think Barclays  advised  
Mr S to take PPI. What this means  is that Barclays didnt recommend PPI to Mr S, it just 
gave him information  about PPI (it was up to Mr S to assess his circumstances and decide if 
Ref: DRN95668722the product was needed).  This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair 
and not misleading so he could make an informed choice about  buying PPI.
I dont know if Barclays did give all the proper  information that was needed. But even if 
Barclays did give all the information  Mr S needed  to make an informed  choice on taking out 
the policy, I think he wouldve still taken  the policy because at the time of sale from what we 
know about Barclays policies:
He was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr S says he was entitled  to a good level of sick pay and had 
savings he could  use to make his credit  card payments if he couldnt work  due to 
accident or sickness or if he lost his job. The policy  wouldve paid out on top of any sick 
pay or savings and helped him in these situations, so I cant  see how knowing  this 
information wouldve  put him off buying  it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr S and he could cancel the 
policy if he no longer  wanted it. Which I note he did do a few years  later.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr S on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to him.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
Ref: DRN95668723But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr S about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9566872