K822xcomplaint
A, a limited  company, has complained Metro Bank PLC only offered it a small amount of 
compensation after theyd contributed to problems when A was a victim of fraud.
background 
In May 2017  A was a victim of fraud. £7,000 was taken from its account  after the account 
details were compromised and the account taken over by a fraudster. It was clear that As 
phone had been tampered with. Within a week Metro refunded  all the money. A continued to 
receive text messages from what they thought was Metro.
To help resolve  the issues Metro reset the security on As account and re-issued the debit  
card. Unfortunately  Metro gave the new debit card to someone that wasnt A in one of their 
stores. Within three  days  Metro had refunded all the money and apologised to A for their 
error.
A brought  their complaint to this service.  Metro offered A £125 for the upset and 
inconvenience their error  had cased. A remained unhappy with both the way Metro had 
acted leading to added  insecurity on its account  and the paltry  sum theyd offered it.
Our investigator explained he couldnt penalise Metro for the security they placed around As 
account as this wasnt this services  role. As A was a limited company, he didnt  think  it 
would be right to ask Metro to increase  the compensation offer.
A disagreed and asked an ombudsman to review  its complaint. A had also got the results  of 
their subject access request with Metro and shared its findings with this service. We told A 
this didnt provide  any new information  over and above the business file Metro had already 
provided to us.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a slightly 
different conclusion to our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly there  is no doubt that A was a victim of an awful fraud. This must have been 
extremely distressing and incredibly inconvenient.  However within a week  of the original 
occurrence, Metro  had refunded As money and thought everything had been put back in 
order.
Unfortunately A was still receiving regular texts from the fraudsters implying the security  of 
its account was at risk. Ive seen Metros customer notes and files, as has A under the 
subject access request, and theres nothing that suggests these messages were  from Metro 
at all. I can also see that A regularly flagged these texts from Metro to them and got rather  
mixed message in return. However  I can see A was consistently being told not to click on the 
link in the texts so whilst Metro may not have been  sure whether they sent them or not, they 
followed appropriate security advice.
Finally in an attempt  to get everything  sorted, A had to go into a Metro store to get a new 
debit card for its account. Unfortunately Metro gave As new debit card to a fraudster who 
then spent over £14,000 on the card in very short order.
Ref: DRN91462432A was understandably concerned that Metros actions contributed  to it being a victim of fraud 
all over again and that Metros  lax security systems had meant  A was targeted.  A also felt 
that Metros internal fraud alerts  were inadequate as theyd not detected  the fraud that had 
happened to As account either  in May or July 2017.
I appreciate Metro refunded the money within a few days. They also apologised and now 
recognise that their offer of £125  to A was inadequate. I asked them  to increase this offer to 
£500 which they agreed.
My reasoning for this was this had a serious  impact on As business. I judged the impact to 
be more than having a moderate  impact, albeit over a short  period, which is why I felt £500 
in total was fairer.  If A had been an individual, I may well have asked Metro  to pay more  
because of the inevitable distress this must  have  caused. But as A is a limited  company, I 
cant consider it to have  suffered from distress.
I cant ask Metro to review their security  procedures or manage those in a different manner. 
This is an issue for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, and not our service. I 
understand this is at the heart of As complaint  and Im sorry that I cant  help further  in that 
area.
Both myself and a colleague have tried to contact A to see whether  it wished to accept 
Metros offer. This has been unsuccessful which is why Im now completing a final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Metro  Bank  PLC to pay A £500 
compensation in total for the inconvenience  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9146243