K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained through a representative that Ageas Insurance  Limited  has
decided they made  a qualifying misrepresentation when  they took out their home insurance
policy and settled part of their claim for fire damage proportionately because  of this.
Background
Mr and Mrs S took out a home insurance policy through an insurance broker in
September 2017. When they took it out they were asked how many bedrooms  their house
had and they said it had four. There was a fire at their home  in March 2018 and they made a
claim under their policy. Ageas appointed a loss adjuster. They inspected  the damage and
arranged alternative  accommodation for Mr and Mrs S, as well as agreeing  a schedule of
repairs.
Several months later Ageas let the loss adjuster know that they were only going  to pay a
proportion of Mr and Mrs Ss claim moving forward on the basis  that theyd misrepresented
the number of bedrooms at their home when they took out their policy.
Mr and Mrs S made a complaint to Ageas through their representative.  Ageas  wouldnt alter
its decision, so Mr and Mrs S complained to us through their representative.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and decided not to uphold  it.
She was satisfied Ageas was entitled  to settle Mr and Mrs Ss claim proportionately.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative doesnt  agree. Theyve made three key points. Firstly,  they
dont think Mr and Mrs S made a qualifying  misrepresentation. Secondly,  even if they did,
they think Ageas affirmed the contract  that Mr and Mrs S had by relying  on terms in it.
Thirdly, they arent  convinced the premium for a five bedroom house  Ageas has used to 
calculate the proportionate settlement is right.  
I issued a provisional decision on 11 May 2020 in which I set out the following provisional 
findings:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  it should be
upheld.
The relevant  law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers  to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is what CIDRA  describes  as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy  on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt  made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding  whether  the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers  questions were.  And
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA  depends on whether the qualifying
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless.
Ref: DRN93233442If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer  can show  it would have at
least offered the policy on different terms or not at all, it is entitled to avoid the consumers
policy. If the misrepresentation was careless,  then to avoid  the policy, the insurer  must show
it would  not have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation.
If the insurer is entitled to avoid  the policy, it means  it will not have to deal with any claims
under it. If the qualifying  misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have
charged a higher premium if the consumer  hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to
consider a claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. There  is an equation in CIDRA
which shows how the insurer should work  out the proportionate settlement.
Ageas has said Mr and Mrs S failed to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation because when they were asked how many bedrooms their house had
they said 4. Ageas has said they should  have said their house had five bedrooms because
it has four bedrooms upstairs and a study downstairs, which has been converted  to a
bedroom.
In deciding whether  Mr and Mrs S failed to take reasonable care I have considered the
actual question they were asked  about  the number of bedrooms at their house.  According to
Ageas and the copy of the Statement  of Fact Ageas has provided this question  was How
many bedrooms does your property  have?.  And it is accepted by both Ageas and 
Mr and Mrs S and their representative  that Mr and Mrs S answered  4 in the online 
application done with their broker. And I have listened to a recording of a call when an 
adviser from the broker checked this and Mr S confirmed it was four.
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives have explained that so far as Mr and Mrs S were concerned
their house  did have four bedrooms, as only three  of the original bedrooms  upstairs  were
used for this purpose, with one being  used as a study. And, what  was originally the study
downstairs had been converted  to a bedroom  and wet room for their son. Their home had
also been extended with a garage  and a room  above added. But the representative has
explained the room above the garage had only ever been used as a play room.  And 
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has argued that because only four rooms in their house were  
used or set up for sleeping in their answer of 4 was correct and so they took reasonable 
care.
But, Ageas has pointed out that in the online application form Mr and Mrs S completed there
was a help text box next to the question, which said the following:
Please include new bedroom  conversions and any rooms originally designed  for sleeping in
- even if theyre now used  for other purposes. Please also include any bedrooms  in
outbuildings or annexes.  If you are unsure, a useful guide would be how your estate agent
would sell your house.
Ageas thinks this should have prompted  Mr and Mrs S to say their house had five bedrooms.
Both the investigator  and I have checked  the brokers website and we can see that this help
text box comes up automatically immediately to the right when you are on the question  about
the number of bedrooms. And it really is very clear. From what Ageas has said it seems  this
would have been the case when  Mr and Mrs S completed the on-line application. Ageas has
not been able to provide  a screen  shot or archived webpage to show  this. But I think it is
most likely to have been the same in September  2017 as it is now.
So, allowing  for the fact the help text box was so clear on what Mr and Mrs S needed to treat
Ref: DRN93233443as a bedroom, I think in answering 4 instead  of 5 they did fail to take reasonable care not
to make a misrepresentation. This is because the help text made  it very clear  they should
count the room used upstairs  as a study as a bedroom, as well as the converted study
downstairs.
Im also satisfied Ageas would have charged  a higher premium if Mr and Mrs S had
answered this question correctly. It is unfortunate that Ageas gave the wrong  premiums
originally, but I can see they have  now checked the position and I am satisfied the premiums
they used in the end to reach a proportionate settlement of 72.86% are correct.
However, while I agree with Ageass  view that Mr and Mrs S made a qualifying
misrepresentation and that this would normally give it the right to settle Mr and Mrs Ss claim
proportionately in accordance with CIDRA,  I dont think allowing them to do this would
produce a fair and reasonable  outcome to their complaint.
This is because I agree  with Mr and Mrs Ss representatives argument that Ageas  in effect
- affirmed  the contract they had with them  by relying  on policy  terms in dealing with their
claim, despite the fact they knew or should  have  known Mr and Mrs S had failed to take
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation.
Im satisfied Ageas relied on the policy  terms after it knew Mr and Mrs Ss house had what
theyd consider to be five bedrooms. I say this because  the preliminary reported provided  to
Ageas by the loss adjuster referred  to four bedrooms  upstairs  and a bedroom  on the ground
floor. This means that technically Ageas  knew there was most likely a qualifying
misrepresentation, which it ignored  and instead started to deal with the claim by relying on
certain policy terms. This could mean that legally Ageas affirmed  the contract it had with 
Mr and Mrs S and waived its right to rely on any misrepresentation theyd made. Although  
the
case law Ive seen on the affirmation of insurance  contracts pre-dates  CIDRA. And the
obligations of consumers and insurers were different prior to CIDRA.  However,  I think  it is
appropriate to apply the principle of affirmation in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss
complaint.
This means  I dont  think it would produce  a fair and reasonable outcome for Ageas to be
allowed to rely on a qualifying misrepresentation made by Mr and Mrs S when they took out
the policy, having ignored this originally and gone on to deal with their claim by relying on the
policy terms. This is because the fact it started to deal with the claim suggested it was not
concerned about  the misrepresentation. And I think  it instead elected to affirm the contract it
had with Mr and Mrs S and waive its right to rely on the misrepresentation. And instead it
relied on the terms and conditions  of the policy as set out in the policy document;  for
example - it relied on an exclusion  to reject Mr and Mrs Ss claim for damage to their lawn.
And therefore I dont  think Ageas was entitled to settle any part of Mr and Mrs Ss claim
proportionately.
In summary,  while I think Mr and Mrs S made a qualifying misrepresentation when they took
out their policy  with Ageas, I think the fair and reasonable  outcome to this complaint is for
Ageas to pay the balance due to Mr and Mrs S as a result of their claim being  settled in full.
This is on the basis it waived its right to rely on the misrepresentation and elected to affirm
the contract  it had with Mr and Mrs S. Ageas should  also pay interest at the rate we normally
award (8% simple) on the funds Mr and Mrs S had to use to cover the amounts Ageas
deducted from the payments due on the claim.
Ref: DRN93233444Ageas should  also remove  any record of the misrepresentation from any internal and
external databases.
Clearly Ageass decision to settle  part of the claim proportionately so late in the day, which I
think was inappropriate  in the circumstances, caused Mr and Mrs S a significant amount of
distress and inconvenience. But, I can see Ageas has already paid them  £500 in
compensation for this. And Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable, so I dont think Ageas
needs to pay any more compensation.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has told us that Mr and Mrs S accept  my provisional decision.  
But its pointed out that they never  actually paid in the cheque for the £500 Ageas sent them 
in compensation  and its now out of date.  So its asked that I tell Ageas to send them  another 
cheque to cover this. 
Ageas has come back to say it doesnt  agree with my provisional decision. Its said if it had 
avoided the policy it would agree with my stance.  Presumably by this it means  my stance on 
it affirming the contract.  But it doesnt believe it was incorrect to apply the proportionate 
approach to future payments.  Its backed this up by saying that it took into account the fact it 
had decided to do this well into the handling of the claim by paying the £500 in 
compensation to reflect  the loss of expectation for Mr and Mrs S and not applying  the 
proportionate remedy to payments already made.  
Ageas has also said it hasnt been provided with documentation for all the payments 
Mr and Mrs S have  made to date by their assessor.  And it doesnt think  its fair for it to have 
to pay interest on amounts for which documentation hasnt been provided.  Ageas has also 
said it cant remove all reference of the misrepresentation by Mr and Mrs S from its claims 
records, as it is mentioned numerous times  in its claims notes. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still think it should be 
upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
Ageas is arguing  that the stance Ive taken on affirmation should  only apply where an insurer 
has avoided a policy, as opposed to applied a proportionate remedy.  But I dont agree. I 
think the principle  is that if an insurer takes  action which suggests it is not going to rely on a 
misrepresentation, its not fair and reasonable for it to later change its mind and rely on it, 
whether the action it takes is to avoid  the policy or apply a proportionate  remedy  to a claim. 
Both actions  are remedies  for misrepresentation and once an insurer has decided  not to act 
on the misrepresentation, I think it can be said it is waived its right to do so. This means I still 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to allow  Ageas to apply a proportionate  settlement 
to any part of Mr and Mrs Ss claim.  
Ageas only needs  to pay interest on the extra payments Mr and Mrs S have actually made 
as a result  of it applying  a proportionate approach to settling the claim. Mr and Mrs Ss 
representative has told us their assessor only received final account  documentation for the 
works very recently from the contractor  Ageas  originally chose to do the repairs  to their 
home. So, if Mr and Mrs S have only just settled  these accounts or are still to do so, I dont 
think Ageas  needs  to pay interest on the amount due for them.  
Ref: DRN93233445The representative has also told us that Mr and Mrs Ss assessor has always intended to 
present a claim for any outstanding  accommodation and miscellaneous expenses with the 
final account documentation. But this was Mr and Mrs Ss assessors  choice, so I dont think 
its appropriate for me to make Ageas pay interest on these amounts either.  
But I do still think Ageas  should pay interest on any amounts Mr and Mrs S paid and Ageas 
only reimbursed in part due to the proportionate  approach it adopted. In other words, if 
Ageas only paid 72.86% of these  amounts  it needs  to pay the balance  due and interest on 
these amounts. 
I have also noted  the cheque Ageas sent for compensation has expired and agree it should  
pay this amount again, either by cheque  or bank transfer. 
I appreciate Ageas cant remove  all record of Mr and Mrs Ss misrepresentation from its 
claim notes  and I do not now expect it to do so. But it should remove  any reference  of it from 
any external databases like the Claims  and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and Ageas Insurance  
Limited must  do the following:
Settle Mr and Mrs Ss claim in full and pay them any further amounts due.
Pay interest on any additional amounts due as a result of it only making part payments at 
8% per annum simple from the date Mr and Mrs S made the full payments to the date it 
pays them the additional amount due1.
Remove any record of the misrepresentation from external databases.
Pay Mr and Mrs £500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 July 2020.
Robert Short
ombudsman
1 If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mr and Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing this if 
they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN9323344