K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc used  the wrong rate when making  an overseas 
transfer from his account. Hed like the difference  refunded as well as compensation for the 
poor service he received.
background
On 21 September  2018 Mr C made  an online request to transfer £30,000  to an overseas 
account. But he says when the transfer was completed, on 24 September, the exchange 
used was lower than the one originally quoted.
Mr C notes that the Funds transfer- Debit Advice  note shows the original rate was 1.71110. 
He feels this is the rate that should  have been  applied to the transfer and if it had hed have 
received an additional £838.06. Hed like Barclays to now credit  him with this amount.
Mr Cs also unhappy with the way Barclays handled  his calls about  the transfer. He says he 
was cut off several  times, transferred to different call handlers and given incorrect  
information. And as he had to call an overseas number, the calls were expensive. He feels  
Barclays should now refund him the cost of the calls as well as compensation for its poor 
service.
Barclays said the initial rate was only an indicative rate and could change  before the 
transfer was actually completed. This was explained on the online form and in the account 
terms and conditions. The rate actually applied  had been correct so it couldnt agree thered 
been a loss. However it accepted the calls could have been handled better and offered Mr C 
£100 to cover the costs and £50 compensation.
Our adjudicator felt Barclays  had dealt with the matter fairly. The initial  rate was indicative 
and the actual rate was the one that was in force at the time of the transfer. This had been  
explained in the online information available to Mr C. In this case the original  request  had 
been made late on 21 September so the transfer didnt take place until the next working day. 
By this time the rate had dropped to 1.6633 as shown on the advice slip but the rate applied  
was correct so she didnt agree Barclays had made a mistake.
And while she could  see Mr C felt Barclays had got a lot wrong when hed called  in to 
complain, she felt Barclays had taken this into account in its response and dealt with the 
complaint fairly so she wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
Mr C disagreed so the matter as now been referred  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons as Ill now explain.
I realise Mr C feels Barclays  should  have honoured the original rate given on 21 September 
when he first requested  the transfer.  However international exchange rates  can fluctuate 
rapidly within a short  space of time so the rate used  on a transfer is the rate applicable at the 
date of the transfer and not the date of the request. This is in line with the terms and 
Ref: DRN92573012conditions of Mr Cs account.  And Ive seen that the online form confirmed that any rate 
given was indicative  so I think Mr C would have known it was only not guaranteed.
In this case the request was made late on 21 September so it was actually carried  out on the 
next working day. Unfortunately by this time the exchange rate had dropped  slightly, as 
shown on the debit advice slip. But while Mr Cs understandably disappointed that this is the 
case, I cant agree Barclays is responsible for this or that its made a mistake. For that 
reason I cant reasonably  ask it to refund the difference in the exchange rate to Mr C.
However when Mr C called in to query the rate, his calls werent dealt with as well as they 
could have been. Barclays has acknowledged  this so the question is whether the steps its 
taken to resolve this are reasonable.  Ive seen Barclays  refunded the cost of the calls in line 
with the figure given  by Mr C. Its also paid him a further £50 for his trouble and 
inconvenience. I think thats fair and in line with what Id have awarded for a complaint  of this 
type.
I realise Mr C may be disappointed by my decision but for the reasons given I wont be 
asking Barclays to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint but in part but I consider the 
compensation already paid by Barclays Bank Plc to be sufficient  and I wont  be asking it to 
pay anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9257301