K820x#14complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Virgin Money plc t/a Virgin Money wasnt  clear  about eligibility 
periods for claiming Air Miles on her credit  card.
background
Mrs W took out a credit  card with Virgin Money  on 15 July 2018. She feels  that Virgin  
Moneys offer to claim Air Miles for 3 months on her credit card didnt take into account  the 
time from opening the account to actually  receiving the new card. 
Mrs W complained  to Virgin Money  but they didnt uphold the complaint. So the matter  was 
referred to our service.  
An adjudicator has already looked at this case.  She didnt think  she could uphold the case 
for reasons in line with those already expressed  by Virgin Money.  In light of this, Mrs W has 
asked that the case be passed  to an ombudsman for consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin Moneys terms and conditions for the credit card clearly state  
There are three qualifying  periods . The first qualifying period  starts from the date of
your account  opening  and continues  until the end of your first full statement period after
that date. The second and third qualifying periods last for your next two full statement
periods respectively.
Mrs W took out the credit card on 15 July 2018. I appreciate it took a while for the card to 
arrive. But this was in line with their procedures  and timescales. Just like the adjudicator  I 
think it was up to Mrs W to make  the most of the first qualifying  period. Mrs W knew the 
credit card statement for the first period would be issued around mid August. So it was up to 
her to use her credit card within  this timeframe. I cant say Virgin Money is at fault if Mrs W 
chose not to do this.
I can see that Mrs W spent over the required amount for the second and third periods  and 
therefore was awarded  the relevant Air Miles.
Since the adjudicator issued their view Mrs W has expressed her concern that the 
advertising and information  displayed about the credit card was misleading. And that she still 
has concerns with the promotional material and the lack of clear information  within  the sign 
up emails. 
Im afraid having looked at all the evidence  Im simply not able to uphold  this complaint. I 
think the terms and conditions were clear  and Virgin Money hasnt acted unreasonably. Even 
if Virgin Money has now changed the terms of their Air Miles offer, this isnt something Im 
willing to look into. I appreciate Mrs W feels very strongly about  this matter but I consider any 
new or amended  offer that Virgin Money has made to other customers to be entirely 
separate. 
Ref: DRN90696082my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9069608