K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited applied unfair charges for 
damage at the end of his vehicle hire agreement.  He wants the charges  waived.
background
Mr O tells us he took out the hire agreement in September 2016 for a period  of two years. 
He says when  he returned the vehicle in October 2018 he considered it to be in good 
condition. Mr O points out that he paid over £1,000 in excess mileage  charges  and he felt 
this should be taken into account when  assessing the level of damage. He says the more 
mileage covered the greater the chance  of additional damage.
VWFS told us the vehicle  inspection and charges were administered by qualified inspectors 
and in accordance  with fair wear and tear guidelines. It said it had waived two charges in 
respect of doors. But it said the remaining two items totalling £174  remained chargeable.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said the hire 
agreement which Mr O had signed  stated that damage which  went  beyond British Vehicle 
Rental & Leasing Association  (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines would be chargeable. 
She felt the photographs  of the vehicle inspection showed scuff marks and a dent which fell 
outside the relevant limits.  And she couldnt  say that VWFS had been unfair in charging  for 
these items.
Mr O didnt agree with the adjudicators  view.  As its not been possible to resolve this 
complaint an ombudsmans been  asked  to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that additional and unexpected charges at the end of a hire period are 
unwelcome. So I accept  why Mr O would be concerned.
Ive seen a copy  of the hire agreement he signed and Ive also been able to view 
photographs of the alleged areas of damage. Its clear from the agreement  that VWFS  is 
entitled to charge for damage to the vehicle if that damage falls outside  the BVRLA fair wear  
and tear guidelines. These provide a universal standard and are widely  used across  the 
industry.
I understand why Mr O might think that extra mileage ought to factor  in a greater leeway in 
terms of damage.  But this service is not responsible for compiling  the guidelines. And its fair 
to say the agreement required Mr O to maintain the vehicle  throughout the relevant term. So 
it was open to him to have any damage which fell outside fair wear and tear repaired before 
he returned it. Nothing in the agreement stipulates that the relevant guidelines relating to 
damage are altered  if additional  mileage beyond  that originally contracted  is covered. So I 
dont think any excess mileage is relevant in considering if the charges for damage  have  
been fairly applied.
The colour photographs which accompanied the inspection report are of good  quality and 
show the relevant  damaged areas. The damage  identified is, in my opinion, beyond  the fair 
wear and tear guidelines and VWFS is entitled  to apply reasonable charges.
Ref: DRN94402192The charges  applied are within the range Id expect from my experience  in dealing with 
numerous similar complaints. And I note that VWFS  waived two charges  totalling £72. So I 
think its acted fairly.
In summary,  I find the charges which VWFS  applied are fair and reasonable and Im not 
upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9440219