K820x#14complaint
Mr F says he was mis-sold a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy  when he took out a 
Barclaycard in 2003. Barclays Bank  UK PLC is responsible for the sale.
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in December 2018,  setting  out why 
I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. And I asked both parties to provide any further 
submissions or information  to me within one month.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Neither party  has any new information or 
arguments. So theres no reason for me to change  the findings I set out in my provisional 
decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about the mis-sale. And I dont require  Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to pay any more compensation.
Mr F has already been paid some money for the commission  Barclays Bank UK PLC 
received from selling him the PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN90826652summary  provisional decision
complaint
Mr F says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy when  he took out a 
Barclaycard in 2003.
background
Mr F has already  been  paid some money for the commission Barclays received from selling him the 
PPI. However, our adjudicator who looked at this case  said the complaint about the PPI being mis-
sold in the first place, should also be upheld.
Barclays disagreed  it had mis-sold  the PPI. So the complaint  has therefore been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, I dont  currently intend to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
In his complaint  to us Mr F said he hadnt asked for the PPI and wasnt aware it had been added  to 
his credit card account.
However, we know these  events  were obviously  quite a long time ago and Im afraid  I dont think  what  
Mr F remembers is correct.  I think the evidence  shows he agreed to the PPI and may have since 
forgotten.
Mr F and Barclays seem  to agree he applied  for his credit card by post. Barclays said it no longer had 
his application form and because it was over 15 years  ago, I dont think thats unreasonable. 
Businesses arent required  to keep records indefinitely.
But Barclays  sent us an example of the kind of application form Mr F would  have most  probably 
used. The form had a section on it about  PPI. To get the PPI applied to the new credit card,  the 
applicant needed  to tick a box to say they wanted PPI.
Theres no dispute Mr F went on to be sold PPI so I think its more likely he ticked the box to ask for it.
As well as this, Ive been shown some of Mr Fs credit card statements. These show that on a monthly  
basis, he was being charged for something  called  Payment Protection  Plan. Barclays also said its 
processes at the time involved sending  PPI applicants  a welcome letter and it sent us a copy of the 
type of letter Mr F would  have  been sent.
So as well as asking for the PPI, I think hed have been able to see he was being  regularly charged 
for PPI and would have  known a policy  had been set up for him. I think if he hadnt asked for the PPI, 
he would have wanted  to know why hed been sent the letter and also why he was being charged for 
the cover.
Because this was a postal  sale, I think Mr F would  have  made his way through  the application without 
any advice from Barclays. It wasnt therefore and advised sale so it was for Mr F to decide for himself 
whether this was something he needed  or wanted.  Barclays had a duty to make sure the information  
Mr F was given was clear.
Ref: DRN90826653From what I know  about  these types of sale, the application was part of a wider, leaflet  based form.  
So I think Mr F would have had access to some  information about the PPI and what it covered. I can 
see ways in which Barclays could have set things out more clearly, but I dont think this would have 
changed what  Mr F went on to do.
This is because I think he was eligible for the cover which, at 79p per £100 of the outstanding credit 
card balance, appears to have been affordable for him. Mr F didnt  have any sick pay with his job, 
other than the statutory  state amount and he told us he didnt have  any other means available to him. 
On the other hand, the PPI would have reduced his balance by 10% a month for up to a year in the 
event of a successful claim. I therefore think the policy  was suitable  for him.
So all of this means I currently dont think Barclays has to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F. 
But it has already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to him because:
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and profit share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr F about  that. Because Barclays  
didnt tell him, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do
Barclays should confirm  it has paid to Mr F any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium.  Barclays should also have paid back to Mr F any extra  interest he paid 
because of that. Barclays should also have paid Mr F 8%* simple interest if he paid off his credit card 
at some point.  I note Barclays says it has done  all these things.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr F can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
my provisional  decision
I dont currently think the PPI policy  was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN9082665