K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  trading as Halifax  mis-sold them the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs B say it wasnt made  clear  to them that the PPI was optional.  Mr and Mrs B 
bought the PPI policy in a meeting. Mr and Mrs B, and BoS, havent been  able to provide 
much detail about what was said in this meeting. And there isnt much  paperwork from the 
time of sale either. Thats understandable given the time that has passed.  But it means I 
dont know exactly what was discussed. So Ive thought carefully  about  what  Mr and Mrs B 
and BoS have said. And Ive also used what I know about BoS sales processes to help me 
make my decision. Having done  this, I dont have  enough to say that its likely BoS told Mr 
and Mrs B that they needed to buy the PPI policy to start a mortgage.  Overall I think its 
more likely that BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant  remember  this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check  that it was right for them   
and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was a significant,  long-term, financial commitment. If Mr or Mrs B 
couldnt work for a long period of time they may have found  this difficult  to pay. As the 
mortgage was secured  on their home,  Mr and Mrs B couldve potentially lost their property if 
they fell into financial  difficulties.
Mr and Mrs B werent affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The PPI 
wouldve paid half of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage  repayment if either  Mr or Mrs B couldnt work 
due to illness, or they lost their job. The payment wouldve been in addition  to any employer,  
or unemployment benefits, they might have  received  if this happened. It couldve provided a 
payment for up to 24 months per claim.  So overall the PPI seems  to have been right for 
them based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs B paid for it. But BoS has already  offered to give Mr and Mrs B back  some of the 
cost of the PPI. I dont  think it needs  to do anything  more. I understand BoS has already paid 
this to Mr and Mrs B.
Ref: DRN99802382my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 February  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9980238