K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard)  mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2002.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ts credit card account when  he applied  for the card during  a meeting with Barclays.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
 Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ts application  for the credit card. It includes  a section on 
Barclaycard Payment Protection (a form of PPI),  with a box to tick if the applicant 
wished to take the cover.  Theres  a tick in the box on Mr Ts application. 
 Mr T says he wasnt told about  the PPI and had no idea hed taken it. Hes also 
commented that he doesnt even  think he filled the form in. He says he just asked for a 
credit card and signed the application.  
 I accept  that its possible that the application form was completed  by a member  of 
Barclayss staff,  and that Mr T simply signed it. But I think its likely that if that was the 
case, the content of the form was discussed  with Mr T as the application was being 
completed, and that the box was ticked to confirm that Mr T wanted PPI because he 
said he wanted the cover.
 Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied, on balance, that Barclays made  Mr T 
aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose  to take it  although I can 
understand why he may no longer remember this.
 Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr T. This means it had a responsibility to check 
that the cover was right for him. But it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable, based on 
what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. Mr Ts told us hed have been entitled 
to statutory sick pay from his employer at the time. And he says he had some  savings. 
Ref: DRN91367992 Ive thought about what Mr Ts said, but I think he could have struggled to keep up with 
his monthly credit  card payments  quite  quickly if hed been unable  to work. If hed 
made a successful claim on the policy for accident,  sickness or unemployment, it would 
have paid 10% of his outstanding  credit  card balance  for up to 12 months. This would 
have enabled him to use his sick pay and savings to meet  other expenses.
 Ive borne in mind  that Mr Ts told us that his parents  would have helped  him with his 
credit card repayments  if necessary. But circumstances  can change. So I cant  be sure 
that Mr Ts parents would have been in a position to help if the need  had arisen.
 Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But Ive explained that I think Mr T chose to take out the policy. So it 
looks as if he wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably  forgotten  that now.  
He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy  was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think  it unlikely Mr T would have 
made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance I think 
hed still have  taken  out the policy.
Ive taken into account Mr Ts comments, including what hes said about not having been  
told he could buy PPI elsewhere. But Barclays wasnt  obliged to tell Mr T about products  that 
might have been available from other providers. So these points dont change my 
conclusion.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9136799