K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that We-Ar Vehicles Limited (WAVL) mis-sold a car finance agreement.  
background
In December 2017 WAVL arranged for Miss M to get a used  car under a conditional sale 
agreement (CSA) with a third party lender. This finance was repayable over two years  but 
Miss M says WAVL  told her that she could change  cars halfway through.  When Miss M tried 
to do that she was told shed have to take out another two year finance agreement. Miss M 
says she would never have taken out the CSA if she had been  told this at the outset. She 
feels mis-led and she wants WAVL to apologise. She thinks  WAVL  delayed sorting things 
out when she wanted to end the finance  meaning she had to pay for an MOT, road tax and 
some repairs  - because she kept the car longer  than she wanted to. She would like WAVL to 
reimburse those costs. 
WAVL says (in summary) 
it told Miss M that she could  change  cars halfway through the CSA but they didnt 
discuss how this would  happen or what Miss Ms options might be at that stage;
it would  have been impossible to predict what might be available to Miss M 12 
months into the CSA - as finance companies can change  the terms on offer and her 
circumstances might have altered;
it told Miss M that this CSA was repayable over two years  and she could end it 
halfway through  but she was not told that she could  swap  cars on the same CSA or 
take out another car finance  agreement over 12 months; and
Miss M confirmed that she had simply assumed she could change  cars and keep  the 
same agreement  or finance a different car over 12 months. 
WAVL doesnt  think  it did anything wrong but it refunded the cost of a media cable and some  
car tax, as goodwill gesture. 
One of our investigators  looked into what happened. Hes satisfied that Miss M took out the 
CSA over two years  but she could end it by way of a process known  as voluntary termination 
(VT) provided  she repaid half the total amount due. He reviewed the relevant paperwork and 
email correspondence  between Miss M and WAVL before she took out the agreement.  He 
thinks this made it fairly clear that Miss M could end the CSA about  halfway through - or buy 
the car or hand it back  after two years. Hes not persuaded that WAVL mis-sold the CSA or 
made any misrepresentations and he doesnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Miss M asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached much  the same  conclusions 
as our investigator for broadly the same reasons.  
Miss M brings  her complaint to this service because  she acquired a used car with finance 
that WAVL arranged. I can see she feels strongly that she was misled by WAVL before she 
agreed to that finance. Ive spoken to Miss M and I think  the crux of her complaint is that she 
says WAVL told her she could change cars before the end of the CSAs  two year term but it 
Ref: DRN96550482didnt tell her how that would  work exactly - and she ended up having to keep the car and the 
finance for longer than she wanted to. 
As a credit broker, WAVL  may be held liable for any misrepresentations it made before Miss 
M agreed to the CSA. So, I have considered whether WAVL told Miss M something that 
wasnt true which  induced her to take out the CSA - and shes lost out as a result. 
Miss M told me that the discussions she had with WAVL at the relevant time took place 
mainly by way of email  exchanges that I have  seen. And I accept WAVL told Miss M that 
shed be able to change the car she got with the CSA before the two years was up if she 
wanted to. But, I cant see that WAVL said that Miss M would be able to get another car 
under the same CSA - or finance a different vehicle for 12 months.  
Ive also seen a copy of the CSA signed  by Miss M at the time.  I think this sets out (fairly 
prominently on the first page) that Miss M was required to pay back  the money she borrowed 
over two years and it also says she could  end the agreement earlier - and how much shed 
have to pay to that. Im satisfied theres nothing in the CSA to suggest  that Miss M could use 
it to finance an alternative  vehicle.
I appreciate Miss M feels that WAVL should have explained that shed need  to take out a 
new finance agreement  if she wanted to get a different  car. But, shes confirmed that she 
didnt ask WAVL  about  this at the relevant time. I am not persuaded  that WAVL  was under 
an obligation  to tell Miss M that the CSA would end if she decided to exercise  her right to VT 
and return the car. And I cant reasonably conclude that WAVL  should have explained the 
terms of any new finance would probably be different  - if Miss M decided to change cars. 
Miss M has mentioned that the finance  provider may have  given her incorrect information 
when she wanted  to VT the CSA.  Ive explained  that its open to her to raise  this with the 
finance provider  if she wants to do so - and, if shes unhappy with the response,  she may be 
able to bring another complaint to this service. 
 
Taking everything into account,  I am not satisfied that there are sufficient fair and reasonable 
grounds to find that WAVL misrepresented  the terms  of this CSA or acted incorrectly  here. I 
am sorry to disappoint Miss M but this means Im unable to reasonably require WAVL to do 
anything further.  Miss M isnt obliged to accept my decision, in which case, it remains open 
to her to pursue  this matter by other  means  should she wish to do so. 
Ref: DRN96550483my final decision
My decision  is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2020.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9655048