K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about Just Retirement Limited  (Just Retirement).  Hes unhappy his pension 
funds werent consolidated  when  they were  transferred to Just Retirement  and says hes 
been financially  disadvantaged as a result.  
background
Mr W had four different  pension funds in four different pension schemes. In 2012 he chose 
to transfer his pension funds to Just Retirement and take out a Fixed Term Annuity. 
On 16 March 2018 Mr W complained to Just Retirement. He said that prior to taking out an 
annuity hed consulted a financial advisor  and decided to consolidate his pensions. Mr W 
said hed recently  discovered  that despite  only having had one annuity, Just Retirement  had 
maintained the separation of the four pension funds hed originally transferred to it. He 
explained that having decided to transfer  to another provider it had become apparent hed 
incur higher  management  fees because he was transferring four pension funds instead of 
one. Mr W said he considered Just Retirement to be at fault for this. 
Just Retirement responded to Mr Ws complaint and said Mr W had four distinct pension 
funds which  hed transferred to it separately. Because of this Mr Ws funds  had to be 
maintained under separate policies. Just Retirement said that when  Mr W took benefits  from 
these funds with a Fixed Term Annuity it had paid this income to him as one combined  
payment. But once Mr W decided to transfer  away  from Just Retirement, his funds were  
moved in their original  form.  Just Retirement said it couldnt comment on any management 
fees Mr W was being  charged by his new provider.
Unhappy with Just Retirements response  Mr W referred his complaint to our service.  One of 
our investigators considered the matter and in summary said she didnt think Just Retirement  
had done anything wrong.
Mr W disagreed  and so the matter  was passed to me for a final decision.  To summarise, Mr 
W said he still didnt understand why Just Retirement had failed to consolidate his pension  
funds when it should have.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint.  Ill explain why. But before I do, I should  emphasise that while Ive 
taken note of the correspondence, arguments and comments made  by both parties,  I have 
limited my response to what  I consider  to be the issue  central to this complaint. That is to 
say, whether Just Retirement failed to consolidate Mr Ws pension funds when it should 
have. 
Having carefully considered the matter I havent  seen anything  to suggest Just Retirement 
has done anything  wrong in the way Mr W says it has. 
Before deciding what to do with his pension funds  Mr W consulted a financial adviser. Its 
following this that Mr W says he decided  to consolidate his pension  funds and use them  to 
take out an annuity with Just Retirement. 
Ref: DRN98502942Ive reviewed the paperwork available from 2012  when  Mr W transferred his pension  funds 
and havent seen anything to suggest Mr W or his financial adviser provided Just Retirement 
with any request or instruction  to consolidate  his pension funds. So I cant fairly say Just 
Retirement failed to consolidate Mr Ws pension funds when he says it shouldve.
If the consolidation of his pension funds  was something Mr W or his financial adviser had 
intended or required in 2012  Id expect paperwork from the time, especially Mr Ws original 
application form, to reflect this. But it doesnt. Im also mindful that Mr Ws original Just 
Retirement application  form said:
Your financial  intermediary  will have determined the best options and whether a Just 
Retirement Fixed Term Annuity is appropriate for your circumstances () Both you and your 
financial intermediary are required  to complete the relevant sections  of this Application 
Form.
Mr W completed and signed his Just Retirement application form on 18 July 2012  and 
confirmed hed received advice from his financial adviser regarding his transfers  and 
subsequent annuity.
The 2012  paperwork  Mr W was sent when his four funds were being  transferred to Just 
Retirement showed  they were  being  transferred separately. Indeed separate  completion 
packs were issued to Mr W for each of his funds and the following was confirmed:
Mr Ws pension  funds originated from four different pension schemes 
Mr Ws pension  funds were each being given different policy numbers  
the Pension Commencement Lump  Sums Mr W was entitled to under his four 
pension funds were  being paid to him separately
Mr Ws financial adviser received four separate payments of commission  for the 
transfer of Mr Ws four pension funds  
Based on the above I think Just Retirement provided  enough  information  at the time to make  
it clear to Mr W that his pension funds were  being transferred separately and not being 
consolidated.
Taking an annuity using funds from multiple pensions isnt the same  as consolidating 
pension funds. As explained  above  Mr Ws pension  funds were never consolidated when he 
transferred to Just Retirement. Rather  their combined value was used to pay Mr W a single  
income while he had an annuity with Just Retirement. 
I appreciate Mr Ws disappointment his pension funds  werent  consolidated  in 2012 as he 
says this is something he decided to do and expected would happen. But I do not think there 
is sufficient evidence to say Just Retirement has done anything wrong in this respect.
I wouldnt have expected Just Retirement, or any other provider to automatically  consolidate  
a consumers transferred  pension  funds  unless such an instruction or request was expressly 
made. And even then,  the consolidation of pension funds isnt something that is always 
appropriate, possible or which a provider is prepared to do in some  circumstances.  
I dont underestimate  or doubt Mr Ws sincerity  or strength of feeling  in bringing his complaint 
to this service and I understand that my decision may come as a disappointment to him, but 
for the reasons Ive explained I wont be upholding his complaint.  
Ref: DRN98502943my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Chillel Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9850294