K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) has twice blocked her accounts.
background
Miss G said BoS had twice blocked  her accounts. She only found  out the first time when her 
employer was trying to pay her wages,  and couldnt. She got that block removed,  but then it 
happened again. She couldnt pay for fuel that shed put in her car, and had to walk home. 
She couldnt pay other bills. Miss G said shed lost all trust in BoS.  
BoS said it had applied a block onto Miss Gs account in November because it had been told 
that she was entering into an IVA. BoS said that when one of its customers  does this, it will 
block the accounts, and ask the customer to open  a different type of account. BoS said that 
it removed those blocks the first time because it was told the IVA wasnt  going ahead. It told 
Miss G that it had made  a mistake, although now it says it doesnt think  that after all.
But then it learned  that Miss G had decided in December that she would be going  ahead 
with her IVA, so in January it applied the blocks again. It said that it has now closed all of 
Miss Gs previous accounts, and opened a basic bank  account for her. 
BoS said that when Miss G had got in touch with it shed been given conflicting information  
about what had happened. Although  BoS didnt think the blocks  were  a mistake,  it thought 
hat it had told Miss G that they were.  So it paid £200  in compensation to Miss G. But it paid 
that into an account which was blocked, so she couldnt access  that either.  It then moved the 
money into a different  account, and paid £30 more, to say sorry. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that BoS only blocked Miss Gs 
account because  it had been told shed  entered into an IVA. It removed the first block when 
Miss G showed it that this wasnt the case. It wouldnt remove  the second  block,  as it had 
been applied  in line with BoSs usual approach to customers in an IVA. Our investigator 
didnt think BoS had made  a mistake, or that it was liable for any costs that Miss G incurred 
because she wasnt able to pay her bills as normal at that time. 
Our investigator said Miss G was given wrong  information by BoS, and then a compensation 
payment was transferred to an account  she couldnt  access. But our investigator thought the 
£230 that Miss G had now received  was a fair way to make up for that. 
Our investigator appreciated that there  had been some disagreement between Miss G and a 
member of BoS staff.  He said that although that was unhelpful he wouldnt recommend that 
BoS do anything  further at this time.  Our investigator  thought  that BoS had provided a fair 
outcome to the complaint.  
Miss G didnt  agree. She said BoS had admitted it was at fault. And she didnt think a call 
handler shouldve  put the phone down on her. But our investigator  didnt  change  his mind.  
Miss G wanted a final decision on her case from an ombudsman, so it was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN96731572BoS blocked Miss Gs account in late 2018, because  it was informed that shed entered into 
an IVA. I understand  that Miss G was considering  an IVA at that time, but didnt go ahead.  I 
havent seen anything to suggest to me that its BoSs fault that it thought she had entered  
an IVA. And I think its reasonable for BoS to block Miss Gs accounts if she does enter an 
IVA. So I dont think it did anything wrong when it applied blocks  to her account  in late 2018. 
BoS then removed those blocks when it got confirmation that the IVA wasnt  going ahead. 
BoS blocked the accounts again  in early January, because it was told that Miss G had now 
entered into an IVA. I dont; think it did anything wrong when it did that. So I dont think  that it 
has to pay Miss G, if she wasnt able to meet her ordinary bills as a result of this. 
There was then some confusion. BoS provided  conflicting information, and told Miss G it had 
made a mistake with the blocks. I dont think it really had made  a mistake,  so it was 
unhelpful to tell Miss G that. Im glad to see that it paid Miss G £200 in compensation to 
make up for that. Unfortunately,  it paid that money  into an account she couldnt  access.  Its 
since moved the money again, and paid a further £30. 
I think a total payment  of £230  is a fair amount to make up for whats gone wrong here.  
Miss G also said that she didnt think that BoSs call handler shouldve  hung up on her. I 
understand that BoS has provided feedback  to that call handler. I also understand that this 
call became heated,  and some inappropriate language may have been  used.  If that was the 
case, then I wouldnt  expect the call handler  to continue the call. So I think that the feedback 
provided to this employee provides  a fair outcome to this part of Miss Gs complaint. 
Because I think BoS has already done  enough  to make up for what went  wrong  here I dont 
think it has to do any more now. I know Miss G will be disappointed but I dont think her 
complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9673157