K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Harvey  & Thompson Limited (H&T) wrongly  lent him money he couldnt 
afford to pay back. 
background
Mr B said that the business didnt carry out proper affordability checks  and allowed him to 
continue to borrow when  he was in financial difficulty.
Mr B took out 4 loans between June and September 2009. A summary of Mr Bs borrowing 
is set out below.
Date Taken Date repaid Amount borrowed Amount repaid
 
Loan 1 06/06/2009  11/07/2009 £522.00 £600.00
Loan 2 11/07/2009  10/08/2009 £87.00 £100.00
Loan 3 15/08/2009  17/09/2009 £435.00 £500.00
Loan 4 17/09/2009  20/10/2009 £174.00 £200.00
In its final response to Mr B H&T said that the complaint was out of time. After Mr B referred 
the complaint  to this service H&T agreed that we could consider it. H&T said that Mr Bs 
income was verified  with a payslip and the bank had approved  his credit worthiness by 
offering a cheque  guarantee card. Mr B didnt say that he was in difficulty  or couldnt afford 
to repay.  It lent him the money on the basis of reasonable  and proportionate checks taking 
into account what Mr B said and his borrowing history. It said it made a lending decision  on 
the information given which showed  Mr B could afford the repayments. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought  that 
on the basis of what she had seen it wasnt wrong for H&T to give Mr B loans 1 to 3. At the 
point of loan 4 she thought that H&T shouldve seen  that Mr B was in difficulty and he was 
not properly managing his money.  Mr B repeatedly borrowed again the same day that the 
earlier loans  were repaid.  She thought that at the point of loan 4 Mr Bs pattern of borrowing 
should have alerted H&T that Mr B was in difficulty and couldnt afford to repay what  he had 
borrowed. H&T replied  to say in summary  that based on the information it had, Mr B had 
enough disposable income  to meet the repayments and the loans were properly 
underwritten and responsibly provided and loan 4 was for less than loan 3 which didnt  
suggest Mr B was in difficulty. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
H&T needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ref: DRN92333762But certain factors might  point to the fact that H&T should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that H&T was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading guidelines defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B started borrowing from H&T in June 2009. Because of the time that has passed H&T 
no longer have any records of the application  information. Mr B confirms  that H&T verified  
his income by asking  for a payslip.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for H&T to give Mr B loans  1 to 3 on the 
basis of the information he gave about  his income.  It was early in the lending  relationship  
and so I think on the basis of the information I have the checks were enough for H&T to 
agree to lend.  As Mr B hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in 
relation to loans  one to three,  I dont  think that I need to say more  about them.
At the point of loan 4 I agree with the adjudicator that Mr Bs borrowing pattern was a cause  
for concern. Mr B had taken out loan 4 on the same day as loan 3 was repaid. Mr B had 
been consistently borrowing each month for 4 months with no break in the borrowing or 
significant reduction of the amount owed. Although loan 4 was for less than loan 3 I dont 
think this is enough  to suggest  that Mr B was sustainably  repaying the debt.  This should 
have prompted  H&T to consider whether further  lending was sustainable for Mr B. His 
pattern of borrowing suggested  that he was reliant  on short term credit and not managing  his 
money responsibly. I think that H&T should  have done further  checks  at this point  about  why 
Ref: DRN92333763Mr B needed  to borrow so often.  If it had done it wouldve seen that Mr B had a number  of 
other short term lending  accounts and further  borrowing was unsustainable. I agree with the 
adjudicator that H&T shouldnt  have given Mr B loan 4.
Although Mr B took out the loans and was able to make his repayments I dont think  that this 
is enough for me to say H&T acted responsibly. Mr B wanted and needed the loans because  
of the debt he was in. H&T shouldve taken better steps to see whether he could afford his 
loans and shouldnt  have continued to lend given his borrowing pattern.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it Harvey & 
Thompson Limited should do the following:
1.refund any interest and/or charges applied to loan 4
2.add 8% simple interest per year from the time that the interest  and charges were  paid to 
the time Mr B gets it back.  
3.remove all adverse  information recorded  on Mr Bs credit file about loan 4.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Harvey & Thompson Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Harvey & Thompson Limited must  give Mr B a certificate showing how much  tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9233376