K821x#15Complaint
Miss L has complained  about advice she received from Portafina LLP (formerly known as 
Portal Financial Services LLP) to transfer  five personal pension  plans  (PPP)  to a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).  The funds within the SIPP  were then used to invest  in 
several unregulated  collective investment  schemes  (UCIS).
Background 
Miss L was introduced  to Portafina in 2014  after shed been in contact with another  
business, from here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed 
representative (AR) of a regulated business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised  by the Financial  
Conduct Authority  to provide investment advice, but neither  it, nor Firm C were permitted to 
provide pension transfer advice. 
Portafinas review with the consumer produced the following information: 
Miss Ls circumstances were:
-She was 52 years  old, employed  and earning approximately £15,700 a year
-She was co-habiting and had one child, aged 14. She owned her home, valued at 
£97,000 with an outstanding mortgage 
-She was in good health and had a desired retirement age of 60 
-She had £13,200  in cash  savings and no existing investments
Regarding Miss Ls pensions:
-She had five PPPs, with a total transfer  value of £57,365
-The first pension which Ill refer to as her Provider C plan had a fund value of 
£9,455 and a transfer value of £8,546 due to an early transfer  penalty  of 
approximately £909. It was invested  in Provider  Cs Schroders  fund, which had 
produced a return of 13.15%  per annum over the previous five years. Miss L was 
being charged 5.88% p/a for the administration of this fund
-The second pension  which Ill refer to as her Provider S plan had a fund value 
of £3,234. It was invested in With Profits and Managed funds and had produced a 
collective return of 5.7% over the previous five years. The Annual Management 
Charge (AMC) was 1%
-The third pension  which Ill refer to as her Provider F plan  had a value  of £3,256  
and a terminal bonus of £461.  It was invested  in With Profits and Managed funds. 
The Managed  fund had produced a return of 9.92% over the past five years and 
for the With Profits  fund returns had been 4.01%. This was recorded  as a 
combined performance of 6.97% in the suitability report. The Managed fund had 
an AMC of 0.75%. The With Profits fund had implicit charges, which  were  
assumed to be 1.05% p/a
-The fourth pension  which  Ill refer to as her Provider M1 plan was valued  at 
£27,812 and invested in a Managed  Fund. The AMC was 1% and average 
growth had been 8.75% over the previous five years
-The fifth pension which Ill refer to as her Provider M2 plan was valued at 
£14,517 and invested in Managed  and International Equity  funds. An early 
redemption penalty of £1,075 applied to this plan and it had an AMC of 1%. The 
International Equity fund had produced a return of 9.27% over the previous  five 
Ref: DRN95968562years and for the Managed  fund returns had been  8.75%.  The suitability report  
averaged this as 9.03%
Miss Ls Stated Objectives were:
 
-To consolidate her plans
-To have  access to a greater investment  fund choice
Miss Ls risk profile suggested she was a Moderately Adventurous  investor
Having considered all the information  and based on her circumstances, Portafina 
recommended that Miss L switch her PPPs  to a SIPP saying this will allow  you () 
to meet  your stated needs  and objectives
Portafina said it would not be providing any advice  in relation to where Miss Ls funds 
would be invested after the switch, as this would be given by Firm C
The Suitability Report  noted that the AMC for the recommended  SIPP  would be 0.5%  and 
Firm C would  also charge an ongoing  fee of 0.5% for providing the investment advice. It was 
stated that: 
Overall, this strategy will cost more than your existing arrangement. Whilst the intention  is 
that this will be more  than compensated  for by the increased growth of your pension fund 
this cannot be guaranteed.
The recommended  SIPP was established in December 2014, with funds totalling £57,754 
transferred between December 2014  and January 2015. Firm C invested  Miss Ls SIPP  fund 
between February and March 2015.  £23,700,  approximately 41% of the value, was allocated 
to UCIS funds. The exact make-up of the portfolio  was as follows:
Unregulated Collective  Investment Schemes (UCIS)
Brisa Investments  £3,600
Biomass Investments  £5,500 
Lakeview UK Holdings   £5,500
Real Estate Investments USA  £5,500  
Strategic Residential   £3,600 
Regulated investments
Marlborough ETF Global   £5,479.78
Spectrum Thesis Green  £6,576.88 
Spectrum Thesis Orange  £9,315.34
Spectrum Thesis Indigo  £7,124.00
In February 2018,  with the assistance  of a claims management company, Miss L complained 
to Portafina about the advice she received to switch. She said the advice was negligent and 
unsuitable for someone who wasnt a sophisticated  or high net worth  investor  and had a 
cautious attitude to risk. Many of the investments were  high risk and illiquid and not suitable  
for her.
Portafina considered  Miss Ls complaint and concluded that it had provided  suitable advice 
(in line with her circumstances, needs  and objectives at the time) and acted in her best 
interests. It noted that Miss L intended  to consolidate several  plans into one for easier 
Ref: DRN95968563management and a greater fund choice.  Transferring  the ceding  schemes  to a SIPP allowed 
her to concentrate on one plan and have a wider access  to funds. It would also save  her a 
considerable amount in fees, as the AMC was only 0.5%.
Unhappy with Portafinas response  to her complaint, Miss L referred the matter to our 
service.
An adjudicator considered  the matter and concluded  that Miss Ls complaint  should be 
upheld. He didnt  think Portafinas advice was suitable. In summary  he said:
The value of the pension fund meant there was limited opportunity to take advantage 
of the potential wide range of investments within a SIPP
The pensions were  performing well with her largest growing at around 9%. There 
was no need to transfer to a SIPP based on performance
The recommended  level of investment in UCIS was 3-5% of a portfolio and Miss L 
was investing  far more than this. Based on her limited experience,  there was 
insufficient evidence  to demonstrate she understood the investments
He disagreed with Portafinas assessment that Miss L was a moderately  adventurous 
investor and believed that it had failed to take into account answers she gave to the 
risk questions, such as agreeing  to being  described as cautious
Although Portafina did not advise on the investments, it needed to have considered 
them as part of the overall recommendation, as ultimately the investments could not 
have been recommended  without  its involvement
Portafina disagreed  with the adjudicators findings and in summary said:
The advice to switch  had been  suitable  and in line with Miss Ls objectives at the 
time. She wanted to consolidate  her pension plans, save  money on charges and 
diversify her pension portfolio
The size of the fund was not relevant, and the SIPP provider was selected for its 
online functionality,  competitive fees and flexibility
It had modelled a comparator which showed  the maturity value of the proposed plan 
could be higher than the ceding  scheme
The level of performance  could be replicated,  as she had access to a more  
diversified portfolio which could match the underlying investments
It should not be held accountable for the investment advice  provided  by Firm C. It 
provided a copy of a change  of agency form, completed before the investment 
selection was made,  which showed that the investment advice was Firm Cs 
responsibility
There was nothing  to suggest to Portafina  that Firm C would follow  an investment 
strategy using high risk and illiquid  funds and the fact it did not follow the risk 
classification wasnt Portafinas fault
The adjudicator responded to Portafinas arguments and noted the following:
He did not think a firm could provide suitable  switching advice without knowing what 
the destination for the new funds would  be
It was difficult  to understand how Miss L could be classed as having a moderate to 
adventurous attitude to risk (ATR), based  on her answers to certain questions
Ref: DRN95968564He had not seen any evidence of Portafina  having a detailed discussion  about the 
answers Miss L gave  with regard to her risk profile. As Portafina  incorrectly  assessed 
this, it should  compensate her in full
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing this, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the relevant time. Having done 
so, Im upholding the complaint. Ill explain  why.
Portafina advised Miss L to switch her PPPs to a SIPP but says it didnt provide any 
recommendation regarding the investments held within the SIPP, as Firm C was meant to 
provide this. Although the intention was for another regulated firm to advise on and arrange 
Miss Ls underlying  SIPP investments, I dont think that meant  Portafinas responsibilities 
ended once the SIPP was set up, the funds  transferred, and the money then made available  
for investment. I believe that as Miss Ls financial adviser, Portafina  still had a duty to ensure 
the overall transaction was suitable,  notwithstanding that another regulated firm was going to 
be involved. 
Suitable advice  couldnt,  in my view, be given without thinking  about the intended  
investment. Portafina  appeared  to recognise this when, despite saying Firm C would provide 
specific investment advice, it undertook a Full Switch Comparison to illustrate how much  
more Miss L could receive by switching her pensions to the SIPP. Its partly on the basis  that 
if Miss L invested in line with a suitable  model portfolio, and achieved the relevant targeted 
returns, that Portafina concluded transferring could increase her overall pension benefits and 
therefore be worthwhile
The regulators position
Having thought carefully about what happened  here, I dont think Portafinas  advice to switch 
was suitable. And I dont  think  it was right to try to limit its advice in the way it sought to. At 
the time of the advice the regulator had made its view clear that it considered  in order to 
suitably advise on pension transfers  or switches, a firm needed to consider the suitability of 
the underlying  investments to be held in it. 
The regulators position  was evident  in its 2013 alert where it said:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension.
Financial advisers () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have  to consider 
the unregulated  investment as part of their advice to invest  in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments  held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other  wrappers), 
Ref: DRN95968565consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated  schemes. It should  be particularly clear  to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension  transfer in 
implementing a wider  investment  strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating () If you give 
regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated items, you 
cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
The regulators 2014 alert added:  
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement  to release funds to invest  through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not 
suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying  investment  proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction  as a whole.
Portafina appears to have  been under the impression that, as it told Miss L it wasnt 
providing any advice  on the underlying investments, this enabled it to provide advice on a 
restricted basis. But this wasnt right. It couldnt  separate out the two elements. Its advice  on 
the suitability of the transfer had to include  the suitability of the underlying  investments. I 
dont think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position  on the matter.
Both alerts specifically referred  to the regulators  overarching Principles for Businesses  
(PRIN) and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which  Portafina  was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts  said a firm would  fall short  of its obligations under 
these precepts if it didnt  familiarise  itself with the intended investment strategy  and that it 
wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to 
Miss L under the regulatory  system. So, saying it was operating under a limited  retainer 
didnt absolve  it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing  was suitable  again, 
this had to include  consideration  of how Miss Ls funds  would be invested.
COBS 9.2 required  Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Miss L. To achieve this, COBS 9.2.2R  said Portafina had to obtain enough 
information from Miss L to ensure its recommendation met her objectives,  that she could 
bear the related investment risks consistent  with these objectives and that she had the 
necessary experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the transaction.  
COBS 9.2.2R included  the following wording:
() The information regarding the investment objectives of a client  must include, where 
relevant, information  on the length of time for which he wishes  to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile,  and the purposes of the investment.
So as part of the fact-finding process  Portafina had to understand Miss Ls objectives   one 
of which  was to have greater fund choice   and the related risks. If Miss L wanted a greater 
choice of funds,  it is reasonable to have investigated what  these funds  were  and if they 
would be appropriate  for her. It wasnt free to ignore how Miss Ls funds were going  to be 
Ref: DRN95968566invested irrespective  of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the 
SIPP to be inextricably linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and 
suitability of a switch without knowing what Miss L would  invest in within the wrapper, 
doesnt in my mind  seem reasonably possible.
Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory  framework that existed  at the time of 
Portafinas advice  and had to be complied  with. Principles 1 (conducting business with 
integrity); 2 (exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers  
interests and treating  them  fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way) and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice  for a customer  entitled to rely on the 
firms judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what  Ive outlined  
above, Ive considered Portafinas advice with these  in mind. 
As Portafina didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets 
of the SIPP  it recommended, it says it was unaware of where,  further to Firm Cs 
involvement, Miss Ls transferred funds would ultimately be invested.  As Firm C was 
regulated and able to provide investment advice with a duty to ensure this was suitable,  it 
says it saw no issue with this.
I accept that as a result  of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice.  However, I dont agree  that this negated Portafinas duty to do the same. As 
Miss Ls appointed  financial  adviser, it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable  
advice and act in Miss Ls best interests. And as Ive said,  this had to include an awareness 
of where Miss Ls funds  would be invested. 
As part of its duty of care to Miss L, I consider that Portafina shouldve  at the very least 
asked Firm C at the outset for details of the model portfolios it adopted for various risk 
categories. And in doing so it ought  to have  checked these lined up with what it considered 
to suit each risk group. Further to this, Portafina shouldve also asked for the details of the 
portfolio intended  for Miss L and the proposed investments. Portafina couldnt reasonably 
assess the suitability  of the transfer it was recommending without doing so. 
The reality  is that having  followed Portafinas transfer advice, £23,700 of Miss Ls SIPP fund 
was invested in UCIS. I think  the regulators 2010  UCIS findings are relevant here.  Here  it 
said that as well as UCIS  only being eligible for promotion to certain customers  (generally 
sophisticated, high net worth  investors),  as an example, even when a customer  was deemed 
eligible for the promotion of UCIS,  suitable advice involved limiting a client's  exposure  to 
these investments to 3% to 5% of their retirement  provision. In Miss Ls case, over 40% of 
her SIPP was invested in UCIS. I dont think UCIS was suitable for Miss L at all, let alone in 
the proportion  invested. Theres nothing to indicate Miss L had the requisite knowledge or 
experience to accept  or understand the risks associated with these types of investments.
In my view, had Portafina requested information  about the proposed  investments and been 
advised that Firm C intended to invest over 40% of Miss Ls pension in UCIS,  it couldve 
queried this, given that it had only determined that she had a moderately adventurous 
attitude to risk.
I dont agree with Portafinas assessment of Miss Ls risk rating as moderately adventurous 
and will explain  why later.  However, I think that had appropriate enquiries  been made,  it 
wouldve become  apparent  something was amiss with Firms Cs proposal  and that the 
switch was therefore unsuitable and likely  to lead to Miss L being exposed to more risk than 
Portafina considered  appropriate. 
Ref: DRN95968567I think its likely that, having  realised how significantly the investments Firm C intended to 
make differed from those  it had based  its suitability assessment  on, Portafina couldve taken 
preventative action or at the very least made Miss L aware of the situation so she could 
have, if servicing rights  had already been transferred to Firm C, sought to take corrective 
action herself. 
Overall, I think Portafina needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
investment proposition that Firm C intended  for Miss L. It shouldve asked Firm C for the 
specifics of this or, as a minimum, an outline of the proposition. Had it done so, and Firm C 
had given it a clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected Portafina to have 
advised Miss L that it couldnt recommend she switch her pension plans in those 
circumstances. If Portafina had warned Miss L against investing in line with Firm Cs 
proposal, I think its more likely  than not that Miss L wouldve listened to it and not gone 
ahead with the switch. 
In my view, the fact that Portafina didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Miss L when assessing the suitability of the proposed switch meant that it 
couldnt reasonably conclude the course  of action it recommended  as a solution  to Miss Ls 
needs was being made  on a sound basis. And as a result of these shortcomings,  it seems to 
me that Firm C was in effect given  the freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how 
Miss Ls SIPP was invested.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont  think the suitability of Portafinas advice turns 
solely on where Miss Ls funds were  ultimately invested. Portafinas recommendation that 
she switch to a SIPP  in the first place is an important consideration. And were it not for the 
switch and Portafinas incomplete and, in my view,  flawed advice regarding this, Im not 
persuaded Miss L wouldve  ultimately gone on to invest as she did.
The advice  to switch 
At the time of Portafinas advice Miss L was 52 years old, employed and in good health.  She 
was a standard retail investor with eight years until her desired retirement  age. Aside from 
her state  pension entitlement, the plans being switched represented her entire retirement  
provision. There was no record of Miss L having any investments and although she was a 
home owner,  she had an outstanding mortgage.  
Miss L was recorded as having two objectives, consolidating her pensions  and getting a 
greater fund choice.  Both objectives could be met without switching her funds into a SIPP.
Firstly, and most obviously, the objective of consolidating her pensions could have been met 
by switching her pensions to one of her existing plans. There was no need for her to move  
funds to a SIPP, which carried a higher level of charges. Furthermore,  the desire for 
consolidation should have been  weighed against the cost to Miss L of switching her Provider 
C plan and her Provider M2 plan, which had transfer penalties of £909 and £1,075 
respectively.
Its understandable  that a consumer would want to reduce the amount  of administration and 
paperwork associated with holding five different pension plans. However, when faced  with a 
loss of approximately 10% and 7% from two of her pensions,  there  should  have  been  some 
discussion around leaving those  funds untouched until any penalty  was reduced or removed 
Ref: DRN95968568altogether. As Miss L had just eight years until her desired  retirement age, additional growth  
of over 1% a year was needed just to recoup the exit charges. 
By way of comparison,  the Provider  C plan had averaged returns of 13.15%  over the past 
five years and the Provider M2 plan, 9.03%. While  past performance is no guarantee of 
future returns, the prospect  of growth  of 1% or more above these levels  seems  unlikely.
Miss Ls other objective of achieving greater fund choice  didnt appear to be investigated  by 
Portafina in any meaningful way. It didnt ask what type of funds Miss L wanted to invest in 
or query why she needed a greater choice  than she already had. Furthermore, Portafina 
claims that it didnt know what funds the Miss L was going to invest  in via Firm C. This meant 
it didnt know whether the funds she was to be moved into were already  available  through  
her existing arrangements.
If Portafina didnt  know how the SIPP was to be invested, then it couldnt credibly say 
whether or not Miss L actually needed a greater fund choice than her existing pensions 
offered. Her investment  choices may have matched, or been similar to, funds already offered 
by one or more  of her four existing pension providers. The suitability of funds from these 
providers was not discussed.
To be clear, as somebody  with limited investment experience, I cannot think of any reason 
why Miss L, if deemed necessary, wouldnt have been able to find an appropriate fund with 
one of her four different  pension providers. If Miss L had a genuine desire  for an investment 
which wasnt available from at least one of her existing providers, I think  it wouldve been  
reasonable to assume this may have been non-standard and therefore worthy of further  
investigation by Portafina.
At the time of the advice, approximately 75% of Miss Ls pension portfolio was held in With 
Profits or Managed  funds, with the remainder in higher  risk equity funds. Based on the 
allocation of her funds, her pension  was exposed to a medium level of investment risk 
overall. While  Miss Ls pensions werent exclusively invested on a cautious  or low risk basis, 
she was also not invested on an adventurous, or moderately adventurous basis. By investing 
in a moderately adventurous portfolio, Miss L would be exposing  her pension  to a much  
higher level of risk. And with only eight years  to retirement, there  would need  to be a strong  
justification for increasing the potential for loss to her pension fund, as she had a limited  time 
to recoup any losses. 
Im not satisfied that there  was any justification for taking on more risk when there  had been  
no discussion about what level of income Miss L was likely  to need in retirement,  whether 
this was likely to be met by her existing arrangements and what would  happen if she wasnt  
able to achieve any target.
While most  people would want to secure as large  a pension pot as possible in retirement,  
this shouldnt be at any cost. There was nothing in Miss Ls pension  history,  or wider 
financial circumstances to suggest  that she needed  to take on any additional risk at this 
stage of her life. Nor was there anything to show that she would benefit from any of the 
features associated with a SIPP  wrapper,  e.g. management of assets,  or non-standard  
investments; she had no experience in these areas.
There doesnt appear to have  been  any discussion with Miss L about why she needed or 
wanted to take on more  risk when her pensions  had already shown high levels of return  over 
the previous five years. I agree with the adjudicator that there is no evidence  that Miss L had 
Ref: DRN95968569a moderately adventurous  ATR. If the risk profiler produced a classification which  was out of 
step with the Miss Ls circumstances, including what was known of her investment 
experience, Portafina  should have discussed  this with her to confirm why this was, rather 
than accepting it without  question.
Based on the risk profile  Miss L completed, Portafina said it believed  she had a moderately  
adventurous ATR. Its suitability report described  this as someone  who was a fairly 
experienced investor whod used a range of investment  products in the past;  typically had 
moderate to high levels of financial knowledge;  was willing to take risk with a substantial 
portion of their available assets and who would usually take gambles. 
However, several of Miss Ls recorded  responses  to the risk attitude  profiling questionnaire  
directly contradict this definition. For instance,  she agreed with the statements People  who 
know me would  describe  me as a cautious person and I generally  look for safer 
investments, even if that means lower  returns.  Neither of these statements are in line with 
the profile described above.
Based on what was known of Miss Ls circumstances and experience,  I dont think it was 
reasonable to conclude  that moderately adventurous accurately reflected the investment 
risk she was prepared  to take. I believe it wouldve  been more reasonable to conclude  that 
she was a balanced investor, as this reflected the pension portfolio she held at that time. As 
Ive said, there was nothing to indicate Miss L had any previous investment experience  or 
high levels  of relevant  knowledge. And as there  was no evidence  that, apart from savings, 
she had any other liquid assets , there  was nothing  to suggest she was in a position to 
tolerate taking on additional  risks to these funds.  Any significant losses incurred  would 
clearly have a serious impact on her future retirement provision.
There was a clear cost to switching Miss Ls existing pension  plans into a SIPP. As well as 
the exit charges on her Provider  C and Provider  M plans, there was an adviser  of 5% 
charged by Portafina.  The impact  of these charges was equivalent to an overall reduction to 
Miss Ls pension fund by approximately  10%. Any additional charge to Miss L would provide 
a strong  reason not to proceed with a course of action. The benefits of switching would need 
to outweigh the cost of doing so, as Miss L was unlikely to be able to recoup these charges 
through improved  fund performance over the short to medium term.
As noted in the suitability report, Miss Ls pension funds had achieved average growth rates  
ranging from 5.7% to over 13% p/a for the last five years. Overall,  I consider this a good  rate 
of return given the investment climate at the time and I do not believe that an adviser  could 
legitimately claim  that they could  expect to outperform this level of growth  with a different 
fund, especially when  they did not know what that fund or funds might be. 
Portafina have  argued that its own modelling showed that Miss L would be up to £8,800 
better off by switching to the SIPP. I do not think that this is a strong justification for the 
recommendation when the adviser  did not know where the funds  were  going to be invested. 
As per COBS  4.6.8:
A firm should not provide  information on future performance if it is not able to obtain  the 
objective data needed to comply with the rule on future performance.
Without knowing where the pension was to be invested, a realistic projection of the potential  
performance of the SIPP portfolio could not be made.
Ref: DRN959685610Furthermore, Portafinas comparator was based  on a pension term to age 65, but Miss L had 
a desired retirement age of 60. Therefore, she had far less time to benefit from any 
theoretical improved  performance to recoup  her initial costs.
I do not believe that it was likely that the new pension would perform any better  than the 
existing funds, when  the ongoing cost was going to be higher. As noted  on the statement in 
the Suitability  Report:
Overall, this strategy will cost more than your existing arrangement. Whilst the intention  is 
that this will be more  than compensated  for by the increased growth of your pension fund 
this cannot be guaranteed.
Portafina has argued that the cost within the SIPP would  be lower, as the AMC was 0.5%, 
but this only accounts for the charge made by the SIPP provider. The 0.5%  charge from the 
investment manager,  Firm C, and the costs of the investments themselves have not been 
taken into consideration. Regarding the various  charges applicable  within the SIPP  I 
understand that an AMC of 0.73% applied to investments held via a Unit Trust/OEIC. If, as 
Portafina maintains,  it was unaware that Firm C intended to invest  Miss L in UCIS,  then I 
think its reasonable to assume it would have expected a share of any pension for a 
moderately adventurous investor would be held in Unit Trusts, or similar, and therefore 
subject to an AMC of 0.73%. 
As there was an AMC for the ongoing  advice of 0.5% from Firm C, on top of the 0.5% charge 
from the SIPP provider,  this meant that Miss Ls pension  would  be subject to ongoing 
charges of up to 1.73%  p/a. According  to the Suitability Report,  the only pension which  had 
an AMC above 1% was the one with Provider C, at 5.88%, so the recommendation would 
result in higher  ongoing costs throughout the life of her pension.
I dont think the advice for Miss L to switch her pensions into a SIPP  was suitable. Overall, 
the recommendation placed additional costs  on Miss Ls pension, both at the date of the 
switch and throughout the period it was invested  in the SIPP.  It increased  the level of risk her 
funds were exposed  to, which was not appropriate  for her circumstances and did not offer 
any benefits that could not be achieved through her existing arrangements.
Would Miss  L have proceeded with the transfers anyway?
Ive thought about whether, if shed  been  correctly advised by Portafina  not to switch, Miss L 
would have gone ahead with the transfer  anyway.  Having carefully considered  all the 
circumstances in this case, I dont believe  she would, when both of her recorded objectives  
could be met within her existing plans  and certainly without having to move  to a SIPP 
wrapper.
Had she been appropriately advised,  I think its more likely that Miss L would not have 
chosen to switch all her pensions from her existing providers, as (apart  from the Provider  C 
plan) the costs  were  low and the performance over the past five years  had been good. 
However, she may still have made some changes to her arrangements. Portafina previously 
disputed this, arguing that it was contradictory  for the adjudicator to say that Miss L would  
have invested  differently  if the correct advice  had been given and may have kept her existing 
pensions, as she could  not do both. I dont  agree.
It is not contradictory to argue that, if the correct  advice was given  to not switch  her pensions  
into a SIPP,  Miss L may still have  made  some  changes to her pension funds. She held five 
Ref: DRN959685611different pension policies and at least one of them had higher than average charges. It is 
entirely reasonable that she should seek to make savings and try to reduce the level of 
paperwork associated with holding five plans. If Miss L did want to consolidate her pensions  
and reduce the charges  she was paying, this objective couldve been met by switching funds 
to one of her existing  pension  providers (or even another pension  provider who had charges 
of 1% or less). She had more choices than just leaving her funds  untouched  or switching to a 
SIPP. 
As a professional adviser,  which unlike Firm C was authorised to provide transfer advice, 
Portafinas recommendation  wouldve  carried significant weight and could, I believe, have 
dissuaded Miss L from proceeding with the switch and subsequent investments.  I accept  its 
possible Miss L may still have wanted  to go ahead anyway. But I think, at the very least, if 
Portafina had advised against  this, that would  have made her think about things. 
Alternatively, had Miss L proceeded  against  such advice, Portafina couldve discharged its 
professional responsibility  to her appropriately.  For example,  it couldve treated  her as an 
insistent client. However,  theres nothing  to indicate Miss L was acting against  the advice 
shed been given.
Overall, I consider that the losses suffered by Miss L are as a result of the inappropriate 
advice provided  by Portafina. And had it not been  for this unsuitable advice, I dont  believe 
she would  have gone ahead with the switch of her pensions  or invested such a large share  
of her pension fund in UCIS. 
Is Portafina wholly responsible for Miss Ls losses?
Im satisfied that the advice Portafina  provided  was unsuitable and the losses  suffered 
by Miss L are as a result  of the inappropriate advice to her to transfer her pension 
plans to a SIPP. And had it not been  for this unsuitable advice, Miss L wouldnt have 
been in a position to invest as she did through Firm C. Because of this I consider 
Portafina wholly responsible for Miss Ls resulting losses.
Im not asking Portafina to account  for loss that goes beyond  the consequences of their 
failings. Im satisfied those failings have caused  the full extent of the loss in question. I 
recognise that Firm Cs actions may also have contributed  to Miss Ls loss. So I have 
considered whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility for compensating the 
loss to Portafina. In the circumstances, though, I think its fair to make an award for the 
whole loss against Portafina.
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were  in a business  relationship  
in which  each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring  about  a single 
outcome for clients  pension-switch advice  and investment.  Portafina advised Miss L to 
transfer to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for the personal  pensions to be 
transferred. I acknowledge that Firm C advised  Miss L to invest a significant share of her 
SIPP funds  in UCIS. But, as Ive explained, Portafinas understanding  that they could 
reasonably limit their advice to just the transfer and the SIPP was wrong; they needed to 
consider the proposed investments too, even if Firm C was advising Miss L on the 
investments. It was only as a result of Portafinas  involvement that Miss L transferred her 
plans. Portafinas  role was pivotal, since the eventual investments were  fully reliant on the 
transfer taking  place; if Miss L hadnt transferred, she couldnt have invested as she did. 
And, as was clearly  set out in the regulators  alerts  in both 2013  and 2014,  Portafina  
Ref: DRN959685612couldnt  restrict  their advice  merely  to the transfer;  they had to consider  the proposed  
investments  for Miss  L, which  it didnt  do. 
So, while  I accept  that Firm C might  also bear some  responsibility  for Miss  Ls losses,  
Im satisfied  that had it not been  for Portafinas  failings,  Miss  L wouldnt  have  suffered  a 
loss at all.
I appreciate  that Firm C is in liquidation  but Im aware  that, as a fund of last resort,  the 
FSCS  wont  pay out on claims  where  it is aware  that another  firm was involved  in the 
transaction,  and it considers  that firm might  also be responsible  for a consumers  losses.  
I think its important to point out that Im not saying Portafina is wholly  responsible for the 
losses simply because Firm C is now in liquidation. My starting point  as to causation  is that 
Portafina gave  unsuitable advice and they are responsible  for the losses Miss L suffered in 
transferring to the SIPP and investing as she did. That isnt, to my mind,  wrong  in law or 
irrational but reflects  the facts of the case and my view of the fair and reasonable position.  
Portafina couldve prevented the transfer  and the investments. Instead they facilitated them, 
having given unsuitable advice to Miss L that she should transfer.  Miss  L hasnt complained  
about Firm C and in light of its liquidation,  there  would be little point in her doing so.  She has 
complained about Portafina and because of what I have said,  it is, in my view, fair and 
reasonable that Portafina should account  to her for the full extent of her losses.  
So, for the reasons  given,  Im satisfied  that Portafina  is responsible  for Miss  Ls losses.  
What should Portafina  do to put things right?
To compensate Miss L fairly Portafina  must:
Compare the performance of Miss L's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Portafina should also add interest  set out below.
If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Miss L's pension plan, to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation  and any interest. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portafina is unable  to pay the compensation  into Miss L's pension  plan,  it should  
pay that amount  direct  to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Miss L's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected  retirement  age.
For example, if Miss L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Miss L would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
Ref: DRN959685613of the compensation.
In addition, Portafina should  pay Miss L £300  for disruption  to her retirement 
planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Miss L how much has been taken off. Portafina  should give Miss L a 
tax deduction  certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end  date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of switchdate of 
settlement8% simple per 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement  (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
being  notified  
of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market) as may be the 
case here. Where this applies, the actual value  should be assumed  to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation. Portafina should take ownership  of any illiquid investment by paying  a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from 
the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Portafina is unable  to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. Portafina  may require that Miss L provides an undertaking 
to pay Portafina  any amount  she may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension  plan. Portafina will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
Ref: DRN959685614from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portafina  total all those payments  and deduct  that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Future SIPP  fees
If Portafina had given suitable  advice  Miss L wouldnt  have the SIPP. The SIPP only exists  
because of the investments. In order for the SIPP to be closed and further  SIPP fees to be 
prevented, the investments need  to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this 
might be achieved by Portafina taking over the investments, or this is something  that Miss L 
can discuss with his SIPP provider  directly. But I dont know how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved, and we dont have  the power to tell them  what  to do. If any 
investment cant be removed, to provide certainty to all parties,  I think its fair that Portafina 
pay Miss L an upfront  lump sum equivalent  to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated 
using the previous years fees). This should provide a reasonable period  for the parties to 
arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Miss L wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept some investment  risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Miss Ls circumstances and risk attitude. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Portafina  LLP to pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9596856