K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Monzo  Bank Ltd (Monzo) wouldnt transfer his call to the complaints  
department. 
background
Mr L complained to Monzo  about a problem  he had with his account.  He didnt hear back so 
called Monzo and spoke to customer  services  to find out what  was going on. He asked to be 
transferred to the complaints department, but the customer service agent said he couldnt  
transfer the call, but he would arrange  for someone  to call Mr L back. Mr L wasnt happy  with 
this, saying he never got call-backs when hed been promised them  before.  So, he asked  to 
speak to a manager instead. Mr L got frustrated when  the agent  again said he couldnt 
transfer the call. He said he wanted  the complaint dealt with that day. The agent said this 
wasnt possible, and so Mr L ended up complaining about the agent not being able to 
transfer that call. This complaint has ended up with us. 
One of our investigators  looked at this complaint, but said that Monzo  hadnt  done anything 
wrong. Mr L wasnt happy with this, and asked for an Ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call between Mr L and the agent - I can see Mr L became very frustrated 
during the call, and I can understand why. This frustration led to him raising this complaint 
during that call.
   
The agent  Mr L spoke  to was very calm  and polite all through the call, but I do think he could  
have done more to explain why he couldnt transfer the call. I think this could have been 
useful to Mr L. The call was, however, quite long  it lasted  nearly 18 minutes.  Mr L kept 
asking to be transferred  to the complaints department, but kept getting the same           
answer  the agent couldnt  transfer the call. I think this caused Mr L some  unnecessary  
frustration. I think the agent  could have  handled this part of the call better  to try and avoid 
the conversation  going round in circles and not really getting anywhere.  
However, aside from Mr Ls clear frustration during that call, I dont think the agents failure 
to transfer it caused  Mr L any other significant inconvenience  it only really made the call a 
few minutes longer than it needed to be. I also cant see that the problem he originally 
phoned Monzo about that day took any longer  to deal with because of his call not being 
transferred. 
I dont think the inconvenience  was significant enough to say Monzo  have to pay Mr L any 
compensation. So, I wont be telling Monzo to pay Mr L anything. Thats  not, however, the 
only thing we can ask a business  to do if we think theyve done something wrong as I do in 
this case. Another  option  is to tell a business to apologise.   
Ref: DRN98989852In this case I can see that Monzo  have already said sorry they couldnt transfer his call, and 
were really sorry  for the inconvenience caused. Im pleased theyve said this  I think  that 
this is the right thing  for them to have done  in this case. It means Mr L has got the apology 
he deserves. For that reason Im not going to ask Monzo to do anything else.
my final decision
My final decision is that Monzo doesnt have to do anything else as it has already apologised 
for what happened. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9898985