K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains that Capital Cash Limited (trading as Cash Converters Bolton) was 
irresponsible to lend to him.
Background
Mr M took out one loan for £115 with Cash Converters in November 2016. Cash Converters 
expected Mr M to repay £123.
Mr M wants Cash Converters to refund  the interest and charges that he paid on the loan.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint  be upheld. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the adjudicators recommendation so the complaint has come to me 
for a final decision.  Mr M says that he was forced in to taking out the loan as Cash 
Converters wanted  him to pay the high interest  rates. Mr M says that he was left with stress 
problems due to not being able to repay the loan.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cash Converters needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure     
Mr M could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Cash  
Converters should  fairly  and reasonably  have done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN93415082I think that its important for me to start by saying that Cash Converters  was required to 
establish whether  Mr M could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Source Book defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Cash Converters has given us evidence that it asked Mr M for details of his net monthly 
income, housing  costs, credit commitments and other outgoings.  Based  on this information,  
it appeared that Mr M had monthly  outgoings  of around £552 against  a monthly income  of 
£1,000. Cash  Converters also asked to see a recent  bank statement. Although this identified  
one additional  regular payment to a media company, it still looked as though  Mr M had 
enough disposable income  left to afford to repay  the loan.
This was Mr Ms first and only loan from Cash Converters.  Given  the amount that Cash 
Converters expected him to repay  against his declared monthly  income, Im satisfied that 
Cash Converters carried out adequate  checks.  Based on what  it knew  about Mr M, I dont 
think that it was unreasonable of Cash Converters to agree to lend to him.
I appreciate that Mr M says Cash Converters pushed him into taking out the loan but this 
didnt form part of his original complaint to Cash Converters or this service  so Ive not 
considered this further.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties that Mr M has faced but I dont find that it was 
irresponsible of Cash Converters to agree the loan. It follows that I dont require Cash  
Converters to refund any interest or pay compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9341508