K822xcomplaint
Mr F says he is unhappy with Cofunds  Limiteds  actions in relation to ISA accounts held by 
himself and his late wife. He says Cofunds  made numerous administrative  failings  when 
actioning a transfer of his late wifes funds into his name. These are, in summary, that it took 
unreasonable steps causing delays in completing the transfer,  that it provided misleading  
information and that it didnt reply  properly to various requests he made  during the process.  
Mr F wants to be compensated for the number of letters he has had to send - which are in 
excess of twenty - as well as the upset he has been caused by Cofunds for its refusal to deal 
with his concerns.   
backgroundMr F and his wife both held investment ISAs with Cofunds  with each being set up by a 
different third-party  adviser. As part of their investment account holdings,  they each had ISA 
wrappers along  with cash accounts,  from which platform charges were  deducted. 
In 2017, Cofunds became part of Aegon UK but continues  to trade as Cofunds. In November 
2017, Cofunds issued an update to its terms and conditions to all its customers,  including Mr 
and Mrs F.
An in-specie  transfer  took place in October 2017. Cofunds confirmed to Mr F that it had 
received units with a unit value  of 51.4p  each, with a total value of £7,674.91.
In January 2018, Mr F informed Cofunds  that his wife had sadly passed away. He asked 
Cofunds for Mrs Fs ISA funds to be merged with his. His request was made via his third-
party adviser. 
Cofunds could  not complete Mr Fs request, and on 25 January 2018  explained to the 
adviser that it required an asset  transfer  form from the executor of Mrs Fs estate. The 
adviser returned the form dated 3 March  2018 to Cofunds on 15 March 2018. 
Mr F told Cofunds  he had transferred the agency  for his Cofunds account  away from the 
third party in March  2018 because he was unhappy that it had not passed  over his legitimate 
and reasonable instructions to Cofunds.   
He also held concerns that in March 2018,  a third-party provider told him that the previous 
in-specie transfer in October  2017 had a unit value of 100.70p, meaning the total transfer 
value was actually  £15,036.26.   
Cofunds completed the transfer on 4 April 2018.  Later that month,  Mr F complained  to 
Cofunds setting  out fifteen  issues comprising  his complaint. I shall not repeat these in full as 
some overlap with one another. Mr F said, in summary:
all the funds from his late wifes  ISA account  should have been merged with his non-
ISA holdings;
under  no circumstances should any of the funds held by the late Mrs F have been 
used to pay charges;
it was for this reason that he had a monthly standing  order set up to cover  separate  
charges and fees but Cofunds  had refused to accept this payment from February 
2018;
Ref: DRN94188072Cofunds returned his cheque dated  6 March 2018 which  was sent to cover any fees 
because the standing order had been refused;
he therefore had to make a bank transfer  on 20 April 2018 instead;
he has had to request  three times (twice  in February and once in March) for Cofunds 
to confirm that it has not sold any of the units of the funds  held in Mrs Fs ISA 
wrapper, yet it still has not provided  any such  confirmation;
he wanted to receive  full itemised statements of both his and Mrs Fs accounts;
he could not understand how sums  of £0.38  and £1.61 were transferred to the cash 
holdings when it had previously been  a sum of £0.49;
he had told Cofunds that he had removed  agency from the third-party adviser, yet it 
had not done so. It had created a new account  but had failed to remove  the 
association to the previous third-party  adviser.         
On 26 April 2018, Mr F sent Cofunds  a further instruction to merge the funds  from his late 
wifes ISA with his general investment account. Cofunds did this, but not until 16 May 2018  
and it should have been completed by 14 May 2018, based on its confirmed service 
standard.  In the interim, Mr F also emailed Cofunds  adding to his complaint, noting that Cofunds would 
not accept his direct debit  for his monthly  payment that had previously always been paid by 
standing order. He also reiterated that he wanted  a full breakdown of all payments  incoming  
and outgoing for both his ISA and non-lSA accounts  from January 2018 to date.
Cofunds replied  to Mr Fs complaint, issuing a final response letter dated  23 May 2018.  It 
said whilst  it appreciated  Mr Fs concerns, it didnt believe it had done anything  wrong.  So, it 
was not able to uphold  the complaint. 
It said it had moved Mrs Fs funds from their ISA wrapper to Mr Fs general investment 
account. It could  not transfer them directly to Mr Fs ISA because Mr F hadnt  completed an 
inheritable transfer  form. However, the outcome was the same as all of Mrs Fs holdings 
were moved into one combined  account held by Mr F. 
Cofunds said no holdings  in Mrs Fs ISA were  sold to pay any form of adviser charge. 
Service charges were paid to the third-party  adviser  from Mrs Fs cash account  but only up 
to January 2018.  
It also sent Mr F valuation and transaction history  statements for all his accounts  so he could 
see it had not behaved unfairly  at any time. It explained that if Mr F remained unhappy,  he 
could bring the complaint to this service within six months of the date of the letter.   
Mr F sent a further letter to Cofunds  dated  25 May 2018 following the complaint  outcome. He 
said, in summary:
Cofunds has confused him by using new Aegon  reference numbers for his and Mrs 
Fs accounts alongside the old Cofunds  ones;
the account information  it had sent him was confusing and in an incomprehensible 
format;
he could not understand why it had taken several months to action his request;
there is a cash movement of £407.32  to his cash account that he has no 
understanding of what  has happened to that sum;
two service charges  were deducted in March  and April 2018 because of two agents, 
which is unreasonable;
Ref: DRN94188073though the final response letter says that Cofunds didnt sell any units  from Mrs Fs 
ISA, the statements Mr F was sent show otherwise;
units were  sold from two accounts on 13 March and 13 April 2018;
Mr F wanted  the funds  to be placed  back in the position they were in without those 
sales;
he also wanted assurances that none  of his monthly direct debits now set up to pay 
fees would  be placed into his ISA account as he did not want  this to affect his annual  
allowance.
 On 18 July 2018, Mr F sent a further letter to Cofunds, stating he had some  fifteen  grounds  
of complaint that were not properly addressed.  He also said that despite instruction from his 
new third-party adviser, Cofunds had refused to take direct  debits  for June and July 2018. 
He therefore wanted Cofunds to waive the next two months of fees.  
From 24 to 30 July 2018, Mr F exchanged  several emails with Cofunds. Initially he sought to 
enquire as to why all his supplementary complaints  had not been  addressed.  Cofunds noted  
that Mr Fs letter of 18 July 2018 said it was three  pages, but he had only sent one page.  
Mr F clarified  that it only comprised one page  and expressed his further unhappiness at the 
time take to resolve his outstanding concerns.  
Cofunds issued  a further letter dated 6 August 2018. It said it had reviewed both Mr Fs 
letters of 20 April 2018 and 25 May 2018,  against the response it issued on 23 May 2018. 
On review, it said Mr F had made five additional  points (where  the other  ten had already 
been considered):
that Mr F didnt like layouts of his statements;
that he wanted more information on Cofundss charging structure;
that his direct debit  still wasnt properly set up; 
that differing  information had been given from Cofunds and his adviser  as to the 
charges made for his investments; and
that fees would be waived for two months.
Cofunds addressed  each  point. It said it was sorry Mr F didnt like the statement layout, but 
he could alternatively  access them online  and it told him how its charging structure operated,  
noting how the platform charges for Cofunds  were separate  to any adviser fees Mr F may 
pay separately. It also said the direct debit has been  set up with effect from 15 August 2018.  
Finally, it said it would look separately  at the agreement to waive the fees as this had not 
arisen from Mr Fs original complaint. 
Mr F then emailed  Cofunds on 16 August. A complaints handler had asked to speak with him 
by telephone, but Mr F said he wanted all correspondence to be issued to him by post, as 
previously instructed. He also said that for the third consecutive month,  it had failed to take 
the agreed direct debit.   
Mr F sent a further letter dated 25 August 2018. He said that the letter of 6 August 2018 still 
missed out areas of his complaint, and he was unhappy that it only tried to address five of 
the original fifteen issues. He had now added  further issues to the complaint in May 2018 
and these were not addressed to his satisfaction  either.  
He said that since  Cofunds started to send valuations these have become increasingly 
confusing, when for the previous 15 years they had been clear.  Importantly,  the £407.32 had 
still not been accounted for. Mr F also reiterated that Cofunds continued to sell units and 
Ref: DRN94188074make charges without  addressing the previous concerns, and the matter  with the refusal of 
the direct  debit persisted. He said he wanted  a complete and thorough answer  to each of his 
concerns. This was followed  up by an email of 28 August  2018  where  Mr F said Cofundss  
letter of 6 August  2018 failed to resolve  his issues.
Cofunds sent two further letters to Mr F dated  31 August 2018  and 1 September  2018.  The 
first said it would investigate why Mr Fs direct debits  had failed  (and noted it had now 
rectified it), but the backdated payments did need  bringing up to date. The second letter 
crossed with the letter  the day before. In that letter, Cofunds said it was still reviewing all the 
additional submissions  Mr F had made. 
Mr F remained unhappy. He sent two further  letters to Cofunds  dated 12 September  2018 
and 15 October 2018 in which he expressed how unhappy he was that Cofunds complaint 
department simply would not investigate his complaint any further.  In the second  letter  he set 
out how it had now been seven months,  but there  was still no final confirmation  about his 
original ISA transfer request.  
He also reflected on the charge from April 2018  and felt this was incorrect by 19%.  He again 
asked for a further  breakdown of all his investments, including  all purchases  of additional 
units from February 2018 to October  2018. He also asked  that a complete response for each 
point raised be supplied by Cofunds for his five letters of May, July, August, September  and 
October 2018 that were sent as supplementary complaints to the original complaint of April 
2018.  Mr F then referred the complaint to this service. In a letter to our investigator he reiterated 
that his complaint was:
not that his late wifes ISA should be merged with his;
but that it ought to be unwrapped and the individual  funds managed  into his non-ISA 
Cofunds holdings;
so he now accepts  that Cofunds  confirming  he was only charged for one account is 
correct;
but it took from January to April 2018  to action the instruction meaning  he was 
overcharged for that period;
three specific funds lost units between February and May 2018 despite  Cofundss 
written guarantee  that this did not happen;
the issue with the valuation  of the in-specie transfer was also never resolved;
it remained that Cofunds wouldnt accept various  methods of funding  his cash  
account;
the cash movement  of £407.32  remains missing  from his cash account;
Cofundss complaints  department will not accept any further complaints.  
An investigator looked into the complaint. He felt that overall, it ought to succeed because  he 
considered that Cofunds could have done  more to explain  its processes  to Mr F. Though  it 
had since explained  the processes and had rightly  conducted them  (albeit two days late 
when merging the funds in May 2018), it had several  opportunities to lay things out for Mr F 
clearly, as he had repeatedly asked for.  
Further, Cofunds ought to have explained that the latter in-specie transfer value was correct 
(and the first was wrong),  meaning Mr F had not lost approximately  £8,000 on that transfer in 
October 2017. On that basis and for the overall issues with communications,  our investigator 
said an award of £300  ought to be paid to Mr F for the upset he had been  caused in 2018.   
Ref: DRN94188075The matter  was passed to an ombudsman for a decision. 
However, Mr F said that the investigator  had not considered all the points he had made.  He 
reiterated that:
he did not ask for two ISAs to be combined;
he accepts that there was a valuation error resulting in the differences between the 
two figures in October and March 2018  relating  to the in-specie transfer,  but he 
hasnt seen the evidence of the valuation;
the investigator had failed  to investigate the missing  £407.32;
the information he had seen still does  not give a full breakdown of all charges.  
Our investigator therefore looked at the complaint again. He asked Cofunds for further 
evidence relating to the £407.32  cash movement. 
The investigator issued  another view in late 2019.  He said that Cofunds has provided him  
(and Mr F) evidence  to show every transaction for the relevant period in 2018.  He said he 
was satisfied that the £407.32 has remained in Mr Fs cash  account  without being used, 
moved or allocated anywhere. 
Cofunds said it agreed with the findings  and was willing to pay the compensation payment to 
Mr F.  
Mr F still disagreed. He wanted  the matter to be passed back  to an ombudsman  for a final 
decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that this complaint ought  to be upheld, with a payment made  to Mr F for the 
inconvenience he has been caused.  
Id like to thank Mr F and Cofunds  for their patience whilst this matter has awaited an 
ombudsmans decision. The background to this complaint is particularly detailed, as Mr F 
had many grounds of complaint and a considerable volume of communications  were 
exchanged between the parties both before and after the matter was referred here.  Given  
Mr Fs specific concerns, I have set out the history of this complaint in significant  detail.  I 
recognise that Mr F would  like every point  he has made to be addressed but my decision 
isnt going to do that. Nor will I substitute  my role for that of Cofunds. 
Our remit  is set out within our rules and it states that I will determine a complaint by 
reference to what  is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
That means looking at if I believe  Cofunds has treated Mr F fairly during the administration  of 
his accounts in late 2017 through to 2018. I will not address  each specific point of the 
background in my findings, though I can confirm I have reviewed the evidence  in full. I will 
instead concentrate  on the issues that I consider to be central to the complaint.  
Having looked  at the process of transferring the units  in the late Mrs Fs ISA to Mr Fs non-
ISA investment holdings,  I do not believe Cofunds  has acted unfairly,  with the exception that 
the final transfer in May 2018 was made  two days later than Cofundss confirmed service 
Ref: DRN94188076standard. Cofunds has explained the slight delay  was because the asset  transfer form was 
received too late to be processed prior to migration onto the Aegon  platform.
Whilst I appreciate Mr F has been confused by the account numbers, Cofunds has 
confirmed how each  of the numbers only relates  to three accounts  the ISA and general 
investment account  (GIA) held by Mr F (ending #148), the late Mrs Fs account (ending 
#580), and once  the transfer  request was made, a new account  (ending #991). Cofunds has 
now merged the accounts for simplicity for Mr F under his existing account (ending #148). 
I do not believe Cofunds has done  anything  wrong  by the way it has managed the accounts. 
It does not use a different number to refer to the accounts, but this was because Cofunds  
became a part of Aegon. Administrative changes of this nature may be necessary over time 
and I dont see anything  wrong with Cofundss actions. Mr F has been told by Cofunds that 
his account now ends #693  and both the ISA and the GIA now have their own references 
within that main account. I do not believe that is unreasonable, and it hasnt materially  
affected his account in any detrimental way. 
Cofunds has also supplied account evidence for the late Mrs Fs ISA before and after the 
transfer to Mr F. The total value of the funds  within the ISA have marginally increased due to 
market value fluctuations, but they have not decreased as Mr F had suspected, nor have any 
units been sold to fund adviser  fees. This is correct - as Cofunds told Mr F in its original final 
response letter. Again, I dont believe  Cofunds has done anything wrong in undertaking the 
transfer as instructed, once it had the asset  transfer/executor information it needed.  
Mr F also explained he felt that he had likely  been charged fees on both Mrs Fs ISA as well 
as his own. But Cofunds has told Mr F it only charged one set of fees, once  the transfer was 
made to the new account number (Aegon  reference #693). It has shown  how only one 
platform charge of £3.72 was made  before the accounts were  merged, and that fee was 
correctly paid from Mr Fs GIA. I do not consider Cofunds to have acted unfairly.  
It appears where the confusion arose  is that once Mrs F passed away, no further fees were 
charged in respect  of adviser fees. But, platform charges for the investment continued to 
accrue, for which units can be sold to pay these  charges, in accordance  with the terms of the 
account. This is why some units were sold, and the £3.72 charge was made before the funds 
were transferred to Mr F in May 2018. Thereafter, Cofunds has supplied evidence  to show 
that the number  of units (as at May 2018) that had been within  Mrs Fs ISA and since 
transferred to Mr F were  the same. 
In respect of these ongoing platform charges, Cofunds explained it could not accept Mr Fs 
bank transfer  of £5 on 6 February 2018  or the £50 cheque  he supplied  on 8 March  2018 
because it was not able to make  additional investments into an account if an account holder 
has passed away. It follows that Cofunds had to return these  payments  to Mr F, and I dont 
find it unreasonable to have  done  so. It did set out the position promptly  in letters dated 6 
February and 9 March  2018 telling Mr F why those  payments could no longer be made.
In respect of the cash movement, Cofunds has provided evidence to show that when  the 
accounts were merged, the £407.32 was received into the new account (Aegon  reference 
#693) in two parts, £407.16 on 30 April 2018  and 16p on 4 May 2018,  which  explained the 
reason for the different figures. It has also supplied  statements showing that the total sum 
has remained in Mr Fs cash account. I dont consider Cofunds to have acted  unreasonably,  
as it has explained  the split in the transfer  was caused by migrating onto the new Aegon 
system.
Ref: DRN94188077I realise Mr F is also unhappy that it took four attempts for Cofunds to reinstate his direct 
debit after the previous  payment methods had failed. I can see Cofunds has apologised for 
this. I do recognise that this caused  Mr F inconvenience, and Ill address compensation for 
that later in this decision.  
  Looking at the in-specie transfer of October 2017,  it is clear  Cofunds made an error in its 
letter, by quoting an incorrect  unit value  and this was only picked up by a third party  
several months later. Cofunds has explained  that despite the error (caused  by an IT issue)  
the correct price -as confirmed in March 2018- was applied to the transfer and it has 
provided backdated valuations to show Mr F received the full value for the transfer.  Though 
Mr F hasnt  suffered a monetary loss, I can see that this caused additional upset at a difficult  
time for him.   
For clarity,  I dont consider that any of the actions undertaken by Cofunds have caused Mr F 
any material loss. But like our investigator  I do believe that Cofunds could have provided a 
better standard of service,  when  considering  Mr Fs requirements. 
Mr F has explained  how he did not have access to a computer regularly, meaning he could 
use email a few times per month. He said this meant  it may take around two weeks  for him 
to see any email that is not copied  to him via post. He also expressed a preference for 
documents to be dealt  with by post.  At the time in 2018, there was no particular reason why 
Cofunds could  not have  tried to facilitate Mr Fs requirements and ensured it met his 
communication preferences where  it was reasonably practicable to do so. 
I also agree  with our investigator that Cofunds  could have given Mr F an explanation far 
sooner than it did for the incorrect in-specie transfer  valuation of 2017.  
But, I do not agree with Mr Fs view that he should  be compensated for the time he has 
spent with the number of letters he has provided to Cofunds. The time spent in pursuing a 
complaint is not something that should attract an award of compensation of itself. It is an 
inherent part of the complaints process,  for which this service will provide a free and 
impartial answer either by an investigation/adjudication or through a final decision it the 
matter isnt resolved  to a complainants satisfaction  by the business. 
I realise Mr F dedicated a significant amount of time on more than twenty letters  to Cofunds 
and I can see he genuinely felt this was necessary. But in sending  additional letters  before 
Cofunds could  reply, it caused the matter to become  more  confused  and complex as the 
points of complaint  were  added to and reiterated  on several occasions  and it then 
overlapped with Mr Fs stated communication preferences. 
That in turn, caused further investigation  for Cofunds and it exacerbated the situation  when  
Cofunds then tried to contact Mr F in ways he did not want,  such as email  and telephone.  I 
dont believe  Cofunds is at fault for that such that compensation  is appropriate; it has spent a 
significant degree of time in continuing to answer  Mr Fs letters,  despite  issuing  a final 
response to the complaint in May 2018 (within eight weeks of the initial complaint).  
Taking the errors into account, I agree that £300  is within the range of awards made by this 
service where a business has made  errors or mistakes (in this case, one valuation error, a 
two-day transfer delay,  the direct debit issues and a further failure to recognise Mr Fs 
correspondence preferences) of an administrative nature. Our awards  are not designed to 
punish businesses  but instead,  to compensate for the trouble or inconvenience caused to a 
Ref: DRN94188078complainant because of any error or failing.  I believe £300 is appropriate in these 
circumstances. I am pleased to see Cofunds  agrees with that assessment, and that it will 
review its processes going  forwards.   
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Cofunds Limited must pay £300 to Mr F for the upset and 
inconvenience he has been caused in 2018,  when dealing with the administrative matters 
concerning his ISA and GIA. 
I do not make any other award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2020.   
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9418807