K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains about the service  provided by Liverpool Victoria  Insurance  Company  
Limited (LV) under the European breakdown component of his roadside  assistance 
insurance policy. He wants  it to repatriate  his car and his possessions  from Europe.
background 
Mr M was in Europe with his family  when he said there was a small fire in his car when he 
refuelled it. LV recovered his car to a garage, arranged hotel accommodation for the family, 
and then their return flights home.  But it declined to repatriate the car as the cost was more  
than the cars market  value. It also declined to pay for Mr Ms roof box and its contents  to be 
returned. 
LV said the fire was excluded  under the policy terms and conditions as a cause of 
breakdown and it wouldnt be covered under the policy.  It said that it should only have 
recovered Mr Ms car to a place of safety.  It said everything else provided was beyond  what  
Mr M was entitled to under the policy  terms and conditions.
our investigators view
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  fire 
wasnt covered by the policy  terms and conditions. She thought LV had provided  services 
beyond the policy terms and she didnt think it needed to do anything  further.  
Mr M replied that a mechanical  failure  led to the small fire in the engine,  which  had been 
dealt with quickly. He thought the investigator should have looked into his conversations  with 
LVs recovery agents. LV said the roof box was regarded as a fixed item and wouldnt have 
been dismantled from the car. It said it had already paid for the costs of luggage on the 
return flight up to the airlines maximum per individual. 
As Mr M didnt agree with the investigator, he asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to LV on 10 December 2018. I summarise my findings:
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I looked at Mr Ms policys terms and conditions. The policy provides assistance in the case  
of a breakdown.  I thought this was defined clearly in the policy  definitions, The vehicle is 
incapable of operation as a whole because of mechanical or electrical  failure
It also includes terms which say:
Repairs will be attempted roadside  but if not possible the car will be recovered  to a 
garage 
If the car cant be repaired by the end of the working day, then the policyholder can 
choose between  a hire car, alternative transport  or overnight accommodation
Ref: DRN92469852If its not possible to repair the car in time for the return  home,  the policy pays for the 
policyholder, passengers and luggage to be transported  home up to specified limits, 
and
It covers  the cost of repatriating the car as long as these costs arent higher than the 
market value of the car or
It will cover up to £500 for someone  to drive the car back.
I could see that there was a list of Service Limitations and Exclusions  in Section H of this 
policy. These stated that LV would not be responsible for providing  services in the case of, 
amongst other things,  fire. 
I thought the fire exclusion was a very broad term and I thought it could be potentially  unfair 
to rely on it to decline a claim. This was because whilst there might have been a fire it may 
not have caused any damage. And the breakdown may have had other causes.  So I thought 
to fairly apply the exclusion LV should reasonably show that the breakdown  was caused by 
fire and not by some other cause such as electrical  failure (which  may have led to the fire) 
that would  be covered  by the policy.  
I listened to the call Mr M made to LV when he said his car caught fire whilst  he was 
refuelling it. He said it was quickly put out. LVs agent explained that fire was excluded  from 
cover in his policy, no matter how it occurred. It gave examples of a fire caused by an 
electrical fault or a crash. LV advised  Mr M to contact his motor  insurer  as fire would be 
covered by his policy. But his insurer said he only had third party  cover whilst  abroad.
LV also said that it could  recover  his car but Mr M would be liable for the cost of any 
specialist equipment and the recovery costs could be more  than the value of the car. I 
thought this was confusing  as the agent didnt distinguish between  recovering the car to a 
garage and repatriation. 
I asked LV to explain how it decided that the breakdown wasnt  caused  by electrical or 
mechanical failure. LV said it relied  on Mr Ms initial report  that there was a fire in the engine.  
I asked for its contact notes or any engineering evidence to show  that it could reasonably  
apply the exclusion. But LV said it didnt have these.  So I had no evidence  to show  that the 
cause of Mr Ms breakdown wasnt mechanical or electrical failure. And so I thought  it was 
unfair for LV to apply  the exclusion and so decline  the claim  for this reason. 
In that case, I thought that the policy terms and conditions should apply. These say amongst 
other things  that LV will attempt to repair the car. So I thought that, under the policy terms 
and conditions, LV should  have attempted to repair Mr Ms car after it was recovered.
Mr M told us that LV told him the car couldnt  be fixed. But I couldnt  see on what basis LV 
decided that the car couldnt  be repaired. So I thought it should  obtain a report from an 
engineer to show whether the car was repairable or not. 
If the car was shown  to be repairable, then I thought that under the policy LV should have 
attempted repairs to the car after recovering it and the family.  But the car was left abroad 
unrepaired. To put things right, I thought  LV should  arrange for an estimate  for repairs  to be 
made if the car was repairable and put this to Mr M. The policy  says that Mr M is responsible  
for any costs  for labour  and parts.  As he would have  incurred these if repairs had been  
attempted, then I thought it was fair that he paid them. But, due to the lapse of time, I 
thought Mr M should be given the choice of whether  to pursue this course  or not. 
Ref: DRN92469853The next step was for LV to fairly apply the repatriation terms and conditions of the policy. 
The policy says that if repairs  cant be done in time for the return  journey, LV will repatriate  
the car, as long as the costs arent  higher than the market value of the car. If the car can be 
repaired, then the alternative driver  term and condition  could  be used to repatriate the car. If 
the car cant  be repaired, then transport would be required.
LV has already said it was uneconomical to repatriate Mr Ms car. It provided its engineers 
estimate of the value  of Mr Ms car and the transport  costs  to show  this. But Mr M didnt think  
this was right. 
Our approach to car valuations is that we dont  provide valuations for cars but seek  to 
assess whether the insurers offer is reasonable. In assessing whether a reasonable offer 
has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-trade guides.  These  are used for valuing 
second hand cars. We find these guides  to be particularly persuasive, largely because  their 
valuations are based on nationwide  research  and likely sales figures.  
I checked the market  value  of Mr Ms car at the time of loss. LV relied on one guide, which is 
specified in the policy, to obtain a valuation of £3,280 (without any fire damage). This is the 
highest valuation  given by the four guides  we use. I thought it took into account  the cars  
age, mileage and condition. So I thought this valuation was fair and reasonable. But I 
couldnt see evidence  of the transport  costs that LV quoted.  I thought it should provide this 
evidence to justify  its decision.
So I thought  it was for LV to obtain an engineering report and transport cost estimates to 
decide how to apply the repatriation terms and conditions. This would also decide Mr Ms 
request for the cars storage box to be returned. LV said the storage roof box was a fixed 
item and couldnt  be dismantled to be repatriated separately. I thought  this was fair and 
reasonable if it could  justify not repatriating the car. 
And I thought LV should  also have considered Mr Ms claim under the other policy terms and 
conditions. LV said it offered assistance to Mr M as a gesture of goodwill. It helped him and 
his family  with accommodation  and their return home. I could see that some  of this 
assistance was up to the policy limits.  I thought LV should now consider the remaining items  
of Mr Ms claim under the policy terms. 
Whilst LV agreed to pay for repatriation  airfares  for Mr Ms family,  there  was an error with 
regards to one childs age. This meant  that Mr M had to pay a further  fare. Ive heard the 
recording where Mr M gave the childrens  ages. So I thought he gave LV the correct  
information at the time. Mr M told us that LV agreed  to reimburse  this cost. 
Mr M also said that hed had to pay some  of his arranged hire car costs. I couldnt see that 
Mr M raised  this or the extra flight costs with LV previously. So I thought he should firstly 
complain to LV to give it a chance  to respond. If he remained unhappy,  then he could bring  
his complaint to us. 
Mr M had been caused stress and inconvenience by LVs handling of his claim.  It initially  
declined his claim without  establishing the grounds  for this. It didnt carry out any repairs  to 
Mr Ms car as required by the policy. It declined to repatriate Mr Ms car without justifying 
this. I thought LV should compensate Mr M for this. I thought it should pay him £100. This 
was in keeping  with the level Id award in similar  situations.
Ref: DRN92469854Subject to any further representations by Mr M or LV, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to require Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited  to do the following:
1.Obtain an engineering report to show whether the car is repairable  or not and evidence  
of repatriation transport  costs  and to then consider Mr Ms claim under the policys 
repatriation terms and conditions.
2.If the car is shown  to be repairable, provide Mr M with an estimate of the costs  for him to 
consider whether or not to proceed  with them.
3.Consider Mr Ms claim under the remaining terms and conditions of his policy.
4.Pay Mr M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused by its handling 
of his claim. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LV agreed to repatriate Mr Ms car rather than delay matters further  by seeking an additional  
report. It also agreed to consider Mr Ms further expenses and to pay him £100  
compensation. I can see that Mr M provided  the required receipts and LV reimbursed him for 
an additional  nights  accommodation and his car hire. I think  thats fair and reasonable.
But Mr M replied  that he wanted  LV to pay him the transport  costs for repatriating  his car and 
then it could keep  his car instead. Mr M said this was reasonable as hed been  without his 
car for five months. But LV declined to do this as it said it wasnt  covered by Mr Ms policy.
As Ive said above,  I need to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. Mr Ms policy is for roadside assistance 
not general motor  cover.  So I dont require  LV to pay him instead of repatriating  his car.
I think it was reasonable  for LV to offer to repatriate the car instead of waiting for an 
engineers report.  This was the outcome Mr M initially  requested.  I think  Ive already 
considered the distress  and inconvenience caused by LVs handling of his claim.  So I dont 
require it to do anything  further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Liverpool Victoria  Insurance  
Company Limited  to do the following, as its already agreed to do:
1.Repatriate Mr Ms car to his home  address.
2.Consider Mr Ms claim under the remaining terms and conditions of his policy.
3.Pay Mr M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused by its handling 
of his claim. 
Ref: DRN92469855Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9246985