K821x#15complaint
Ms C has complained about her home insurer  U K Insurance Limited in respect of a claim 
she made to it following  a water leak.
background
There was a leak at Ms Cs home. UKI accepted the claim but Ms C and her disabled 
daughter had to stay in their damp and mouldy home for a number of months  before repairs 
started and UKI agreed to move  them out. When UKI did agree to move them  out they 
initially stayed in a hotel. Then, when an ideal property situated near to Ms Cs home was 
found UKIs agent, despite UKI having  told it to be flexible, felt it wasnt like Ms Cs home  so 
wouldnt agree  to let it for her. UKIs  adjuster then agreed, given Ms Cs circumstances, that 
UKI would let this property for her, but by this time it was no longer available. Another  
property, further away  from Ms Cs home was eventually found  and rented.
Ms C and her daughter spent a period in hotel  accommodation before a suitable  rental  
property was found. The hotel stay was stressful for Ms C and her daughter, and Ms C had 
extra costs  for things like laundry.  The rental accommodation was in a totally  different area 
to Ms Cs home  and Ms C told UKI this was causing  her daughter  a lot of upset.
In February 2019,  as the repairs to Ms Cs home  neared a conclusion,  UKI issued a final 
response to Ms C. UKI said it accepted it should have moved the family into alternative 
accommodation sooner and, because  it hadnt,  the claim had been delayed.  UKI explained 
that it had agreed  to the nearby rental property being arranged for Ms C, even though this 
went beyond what she was entitled  to under the policy, but it had unfortunately been let to 
someone else. UKI apologised and said it would  pay £300 compensation to Ms C. Ms C 
remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our initial investigator said UKI should pay a further  £150 compensation. Another 
investigator reviewed the complaint and noted that, as well as the upset caused  by the 
accommodation issues, the repair works  had been mishandled by UKI which had caused  
delays. He felt that an additional compensation payment of £150 was more than justified but 
also that UKI should pay Ms C an allowance to account for extra  costs  shed likely had 
during the period shed  remained in her damaged home and in the hotel. He said the rate of 
this should be £10 per adult  and £5 per child per day.
Ms C said she agreed to the findings.  UKI said it did not. UKI said that the extra  
compensation seemed to have been  awarded due to the impact on Ms Cs daughter and it 
felt this was unfair as it thought only a medical  practitioner could assess  that. It said that 
whilst it had been happy to arrange a rental  agreement for a nearby property its agent had 
initially followed the correct process  by refusing to organise this. UKI suggested it was just 
unfortunate that by the time it had reviewed  matters at a higher level and decided  to act 
outside of its normal  processes  the house had been  let to someone else.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that finding suitable alternative  accommodation, especially when a policyholder  
and/or their family have specific needs,  is not always  an easy task. I also appreciate all 
Ref: DRN98744442insurers have certain processes in place that usually have to be followed. But Im mindful 
that processes  shouldnt  stop an insurer from doing  the right thing in the circumstances 
concerned. Here UKI was prepared to do the right thing, but because  its ability  to work 
outside its normal processes wasnt quick enough,  the ideal accommodation for Ms C was 
lost. The result of this for Ms C was an extended  period in the hotel and then moving to a 
property further  away  from her own home. I dont doubt the effect  of this which Ms C has 
described and I accept this was upsetting  for her.
I also see the reinstatement work wasnt handled as well as it could have been. This, along 
with the delay in putting the family into alternative  accommodation, had a knock-on effect for 
the completion date.  Having  an incident  which leads to a claim is distressing  but more 
upset than would naturally  be expected is caused when the repair  works  are unreasonably 
delayed, especially when  this means  the policyholder has to stay away from home  longer 
than they otherwise would  likely  have  needed  to.
Having considered what Ms C went through as a result of UKIs failures to handle  the claim 
reasonably Im satisfied  that the £300 compensation it offered, along with its apology, was 
not fair in the circumstances here. Im satisfied that total compensation of £450 is fair and 
reasonable. I understand UKI has already paid the £300 it previously  offered  to Ms C. That 
being the case it will now only have  to pay a further £150.
I dont doubt Ms C incurred extra costs both whilst  she and her daughter  remained in the 
damaged home and whilst staying  in the hotel.  I understand that on occasions  Ms C stayed 
with friends too but Im not persuaded that this, overall, mitigated her financial loss. UKI 
hasnt objected to our investigators suggestion of paying Ms C an allowance  from the point 
of the loss until the family moved  into rental  accommodation to account for her extra  outlay, 
and Ive seen  no good reason to not make it pay this. An allowance  like this is often paid by 
an insurer in situations  like this. Im satisfied that it is fair and reasonable to make UKI pay 
this in the circumstances here.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Ms C:
a total of £450 compensation  (if any part of this has been paid already then only the 
outstanding amount  will now have to be paid).
a disturbance allowance at a rate of £10 per adult and £5 per child per day, for the period 
from the date of loss until Ms C and her family moved into the rental property.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2020.
Fiona Robinson,  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9874444