K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the default  that Barclays Bank UK PLC has recorded  on his credit  file 
and about the customer service  that hes received.
background
Mr W had a current account  with Barclays which was overdrawn in June 2017.  Barclays 
says that it wrote to him to tell him that he had to make regular credits to his account to 
retain the overdraft.  He didnt do so and it removed  the overdraft from his account and then 
defaulted the account in November 2017  and the account was closed  in December 2017. He 
complained about the default to Barclays  in November 2018 and said that he hadnt received 
a default notice because Barclays was sending  letters to his old address. He wasnt satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator initially upheld Mr Ws complaint but then said that he didnt recommend 
that it should be upheld. He concluded that the onus was on Mr W to keep his address up to 
date and that he was told in June  2017  that he had to visit a branch to update  his address 
but didnt do so. And he said that Barclays sent letters to Mr W about  that status of his 
account. So he felt that it had acted  fairly  and reasonably and didnt need to take any further  
action.
Mr W has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman. He has responded in 
detail and says,  in summary,  that:
hes never disputed  that it was his responsibility  to update  his address but Barclays 
shouldve used  other methods of contact that were available  to it but didnt do so;
it knew that the termination  letter  wouldnt be delivered but didnt use an alternative 
method of communication so didnt acted fairly; and
the default should be removed as this stressful situation has now been  extenuated 
further by the investigators change of mind.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr W feels very strongly  that Barclays hasnt acted fairly and has provided  poor 
customer service  to him. Hes provided detailed  evidence  in support of his complaint - but I 
consider that the facts in this complaint are relatively straightforward.
Mr W had a current account  with Barclays that was overdrawn. Its terms and conditions  
require that regular credits are made  into overdrawn accounts  and it wrote to Mr W in June 
and July 2017 about that. Mr W didnt make regular credits into his account so his overdraft 
facility was withdrawn in November 2017 and it closed his account  in December 2017. It sent 
him a termination letter  in November 2017 and said that it if he didnt  settle the balance on 
the account it would be transferred to its recoveries  team and that it would record a default 
on his credit file. Barclays recorded  a default on Mr Ws credit file in November 2017.
Mr W complained  to Barclays  about the default in November 2018  and it sent him its final 
response letter later that month. Mr W said that hed moved house and initially  said that hed 
given his new address to Barclays but then accepted that hed phoned  Barclays and been 
told that hed have to go into a branch with proof  of his identification  to change his address. 
Ref: DRN99939812Mr W also accepts  that he didnt do so. And as a result of that he didnt receive the 
termination letter that was sent to him. 
Its a customers responsibility to tell a bank about  a change of address. Mr W didnt tell 
Barclays that hed changed address. Im not persuaded  that there was any requirement for 
Barclays to contact him by other means   or that it shouldve been  aware  of his change  of 
address because hed provided  the details to another business within its business group. 
And by sending the termination letter to Mr W, I consider that it had fulfilled the requirement 
to send notice  of the default to him - even  if he didnt receive the letter.  
I sympathise with Mr W for the issues that the default may have caused him. But I consider 
that Barclays was entitled  to withdraw his overdraft  facility  and to default his account.  And I 
dont consider that its acted unfairly  or unreasonably in connection with his change of 
address. 
There have been  lengthy communications between Mr W and Barclays since it sent its final 
response letter to him. And there have clearly been some  customer  service failings by 
Barclays in that time. It apologised  to Mr W and enclosed  a cheque for £50 with the letter  
that it sent to him in February 2019.  Im not persuaded that those  failings are enough  to 
justify an award of more  compensation  to Mr W.
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require  
Barclays to remove the default from Mr Ws credit file, to pay him any further compensation 
or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9993981