K820x#14complaint
Dr S complains  about the advice  she received from Scottish Widows Limited to take out 
critical illness cover alongside her mortgage. 
background
In 2003 Dr S took out a mortgage  which  included mortgage payment protection insurance,  
life cover and critical illness cover. In 2018  she complained  on the basis that:
She wasnt made aware  the policies were  optional when she took out the mortgage. 
Her personal circumstances werent taken into account  including  the fact that at the 
time she was single, with no dependents and already  had illness,  redundancy and 
death benefits from her employer  pension and life insurance  scheme.  She also had 
considerable savings  for emergencies. 
She wasnt told what the full cost of the insurance would be over the term, which  
meant she couldnt compare with other policies to ensure  she was getting value for 
money. 
Scottish Widows  agreed that the life cover  and mortgage payment protection  insurance had 
been mis-sold and offered compensation. However, it didnt agree that the critical illness 
cover was mis-sold.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and concluded  it should  be upheld.  In 
short, he considered  the critical illness policy suitable  but thought  that it shouldve  had a 
decreasing sum assured given  that the mortgage  Dr S had taken out was a repayment one. 
This meant that Dr S may have been able to get similar suitable critical illness cover  but for 
lower premiums. He asked Scottish  Widows  to refund the total of the difference between  the 
level critical illness cover that was sold, and the cost of a competitively priced  decreasing 
policy based on Dr Ss circumstances at the time of the sale. 
Scottish Widows  carried  out the redress. It established that the policy  which was sold to Dr S 
was in fact cheaper  than the alternatives  therefore no redress  was due. 
The adjudicator wrote to Dr S to explain  that no redress was payable.  Dr S didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.  She said she thought all components  of the combined  
product had been mis-sold, because she wasnt informed verbally  or in writing at any point 
before or after the sale what the total cost of the product would  be over the lifetime of the 
product. She said she thought that this alone entitled her to a full refund  of all payments 
made [and]  compensation for lost interest. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and for largely the same reasons. 
I understand Dr Ss complaint  she thinks that as Scottish Widows accepted mis-selling  the 
two other  policies, it ought to compensate her for this one as well. But its not as 
straightforward as that  the fact that two of the three policies werent  suitable  for Dr S, 
doesnt mean that the third one must  also be unsuitable. So the key issue for me to 
Ref: DRN92692212determine is whether  this policy was suitable for Dr S by meeting  a defined need  and was of 
benefit to her. 
Ive looked over the documentation available in relation to the sale of the critical illness  
cover. I can see that on taking it out, Dr S was provided with a total mortgage  protection plan 
schedule that outlined the monthly premium as well as the sum assured. I can see that the 
information recorded at the time indicates Dr S didnt have critical illness  cover  elsewhere. 
And I can see that she was clearly  told the policy wasnt mandatory and that she had 30 
days to change her mind about taking the policy out  so I dont agree that Dr S wasnt  
informed that she didnt have to take it out. And I think she was given sufficiently clear 
information at the time about it
And the policy itself was valuable. The information recorded by the adviser at the time 
indicated that Dr S didnt have existing critical illness cover.  And in considering whether I 
think Scottish Widows  ought to pay compensation, I need to take into account  that Dr S has 
had the benefit of this cover  so if during  this time shed needed to claim on the policy,  she 
wouldve been able to. It wouldnt be fair to ask Scottish Widows to refund the premiums of a 
policy it has been on risk for, unless  I was persuaded Dr S didnt need or want  the policy,  or 
would never  have been able to claim on it. I appreciate Dr S will disagree, but Im not 
persuaded thats the case here. 
I do however agree  with the adjudicators conclusions around the level of cover  in other  
words, whilst the policy itself was suitable for Dr S, she didnt need  it to provide the same 
level of cover throughout the term because the mortgage would reduce in value as she paid 
it off. But putting  that right wouldve  required  the business to compare the premiums  for the 
policy it sold to Dr S, with premiums from other  decreasing  policies which wouldve been 
available at the time  and paid Dr S the difference in premiums  if there  was one. I can see 
that Scottish  Widows have already done this calculation,  and concluded that given the 
nature of this particular  policy  and the way it was sold, this policy was cheaper  than the more  
suitable alternatives. 
I understand Dr S will be disappointed by my conclusions but Im satisfied the critical illness 
policy sold to her at the time of the mortgage  was suitable for her needs and provided 
valuable cover during  the mortgage term. And whilst I agree that a policy  providing  a 
decreasing level of cover would also have been  suitable for her, Im satisfied no 
compensation is due because  she has paid less for this policy than for alternative ones. I 
therefore dont  require Scottish  Widows  to do anymore to put things right.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Scottish  Widows Limited  to do anymore to put things 
right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Dr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019
Ref: DRN92692213Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9269221