K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about the decision  by Legal  and General Assurance  Society  Limited 
(L&G) to terminate his claim under his income protection  insurance  policy.
background
Mr Hs policy  would  pay benefit, after a waiting period of 52 weeks,  in the event that he was 
unable to perform his occupation  due to illness or injury.
In 2014, Mr H was sadly  diagnosed with prostate  cancer. He stopped  working and made a 
claim under his policy. L&G accepted the claim and in 2015 began  paying benefit. In the 
meantime, Mr H had decided to retire from his job.
In 2016, L&G told Mr H it was terminating his claim as it considered  he was no longer 
incapacitated. Mr H was unhappy at L&Gs action.  He referred his complaint to us. In 
April 2017, our adjudicator issued  a view stating  that L&G had acted unfairly.  He 
recommended that it reinstate the claim and pay the benefit  owed, plus interest. L&G 
accepted the adjudicators recommendation and our file was closed.
In May 2017, L&G arranged  for Mr H to undergo an independent medical  examination (IME) 
by Dr W, a consultant occupational physician. In October 2017,  L&G wrote to Mr H 
explaining that in light of the available medical  evidence, including  Dr Ws report, it 
considered he was no longer totally incapacitated from his occupation. It said it was 
therefore gradually reducing  his benefit  payments from December 2017  until February 2018 
when it believed he would be ready  to return full-time to his insured role and the claim would 
terminate.
Mr H appealed against L&Gs decision. After  reviewing the situation, L&G maintained  its 
decision to start reducing Mr Hs benefit  payments  from December 2017 but said it would 
stretch out the period by which he should be expected to return to work full-time  so that he 
would receive 75% of full benefit  in December 2017, 50% in January and February 2018, 
and 25% in March  and April 2018.
Mr H thought L&G had again sought to terminate his claim prematurely. He again  referred  
his complaint to us. He provided a letter from his treating oncologist,  Dr L, dated July 2018.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to not uphold  this complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
The policy  will pay benefit if Mr H is totally unable to perform  his own occupation  due to 
illness or injury.
L&G reduced Mr Hs benefit  payment in December 2017. This payment  related to the 
monthly period  beginning on 6 November 2017. So L&G needs to show  that Mr H was no 
longer totally unable to perform  his normal occupation by this date.
The previous  complaint  was resolved by L&G agreeing to reinstate Mr Hs claim. L&G 
outlined at that time how it intended to proceed  in assessing Mr Hs claim. However, there  
was no agreement at that time that L&G would terminate  Mr Hs claim at a certain date so 
Im satisfied that Mr Hs acceptance of the resolution of the previous complaint doesnt  
prevent him from bringing this complaint.
Ref: DRN96483672Mr Hs hormonal  treatment ended in May 2016. Dr L wrote in February  2017  that the side 
effects of this (which  included tiredness,  hot flushes and significant cognitive effects) would 
continue for at least 18 months  or longer until his testosterone level began  to normalise. Dr L 
said that over this period his side effects  would be expected to resolve but that until they 
subsided sufficiently he wouldnt be able to return to normal work duties.
Dr Ls comments indicate that Mr H would  be expected to continue to suffer  side effects  until 
at least November 2017. However, I dont think Dr L was definitive as to when Mr H could 
contemplate returning  to work. I think that would depend on the extent  to which  his particular 
symptoms had subsided  and Id have expected L&G to assess that nearer  the relevant time. 
L&G arranged for Mr H to undergo the IME by Dr W in May 2017. Dr W thought Mr H was fit 
for work immediately in a less demanding role than his insured role. However, he considered  
Mr H was still incapacitated from his insured role. He thought a gradual  return  to work  in his 
insured role might be possible  in the autumn with the expectation  that he could build  up to 
normal working hours by the end of the year.
I think Dr Ws report broadly fits in with Dr Ls forecast. It was still too soon, however, to say 
exactly when Mr H would be ready to return to work.
Mr H in the meantime  was undergoing regular review by the occupational  therapist. On 
6 October 2017, Mr H reported that his symptoms  were continuing to improve,  that he was 
planning to get in touch  with some work contacts and felt ready to start preparing  for work. 
On 17 November 2017, Mr H had another review by the occupational  therapist. He said hed 
had a PSA test which barely registered  but was due to have another test in April 2018. He 
said until hed had this further test, the outcome of which would determine whether he 
needed further treatment, he found it difficult to make definite  work plans.
I think the evidence  suggests Mr H was probably ready to begin a gradual return  to his 
insured role in November  2017. He was understandably concerned over whether he would 
need further treatment and he wouldnt know this until April 2018. But I dont think  this 
uncertainty should have prevented him from working in the meantime. Mr H may have been 
particularly concerned because he had retired from his former job and therefore if he was 
found to need further  treatment he may have been  subject to a different, more stringent test 
of incapacity.  But I feel that if he had still been employed, he would have been expected  to 
have attempted  a return to work  at this stage. I therefore consider it was reasonable for L&G 
to say he was no longer  totally  incapacitated.
Mr H later had his April 2018 review with Dr L at which  a further PSA test was carried out 
and it was fortunately confirmed that he didnt  need further treatment. In July 2018,  Dr L 
wrote to clarify that following the hormonal treatment in May 2016 he would have  expected 
Mr Hs side effects to continue until at least February 2018. He understood that Mr H still had 
problems with his side effects but said it was evident that by the time of the April 2018 review  
that his testosterone level had recovered  and his fatigue had significantly improved. He said 
he thought a realistic  date for when Mr H could have  returned to work would have been 
when his testosterone level had recovered and not before.  He thought  Mr H was now ready 
to take full-time employment without any impediment.
I dont think Dr Ls report shows that L&G acted unfairly.  He confirms that by April 2018  Mr H 
was ready  to return to work. He comments that Mr H probably couldnt have returned to work 
Ref: DRN96483673before his testosterone  level had recovered but there is no evidence to show this hadnt 
recovered by the time L&G reduced  his benefit.
Under the terms of the policy, proportionate benefit  is payable  once someone is no longer 
incapacitated but can return to work only on reduced  hours.  However, this benefit is 
conditional on the insured  person returning  to work and Mr H wasnt working. Strictly 
speaking, once Mr H was no longer totally incapacitated L&G was entitled  to stop paying him 
any benefit. I think its decision  to continue paying  him reduced benefit to cover  the period  
until 5 April 2018 (which,  in total, comprised a further 225% of the monthly benefit) was fair.
I invited both parties to make further submissions in response to my provisional decision.
L&G accepted my provisional decision.
Mr H didnt accept my provisional decision.  He said that Dr L had been  unequivocal in 
February 2017 in stating  that, allowing for the 12 week effect of his treatment, it would be at 
least February 2018 before his testosterone  would return to normal and he could begin  any 
return to work. He believed the PSA test which he underwent in November  2017  and which  
barely registered showed his testosterone  levels hadnt recovered at that point. He said 
L&G decision in November 2017 that he was ready to return to work was made on the basis  
of his self-reports of his symptoms rather than on any clinical  data and at a time when his 
long-term prognosis was still uncertain. He felt that L&G should have waited until hed 
undergone a clinical review in April 2018 as it wasnt until then that it could be confirmed  he 
wouldnt imminently need further debilitating  treatment. He thought  that if he had still been  
employed, his employer wouldnt have expected him to return to work  until after his clinical 
review in April 2018.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I acknowledge that 
this is a finely balanced case, I remain of the opinion that this complaint should not be 
upheld.
I have looked  again at the letters written by Dr L. In February 2017 he set out the expected  
timescale for Mr Hs recovery from treatment. While this was a useful guide, I dont think  this 
was unequivocal  as to exactly when Mr H might be ready to attempt a return  to work. In his 
July 2018 letter, he repeated the expected timescale  and confirmed that by the time of the 
April 2018 review Mr Hs testosterone  had recovered and he had been ready to return to 
work. The normalising  of his testosterone levels and the reduction  in side effects  would be a 
gradual process, as would be his ability to take on work. I wouldnt necessarily expect Mr H 
to have to wait until he was fully free of all side effects before being able to return to work; 
indeed, as he has pointed  out, some of the side effects are still present. So the question  is at 
what point his side-effects  had diminished to a sufficient  extent  that he was able to begin  a 
gradual return to work.
I thought it was fair for L&G to conclude that Mr H was able to make a gradual  return  to work  
in November 2017. This may have been on the basis of his self-reported symptoms but I 
dont think that makes L&Gs conclusion wrong. Mr H says that the PSA test he underwent in 
that month  which barely registered showed his testosterone level hadnt recovered at that 
point. However, I note that Dr L said that in April 2018 Mr Hs PSA level was unrecordable 
Ref: DRN96483674and it was evident that his testosterone level had returned. So I dont follow  Mr Hs 
argument.
I dont accept that L&G had to wait until Mr H had received confirmation in April 2018 that his 
cancer had gone  into remission before it could terminate his claim. Mr Hs ability  to work was 
determined not by his prognosis but by his symptoms. While I can understand how he would 
have been keen to have  reassurance over his future health prospects before  he planned any 
return to work, I cant say that he was medically  prevented from working simply because 
there was a possibility  he may have had to stop again for health  reasons in the near future.  I 
can understand the anxiety that Mr H may have felt while  waiting for his April 2018 review  
but I have seen no evidence that this would have caused him to be incapacitated.
In summary,  I acknowledge that L&G has not handled this claim well. It sought  to terminate 
the claim unfairly in 2016 which caused Mr H to make his original  complaint  to us. And I think 
it acted prematurely in sending  Mr H for the IME in May 2017. However, I am satisfied that 
its decision to reduce his benefit from December 2017 until stopping it entirely after April 
2018 was fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9648367