K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc, who is the provider  of loans offered by AA 
Financial Services Limited, treated him unfairly when he applied  for a loan.
background
On 17 November 2018 Mr G applied for a £21,500  loan, to be repaid over 72 months, 
through AAs website.  His application  was successful, but he was offered an APR of 9.9%,  
not 3.1% as hed expected based  on the information hed seen. The monthly repayments 
were therefore £396.66  rather than £327.21.  And the total amount payable for the loan was 
considerably higher  than hed anticipated.  
Mr G says he didnt understand why the APR he was offered was this high as he has a near 
perfect credit score. But although he was unhappy  about it he felt he had no choice but to 
accept the offer and take out the loan.
When he complained  to AA it said it wasnt able to tell him the specific  reason  he wasnt 
offered a 3.1%  APR as the information was commercially  sensitive. But that before he 
started the application  he would have been advised this may vary from the advertised 
representative rate. In addition it said it couldnt remove  the footprint of the credit  check it 
had done from Mr Gs credit file as he was advised this would be carried  out before he 
completed his loan application.
Mr G wasnt happy with this response  so he brought his complaint to our service. He says he 
cant comfortably afford  the higher repayments on this loan. And although  hes certain he 
would have been offered  a lower APR elsewhere  he was worried that applying for an 
alternative loan would impact his credit score. So he felt he had no option but to accept AAs 
terms. He doesnt  feel hes been treated fairly by AA here, and would like it to reduce the 
APR to 3.1%  and backdate this to the date he took out the loan.
Our investigator said she understood why Mr G was disappointed he wasnt offered a lower 
interest rate, but explained that our service  wouldnt generally interfere in a business 
commercial decision as to what interest  rate it offered to customers. She felt that based on 
the evidence shed seen Mr G should have  been reasonably aware  he might not be offered 
an APR of 3.1%. And she didnt think the business  had misled  him about this. She also didnt 
think it was unfair that AA had said it wouldnt remove the trace of its credit  search  from his 
credit file.  
Mr G disagrees  with this view, so the case has been  passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr G will be very disappointed,  but 
Ive reached the same  conclusions as our investigator did here.  Ill explain why.
Its clear Mr G feels very strongly  about  this matter. Hes told us he considered  a number of 
lenders before applying to AA for a loan because they advertised the lowest  APR.  And I 
understand it must have been  very disappointing for him when he was offered a loan with a 
higher APR than hed expected. Especially  as he believes  he could have secured better 
terms elsewhere.
Ref: DRN98852312I understand Mr G feels that because  of his strong credit rating he should have been  offered 
the representative APR of 3.1%.  But when lenders assess applications they look at a 
number of things,  not just the information  held about  someone  by credit reference  agencies. 
In their final response letter AA explained that the APR they offer a customer is based on 
information provided on its application form as well as a credit check, and that this is then 
looked at against its own scorecard. 
Mr G doesnt feel that AA made this clear to him before he started his application. But Ive 
looked carefully at the information  it displayed and I dont  think it did anything wrong here.  I 
wouldnt expect a business to disclose specific details of the individual criteria it looks  at 
when making lending decisions as this is commercially sensitive. But I can see that the FAQ 
section on AAs website  says that the interest rate someone is offered will be personalised 
based on their current individual circumstances - including  credit  information held by credit 
reference agencies,  the loan amount borrowed,  and the length  of time its borrowed for. The 
first page  of the loan application also states that The rate and fee youre offered will depend 
on your personal circumstances  including your credit rating. The maximum APR you could  
receive is 29.9%. 
I appreciate Mr G took this latter statement to mean that someone with an excellent credit 
rating would get the best interest rates available. But I dont think  this was guaranteed  by 
AA. And I think it took reasonable  steps to make  it clear to Mr G that it would be considering 
his circumstances  as a whole when it determined  what  APR it was willing to offer. And that 
this could be considerably higher than 3.1%.
Mr G has told us hes concerned that AA can pick and choose what  interest  rate it gives  a 
customer. But AA is entitled to set its own lending criteria and decide who it wants to lend to 
and on what terms. And it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to interfere with this. I 
appreciate its frustrating for Mr G that it hasnt given him a more  specific  reason as to why 
he was offered a 9.9% APR as opposed  to a 3.1% APR. But there is no requirement for AA 
to disclose this. And I havent seen anything that makes me think  its acted unfairly here.
Mr G has confirmed that he was aware  of the terms of the loan when he signed the loan 
agreement. And I can see that when he complained to AA it made it clear  it wasnt going  to 
reduce the APR. And also told him about  his 14 day option to withdraw from the loan without 
paying any interest. I understand the reasons Mr G chose not to do this. But I dont think  I 
can fairly say that he was forced to take this decision by AA.
AA has shown us evidence that it made Mr G aware  before he started his application, and 
again before  he submitted it, that it would carry out a full credit search to help it make  its 
assessment. And that a record  of this search would  be recorded  on his credit  file and be 
visible to other lenders.  I appreciate Mr G was concerned about how this might impact  any 
future loan applications he made. But I dont think AA acted unreasonably or unfairly here.  
And I cant ask it to remove accurate information from his credit file. 
Mr G has told us hes concerned about  his finances as his loan repayments are higher than 
hed initially  expected. If this is still the case there  are a number of organisations who offer 
free debt and money advice that he may find it helpful to speak to - such  as StepChange  or 
the Citizens Advice Bureau. We can provide  him with details of these agencies if he would 
like us to.
Ref: DRN98852313my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9885231