K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Kensington Mortgage  Company Limited  acted unfairly when dealing 
with his offer to pay his mortgage arrears.  He wants matters put right.
background
Mr P had a mortgage with Kensington and got into arrears. He said that he offered to pay 
£600 each month to pay the contractual monthly  payment and to clear the arrears over time. 
Mr P said Kensington  rejected his offer as it wanted payment in full immediately and took 
him to court,  only to then accept an order  that he paid £588 a month,  which was very close 
to Mr Ps offer. Mr P said Kensington had acted unfairly  and it shouldnt  have taken the 
matter to court (thus charging him its legal costs and causing  Mr P to instruct a solicitor).
Mr P complained to Kensington.  It said that it rejected an offer from Mr P as he wasnt able 
to make the lump sum payment it required.  It also said that the arrears owed were more  than 
Mr P had told this service. The legal proceedings had been underway  before the offer was 
rejected and the court had made  a suspended  possession order.  Kensington also pointed 
out that later it agreed to accept  £488.80 a month as Mr Ps circumstances had changed.
The investigators view was that as Kensington later accepted an offer made by Mr P without 
requiring him to pay a lump sum, it shouldve done  that at the outset.  He also thought that it 
shouldve referred  his case to a manager sooner, rather  than after he wanted to pay less 
after the order was made. The investigator  said that any legal fees charged to Mr Ps 
mortgage should be removed (together with associated interest), Mr P should be repaid his 
own legal  fees and receive £300 compensation for his trouble and upset.  Kensington didnt 
respond to the investigators view, but Mr P agreed  with it.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
I dont agree with the view of the investigator. Mr P has a history  of arrears and broken 
repayment plans.  Lenders have to treat consumers in financial difficulties fairly,  but that 
doesnt mean that they cant take steps  to protect  their own interests.
In Mr Ps case, he wasnt able to offer a lump sum to show  that he was serious about 
repaying the arrears.  That said, in the circumstances that Mr P faced, I think  his offer was 
affordable. That doesnt mean Kensington was wrong to continue with the legal proceedings. 
Kensington was concerned about his reliability,  which was why it wanted the lump sum. 
When such a sum wasnt paid, Kensington decided that it would continue the legal 
proceedings and seek  a court order which meant Mr P would have to stand by his offer or 
lose his property. It didnt  object to the suspended  possession order.
Having considered the evidence available to me, its clear that Kensington instructed 
solicitors and took legal action  before Mr P made  his offers.  This is despite  it trying to get 
Mr P to deal with the arrears. So in any event, legal  fees wouldve  been charged to Mr Ps 
account even  if his offers were accepted; the same  logic applies to Mr Ps own legal costs  
(which I note havent been  evidenced).  
Ref: DRN99370332And I dont  think that it was unfair  for Kensington to decide that it preferred the benefit of the 
suspended possession order, which it could enforce quickly if Mr P broke the repayment  
plan again, rather  than just accepting his offer. This decision meant that it could promptly  
take action but also gave  it the option of agreeing to accept less if Mr Ps circumstances 
changed (which  is what happened). Agreeing to over-ride  a court  order  is a serious matter, 
which is why it was referred to a manager, unlike Mr Ps earlier  offers. I dont think 
Kensington acted  unfairly in all the circumstances  of this case.
In response to my provisional decision,  Kensington  didnt respond.  Mr P said that he didnt 
understand why I wasnt concerned about  Kensingtons  actions when  it had thought a 
manager couldve agreed to a lower  repayment plan, rather than going to court.  Mr P didnt 
provide any further  evidence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive particularly considered Mr Ps 
comments.
But the referral to the manager, and whether it couldve been made earlier,  isnt the core of 
this complaint. The core of this complaint is whether Kensington acted fairly when Mr P was 
in financial difficulties, especially by getting a suspended possession order.  And my 
provisional decision set out why getting such an order  was fair, even when an offer to pay a 
similar amount  had already been made;  Mr P had a history of breaking repayment plans and 
the order could  be easily enforced.  My provisional  decision also sets out why referral to a 
manager after the order was made was fair; deciding to ignore  a court order  and accept a 
lower sum is a serious  matter. I remain of the view as set out in my provisional  decision and 
confirm it as my final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
22 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9937033