K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  on behalf  of their business,  a partnership which I will call V, that 
Santander UK Plc failed to carry out an international payment.
background
In October  2018, V made an international payment  in dollars, with a sterling  value of 
£3,999.74. It was not received by the intended recipient, and so V contacted  Santander to 
ask what was happening. It turned out that the receiving bank had held the payment for 
additional security  checks, and it couldnt say how long that would  take. So V asked for the 
payment to be returned. This was done, but due to the changing exchange  rate the payment 
was worth only £3,735.25 when  it was returned. Santander also delayed  telling V that the 
payment had been returned until five days afterwards, for which  it apologised and offered to 
pay V £50. (In the meantime, V had arranged another payment to the intended recipient.)
Mr and Mrs V complained to Santander, on behalf of V, and subsequently to our Service. In 
addition to the above matters, Mr M also complained that in a number of phone  calls he had 
made to Santander,  the call handlers had given  him conflicting information about  where  the 
money was. He was initially  told it was with the receiving bank, but later told that Santander 
still had it. He obtained the call recordings to prove it.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. She said that Santanders terms and 
conditions had made it clear that the other bank involved  in an international payment may 
carry out its own checks, and that Santander  would not be liable  for any loss caused as a 
result. She thought £50 was fair compensation for the other issue.
Mr M was not satisfied with that decision. He asked for an ombudsman to reconsider Vs 
case. He also added  that Santander had not sent him a final response letter.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate  my comments  on what I think 
is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. Mr M has made numerous points in support of this complaint. But my decision  
focuses on what I consider are the central issues.
Its unfortunate that Mr M was told conflicting  information when  he phoned Santander about  
his money. But I accept Santanders  explanation, now that the dust has settled, that it had 
sent the money on to the other bank, and no longer had control  over it. (That is what Mr M 
was told in the first calls;  it was in the later calls that he was told Santander still had it.) 
I recognise that that must  have been frustrating. But that would not have made  any 
difference to how long it took to get the money  back. So I dont think  it caused any material 
inconvenience to V, the partnership, such that I should award compensation for that. 
I appreciate that it would have been  inconvenient to Mr M personally,  but under our rules he 
is not the complainant in this case;  V is the complainant and Mr M is its representative. So 
I have no power to award compensation to Mr M himself, only to V.
Ref: DRN96336592Since the money was not with Santander  but with a third party, I cant  hold Santander 
responsible for how long it took to resolve the problem,  or to return  the money. It follows  that 
Santander is not responsible for the reduction  in value  of the payment due to the exchange  
rate changing in the meantime.
Mr M has argued that Santanders  terms and conditions dont warn its customers that these 
checks may take so long.  I think it is implied by a certain clause which I know  Mr M is 
already very familiar with. That clause  is about  Santanders liability  for any loss caused by 
any delay or failure  by the receiving bank  in processing an international payment. I agree 
that it is not a prominent clause, but a delay of this length is not a routine matter;  it is an 
example of something having gone wrong, and I dont think a bank  has to remind  its 
customers that occasionally  something can go wrong: it is simply a fact of life. A clause 
which deals with liability in the case of such an event happening  wouldnt usually be in a 
prominent place.  But even if that document didnt  mention that scenario  at all, I dont think 
that would  amount to an implied  guarantee that nothing will ever go wrong.
I have seen a letter Santander wrote to V confirming  that the payment had been refunded. 
The letter is dated  with the same date as the refund. So I dont think its quite accurate to say 
that Santander waited five days to confirm that the payment had been  refunded,  although it 
did take Santander five days to tell Mr M on the phone. In that phone call, Mr M said that he 
already knew. So I think £50 is fair compensation for that issue.
Mr M has complained about not receiving a final response letter,  or a proper answer  to his 
complaint within  the time Santander  had promised him. But that did not prevent him from 
bringing this complaint to our Service in January 2019, less than two months after the 
refund. So I dont think V was inconvenienced  by that, and while I accept Mr M was irritated, 
I cant award him compensation for that.
Finally, I dont know why the other bank wanted  to carry out extra  security  checks,  but it 
might help to avoid it happening again if Mr and Mrs M make sure that the name on their 
business bank  account matches the name of their business.  V used to be called something  
else, and when the name was changed, it was not updated on Vs Santander account. That 
might not have anything  to do with why this happened, but it is the sort of discrepancy that 
might potentially cause  similar problems with future  transactions.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. I leave  it to Mr and Mrs M to decide 
whether to accept  Santanders offer of £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
V, to accept or reject  my decision before 30 April 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9633659