K821x#15Complaint
Mrs F has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly continued to 
applying charges to her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
Background
I attach my provisional decision of 15 February  2021, which  forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I was intending to uphold Mrs Fs complaint and 
invited both parties to make any final comments ahead of my final decision. 
Following this, Halifax confirmed having received my decision. But it didnt provide anything 
for me to think about or ask for any additional  time to do so. Mrs F didnt provide anything  
further for me to think about either.  
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail  why I intended to uphold Mrs Fs complaint in my provisional  
decision. And, in the absence of anything further from either party,  I see no reason to 
change my conclusions.
So having  carefully considered everything, Im upholding Mrs Fs complaint. 
Fair compensation  what  Halifax needs  to do to put things right for Mrs F
Having thought about everything, I think its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
Mrs Fs complaint for Halifax to put things  right by:
Reworking Mrs Fs current overdraft  balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from January 2013 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact  Mrs F to arrange  a suitable repayment  plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Fs credit 
file, it should backdate  this to January 2013.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs F along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments  from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Halifax 
should remove any adverse information  from Mrs Fs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must 
give Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN92098202My final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 15 February 2021, Im 
upholding Mrs Fs complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before2 April 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN92098203COPY OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
Complaint
Mrs F has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly continued  to applying charges  to 
her overdraft  when she was in financial difficulty.
Background
One of our investigators  looked  at this complaint and didnt  think Halifax had done anything wrong or had treated 
Mrs F unfairly. Mrs F disagreed and asked  for an ombudsman to review her complaint.   
My provisional  findings
Ive considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.   
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations  and good  industry practice we consider  when  looking at 
whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably  when applying overdraft charges.  So I dont consider it 
necessary to set all of this out in this provisional decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Halifax  acted unfairly when it continued charging  
overdraft interest and associated transaction fees after it renewed       Mrs Fs overdraft in January  2013. By this 
point, it was evident Mrs Fs use of her overdraft was unsustainable. A cursory  look at her statements leading up 
to the renewal shows that she in a cycle  of repeated payday borrowing. I can see payments  to at least  four 
different lenders of this type in the lead up to the scheduled review.
In these circumstances, while  Mrs Fs salary might have been higher than average, it nonetheless ought to have 
been apparent that Mrs F was unlikely to have been able to repay what she owed  with overdraft fees and 
associated charges  being added. So Halifax should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms and 
treated Mrs F with forbearance  rather than adding even more  fees and charges on the overdraft .
So all of this means  that Halifax should have realised that Mrs F was experiencing financial difficulty, wasnt using 
her overdraft  as intended and shouldnt have  continued offering  it on the same terms. As Halifax  didnt  react to 
Mrs Fs overdraft  usage  and instead continued  charging in the same way, I think  it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably. 
Mrs F ended up paying  additional interest,  fees and associated charges on her overdraft at a time when  she was 
already experiencing difficulty. So Im intending  to say that Mrs F lost out because  of what Halifax did wrong and 
that it should  put things right.
Fair compensation  what Im intending  to say Halifax needs to do to put things right for Mrs F
Having thought about everything, Im intending to issue  a final decision saying that it would be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of Mrs Fs complaint for Halifax to put things  right by:
Reworking Mrs Fs current  overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied to it from 
January 2013 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance  remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments  have been made 
Halifax should  contact Mrs F to arrange  a suitable repayment plan for this. If it considers  it 
appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Fs credit file, it should backdate this to January  
2013.
OR
If the effect  of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there  no longer being an 
outstanding balance,  then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mrs F 
along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments  from the date they were made (if they were) 
until the date of settlement.  If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been 
made, then Halifax should remove  any adverse  information from Mrs Fs credit file. 
Ref: DRN92098204 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must give Mrs F a certificate 
showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My provisional  decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im intending to uphold Mrs Fs complaint and tell Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
So unless  the comments  and evidence I get by 1 March 2021 changes my mind, thats  what Ill tell Halifax to do 
in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9209820