K820x#14The complaint
Mr M is unhappy  Santander UK Plc (Santander)  wont refund multiple cash withdrawals 
made using  his debit  card that Mr M says he didnt carry out or authorise. 
What happened
Mr M contacted Santander on 29 March  2018  having identified there was a cash withdrawal 
that he hadnt made for £250,  on 27 March 2018.  After going through  his statements, Mr M 
noticed there were  multiple cash withdrawals made between  21 February 2018 and 
27 March 2018,  totalling around  £3,000,  that Mr M says he hadnt  authorised.   
Mr M says he was at work most  of the times when the withdrawals were  made.  Mr Ms card 
hadnt been stolen and he was still in possession of his card.  Mr M explained that whilst at 
work he kept his card in his wallet which was kept in a lockable draw. He says the Personal 
Identification Number (PIN) for his card was a generic  one he had received from 
Santander (which  had been  issued  to him in 2011) and he hadnt shared his PIN with 
anyone and didnt  have it written down anywhere.  Mr M says he lived at home  with wife and 
son, and whilst they had used his card on occasions, it was for online purchases  only.
Mr M didnt  understand  how the withdrawals were made  but suspected that his card and PIN 
had been cloned. Mr M wanted Santander to refund  the withdrawals that he hadnt 
authorised.
Santander say all the disputed withdrawals were  completed with Mr Ms genuine  card and 
were all correctly  authenticated  by Mr Ms PIN being  entered with no incorrect PIN attempts 
made. Santander considered Mr M was therefore liable for the withdrawals. 
Unhappy, Mr M referred the matter  to our service.  One of our investigators looked  into the 
complaint and didnt uphold  it. Broadly  summarised they were satisfied that Mr Ms genuine 
card was used to make the withdrawals, with the correct PIN being entered  to authorise the 
withdrawals. And they found it more likely than not that Mr Ms card and PIN were  in the 
possession of a known third party and this could only be with Mr Ms knowledge and 
permission.
Mr M remained of the opinion that no one had his card, and no one knew his PIN. And given 
the withdrawals were made in his home area whilst he was at work, Mr M was adamant  that 
he hadnt carried out the withdrawals and wanted them  refunded.
As Mr M disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been  resolved, its been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously  set out, and for much the same reasons. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN98442992When considering  whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators  rules,  guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and where  
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have to reach my findings on what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened, based on the balance  of probabilities.
The relevant  regulations  in place at the time are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSR 2017). 
PSR 2017 says a payment transaction is regarded as authorised  if the payer has given 
consent to the execution  of the payment transaction. And if a payment  service  user 
(customer) says they havent authorised  an executed  payment   the payment service 
provider (in this case Santander) has to prove the payment transaction  was authenticated.   
If it is deemed that a payment transaction hasnt  been consented to, it isnt authorised. PSR 
2017 goes on to say a payment service  provider is required to refund  the amount of an 
unauthorised transaction to the payer.
Mr M says he didnt  carry out, consent or authorise  the withdrawals. Mr M says he was at 
work when  the withdrawals were made, his card remained  in his possession  and no one 
knew his PIN. Mr M strongly suspects his card and PIN was cloned  and is seeking  a refund 
of the withdrawals made from his account.  
Santander has said the disputed withdrawals were  made using Mr Ms genuine card and PIN 
and consider Mr M is liable for the withdrawals. 
So, first I need to think about  whether  the evidence I have suggests that the withdrawals  
were authenticated  and then second,  I need to consider  whether I think  it is likely that they 
were carried  out with or without Mr Ms consent.
 
The disputed transactions  were  they authenticated?
 
Mr M considers his card and PIN were  cloned. Mr M has provided a newspaper article about  
skimming. While I understand  Mr Ms concerns  about the various methods  fraudsters  use, 
the act of using  a skimmer means the fraudster  collects data from the magnetic stripe of a 
debit or credit card. 
But in this case, this hasnt happened. Santander  has provided evidence  to show that Mr Ms 
genuine card was used for all the disputed withdrawals. And this is known by the chip  that 
sits within the card. So every time Mr Ms card was used, it was known that it was in fact 
Mr Ms genuine card as the chip that sat within the card was read.
This means  the withdrawals Mr M is disputing were  all made using  Mr Ms genuine card.  And 
the withdrawals were all authenticated by the correct PIN being  entered   with no incorrect  
attempts being  made.
So Im satisfied from Santanders technical  evidence  that Mr Ms genuine card was 
physically present when each of the disputed withdrawals were made and that the 
withdrawals were authenticated by Mr Ms correct  PIN being entered  each  time.  
This means  I now need to determine  whether Mr M consented to the payments being made.
Ref: DRN98442993In order to do this, Ive looked at whether an unknown or known party to Mr M could  have 
made the withdrawals  without his consent, or whether I think  Mr M, or somebody with his 
knowledge and consent, made the withdrawals Mr M is disputing.
Could an unknown party  have made the withdrawals?
Mr M says he hadnt written down his PIN and had it memorised, and he also hadnt shared 
it with anyone. Mr Ms PIN was the same PIN he was last given by Santander in 2011. 
Mr M has said that his card had remained in his possession. And Im mindful that the 
withdrawals took place across a month, spanning  February and March  2018, with Mr Ms 
genuine card being  used.  
It is highly  unlikely that an unknown party managed to gain access  to Mr Ms card, and 
knowing Mr Ms PIN, used it multiple  times  returning it to Mr Ms possession each time.
I am also mindful that if an unknown party had managed to gain access  to Mr Ms card and 
PIN  they would have typically tried to gain as much from the account as possible,  and as 
quickly as they could, maximising spend  before the card was reported stolen.
Also an unknown opportunistic thief or fraudster  is unlikely  willing  to return the card each 
time, as they run the risk of being caught when they could  simply have  used the card to gain 
what they could  and then discard  it.
So I cant reasonably  conclude that an unknown  third party managed  to obtain Mr Ms card 
and PIN, used it on occasions  over the period of a month, returning  it to Mr M on each 
occasion without  him realising it was missing.
Could Mr M have made the withdrawals?
Mr M has said that he was at work the majority of times the withdrawals were made, and 
Mr M has provided copies of his work schedule to support this. Mr M has also pointed out 
that the withdrawals  were  made fairly close to his home and he couldnt have made the 
withdrawals as he was at work a considerable distance away. On balance,  Im satisfied that 
it is unlikely Mr M carried out the withdrawals  himself.
Could a known  party have made  the withdrawals without Mr Ms consent?
If someone known to Mr M had been able to use his card because they had stolen  it along  
with his security credentials,  it would  be fair and reasonable for Santander to refund the 
withdrawals.
But the information Ive been provided  to consider doesnt support this as being more  likely 
than not how Mr Ms card was used.  I find it unlikely that a known party  had managed to 
obtain Mr Ms PIN without  his consent.  
I say this because  Mr M has said his PIN wasnt written down and he had memorised it. 
Based on Mr Ms use of his card, alongside  what he has said about his PIN, I cant see a 
point at which his PIN was compromised.  I cant see how anyone  could have had the 
opportunity or acquired the security credentials  to do so based on the circumstances Mr M 
has described.
Ref: DRN98442994So I think its unlikely that a known person to Mr M obtained his PIN and then card and 
carried out the withdrawals without Mr Ms consent  over the course  of a month, returning 
Mr Ms card each  time.  
As I consider the withdrawals were  unlikely to be carried  out by an unknown  party  to Mr M, 
and I cant see how Mr Ms PIN was compromised  enabling a known party to carry out the 
withdrawals without his consent; I consider it is more likely that a known party to Mr M made 
the withdrawals and this was more likely  than not carried out with his knowledge, authority 
and consent.
While Mr M says he hadnt  shared  his PIN with anyone, I cant see any other plausible  
explanation for the withdrawals other than Mr M had shared his PIN with someone known to 
him. This is because Mr Ms genuine card was used (known by the chip that sits within  the 
card), the withdrawals took place in close proximity to Mr Ms home, and Mr Ms card was 
returned to his possession each time. 
I know my outcome will be disappointing to Mr M, but overall   after taking everything into 
consideration  it seems  likely that somebody with Mr Ms knowledge  or authority, carried  
out the withdrawals  Mr M is disputing.  
So I dont  think it would  be fair or reasonable to ask Santander to reimburse  him.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 March  2021.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
  
Ref: DRN9844299