K821x#15complaint
Mrs D brings this complaint on behalf  of herself  and her husband. She says that despite  
having told Elderbridge Limited not to communicate  directly with Mr D, it continued to do so, 
causing Mr D significant distress.
background
Mr and Mrs D have a loan with Elderbridge.  Unfortunately Mr D became  unwell  in around 
2006 and since  then theyve struggled  to keep up the repayments. In June 2018 Elderbridge 
sent individual letters to Mr and Mrs D about  the arrears,  suggesting  a personal visit to 
discuss them. Mrs D said shed given clear instructions  to Elderbridge  not to write  to her 
husband while he was unwell but it had done so anyway. As a result Mr D had become very 
upset and had to take time off work.
Elderbridge investigated and agreed  the letter  shouldnt have been sent to Mr D. It offered 
£200 compensation and agreed that, other  than regulated documents, which  it had to send 
to both Mr and Mrs D, it would  only contact  Mrs D in the future.
But on 20 September Elderbridge wrote again to Mr D about a complaint Mrs D had raised 
with it. Elderbridge accepted it shouldnt have sent the letter and offered £25 but Mrs D didnt 
feel this adequately reflected the impact  it had on her husband or the fact Elderbridge had 
made another mistake so soon after the letter in June.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She could  see Mr D had first told Elderbridge  about 
his health issues  and his vulnerability  in January 2016 and had told it at that time not to 
contact him about  the account.  Despite  this in June 2018 Elderbridge had written to Mr D - 
along with Mrs D - regarding the arrears. It acknowledged it shouldnt have done so and paid 
£200 compensation for its mistake. But on 20 September Elderbridge had made the same 
mistake by sending a letter to both Mr and Mrs D. 
As Mr D had significant health issues, it was clear this letter  would have had a greater 
impact on him and his health. Elderbridge knew this so she felt it could have done more  to 
prevent the mistake  occurring again  so soon after the first mistake in June was upheld. In 
the circumstances she didnt feel £25 was enough  to reflect the distress  this had caused and 
for that reason, she recommended an increase in the compensation from £200 to £225.
Elderbridge disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  While it 
agreed it could have taken more care, it didnt  agree  that Mr D needed to see the letter  or 
that it justified an increase  in the compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Ive seen that Elderbridge had first been  made  aware of Mr Ds health issues  in 
January 2016  when  it was asked not to contact him about the account. This was noted  on 
the account records so any member  of staff should  have  been aware of this.
Ref: DRN97965742But as has been  said, in June 2018  Elderbridge  wrote to both Mr and Mrs D separately 
about the arrears.  When Mrs D complained, Elderbridge agreed this was a mistake that 
shouldnt have happened. It paid £200 compensation and confirmed it wouldnt contact Mr D 
directly again except for those documents it was required by law to send to both.
Unfortunately only three months later it made the same mistake again and sent a letter to 
both Mr and Mrs D. I accept this was an error  but understandably  Mr and Mrs D were very 
upset to find that the same problem had occurred  so soon  after Elderbridge had told them it 
had taken steps to ensure it wouldnt. For that reason I think  its reasonable  to feel that the 
impact of this on Mr and Mrs D was significant  and greater than it might have been 
otherwise. And it suggests that, whatever  the steps  taken by Elderbridge  after the first 
complaint, they werent sufficient to resolve  the problem.
I note Elderbridge says the letter was addressed to both Mr and Mrs D so Mr D didnt need  
to see it. But the fact it was addressed to both meant that it was highly possible that this 
would happen,  as in fact it did. For that reason I agree with our investigator that the 
compensation offered by Elderbridge doesnt  properly reflect the impact  of what  happened in 
September. In the circumstances Ive decided  that its fair and reasonable to increase it by 
£200 to £225 to take into account the distress caused to Mr D by this mistake.  This is in 
addition to the earlier compensation paid for the first mistake in June.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Elderbridge Limited to pay 
Mr and Mrs D £225 for the distress  caused by its mistake. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9796574