K820x#14complaint
Miss S, through her solicitor, complains that Amtrust  Europe Limited unfairly refused a claim 
under her legal expenses  insurance policy. Whilst funding was subsequently agreed, she 
wants cover  backdated to the outset of her claim. 
Where I refer to Amtrust,  this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
background
Miss S was involved in a car accident,  for which she was arrested and prosecuted. She 
made a claim on her policy to cover  the legal  costs of her chosen solicitor to defend  the 
action being brought against her.
She says she was told by Amtrust her claim had been accepted. And that her solicitors could 
act for her with their costs being funded  by the policy. However on the day of her first 
hearing, she says she was told that Amtrust  would need to obtain an assessment on the 
prospects of successfully defending the action, before cover  could  be agreed. 
Amtrust got an assessment from its panel firm which said the claim didnt enjoy reasonable 
prospects of success.  Miss S solicitor didnt agree and provided  more information for the 
claim to be reconsidered.  But this didnt change the panel firms  opinion.  So Miss S solicitor  
put together  a skeleton argument. On reviewing this, the panel  firm confirmed that 
reasonable prospects existed and cover  was put in place.  
Miss S, through her solicitor, complains that:
she was told her claim was accepted. And she wasnt made aware of the need for a 
legal assessment until the day of her first hearing;
her solicitor had already told Amtrust  that the defence  had reasonable prospects. So 
it wasnt necessary to get a legal assessment. And as her solicitor  is more 
experienced in the relevant area of law, Amtrust  shouldnt have relied on its panel  
firms opinion over theirs;
whilst  the skeleton argument wasnt provided initially, all the information within  it had 
been provided within emails and claim  papers  already.  There wasnt  anything  new 
within that document that the panel  firm hadnt  already  been  given. So reasonable 
prospects shouldve been confirmed  long before they were;
It took over two months for funding  to be agreed. During that time,  Miss S solicitor 
continued to represent  her which  included  attending  the first hearing and a case  
management hearing. Theyve  incurred about £5,360 in legal fees which  Miss S 
wants Amtrust  to pay.
Amtrusts conduct caused  her a great deal of worry  at an already stressful time and  
this resulted in court  deadlines being  missed whilst the focus  was on getting  legal  
funding in place.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding 
Miss S complaint. Ill explain why under the headings below.
Ref: DRN92304752Did Amtrust  give Miss S or her solicitors  the impression funding  was in place sooner than 
May 2019? 
Miss S first made her claim to Amtrust  in March 2019. And when she called for an update 
ten days later, she says she was told cover was in place. Ive reviewed Amtrusts call notes  
which say: confirmed cover in place,  will talk to NPS and offer TOB . As this call took place 
after Amtrust had completed its validation  process, I think  its more  than likely it was 
confirming that a policy existed rather than funding  being in place for Miss S to defend the 
proceedings against her. Thats because legal  expenses insurance is generally  subject  to a 
number of requirements, particularly in circumstances where  a policyholder  wants to use 
their own solicitor. One of those requirements  is for a non-panel solicitor (NPS as referred  
to in the call note) to agree terms of business  (TOB) with an insurer before  incurring any 
costs the insurer  agrees  to pay. Another is for the insurer to be satisfied that prospects of 
successfully defending the claim exist.  Finally, an insurer usually needs  to provide their 
written agreement to costs being  incurred on its behalf because  funding is in place.  
Ive looked at Miss Ss policy and I can see it contains all of these requirements. Without a 
recording of Miss S call with Amtrust, I cant be certain about how Amtrust communicated 
the fact that a policy existed for the period Miss S wanted to claim for. And its possible the 
information Amtrust gave  her about this wasnt clear. But given what  her policy says, I think  
its more likely that Amtrust didnt tell her funding was in place, but rather that she had cover  
for the relevant period. 
I can see that Miss S solicitor also called Amtrust to discuss  the issue  of cover  and he was 
told they would offer the same terms of business  agreed on another  case  that solicitor was 
dealing with. Amtrust sent the solicitor its terms the same day. It asked  for a copy  of the 
charge sheet and confirmation that the claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success. 
I understand why Miss S and her representatives  might have interpreted these two 
conversations as confirmation that funding was in place but Im not persuaded that Amtrust 
acted unfairly. I say so both because the policy terms set out the requirements of the policy 
and because Amtrusts letter enclosing its terms of business concluded with as of yet we 
have not yet accepted this claim or authorised you to act under the terms of the policy  so 
any costs or disbursements incurred have not been  authorised by us and so are not covered 
under the policy. So I think that at the very least, Amtrust made clear they hadnt accepted 
Miss S costs  at the point  of their letter enclosing TOB. 
Miss S has said that Amtrusts usual process  is to obtain a legal  assessment  on the merits of 
a claim before sending  solicitors terms of business- which gave her solicitors  the impression 
her costs were covered. I agree thats usually the order in which insurers conduct  things but 
a departure from this process isnt necessarily wrong. And I dont think it indicates, with any 
certainty that the claim had been  accepted and funding was in place.
After the panel  firm provided their assessment, Miss S solicitor got in touch with Amtrust.  
He said that Amtrust told him the claim was covered on his initial  phone call which  is why he 
represented Miss S at her first hearing.  He also said that had he have known his fees 
werent covered  by the policy, he wouldnt have carried out any work for Miss S. Im 
surprised by this comment. As Ive said, the solicitor didnt receive any formal confirmation of 
funding and he was acting for Miss S before  Amtrust sent him TOB. So I cant say Amtrust 
are responsible for these costs. And the issue of funding between Miss S and her solicitor is 
entirely a matter between  them. 
Ref: DRN92304753By the same token  I cant say that Amtrust  are responsible Miss S missing court deadlines 
because she says the focus was on putting funding into place.
The assessment of prospects 
I know Miss S is unhappy that Amtrust sought  their own legal assessment. And I dont 
dispute that her own solicitor was well qualified to advise on the case  given his level of 
experience in this area of law. But Amtrust were entitled to get their own advice before 
confirming cover.
Because the panel firm said the merits of Miss S claim  were borderline, Amtrust  asked  the 
them to obtain  a barristers advice. Thats in line with what Id have expected it to do when 
faced with two conflicting  solicitors opinions. 
Ive thought carefully at what happened around this time; In May 2019, Miss S solicitor  sent 
an email to Amtrust setting out additional reasons why Miss S case enjoyed reasonable 
prospects. He attached a skeleton  argument hed prepared. This was sent back to the panel 
firm to provide to the barrister. Six days later,  the panel firm responded saying the latest 
information had altered  their opinion on prospects of success. They  said this was the first 
time theyd  been  made aware that Miss S had a pre-existing  medical condition  and that 
shed informed the Police of the symptoms  she was experiencing  at the time of her arrest. In 
light of this information, the panel  firm said prospects had marginally  improved and would be 
greater than 50/50.
In response to this Amtrust confirmed to the solicitor that the claim could be accepted.  Cover  
was put in place from the date Miss S solicitor provided evidence that supported  the merits 
of the claim rather than the date the panel firm provided its advice. Miss S says this 
information had been provided  all along. And that nothing additional was contained within  
her solicitors skeleton argument. She says the panel firm didnt have the required expertise  
to assess this case and that they clearly hadnt  read the information previously supplied  
Where we see an insurer relying on a legal opinion,  wed expect this to be from a suitably 
qualified lawyer. Im satisfied that the panel firm had the required expertise  to assess this 
case. So I think Amtrust met its obligations in this respect. In addition, it hadnt denied  the 
claim based on the panel firms opinion but had escalated the matter to be considered  by a 
barrister due to conflicting advice. As I said above,  this is in line with what  Id expect.  If I 
were satisfied that the information which led to the panel firm concluding the claim had 
reasonable prospects of success had been provided  sooner than it had been, Id be inclined 
to ask Amtrust to backdate cover  further. 
But I cant agree  that is the case here.  The information that changed the panel firms opinion 
(namely that Miss S had a pre-existing medical  condition and shed  told the Police  about  this 
at the time of her arrest) doesnt seem to have been  supplied before by Miss S solicitor. So I 
cant fairly ask Amtrust  to backdate cover any earlier than it has.
Time taken to confirm cover
Its unfortunate that Miss S underlying  legal  case was unfolding throughout her application 
for cover. And I know that the process of cover being put in place took just over two months 
from start to finish. But given the advice Amtrust  received  was that the merits of the case  
were borderline, I cant say it acted unfairly. And had Miss S solicitor provided everything  in 
relation to her claim from the outset- including the evidence that changed the panel firms 
assessment, then its quite possible the process  wouldve  been  concluded  sooner.
Ref: DRN92304754my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms S complaint against Amtrust Europe 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9230475