K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that an appointed  representative of Openwork Limited  mis-sold  them 
a mortgage. They had an offset  mortgage  with a lender  Ill call B, and when their tracker rate 
ended Openwork sold them a fixed interest rate with the same lender, which no longer had 
offset facilities. Mr and Mrs R complain  that they wanted to keep the offset facility, thought 
they were doing  so  and wouldnt have taken the rate had they known they werent.
background 
Mr and Mrs R took out an offset mortgage via Openwork. They  had a short term tracker 
interest rate, and when that expired they went back to Openwork to discuss  their options.  In 
practice, Mr R dealt  with Openwork, just as hes dealt with this complaint. Ill call their 
mortgage lender  B.
The initial discussions  with Openwork took place  in September and October 2014. Mr R then 
didnt contact Openwork  for a while, but got back in touch in January 2015 as the initial two 
year rate expired.
Openwork recommended  a five year fixed rate with the same lender, B. Openworks adviser  
had a phone  call with B on 14 January, in which he discussed how to submit the application 
and which  application  codes to use. 
Following that discussion,  the adviser  emailed  Mr R to confirm  that the application for a five 
year fixed  rate would  be submitted. Later the same  day, Mr R emailed back  saying
We are happy to proceed on this basis assuming that the existing offset 
arrangements remain
The following  day, 15 January, the adviser  says he rang B and asked it to confirm  that 
Mr and Mrs R would  be able to retain their offset  facility with a fixed  rate. He emailed Mr R 
shortly after this conversation, saying:
I have spoken to the team at [B] this morning for further clarification and [Bs staff 
member] on the intermediary team advised  that your offset facility would still remain  
in place and any savings held in the account can continue to be offset
Mr R replied that he was happy  to proceed, and the mortgage application was submitted. On 
19 January the adviser sent a recommendation letter confirming his recommendation for a 
fixed rate offset  mortgage.
In fact, B doesnt  offer  and never has offered  offset mortgages  with fixed  rates. All its 
offset mortgages are variable rates. The mortgage  illustration produced on 14 January is for 
a fixed rate but makes no mention of offset features. And the mortgage offer,  dated  
19 January, is also for a fixed rate  but not an offset mortgage. B transferred 
Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage from an offset  mortgage to a standard fixed  rate mortgage.
Around a year later, Mr and Mrs R discovered what had happened.  They  complained to B, 
which said it had no record of a call on 15 January. But it had a recording of a call on 14 
January, in which it had told Openworks adviser that Mr and Mrs R couldnt have a fixed 
rate on an offset  mortgage. The adviser said that Mr and Mrs R no longer wanted the offset, 
Ref: DRN92407522so B completed the product switch on that basis  giving them a fixed  rate, and removing the 
offset features.
We investigated that complaint, and our adjudicator didnt think that B had done anything 
wrong  it had acted  on what it had been told by the Openwork adviser.  So Mr and Mrs R 
complained to Openwork.
Openwork said Mr and Mrs R hadnt said anything about the offset until the email late on 14 
February. Once he saw that, the adviser  spoke to B to confirm  they would still be able to 
keep the offset  even  with a fixed rate. Openwork said B told the adviser they could,  so he 
submitted the application in good  faith. It was Bs fault that Mr and Mrs R were no longer on 
the offset mortgage because it had misled the adviser.
Our investigator said the complaint against Openwork should be upheld. He felt that even if 
B had misled  Openwork, the adviser should have known that its not possible  to have a fixed 
rate on an offset  mortgage  and should have made sure that the mortgage  he arranged  met 
Mr and Mrs Rs needs. Openwork didnt think it had done anything wrong, and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the case.
I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial thoughts on the case. I said:
Mr and Mrs R already  had a mortgage when they took advice from Openwork in late 
2014 and early 2015. But Openwork was still giving  them mortgage advice  and, in 
doing so, had an obligation to make sure it was giving suitable advice. In other  
words, it had to make  sure the mortgage it recommended  was appropriate to 
Mr and Mrs Rs needs and circumstances.
Openwork had advised on the original mortgage.  It clearly knew that Mr and Mrs R 
had an offset mortgage   and in any case,  Mr R said as much in his initial  email  
asking for further  advice  in 2014.  But theres  no mention of that in any of Openworks 
paperwork before  January  2015.  
The fact find records that they have an interest  only mortgage  but says nothing 
about it being offset. It gives  details of their finances,  but says nothing about their 
preferences for particular types of mortgage. The recommendation letter wasnt  sent 
until 19 January, after the re-mortgage  had been arranged. But the adviser sent Mr R 
an email on 3 November  setting out his initial advice  which is solely  about  what  rate 
to choose. There  is no mention  that the mortgage  was previously an offset, and no 
mention about  whether or not Mr and Mrs R could take a fixed  rate and still have an 
offset mortgage.
In fact, they couldnt. B has never offered fixed rates on its offset  mortgages.  
Mr and Mrs R could have had a fixed rate, or they could have had an offset, but they 
couldnt have  had both.
I would have expected a competent mortgage  adviser with good knowledge of the 
market to know that offset mortgages dont generally allow fixed rates. But thats not 
something I would  expect Mr and Mrs R to have known. And even if he didnt know 
that, the adviser knew  or ought  to have known  that B didnt offer fixed rate offset 
mortgages. Openworks  file includes  Bs full product list, which confirms that it only 
offers variable rates on its offset mortgages.
Ref: DRN92407523I dont think its likely  offset  mortgages  were discussed at all before 14 January. 
Theres no mention of them in the paperwork before  Mr Rs email on the evening  of 
that day. I think its most likely that the adviser  focussed on Mr and Mrs Rs 
preference for a fixed rate. In doing  so, he overlooked that they were on an offset 
mortgage, and didnt notice  or didnt know  that this was incompatible  with a fixed 
rate. The suitability letter  recommending an offset mortgage with a fixed  rate  
wasnt written  until 19 January.
Ive listened to the call the adviser  had with B on 14 January. The relevant  section  is 
as follows, in the context of the adviser  asking B how to make an application and 
confirming which product code to select:
B: Its not an offset product code that one, its just an openplan  flexible
Openwork: No, just an openplan flexible,  yeah, he doesnt want  the offset, he 
wants a fixed rate now, so
B: And hes not borrowing any more money  at all, no?
Openwork: Nope, nothing at all, keeping it exactly as it is, just changing  the 
product
Its clear to me from this call that the adviser  told B that Mr and Mrs R wanted a 
flexible mortgage  but didnt want to keep their offset  features. 
If that was genuinely the case,  Id expect to see some evidence of that being  
discussed with them. But as Ive said, theres  nothing in the file to suggest that it was. 
The evidence suggests that the only discussion  the adviser had with Mr and Mrs R 
was to confirm that they wanted to keep their mortgage on an interest  only basis  
and take a new fixed rate. And Mr Rs email  later that day confirms they did want  the 
offset. I think that if they had ever been presented with the true position   that they 
could have an offset, or a fixed rate, but not both  theyd have chosen to keep the 
offset. So the adviser failed to understand Mr and Mrs Rs requirements, and wrongly 
reported them to the lender.
I think its possible that the adviser  didnt understand the distinction  between a 
flexible mortgage  (allowing overpayments,  underpayments and payment holidays) 
and an offset mortgage  as offered by B. In his report of the call with B the following 
day, the adviser told Mr R hed been  told they could keep  their offset mortgage. But 
the product code  he says he was told to select is for a flexible mortgage.  The lenders 
rate sheet shows this code comes under the list of fixed rates  not the list of offset 
rates. 
The adviser told Openwork during its investigation  of the complaint that the code was 
for a flexible mortgage  which it was; it wasnt for an offset mortgage. And he told 
Openwork that he thought the lender  was agreeing  a concession to allow  
Mr and Mrs R to retain their offset  facility by special arrangement.
I dont think the advisers recollection of this conversation  in his emails  to Openwork, 
over a year after it happened, is likely  to be accurate. I dont think  its plausible  that B 
would offer to create a bespoke  product that it didnt generally offer for Mr and Mrs R 
 still less that it would do so in a phone conversation that lasted less than two 
minutes, and which resulted in it telling the adviser to submit  the application using a 
standard application code  for something  else.
Ref: DRN92407524I cant be sure what happened.  But having considered all the evidence, I think its 
more likely than not that the adviser  simply overlooked that Mr and Mrs R had an 
offset mortgage. He didnt  discuss  it with them during the advice  process, and 
focussed on their desire for a fixed rate either without realising that was incompatible 
with their offset mortgage, or without realising  that they even had one. Then  when it 
came up in the conversation with B on 14 January he assumed that they would prefer  
the fixed rate to the offset.  
And when  he finally  realised,  late on 14 January or early on 15 January, that they did 
have and wanted to keep  the offset,  he tried to resolve things with the lender  but in 
doing so got confused between flexible and offset mortgages. Given  the length  of the 
call and the code  he was given, I think he asked the lender whether the fixed rate 
was a flexible  mortgage, which it was. Thats why B confirmed he should  use the 
application code  he did. 
But he was either  confused about or careless of the difference  between  Bs flexible 
and offset mortgages.  As a result, he thought hed asked for an offset  mortgage,  and 
B thought hed asked for a flexible mortgage.  So he ended up telling Mr and Mrs R 
that they could  have  an offset mortgage with a fixed rate, but applying  for a flexible 
mortgage with a fixed rate  with the result that Mr and Mrs R lost their offset facility.
It was the advisers  obligation to make sure that the mortgage he arranged for 
Mr and Mrs R was suitable for them, in that it met their needs and circumstances. I 
think its clear  the mortgage he arranged didnt  meet that test  and I think it was 
primarily the advisers fault that this didnt  happen. So I intend  to uphold  this 
complaint.
That being  the case, I need to decide what Openwork needs to do to put matters 
right. It should aim, as far as possible, to put Mr and Mrs R back in the position they 
would have been in had nothing gone wrong.
In this case, the fixed rate Mr and Mrs R took  2.99% - is the same as a variable 
rate that was available  with an offset  mortgage. Weve asked B to re-calculate the 
position their mortgage would  have  been in had they taken an offset mortgage with a 
2.99% variable mortgage compared to the actual position on the 2.99% fixed rate 
they took.
B has looked at the amounts Mr and Mrs R had in the savings accounts that were 
linked to the mortgage when it was an offset mortgage. Based on their actual 
balances in those  accounts up to March  2019   and assuming that the balances  at 
that time dont change  between March 2019  and the end of the fixed rate term in 
2020  B has calculated  that their mortgage balance would be around £4,500 lower 
by the end of the fixed rate if they had taken  an offset mortgage instead.
Weve asked B to update its calculations based on the actual account  balances up to 
date, again projecting forward to 2020.  So the actual  figure  may vary from the initial 
£4,500 estimate,  but its likely to be of a similar  order. 
Openwork arranged the wrong mortgage for Mr and Mrs R. As a result, they ended  
up with a mortgage that will, by the end of the fixed rate period  (and subject to Bs 
updated calculations) leave them worse off by around £4,500.  I intend  to direct 
Ref: DRN92407525Openwork to pay Mr and Mrs R the result  of Bs updated calculations  in settlement of 
this complaint. 
I also think Openworks failure to understand Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage  requirements, 
and resulting failure to arrange  the right mortgage  for them,  has caused them some 
trouble and upset.  Taking into account  everything  thats been  said and all the 
circumstances, I think  it would be fair for Openwork to pay them £350 compensation.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Openwork didnt agree with my provisional  decision. It said:
The adviser didnt  overlook that Mr and Mrs R had an offset  mortgage. But he 
understood that they hadnt  made  great use of the offset accounts  and didnt  think it 
was of paramount  importance to them;
Rather, their priority  was a fixed rate. They didnt say they wanted to retain the offset.  
Thats why the adviser didnt ask for it to be retained in the call of 14 January;
Mr and Mrs R only told the adviser  they wanted  to keep the offset  on the evening of 
14 January. In the call the next day, the adviser  asked whether they could keep it and 
take a fixed rate  and was told they could. Openwork produced a hand-written note 
of the call it said showed this conversation took place,  and then confirmed it to 
Mr and Mrs R in the email immediately afterwards;
Had B told the adviser that wasnt possible, he wouldnt have gone ahead. Instead he 
would have contacted Mr and Mrs R to ask them how they wanted to proceed;
Other lenders  do offer offsets  with fixed rates  Openwork included  a rate sheet from 
a lender that did at the time  and so the adviser had no reason  to suspect what  B 
told him might not be right; 
The alternative offset variable rate I identified included a product fee, which  should  
be taken into account. And as it was a variable rate subsequent  changes in interest 
rates should  be factored in too.
The adviser himself also sent a response, in which he said:
He pro-actively contacted Mr and Mrs R when their old rate was expiring, not the 
other way round;
Mr and Mrs R were concerned about  movements in interest  rates and so wanted a 
fixed rate  keeping  the offset  was not their key priority;
On 14 January, he spoke to B and agreed Mr and Mrs R wanted a fixed  rate, not an 
offset, which reflected  their requirements at the time;
It was only later that day that Mr R first said he wanted to keep the offset;
He spoke to B the next morning,  which confirmed  Mr R could keep the offset  and 
have a fixed rate;
Had B said that wasnt possible,  he wouldnt  have submitted the application;
Other lenders  did provide  fixed  rate offset mortgages  he provided an example;
As this was a product  available on the wider market, he had no reason not to accept 
what B had said on 15 January;
His recollection of this call is accurate  and supported by the handwritten file note 
hes now produced;
He asked a specific question, was given a specific answer and relayed the answer to 
Mr and Mrs R in good faith.
Ref: DRN92407526Mr and Mrs R also responded.  They were broadly happy with my decision, but asked if I 
could also include in my proposed redress  the costs of releasing them from the mortgage 
with B so they could move  elsewhere. They didnt think it was fair they were  still stuck in a 
mortgage that theyd never asked for. And they didnt think  it was fair to apply the offset 
variable rate product fee from the redress. They werent advised about the fee at the time. If 
theyd known B had such a fee, they might not have  re-mortgaged with B at all.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also carefully  considered what  the 
parties have said in response  to my provisional decision. 
Openwork has pointed to a small building society that does offer fixed rate offset mortgages. 
But I dont think that detracts from my point that theyre  not something generally  available  in 
the market  and doesnt  alter my view that the adviser should have known that theyre not 
something B, a major lender and Mr and Mrs Rs existing lender, offers.
Ive taken into account the further  evidence the adviser has sent in. But I dont think its 
entirely compatible with what hes said previously. Given the passage  of time and the 
fallibility of memory, thats entirely  understandable and theres no suggestion  of dishonesty 
on his part. Its simply that I think the documents from the time are likely to be more reliable.
That evidence does  persuade me that the adviser simply didnt consider  until the last 
minute  that Mr and Mrs R had an offset mortgage  or that that might result  in problems with 
them taking a fixed rate. Theres  no evidence of any discussion about it at any point (other 
than it being mentioned in Mr and Mrs Rs initial email) until 14 January. 
Ive taken into account the phone  note of 15 January which Openwork has now provided. Its 
a brief note that says
15.01.15
Rang [B] re offset facility  09:41AM
[name of B staff member]
Still remain in place  + still able to offset savings in the account
That suggests that there was some discussion about maintaining the offset  facility.  Its a very 
brief note and the quotation doesnt have any context to it. So I cant  be sure of what exactly  
was discussed.  
The adviser told Openwork when it investigated  this complaint that B had agreed to create a 
bespoke product for Mr and Mrs R. This note doesnt suggest thats the case. It was a very 
brief conversation,  resulting in a very brief note which doesnt record the question  B was 
asked. 
In any case, the result  was that the adviser didnt apply for an offset  mortgage.  He applied 
for a fixed  rate flexible mortgage  which wasnt what Mr and Mrs R wanted.
Even if on the 15 January call he was given incorrect or misleading information  by B  and 
the evidence isnt enough to persuade  me he was  that doesnt  in my view take away from 
his obligations.  Openwork  was required to recommend a mortgage  that was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs Rs needs  or if none was available explain that to them. 
Ref: DRN92407527The mortgage Openwork arranged wasnt, in my view, suitable  for them.  They wanted to 
continue with their offset mortgage. They wanted a fixed rate as well, but werent  told those 
were incompatible.  The adviser didnt properly explore their needs  and requirements, with 
the result  that he had to try and rescue the situation at the last minute. 
Regardless of the call with B on 15 January, it was clear from the rate information the 
adviser had that a fixed rate couldnt be taken with an offset. It was clear  from the rate 
information that what he had actually applied  for was a fixed  rate, not an offset. Had 
Mr and Mrs R understood  that, I think they would have chosen to continue  with the offset 
rather than take the fixed  rate. The mortgage  he arranged  wasnt suitable for Mr and Mrs R 
because it didnt meet their requirements   and Openwork has the primary responsibility for 
that.
Mr and Mrs R have said that they want Openwork to pay the costs  of exiting their mortgage 
with B. I dont think it would be fair to ask Openwork  to pay Bs ERC  or the costs  of moving 
the mortgage elsewhere. The fixed rate term ends  in a few months, and Mr and Mrs R will be 
able to move  their mortgage at that point.  They may be able to explore moving  it to another 
of Bs rates before then. The redress weve asked B to calculate is based  on the mortgage 
remaining with B until the end of the term  so if Openwork pays  that, and also pays the 
costs of exiting the mortgage, Mr and Mrs R will be overcompensated, which  I dont think is 
fair. 
I do think its fair that Openwork offsets  the product fee Mr and Mrs R would have had to pay 
to take out the offset mortgage. All Bs offset  mortgage products had fees. So if Mr and Mrs 
R had been given the mortgage they wanted, they would have had to pay a fee. Mr R said 
that if theyd known about the fee, they would have considered  moving their mortgage  
elsewhere. But if theyd  done that, they would have  had to pay other costs instead  
including valuation and legal fees,  and potentially  another lenders product fee. The purpose  
of awarding redress  in a case  like this is to put Mr and Mrs R back in the position they would 
be in if nothing had gone wrong. If they have the benefit of the offset rate through  the 
compensation I am awarding, without the cost they would have to pay to get that, they will be 
better off than if nothing  had gone  wrong  and that wouldnt be fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Openwork Limited  to pay Mr and Mrs R:
£4,090.24,  being the results of Bs updated calculations, less the £1,499 product fee 
 making £2,591.24  in total;  and
£350 compensation for their trouble  and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 November  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9240752