K822xcomplaint
Mrs S, on behalf of the Estate of Mr S, complains about how HSBC  UK Bank Plc dealt with 
Mr Ss accounts following  his passing away.
background 
Mrs S says she told HSBC in early 2017  that her husband Mr S had passed away. She says 
she received letters  from HSBC confirming that information but in October  2018 found  out 
that HSBC hadnt noted  that information  on one account. Mrs S says as a result  a number of 
direct debit payments  were returned and that she received a number of letters  about  this 
which caused her distress. She says she was forced  to pay the direct debit amounts herself 
and was caused further upset in having to explain what  had taken  place.
Mrs S says she then received further  account  information from HSBC that again caused  her 
distress. She would like all accounts  updated  with the correct information and for HSBC  to 
make sure no correspondence is sent to her with Mr Ss name on it.
HSBC accepted it made a mistake by not updating  this account with details of Mr Ss 
passing away. It has apologised to Mrs S and sent her flowers  and has now offered £250 
compensation for what took place.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us and our investigator accepted  she had received poor 
service and that HSBC  made a mistake. The investigator thought  HSBC  had fairly 
apologised and offered appropriate  compensation.
Mrs S disagrees with that view and says the compensation  offer is an insult.  She says shes 
paid out over £40,000 of her own money  to avoid being taken to court for what took place. 
Mrs S says she was caused  distress  by HSBC in having to revisit  what had taken place.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that whilst HSBC has made mistakes I dont require it to do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint for the reasons I will explain.
I accept that HSBC made a number of mistakes  here by not correctly  updating one of Mr Ss 
accounts with the information Mrs S gave it. I have  no doubt Mrs S was caused distress  and 
upset in having to deal with the consequences of the mistakes  at what I accept was a difficult  
time for her. I also accept  that Mrs S would  have been caused inconvenience and distress  in 
having to pay the various  companies following the direct debits being returned.
I should explain to Mrs S that the complainant here is the estate of Mr S and not her. So that 
means that I have to consider the effect HSBCs  mistake had on the estate and not the effect 
the mistakes had upon Mrs S herself.  In those circumstances whilst I appreciate Mrs S was 
caused distress here, that is not something I can fairly consider as part of this complaint or 
can fairly consider  ordering compensation for that distress. 
I have considered the effect HSBCs actions had upon the estate. And having  done so I cant  
see any evidence that the estate was caused  any loss as a result of what  took place. I 
appreciate that Mrs S says she was forced to pay over £40,000 of her own money to settle 
Ref: DRN99673052debts. But I think if HSBC  had acted correctly at the start it likely this account would have 
been frozen in any event.  And I also think that those direct debit amounts would have been 
payable regardless of what  took place. So I cant fairly order any compensation for the 
money Mrs S says shes  paid.
Im satisfied that HSBC  has acted  fairly  by apologising for what took place. I can see that its 
offered Mrs S personally £250  compensation for what took place. For the reasons I have 
explained I cant fairly order compensation to Mrs S for the distress she was caused  so I will 
leave it to her to decide if she wishes to accept that compensation offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S on behalf  of 
the estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before  27 April 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9967305