K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) hasnt refunded the cost of his holiday 
after he was deemed  not fit to travel.
background
I issued  a provisional decision  on this case  on 17 December 2019.  That provisional decision 
is attached below and forms part of my final decision. 
In my provisional decision I said the insurance  policy terms are very clear, and I dont think  it 
would be fair or reasonable to ask AXA to depart from its policy wording and pay for a trip 
that had been  used by someone else. I also said there was uncertainty over whether a clear 
question was asked when the policy  was taken out, so it would be difficult  to say that Mr S 
mis-represented his pre-existing  medical  conditions. I recommended that AXA should refund  
the premium as our investigator has suggested.    
Both parties have  confirmed theyve received  my provisional decision. And both parties  have 
replied.
AXA has replied and accepted the provisional  decision. 
Mr S has also replied.  And hes made  some further points. He says with regard to the point 
where the organiser  gave the tickets away. When I made  my decision not to travel, on 
medical advice, I was told that no refund could be made  and therefore, the decision was 
made by me to claim a refund form my insurer. The fact that the holiday was refused is 
irrelevant, its my understanding that it is common place  for airlines to fill, no show  seats, and 
hotels to fill empty rooms, both without refund to the original holidaymaker. Do in fact holiday 
companies give further reimbursements  on these occasions when  they have filled the seats 
and rooms, in my experience no refunds  are ever made . He also says that the situation was 
Out of my control, the holiday was used  by a third party,  without  my permission  and without 
any offer of compensation.
Mr S has also put forward some points in relation to his pre existing  medical  condition, and 
what he had declared. He says With  regard to the medical questions I answered all 
questions, in full and to the best of my knowledge, I was never told of a possible heart  
condition, by my GP. He confirms that he was never actually diagnosed with angina  and 
that he subsequently called AXA as a test and declared angina, and he was quoted normal 
terms.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the claim
If youve booked a holiday and for some  reason  you have to cancel, this insurance policy  will 
cover you for any irrecoverable  unused travel and accommodation costs  and other pre-paid 
charges which you have  paid or are contracted to pay, together with your proportion  only of 
any reasonable additional travel expenses  incurred  if cancellation of the trip is necessary 
and unavoidable. 
Ref: DRN92611402The key purpose of this term is to refund the insured when its necessary and unavoidable to 
cancel a trip. I agree  that Mr S made the decision not to travel and that it was unavoidable 
for him. But the trip was never cancelled. The trip was amended and somebody else 
travelled in Mr Ss place.  So even though Mr S has not been refunded  for the cost of this trip 
hes not eligible to claim for a cancellation  under the terms and conditions  of the policy  if the 
actual trip was never cancelled. 
I can understand  the example that Mr S has provided to support his argument.  But hes 
putting forward a separate unrelated  scenario. And whilst  I do appreciate that Mr S hasnt 
been compensated for the amount hes paid for this trip and I can understand how frustrated 
he is with this situation, I still dont think the business has done anything wrong by declining 
a claim for a trip. The policy  terms are very clear and they only apply when a trip has been  
cancelled. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable  to ask AXA to depart from its policy 
wording.
the pre-existing medical condition
Under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations) Act 2012  (the Act), 
whether or not a consumer has taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation is to 
be determined in the light of a number  of relevant circumstances  one of which is how clear, 
and how specific  the insurers questions were. In my provisional decision I said there was 
uncertainty as to whether  a clear question had been asked, so it would be difficult to say that 
Mr S mis-represented his pre-existing medical  conditions.  Mr S says he answered all 
questions to the best of his knowledge and he was never told of a possible  heart  condition.  
Under the Act an insurer has a remedy against  a consumer for a misrepresentation made  by 
the consumer before a consumer insurance  contract was entered into or varied only if the 
insurer shows  that without the misrepresentation, that insurer  would not have entered  into 
the contract  (or agreed to the variation) at all, or would have done  so only on different terms
Mr S says AXA accepted him with the declared  condition when he called as a test. AXA 
have said that it wouldnt  have sold Mr S this policy with the declared condition.  But I have 
seen an email which indicates there mightve been a different  policy available  at a higher 
premium, although  this isnt clear.  
Under the Act it says if the insurer would not have  entered into the consumer insurance 
contract on any terms, the insurer may avoid  the contract and refuse all claims, but must 
return the premiums paid. But if the insurer would have entered  into the consumer insurance 
contract, but on different  terms (excluding  terms relating to the premium), the contract is to 
be treated as if it had been entered into on those different terms if the insurer  so requires.
Because its not completely clear  whether AXA wouldve offered an alternative  policy, I dont 
think that in these specific circumstances it would be fair or reasonable for AXA to retain the 
premium. So Im going to ask AXA to refund the premium as our investigator  has suggested. 
So based on this I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional  
decision. I confirm those findings here. And for the reasons  set out in full above I uphold  this 
complaint in part. 
Ref: DRN92611403my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I order AXA Insurance  UK Plc to:
Refund the premium  in full to Mr S.
AXA must also add interest  on any refund at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date the 
policy was taken out to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020
Derek Dunne
ombudsman
provisional decision
Mr S was due to travel abroad on a group golfing trip. Unfortunately,  a couple of weeks  prior 
to the trip, he felt faint and went to see his GP  who advised him not to travel. As he 
couldnt travel the trip organiser  gave his ticket  to someone  else, free of charge. Mr S 
submitted a claim for his loss under his insurance policy. 
But AXA declined  the claim. AXA said the trip had been used so there was no loss for it to 
cover. AXA also said that the diagnosis from the doctor was linked to an undisclosed pre-
existing medical condition and as such was excluded  from cover.
Ref: DRN92611404Mr S doesnt agree. He said hed been  unable to reclaim the costs  from the trip organiser 
and as such  he had suffered a loss. He also said that hed answered all medical questions 
correctly and hadnt misrepresented any previous medical condition.  
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He said that Mr S had suffered a loss and 
that the claim was valid. But he felt the medical  diagnosis  was linked to a pre-existing 
condition and as AXA would never have offered cover if this condition  had been  disclosed. 
He said that AXA was correct to decline the claim. But it should refund Mr S premium.  Mr S 
disagrees and hes asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. And having done  so I plan to uphold the 
complaint in part.
the claim
Mr S submitted a claim as he couldnt  travel as planned. Under Section A of the policy 
cancellation or curtailment charges it tells you what is covered. It says: 
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the schedule of benefits for your proportion only 
of any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other  pre-paid charges 
which you have paid or are contracted to pay, together  with your proportion  only of any 
reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if: 
a)Cancellation  of the trip is necessary and unavoidable 
or 
b) The trip is curtailed before completion  
As a result of any of the following events: 
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications arising as a direct  result of 
pregnancy
Mr S paid for his trip in full. And when he was advised not to travel,  he immediately informed 
the trip organiser and asked for a refund. The trip organiser contacted  the tour operator, but 
they were told that there wouldnt be a refund. The trip organiser then tried to sell Mr S place 
on the tour, but they couldnt get anyone  to take the place at such short notice.  However, 
when Mr S requested copies of the invoice  to support his cancellation claim, it transpired that 
the trip organiser had given  the holiday to another club member who travelled in Mr S place.
The policy terms will only cover you in the event of having  to cancel for any irrecoverable 
unused travel  and accommodation costs and other pre-paid charges which you have paid or 
are contracted to pay. And the problem here is that the trip was used, albeit not by Mr S. And 
the costs are recoverable  but only from the person who went in Mr S place.
I believe Mr S when he says that he was unaware that someone else travelled in his place. 
But that doesnt mean I would expect AXA to pay for his loss. The trip was used so the cost 
of the trip is recoverable from the person that used it. AXA cant be expected to pay for a trip 
that benefitted someone else. 
Ref: DRN92611405I appreciate that Mr S is not going  to be happy  with this outcome. But I think  the policy  terms 
are very clear, and I dont  think it would be fair or reasonable to ask AXA to depart from its 
policy wording. So, I dont think AXA has done anything wrong and this claim has been  
correctly excluded under  the terms and conditions of the policy as set out above. 
the pre-existing medical condition
AXA also say that Mr S misrepresented his pre-existing medical conditions.  AXA say that if 
he had declared  all his medical conditions correctly it would never have insured him in the 
first place. 
Ive looked at all the evidence thats  been presented in relation to this issue. Ive reviewed 
screen shots  of answers  that should  have been given, and screen shots of the questions 
that were likely to have been asked. Ive also read through  the reports  provided by Mr S GP 
and his thoughts on whether Mr S was asymptomatic and what medication he was taking.
The problem I have  after looking  at all this evidence is that its still not clear what  Mr S didnt 
disclose. If AXA wish to decline cover  for a specific reason,  it needs to ask a clear question,  
so that this gives the consumer the opportunity to give a clear  answer.  
In this instance Mr S had Ischemic  Heart Disease (IHD). It has been stable since  2005 and 
asymptomatic. AXA say that the wording in the medical report  indicates he was taking 
medication (aspirin) and therefore this needed to be disclosed. AXA has concluded Mr S 
was taking aspirin which is taken to prevent heart attacks and strokes.  
Mr S says he did declare  that he was taking aspirin. He declared that he was taking aspirin 
for high blood  pressure,  and this is noted on the answers Ive seen. 
Because of the lack of clarity  about  what was disclosed I asked AXA to show me where it 
asked a clear question  about Mr S heart symptoms,  which  wouldve led it to the point of 
declining cover. AXA sent me screen  shots  of the questions  that wouldve been asked. But in 
its accompanying email AXA has also said What is not clear is exactly what  condition the 
customer didnt disclose, and when they last received treatment or took medication  for it. 
AXA has also said I believe from the below it relates to a heart condition in which case  the 
relevant question would be the Have  you, or anyone to be named on the policy,  ever been  
diagnosed with or treated for any: cancerous, respiratory, heart or circulatory conditions 
(problems with blood  flow, including  strokes, high blood pressure, and cholesterol)?  
question, plus potentially those  about medication/treatment/hospital visits in the past 2 
years.  However, it is difficult to say with certainty  without knowing  this
I think given the uncertainty of whether  a clear question  was asked, it would be difficult  to 
say that Mr S mis-represented his pre-existing  medical conditions. So as there is no trip to 
cover, and AXA say that it wouldnt have  covered Mr S if he had disclosed his pre-existing  
medical conditions  anyway, I think the fair and reasonable  solution  would be for AXA to 
refund the premium  as our investigator has suggested.   
Ref: DRN9261140