K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr B says American Express Services Europe  Limited (AMEX) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think  AMEX made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI. From what  Ive 
seen, Mr B chose to take it out by ticking a box to confirming he wanted the policy. He 
didnt have to tick the box if he didnt want the cover.
AMEX didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr B got the information  he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information AMEX gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. For example, it shouldve provided  better information about  the cost and 
benefit of the policy.  But Mr B chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted  this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances  it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so I think  it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  
So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover in the first place. 
All of the above means AMEX doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But AMEX  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
When the policy  was sold,  AMEX  expected  to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr B about that. 
Because AMEX didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, AMEX has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said. But these points dont change  my decision.
what AMEX  needs to do
AMEX has to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. AMEX should also pay back  to Mr B any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Ref: DRN97990122AMEX should  re-work  the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr B the difference  between 
what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. AMEX should also pay Mr B 8%* simple  interest  if    
Mr B paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back  the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
Mr B is in an individual voluntary  arrangement  (IVA), and his insolvency practitioner has an 
interest in the compensation. AMEX  should  take into account the terms of the IVA when 
making any payment  and Mr B should  keep  this in mind if he accepts my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Mr B any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9799012