K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that the benefits  of a solar panel system installed at their home  were  
misrepresented to them. In particular, Mr and Mrs T say they were told that the solar panel  
system would be provided at no cost to them, that the credit  agreement would be self-
funding because of the Feed In Tariff (FIT) and their electricity bills would reduce annually.  
They said that they were told the total cost of the system  would be £8,600  when it would 
actually cost about £11,000  when  interest was included. Mr and Mrs T are represented and 
their representative says that Shawbrook Bank  Limited (Shawbrook), is jointly and severable 
liable for the misrepresentation under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (the Act). 
It also says that there is an unfair relationship in respect of s140  of the Act.  
background
In 2014, Mr and Mrs T met with a representative  from a company Ill call P to talk about 
purchasing a solar  panel system  (the system) to be installed at their home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, they decided  to purchase the system and finance it through  
a five year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system  was subsequently 
installed.
In November 2016 Mr and Mrs Ts representative  made a claim under section 75 of the Act 
to Shawbrook. It was said that P had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these  misrepresentations  that had induced  Mr 
and Mrs T to enter into the contract  with P. 
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  says that Mr and Mrs T were promised a year one benefit of 
about £1,000. However  it wasnt pointed out that that, taking into account of the loan 
payments, there would be no benefit and there would actually be a deficit in year one. It also 
says the cost of the system was misrepresented, that they were  told it would not cost them  a 
penny and the FIT payment would  not cover the loan payments. It says that the electricity  
savings were exaggerated and they were, in practice, substantially less than advised  by P. It 
said that the financial benefit  was only about  £1,500 after 20 years and it does not believe it 
logical to make such an outlay if that was the only benefit. Mr and Mrs Ts representative 
also says that Mr and Mrs T were told that the inverter  for the system was warrantied for 20 
years and were not told that the performance  of the system would deteriorate slightly  year on 
year. It says that Mr and Mrs T would not have entered  into the agreement had they known 
this about these issues. 
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  also made  reference to a RECC disciplinary hearing in 2013  
at which  it was held that P had breached the RECC consumer protection code.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  said the credit agreement should be cancelled and the money  
paid to Shawbrook  (plus interest) by Mr and Mrs T and any commissions  paid, should be 
refunded to them. 
Shawbrook said, in response to the complaint that, having reviewed the information  it held 
on file as well as information provided  by P, it didnt  agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs T or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. In summary, it:
Provided a document  that set out that Mr and Mrs T had agreed  to the terms of the 
loan.
Ref: DRN91077842Provided a copy of the contract which was signed by Mr and Mrs T to confirm the 
costs of the system.  
Said that it disputed  that Mr and Mrs T had been  told that the system would be self-
funding and the documentation  set out that this would not be the case and that the 
FIT payments would  not be sufficient to cover  the system costs initially.
Said that the FIT payments were set out in the documentation and the FIT payments 
that have been  received were proximate  to that estimated  at outset. 
The utility bills supplied cannot be used  for the purposes of assessing savings as the 
pre installation  bills are for a different property.  
Disputed that Mr and Mrs T had been told that the inverter  was guaranteed for 20 
years. It said the documentation made  it clear  the warranty  was for 10 years   which 
can be extended for a fee to 20 years. 
Unhappy with this response,  Mr and Mrs T referred  their complaint to this service  and it was 
considered by one of our investigators. 
Having considered all the information  and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think  
that P had misrepresented  the system  to Mr and Mrs T and found  no reason to uphold the 
complaint. In summary she said:
She thought  the quote Mr and Mrs T had been  provided with by P set out that the FIT 
payments wouldnt  cover the loan payments. She also thought that the total benefits 
of the scheme  had been set out for Mr and Mrs T and had not been misrepresented.
The documentation  provided to Mr and Mrs T by P set out that the system would not 
be self-funding. It set out that there would be a shortfall between  the monetary 
benefits of the scheme and the costs. 
The documents they were given set out the total cost of the loan was about  £10,800,  
not £8,600.
The evidence did not support Mr and Mrs Ts comments that they were  told they 
would receive about  £1,000 in their pocket at the end of year one. 
The system  had generated electricity in line with the amounts projected at outset.   
The documents did set out that Mr and Mrs T were told that their system would be 
self-funding eventually. That was a reasonable assumption bearing in mind the rates 
of energy cost increases at the time.   
She didnt feel that a court would  conclude that an unfair relationship existed  based 
on the evidence  available. 
This particular sale was some time after the disciplinary hearing referred to in the 
complaint. And the evidence was that there was an improvement in the sales  process 
since that time. She based  her view on the evidence  and facts  applicable to this case 
and she was not persuaded that the previous disciplinary findings meant that this 
sale was flawed. 
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, it said:
Ref: DRN91077843It was concerned that the investigators  assessment was based on a quotation that 
Shawbrook said P sent to Mr and Mrs T. Shawbrook had not provided this in 
response to the original complaint  in 2017 and it was concerned that this had been 
generated to defend the complaint. 
The quote was not signed and this would substantiate that Mr and Mrs T were not 
sent it, did not review  it and had not signed it. It questioned whether Mr and Mrs T 
could assimilate a 61 page document  (that they had never  seen).
Mr and Mrs T were  given a one page  written contract  this would not be provided if 
the process was to send an electronic quotation.  This would suggest that quotation  
has been generated as a way of defending  the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs T were  also asked for their comments. In summary they said they were  told the 
electricity would be free, but their bills have increased and the cant  see any benefits to the 
system. They said that most of the promises  were  verbal but, they  did receive  paperwork.
As Mr and Mrs T didnt accept the investigators assessment, the complaint has been  
passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes  section  56 and section  75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services  bought  using credit. It states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly  be jointly and severally  liable to the 
debtor.
As Mr and Mrs T paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees  
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs T could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same  
way they could have claimed  against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations  between Mr and 
Mrs T and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision  Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made  by one party (or his agent) to a second party which  induces 
that second party to enter  the contract, thereby  causing them  loss.
Ref: DRN91077844Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising  out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement)  is unfair  to the debtor  
because of one or more  of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related  agreement;
(c) any other  thing  done (or not done)  by, or on behalf of, the creditor  (either before 
or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall have
regard to all matters it thinks  relevant (including  matters relating to the creditor  and matters
relating to the debtor).
So, Ive considered whether a court might find that there existed an unfair relationship.
key documents
There are several documents that have been provided. These include the credit agreement, 
Mr and Mrs Ts contract with P for the system  and documents that set out the estimated 
performance of the system, costs and benefits. Ive considered these in detail.
The quote  is a detailed document that sets out key information  about the system,  the
expected performance, financial benefits  and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales  process  and is therefore relevant when considering  if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact, taking into account Mr and Mrs Ts recollection of 
the sale. 
I do note that it has been  submitted that the quote  was not signed by Mr and Mrs T. I 
believe what  might  be being  referred  to here is the Contract document   the copy  of which 
was supplied to Mr and Mrs Ts representative after the investigator issued her assessment. 
However, the original,  supplied when Shawbrook first responded to the complaint, and the 
copy supplied originally  by Mrs and Mrs Ts representative when the complaint was made, is 
signed by Mr and Mrs T. That does not establish with certainly that the additional  detailed  
quote documentation setting out the costs and benefits of the system was also supplied. 
But Shawbrook has said it was obtained from P and would have been supplied  at the time of 
the sale. The quote is also dated proximate  to the date of the sale. Given  it would normally  
form part of the sales process I do believe the evidence  is that it is more  likely that this was 
supplied and discussed. Therefore I will take it into account in deciding  whether Mr and Mrs 
T were  misled.    
There is also a credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed,  the interest to be 
charged, total amount  payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments. 
Tis sets out the total cost will be about  £11,000 and the interest  rate will be 11.2%. The 
monthly payment  was about £164  a month and the term was 60 months. This was signed  by 
Mr T on 20 November  2014. 
Ref: DRN91077845The Contract for Mr and Mrs T sets out the FIT payments and other benefits they can 
expect to receive. The total benefit  in terms of FIT payments and elecricity savings was set 
out as about £1,000 in year one. As discussed the Contract  which sets out these estimated 
benefits and the cost of the system is silgned by Mr and Mrs T. 
the system benefits  and costs
Mr and Mrs T have  said that they were  told all the costs of the system would be covered, or 
self-funded by the FIT payments and electricity payments and it wouldnt cost them a 
penny. Ive considered the documentation  Shawbrook say was provided  by P and 
considered whether this supports this understanding - as I consider the quote was central  to 
the sales presentation.
The investigator set out in some detail what the documentation set out. But, to recap there  
was the following table:
FEED  IN TARIFF  YEAR  1
Genera tion Tariff  in Year  1 £596.01
Export  Tariff  in Year  1 £98.85
Total Income  in Year  One £694.86
FEED  IN TARIFF  OVER  20 YEARS
Assumed  Rate of RPI 2.92%
Average  Generation  Tariff £0.19
Average  Export  Tariff £0.06
Average  Annual  Income £918.54
When energy savings associated with the optional extras (voltage optimiser  and the heating
control) are added, the total year one annual return and savings are said to be £1,183.56, as 
set out in the, putting  it all together  table on the, System Analysis Based on Module 
Efficiency document. This section does set out the savings  over 20 years   but is based on 
the cash system cost of £8,600, not the cost of the system plus the costs of the finance 
agreement (which the section does note). Based on the cost of £8,600, it is said that the 
estimated time it would take the system  to generate  savings and benefits equivalent to the 
cost would be 6 years. This would clearly  be extended with the higher amount of £11,000 
including the loan cost. 
Having said that there  is, as the investigator referred to, another table in the documentation 
which sets out the situation for the, PSP Scheme   which  is the method utilising a loan to 
fund the system cost.  This sets out there will be a modest  shortfall in the first 5 years  
between the amount required  to pay the monthly  repayments to the loan and the benefits  
generated by the system.  
I think that these tables are reasonably clear about  the income and costs of the system, 
taking into account  the loan cost.   There are tables setting out the estimated FIT payments 
over 20 years as well as electricity savings. I think the quote sets out the income  Mr and Mrs 
T could expect to receive from the system as well as their expected  contractual  monthly loan 
Ref: DRN91077846repayments. Whilst I accept that the tables dont simply compare FIT income to the monthly 
loan repayments,  it does set out that the overall  income they could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings  and these would not be immediately sufficient to 
cover the monthly  loan repayments. Whilst I do appreciate what Mr and Mrs T say they were 
told verbally, their comments are not supported by the quote they were, more  likely, given. 
As the investigator  discussed in her assessment, Mr and Mrs T have provided their FIT 
statements between 2014 and 2020. These show that the system has, generally,  generated 
the benefits set out at outset  bearing in mind  that the quoted FIT payments were estimated 
as it could not be known in advance  exactly what the system would generate. For example, 
the FIT payments in year one were about £600, which was proximate to that set out by P in 
the quote. The quote did set out that the system would have paid for itself after year nine 
and based on the assumptions  set out in the quote, this was a reasonable expectation. 
 
Those assumptions included the expected kWh generated each year by the solar panels,  the 
amount of electricity generated  by the system that Mr and Mrs T are expected to use, or self 
consume, the expected annual increase in utility  prices and the expected  annual  RPI 
inflation increase.  For clarity, the expected annual increase  in utility prices was to estimate 
the potential future savings Mr and Mrs T could expect to save on their energy bills and the 
expected annual RPI inflation increase as the FIT is index linked. Both of the utility price  
index and the expected  annual RPI inflation increase were based  on the Office of National 
Statistics (ONS) data from the last 20 years.
For RPI the figure used was 2.92% and for energy prices the figure used was 8.5%. The 
actual rate of RPI and energy price increase has been lower than estimated but, as I have  
discussed, the assumptions used by P were based  on the information available  from the 
ONS. I dont consider  it unreasonable for P to have  used them as the basis  for calculating  
the potential financial  benefit Mr and Mrs T could have expected to receive from their 
system.
It terms of electricity savings it has not been possible to compare the cost before  and after 
the system was installed  as the electricity  bills are for two separate properties. It appears 
that Mr and Mrs T may have moved  shortly before the system was installed. Be that as it 
may, there is no reason to believe that the system is not generating savings proximate to 
those estimated at outset.  
Therefore, Im not persuaded that the evidence suggests that it is more  likely that Mr and 
Mrs T were misled about the benefits  and costs overall. Or persuaded that they were misled 
to the effect that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the benefits of the 
system from year one.
S140A
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair
relationship under s140A of the Act.
A sufficient  inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent  found any misrepresentation
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions  used by P were reasonable, I think a
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair  relationship under  the Act.
further considerations
Ref: DRN91077847Mr and Mrs T representative  has supplied a document  called the, The Smarter  Alternative 
To Free Solar Panels  Whats on Offer. This appears to be a piece of generalised marketing 
literature and is not particular to Mr and Mrs T. This literature does suggest that, if using the 
PSP scheme, there will be no upfront  cost  and the system will pay for itself. It is unclear if 
this was supplied  to Mr and Mrs T. But in any event the result of the personalised 
documentation and quote for Mr and Mrs T which was completed for their system, does set 
out there will be a cost and what those costs will be. So I believe it more  likely that this is 
what was used to advise Mr and Mrs T of these  costs  and they were  not misled.    
Mr and Mrs T have  said that they were  led to believe that the inverter for the system was 
guaranteed for 20 years. However  the quote  sets out that the inverter is guaranteed  for 10 
years  but it is possible to extend that to 20 years. The documents  set out that it is possible 
that the inverter might need attention over the 20 year term. So I do not believe they were 
misled about the warranty applicable  to the inverter.  
The quote  document also set out that the performance of the system may diminish 
somewhat over time.
 
summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided  by all parties in this complaint, I dont 
believe that evidence  suggests that it is more likely that Mr and Mrs T were  misled as they 
say or there were untrue  statements  of fact made by P that induced  Mr and Mrs T to enter 
into the contract for the system. It should  be noted that it is likely that the system  will provide 
benefits to Mr and Mrs T over the longer term. 
For the reasons  set out in this decision I have found no other reason to uphold  this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 September 2021.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9107784