K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about a car he got using a conditional sale agreement  through  
Close Brothers Limited. He says hes had various issues with the car and wants to reject  it.
background
Mr R acquired  a used car in March 2018.  The car cost £2,695. Mr R paid a total deposit of 
£500.  The rest of the purchase  was funded  using  a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers. The car was around  nine years three  months old when Mr R acquired it and 
had covered around 115,864 miles.
Shortly after getting the car, Mr R says he began to have problems with it. He says in the 
next few weeks  it broke down three  times. He said it had an oil leak which needed  repairing 
and the dealer replaced injectors  on two occasions. He says the car had a diesel leak and a 
clip was missing  which the dealer also repaired.  And he says the car overheated and a 
new header cap was fitted  by the dealer.
In May 2018  Mr R contacted Close Brothers  and said he wanted to swap the car. It told him 
to contact the dealer to see if they would exchange  it and to come back if there were further 
issues. Mr R says he contacted the dealer but it said it would charge him for the mileage 
hed done if he returned the car.
In July 2018 the car broke down again and required a roadside recovery.  
A few days  later Mr R complained to Close Brothers. He said he wanted to reject  the car as 
hed had so many issues. He said the car now had a water leak and was at a third party  
garage for a repair. He says he didnt return the car to the dealer as he said they were  rude 
and intimidating.
Two days after complaining to Close  Brothers  the third party  garage invoiced Mr R £316.80 
for work where it changed the radiator and coolant  pipe.
At the end of July Close Brothers issued  its final response letter. It said as Mr R had chosen  
to get the new issue  fixed  at a third party garage it couldnt investigate  if this was a fault that 
was present or developing  at the point of sale. And, it said as the previous repairs  were  
successful, it wouldnt  allow Mr R to reject the car and so it wasnt upholding his complaint.
In August  2018  Mr R said the car overheated  again. Mr R took the car to another third party 
garage who did a pressure test, put in a seal and removed the thermostat. They also noted  
they believed  the overheating was due to a failed cylinder  head  gasket or internal crack. 
Mr R paid £86 to the garage  for the work.
Mr R didnt repair the car further  and then traded it in. He says he only got £1000  for the car.
Our service began to look into Mr Rs complaint. Our investigator initially  upheld the 
complaint. He said he thought the faults  Mr R had with the car meant it wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  He recommended that Close Brothers reimburse Mr R for all the 
costs from the third party garages. And he said Close Brothers  should  pay him £200  for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN99843702Close Brothers disagreed.  It said Mr R had removed  its opportunity  to repair  under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  by taking the car to a third party  garage  so felt the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. It asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
While awaiting  a decision, the investigator reviewed  the case again. He issued  a second 
view. He said he now thought the case shouldnt be upheld,  saying  he believed the car was 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. Mr R disagreed with his. He said he felt hed 
been unfairly treated by Close Brothers  and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
The case  was passed to me to decide. While awaiting a decision,  I asked Close  Brothers to 
provide us with some  more information from the dealer about what happened.  
Close Brothers sent us a response from the dealer. It said Mr R had approached them  about  
four weeks  after getting  the car with an issue. It said an injector was replaced  under 
warranty, but it didnt  have any paperwork for this. The dealer also said it hadnt seen or 
heard from Mr R since.
I sent Mr R and Close Brothers a provisional decision on 30 March  2020. This explained I 
initially didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. Ive included  my findings from this 
decision below:
This complaint is about the quality  of a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement. This 
is a regulated financial product, so this service  has the power to investigate  Mr Rs complaint 
against Close Brothers.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The CRA  is relevant to this complaint. This says the supplier   Close  Brothers  
had a responsibility to make sure the car was of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is 
what a reasonable  person would expect   taking into account  any relevant factors. I would 
consider relevant factors in this case to be, amongst others, the cars age, price, description 
and mileage.
So, I need to decide if the car Close Brothers  supplied to Mr R was of satisfactory  quality or 
not. I need to consider that in this case the car was over nine years old. It had covered a 
mileage of over 115,000. And, it cost £2,695. This represents a very significant difference in 
cost to what the car wouldve  been  when new. I think a reasonable person wouldve 
expected the car to be in a condition reflective  of its age, mileage  and price.  I also think  a 
reasonable person wouldnt necessarily expect parts of the car to be in good condition,  or to 
be as durable as on a newer car with a lower mileage.
There is some conflicting information  in this case. Mr R says the car was returned to the 
dealer several  times for repair.  The dealer  says it only saw Mr R once, when it replaced an 
injector. And, theres  limited evidence available as neither Mr R nor Close  Brothers have 
been able to provide any paperwork from the time about the repairs  at the dealer.
Ive thought carefully about what I think most likely  happened with the repairs from the 
dealer. But, whether Mr Rs or the dealers version of events is correct, I dont think  this 
would change my opinion about the case.  Ill explain why.
If I assume  Mr Rs version of events is correct, I may reach  the conclusion  that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  I say this as Mr R says the issues  with 
the car happened  quite quickly, which indicates  there may have been an issue with the car 
present or developing at the point  of sale. Mr R hasnt  mentioned  having to pay for the 
Ref: DRN99843703repairs carried out by the dealer, nor provided  anything to show  this was the case. So, it 
appears all the issues  looked at by the dealer were repaired under warranty free of charge.
Under the CRA, Mr R has a right for the car to be repaired  if it wasnt  of satisfactory quality  
which is what happened in this case. So, if Mr Rs version of events is true, and if I reached  
the conclusion  the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality, Close Brothers wouldnt have to take 
any further action  here.
If the dealers version of events is true and Mr R only needed to return the car once for an 
injector to be replaced, I would be less inclined to reach the conclusion  that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality. I say this an injector  is part of the car that would suffer from wear and 
tear. Thinking about the age and mileage of car I would consider it quite likely that this was 
the case in this instance  rather than a fault. But, either way, the dealer  confirmed  this was 
repaired under  warranty. 
So, in both Mr Rs and the dealers version  of events, Mr R has had his rights  under the CRA  
met for the earlier repairs.
Mr R has provided a copy of a breakdown report from mid-July 2018.  This shows  the car 
was overheating  with a loss of coolant. At this point, the car had covered 119,118 miles. So, 
Mr R had driven the car roughly  3,250  miles since he got it. Ive thought  about the fact that 
the car needed  to have its radiator and a coolant  pipe replaced. And, Ive considered  that a 
few weeks later the car overheated and it appears the third party garage,  as a well as Mr R, 
believed it needed  a new head  gasket.
Thinking about  this, I dont think Mr R couldve  driven  the car for around four months and 
over 3,000  miles if the radiator, coolant  pipe and head gasket needed replacing at the point 
of supply. I think these  issues are due to wear and tear - taking into account that at the point 
these particular issues started the car had covered nearly 120,000  miles.  It follows  that I 
dont think these issues meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
This is also backed up by Close Brothers contact notes. When  Mr R called to complain 
about the water  leak the notes say:
the customer stated that wasnt there  when he purchased the vehicle
I have considered whether the earlier issues reported by Mr R were linked to the later ones. 
But, I havent seen  enough evidence to suggest  its most likely this was the case.
In summary,  I think its possible that the earlier issues reported by Mr R meant the car wasnt  
of satisfactory quality when it supplied. But, these  were repaired free of charge so Im 
satisfied, if Mr Rs version of events is accurate, that Close Brothers  has met its obligations 
and doesnt need to take any further action.  Im also satisfied that its most likely the later 
issues Mr R had with the car, starting in July 2018, were due to wear and tear rather than an 
issue present or developing  at the point  of supply. So, I dont think Close  Brothers need to 
take further action  here either.
I gave both parties one month to come  back with any further comments or evidence for me 
to consider before I made my final decision.
Mr R responded and said he wasnt happy  with the outcome.  He said the dealer had lied as 
he reiterated that the car had been  back on multiple  occasions. But, he said he accepted  the 
decision as he had no more evidence.
Ref: DRN99843704Close Brothers said it accepted my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive thought about what Mr R said in response  to my provisional decision. But, as I explained 
above whether  his, or the dealers,  version  of events  is correct it doesnt change  the 
conclusion I would reach.
Having thought about all the information on this case  again,  I still think this complaint  should 
not be upheld  for the reasons I explained  in my provisional decision and set out above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9984370