K820x#14Complaint
Mr E has complained about the way Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited  handled a payment 
under a pension  term assurance policy he was a beneficiary of (along  with a number of 
others). He feels  Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited acted irresponsibly when it made  the 
payment and it didnt  carry out full and necessary checks to ensure it was paying  the money 
into the correct place.
Background
Mr Es mother had a pension term assurance in place and Mr E was one of the beneficiaries  
under the policy.  When Mr Es mother passed  away in 2013,  he was due to receive  a 
significant payment  under  the policy. However,  as he was under age, he wasnt able to 
receive this directly, rather it had to be paid into a trust until he turned 21 years  of age.
At the same time Mr Es father approached Aviva to explain who he was and to enquire  
about the payment due to his son.
Aviva told him that because of Mr Es age at that time the monies had to be paid into a trust 
until he was 21 years old.
Aviva also queried the legal guardianship  of Mr E before entering discussions about  the 
monies. In response  to this Mr Es father produced a court document  dated  2011 which 
appointed him as Mr Es legal guardian. This satisfied Avivas requirements.
In May 2013  following  discussions with Aviva  Mr Es father sent Aviva details of an account 
where he wanted the monies paid. He also sent a trust deed, duly authorised  and legally set 
up which established the trust where  the monies would be held until Mr E reached the 
correct age. The account name  was the Mr E trust fund and the trust document set out that it 
had been setup to help Mr E manage  the monies until he could receive  it at age 21. The trust 
also set up his father and one other  person as trustees.
Upon receipt of this Aviva  paid the monies into the named account.
When Mr E turned  21 in 2018, he approached the bank where his monies were held and 
found there was just over £1 in the account. As Mr E was expecting  much more than this, he 
raised a complaint against the bank where the account was held and also against  Aviva for 
the reason already stated  above  the focus of this decision.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt be 
upheld. He felt that Aviva  had acted correctly given  all the information it had been  provided 
with. He felt there was no reason for Aviva to question the validity  of these documents and 
so it had no reason  to probe further. He was also satisfied that Aviva had correctly 
established the correct legal guardianship before interacting with Mr Es father.
Mr E didnt agree with the assessment. He felt the evidence the investigator had relied  upon  
was inconclusive  and he also stated that his legal guardianship had been dispute at the time 
Aviva had made the payment.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to review  for a 
final decision.
Ref: DRN94382182My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I cant  uphold the 
complaint.
Let me start by saying  that I know this decision will disappoint Mr E greatly given the 
difficulties he is facing.  I hope he understands from my explanation why I have made the 
decision I have. Its important he is aware that despite what hes told us about his position 
I need to remain  objective when considering his complaint.
The focus of this complaint is whether Aviva made an error when it paid the monies under 
Mr Es mothers policy. And whether it has acted incorrectly  throughout its dealings  with the 
matter that has caused Mr E to lose out on the monies he was due. Its important to point out 
that whatever  happened to the monies after Aviva paid it is not its responsibility,  so it cant  
be responsible  for any potential wrong doing that may have occurred once the monies  were  
paid into the bank account.
The obligation on Aviva  when the monies  under the policy were to be paid out was to ensure  
that the correct  people  named under the policies  were paid the monies.  For Mr E because  
he was underage  Aviva  couldnt pay the monies  to him directly nor could it hold onto the 
monies until he reached the required  age. This isnt unreasonable  and I would  say this is 
standard practice.
So the advice  Aviva gave Mr Es father  in 2013  when he enquired about the payment under 
the policy was, in my view, correct  the money  had to be paid into a trust until Mr E was 
able to receive it directly.
I am also satisfied that Aviva verified,  as much as it could, that Mr Es father was in fact his 
legal guardian. I appreciate Mr E has said there was dispute over this, but I cant  see this 
dispute was happening in 2013 when the monies had to be paid nor can I see that Aviva was 
made aware  of any dispute at any time. I know the court  document  Aviva relied on was from 
two years before,  but Aviva hadnt been  made aware of any dispute in relation to this issue. 
So, it had no reason to question the information it had been given. All Aviva could do was 
rely on the information it was presented with and the fact it relied on an official court 
document which stated  who the legal guardian was reasonable. I cant  see what else Aviva 
could have or should have done.
Looking now at the trust deed Mr Es father presented to Aviva,  again  I dont think Aviva had 
any reason to question  it. Ive seen this document and it seems  to be correctly  and legally 
executed. The letter that accompanied the deed  sent to Aviva also came  from a solicitors 
firm and it stated the firm has drawn up the deed  and it can also be seen that one of the 
witnesses was a partner in the firm. There is nothing  on the letter to give me any reason to 
doubt its validity so again I cant see why Aviva  should have questioned this.
So again,  I see no reason why Aviva  would have questioned anything it had been provided 
with. It was reasonable it took the information  it was given at face value because it had no 
reason to think something was wrong.
Turning now to the bank account,  I have looked at the account details and the screen  shot 
provided to see if there as anything that could  have alerted Aviva to something possibly 
being wrong. But again, there is nothing in what I have seen that does this.
Ref: DRN94382183I know during the course of this investigation  it has been uncovered that the account  was not 
an actual trust account  it was a normal account  owned by Mr Es father  but there is 
nothing on the information that was provided  to Aviva that would have  told it this. Even the 
fact the screen  shot I have seen shows the phrase club/society new account number in the 
top left-hand corner doesnt indicate what  sort of account this was nor should it.
So, in respect  of where Aviva paid the monies  it again had no reason to question  this.
Overall, therefore, in view of what I can consider against Aviva I cant  see it has done 
anything wrong. I think it fulfilled all its obligations  in the given  situation.  It was reasonable 
that it relied upon the information  and documents it was provided  by Mr Es father because 
there was nothing to indicate anything was wrong  nor did it have any cause to think 
something may have  been wrong.  And ultimately  it was for the trustees of the trust that was 
established to look after the money  in accordance with the trust deed. While this didnt 
happen, and I appreciate  the impact this had on Mr E, this isnt down to anything Aviva  has 
done.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9438218