K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about Simplyhealth Accesss decision to turn down his cashplan claim. 
background
Mr H holds a cashplan  with Simplyhealth. The aim of the plan is to help with the cost of 
healthcare.
In 2018, Mr H underwent  an assessment with a clinical  psychologist and received a 
diagnosis. He asked  Simplyhealth to reimburse him for the cost of the diagnostic 
consultation. 
Simplyhealth turned down the claim,  as it said Mr Hs psychologist didnt meet the criteria  set 
out in the policy terms.  Unhappy  with this, Mr H brought  a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought  Simplyhealth  was 
entitled to turn down the claim. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been brought to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy covers 75% of the cost of a diagnostic  consultation  (up to a members annual 
limit). It says:
The consultation  must  be with a medical  professional who is (or has been) a consultant in 
an NHS hospital or the Armed  ServicesIn addition,  the consultant must hold a current  
licence to practice and also be included on the General Medical  Councils specialist 
register 
In other  words, Simplyhealth has chosen  to only cover diagnostic consultations if they take 
place with a consultant (a senior doctor  who has undergone training in a specific  field of 
medicine).
Mr H was diagnosed  by Dr E, a clinical psychologist registered with the Health and Care 
Professions Council  (HCPC). Although Dr E is a medical professional  and qualified  in his 
field  he doesnt  meet the criteria set out in the policy.  
Mr H says he arranged his diagnosis  assessment  in good faith with a valid medical 
practitioner, employed by the NHS.  He points out that guidance  issued by the National 
Institute for Health and Care Excellence  (NICE)  says that clinical psychologists are an 
available source  of diagnosis. 
Its not in dispute  that Mr H received  his diagnosis from an appropriately qualified medical 
professional. However, the policy is very specific that it requires a diagnosis  consultation  to 
take place with a consultant. That is a commercial decision taken by Simplyhealth. I dont 
think itd be reasonable for me to require Simplyhealth to disregard its policy  terms here, 
Ref: DRN92612402when Mr H couldve received a diagnosis from a consultant  psychiatrist who would have  met 
the criteria set out in the policy. 
I appreciate Mr H wasnt aware that Dr E didnt meet Simplyhealths criteria when he had the 
assessment. However, the policy does say that if the member has any questions  as to 
whether their consultant meets the relevant criteria, they should contact customer  services  
(and it then gives a phone number).  Unfortunately, Mr H didnt contact Simplyhealth before 
having the assessment with Dr E, but if he had done, Simplyhealth couldve made him aware 
that Dr E didnt meet  the policy criteria and so he wouldnt  be able to claim back  any fees 
paid to Dr E.   
In conclusion, Im satisfied Simplyhealth was entitled  to turn down the claim. I dont find that 
its decision was unfair,  as Mr H couldve had the diagnosis consultation with a medical  
professional who did meet the policy criteria. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9261240