K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which Ms S says 
Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold to her with a credit card in 2002. 
background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this case and said the complaint about the policy  
being mis-sold shouldnt  be upheld. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Ms S couldnt tell us anything about  the sale or why she thought it had been  mis-sold to her 
but she did say if PPI was added, she wouldnt have ever asked for it.
So we asked  Lloyds  about the account she had. We were  sent a copy of Ms Ss actual credit 
card application  form from 2002  and I can see this did contain the option for her to either 
agree to  or reject  PPI with her new credit  card. As this was set out under a section of the 
form which said Optional  Insurance  I think she would have been able to see it wasnt  
something she needed to buy if she didnt want to. 
I can also see Ms S ticked the PPI option  and signed the form. So Im afraid  I think Ms S did 
ask for the PPI although it seems  she may not have intended to. 
I think this because she was initially charged £24.32 for PPI but this was almost immediately 
refunded in full to her, presumably  because  she disputed  the charge. PPI did not appear in 
her subsequent credit card statements.
 
I can see Lloyds has written to Ms S explaining this. And because of new rules  that the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) have issued, Lloyds also was required to look at any 
commission it received from the sale. Because the amount of PPI she paid was low  and 
indeed refunded in full some years ago  the commission element also amount to very little, 
just £0.02.
To be clear, I dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong here. It added PPI for one month  
or so to Ms Ss account. But as Ms S had clearly asked it do so, on her application form, that 
wasnt unreasonable. Lloyds also promptly paid her back the £24.32 in full, in 2002. And its 
been required to now offer her some of the commission it received.
Put another way, Ms S hasnt lost anything  other than the £0.02 Lloyds has now agreed to 
give her.
Lloyds has agreed  to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms S because when the policy  
was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of 
the PPI premium). Under the new FCA guidelines, Lloyds needs to put that right. So it has 
Ref: DRN97322192already offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share  that was above  50% 
of the PPI premium  - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC has agreed to pay Ms S for the commission  and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9732219