K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance  (PPI) to 
Mrs H. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2001.  HSBC sold Mrs H the 
policy at the same time that she applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mrs H and her representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think HSBC made Mrs H aware that the PPI was optional  and that she chose to 
take it  and this seems  to accord with Mrs Hs own recollections.
HSBC didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Hs individual  
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It was 
up to Mrs H to check  it suited  her needs.
Its difficult now to know how well HSBC explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information HSBC  gave Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
But I dont think, in her circumstances, full information about  costs and benefits would 
have affected  whether  she took the PPI. Mrs H has said she had savings  and so 
didnt need PPI. But I think, with the full details  of the PPI, Mrs H would have seen 
that the PPI could  have paid out for longer than her employer  sick pay lasted, and on 
top of any redundancy payment; and it would have  put off the time shed need to fall 
back on her savings.  And it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of the 
significant exclusions in the policy. 
I can see that there was a difference in the information given by HSBC  and Mrs H about her 
employment history. Although I do think Mrs H appears very clear  in her recollection,  Ive not 
had to decide on this point. This is because, whichever version was accurate, it wouldnt 
affect my view of the points Ive explained above. 
This all means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H. But HSBC 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because  HSBC didnt tell Mrs H, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN90860502To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs H any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, and 
so Im not awarding  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2019.  
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9086050