K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about the quality replacement handsets Asurion Europe  Limited  (Asurion)  
sent to his daughter, Miss A, after they made a claim on a mobile phone insurance  policy.
background
Mr A holds a mobile phone insurance  policy with Asurion. In March 2018, he made  a claim 
for damage  to a handset  belonging  to his daughter, Miss A. Asurion sent a replacement 
handset but in December  2018 this handset developed a fault. Asurion sent a further 
handset to Miss A but shortly after receiving it she said this also had a fault.
Miss A contacted Asurion who said theyd send a further handset, but Miss A declined this. 
She said she wanted between £800  and £1000 compensation or a new handset. Asurion 
explained this wasnt something it could do, but offered  £20 compensation as recognition  of 
the inconvenience caused to Miss A. As they were unhappy with this offer, Miss A brought  
the complaint  to this service on Mr As behalf.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said she didnt think  Asurion should  pay any 
more compensation.  This was because, when considering whether to pay compensation for 
inconvenience, we look at the inconvenience  caused to the consumer. In this case,  the 
consumer is the policyholder, Mr A. And as the faulty handsets  hadnt caused  any 
inconvenience to Mr A, she couldnt  award further  compensation.
Miss A, on behalf of Mr A, disagreed. She said he had been inconvenienced because  of 
Asurions poor service. And so theyve asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The handset which was originally provided in March 2018 was a refurbished handset, not a 
new one. This is what the policy terms and conditions  say Asurion will supply when a claim 
is made which requires  a replacement handset to be provided.  The replacement  handset  is 
supplied with a warranty, and its under the warranty that the further handset was supplied  in 
December 2018.
Again, the replacement  handset supplied in December  2018 was a refurbished handset. 
Miss A told Asurion this handset had developed a fault. It said it would send a further 
handset and take the handset she had back for testing.  It paid her £20 compensation, but 
said that if its testing established there was a fault, it would consider increasing the amount 
of compensation  it paid.  Miss A declined this offer. She wants  compensation which  would be 
enough to enable her to buy a new handset,  which would likely cost at least  £800.
I understand Miss As desire  to have a non-faulty  handset, and why shed be reluctant to 
accept a further refurbished handset from Asurion given that two that have been provided to 
date have apparently developed faults  within a few months. But Im not persuaded that I 
should ask Asurion to either provide a new handset, or pay an amount to Mr A to allow Miss 
A to purchase one based on what has happened to date. The terms and conditions  of Mr As 
policy say that a replacement handset will be refurbished, not new.  And, while  Miss A says 
Ref: DRN92434572that the second replacement has developed  a fault, she hasnt provided  it to Asurion for it to 
check what the fault is and what has potentially caused it. 
So Im not persuaded that I can conclude  that Asurion is responsible for supplying  two 
defective handsets based on the current position. Im satisfied that the offer made by 
Asurion, to check the apparently defective  second  replacement handset for faults, and 
consider making  an increased compensation offer to Miss A, is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Asurion did recognise  that Miss A had been  inconvenienced. So it paid her £20 
compensation. Miss A argues that this should  be higher. But under our rules, we cant order 
Asurion to pay compensation to her. The rules of our service  are contained in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys  Handbook, in the DISP section. 
DISP 2.7.1 R says A complaint  may only be dealt with under the Financial Ombudsman 
Service  if it is brought by or on behalf  of an eligible complainant.  DISP 2.7.6 R lists the 
relationships a person needs  to have with a financial business  in order  to be an eligible 
complainant. This includes the complainant is (or was) a customer,  payment service  user or 
electronic money  holder of the respondent. In this case, Mr A is Asurions customer  as hes 
the policyholder.  Miss A isnt Asurions customer.  
What this means is that we can only tell a business  to pay compensation for trouble and 
upset experienced  by their customer.  And in this case, it means we can only tell Asurion to 
pay compensation for Mr As trouble and upset.
All of the evidence  I have is that the supplying of faulty handsets  when this claim was made 
has caused Miss A inconvenience. Its her handset which has become faulty, leaving her 
unable to use her phone as she wanted, and needing to make  contact  with Asurion to make 
further claims on the warranties. I know shes suggested that Mr A was inconvenienced,  but 
hasnt expanded on this when asked  why she thinks this. And I can see that when she was 
initially asked about the impact of the issues with the handsets, she didnt reference any 
inconvenience experienced  by Mr A. Im not persuaded that Mr A has been inconvenienced 
by any poor service provided by Asurion. 
my final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.  Im not asking Asurion Europe Limited to 
do any more than it already has.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9243457