K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint concerns a reviewable  whole of life policy  administered  by Scottish 
Widows Limited.  
background
Mr and Mrs L took out the joint-life,  second  death policy  in 1993 for the purposes of 
mitigating their inheritance tax (IHT) liability. It provided an initial £50,440  of life cover for a 
monthly premium of £30. 
In 2018 they received a letter from Scottish Widows explaining that the policy had been 
reviewed and that, as a result, they would need  to either increase the monthly  premiums  
from £30 to £59.02 or accept a reduction  in the level of cover to £26,940. 
The letter also went  on to explain that errors had been made with previous policy reviews, in 
2008 and 2013. On both occasions Mr and Mrs L had been  told that no changes  needed to 
be made to the policy. But this had been incorrect. Scottish Widows said that if the reviews  
had been carried  out as they shouldve been, then earlier increases in the premiums, or 
decreases in the level of cover, wouldve been required. 
Scottish Widows  said that to put the errors right it would add units to the policy,  which would 
effectively recreate the position the policy would now be in if it had been correctly  reviewed 
in 2008 and 2013 and Mr and Mrs L had agreed  to any required increases in their premiums. 
It confirmed that the new premium of £59.02 reflected this amendment.  
Scottish Widows  also made an alteration to the terms of the policy such that no further 
reviews would be carried out once the oldest of the policys lives assured reached  age 75. 
As Mr L had reached that age this meant the policy would not need to be reviewed again. 
So, the new £59.02 monthly premium was guaranteed to continue to support the full level of 
cover, £50,440, for life. 
Mr and Mrs L complained  to Scottish Widows. They said they had never been made aware 
that the policy could be reviewed and wanted  to continue paying the existing premium of £30 
for the £50,440  of cover. Scottish  Widows upheld the complaint in part, offering £100 for the 
trouble caused  by the error, but it maintained that the proposed restructure of the policy  
meant Mr and Mrs L hadnt been  financially  disadvantaged.  
The complaint was then referred  to this service.  It was initially  considered  to have  been  
made too late, as it was felt that Mr and Mrs L ought to have been aware in 2008  that the 
policy was reviewable  (even though no changes had been  required because of Scottish 
Widows error).  
But upon  further consideration it was accepted that the complaint had in fact been prompted 
by receipt of the 2018 review letter explaining  the errors made in 2008 and 2013.  So, it was 
agreed that the merits of the complaint could be looked into. 
In respect of the policy being subject to reviews, our investigator said she could see that the 
policys terms and conditions explained  that reviews  would  be carried  out at five-yearly  
intervals. She said this was generally how reviewable whole of life policies worked and it was 
reasonable to expect  policyholders to read the key documents  to ensure they understood 
how the policy operated.
Ref: DRN99311562Regarding the errors with the reviews, the investigator felt Scottish Widows offer was 
broadly fair. She said she understood that the sudden increase in premiums  after 25 years 
wouldve been frustrating  for Mr and Mrs L. But she noted that without Scottish  Widows  
actions to put things right the monthly  premium would now need  to be at an even higher 
level of £120.95  each month  going  forward. 
Mr and Mrs L still didnt think this was a fair outcome. They reiterated that theyd never  been  
made aware  that the policy was reviewable  it hadnt been mentioned in the original 
recommendation letter or in later annual statements. They  highlighted that the policy  had 
been set up on a standard  basis,  which the brochure said would mean  that the sum 
assured should  never need  to be decreased,  of the premiums increased. And if the reviews 
had been carried  out correctly in 2008  and 2013,  or even earlier,  they couldve made 
alternative arrangements. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded  to change her opinion, so the matters been  referred  to 
me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Scottish  Widows  made mistakes in administering Mr and Mrs Ls 
policy. What I must decide  is what represents a fair resolution to the matter.
But before I address that issue, I note that Mr and Mrs L have said they werent told the 
policy was reviewable  at the outset and that had they known there was a possibility of the 
premiums being increased as a result they wouldnt have  gone ahead with the policy.  
While I cant be sure of what  was discussed at the time, the policy terms did mention the 
reviews. Mr and Mrs L have provided a copy of the recommendation letter  sent to them  by 
the adviser in 1993. It explained that the policy was being  recommended to address  an IHT 
liability and would be set up on a standard basis and should  be written  in trust, as would be 
normal for a whole of life policy  taken out to address  an IHT liability.
While, as noted, the reviews were mentioned elsewhere, I accept that the recommendation 
letter didnt mention that the policy will be reviewed, or the potential consequences. But I 
dont think this is enough to conclude that the reviews werent discussed. It may be that the 
reviews were downplayed by the adviser,  as the standard basis  of the policy wouldve made 
any resulting increase  in premiums less likely (although still possible, as has been the case).  
Or the fact that there wasnt a negative review of the policy until 2018  because of Scottish  
Widows errors  may have led to Mr and Mrs L overlooking the possibility  of the premiums 
increasing. But, overall, I dont think theres  sufficient evidence  to support a finding that Mr 
and Mrs L were misled about the policy being  subject to reviews.
Turning to the issue of those  reviews  not being carried  out correctly,  I understand that Mr 
and Mrs Ls desired resolution is that they continue to pay monthly premiums of £30 for the 
original £50,440  of life cover. But this is not something they would  ever have been able to 
achieve as, correctly administered, the policy reviews wouldve led to an increase  in 
premiums in 2003, 2008 and 2013.  
Ref: DRN99311563I cant be certain what Mr and Mrs L wouldve  opted to do if the reviews had been carried  out 
correctly and increases  in the premiums been required.  Theyve suggested that there  were  
other actions  they couldve  taken to address their IHT liability,  or they could have looked at 
taking out a non-reviewable policy as an alternative.
I accept that these were  things they could have  done differently.  But its very difficult to say 
with any certainty what those things might  have been, and  importantly   at what  cost they 
would have come  at. For instance,  a non-reviewable policy would  have cost considerably  
more than the £30 monthly  premiums Mr and Mrs L have been  paying for the last 27 years.
So, given the uncertainty around what might  otherwise have happened if the reviews had 
been carried out correctly, I think Scottish Widows methodology for putting  things right 
achieves a fair outcome for Mr and Mrs L. 
I understand why they feel that paying  almost twice as much as they have been for the last 
27 years  isnt right. But it must be remembered that since  2003  theyve  been  paying much 
less than they would otherwise have done for the same sum assured. For instance, if the 
2003 review had been carried  out correctly the premiums would have needed to be 
increased to over £60 per month to maintain  the £50,440 of cover. And further review 
increases would have led to the current premium being over £120 per month.
Scottish Widows  solution  gives Mr and Mrs L the full original level of cover for a guaranteed 
premium, as Mr L is now over 75, so theres  no chance of any further surprises.  And they do 
still have the alternative  of selecting  a lower  sum assured  for a lower premium  or 
surrendering the policy  and taking  its current (at the point of surrender) value if they decide 
they dont need the cover  anymore. 
So, in all the circumstances,  I think the offer Scottish Widows has made to them,  including 
the £100 for the trouble and upset caused by the errors, is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 February  2021.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9931156