K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that the mortgage  advice they received from an appointed 
representative of Legal & General Partnership Services  Limited (L&G) was unsuitable.
A claims  management company (CMC) brings this complaint on Mr and Mrs Hs behalf.
background 
Mr and Mrs H were advised by a broker from the firm Carrington Carr Home  Finance Ltd when  
remortgaging in 2005. Carrington  Carr was an appointed representative of L&G at the time.
In 2018, the CMC complained to L&G about the advice  given  to Mr and Mrs H. In summary,  
it said that:
Mr and Mrs H had no need to remortgage at the time as they were  in a relatively 
comfortable financial position  they were meeting  their commitments  and had a 
significant amount  of disposable income.
Mr and Mrs H were wrongly advised to consolidate a credit  card debt within  their new 
mortgage  this shouldve been kept separate as it only had a balance of £400.
It wouldve been cheaper for Mr and Mrs H to have taken out a personal  loan to raise 
the capital (around  £4650)  that was generated under  the new mortgage.
The CMC also complained that Mr and Mrs H had been mis-sold a legal administration  
service. It said they werent  told the service was optional  and that the fee wasnt  reasonable 
or clearly explained. It also said the broker received commission for referring Mr and Mrs H 
to a particular  firm of solicitors, which hadnt been disclosed.
L&G didnt uphold  the complaint. It said Mr and Mrs H had been relying on credit to 
supplement their income: they had two credit card debts, a personal loan and an overdraft. So 
they couldnt have taken  out another loan and had a need to refinance. The new mortgage 
brought their monthly outgoings  down  by £265. So it thought it had been suitable. It said all the 
fees had been properly  explained to Mr and Mrs H, and theyd agreed to pay them.
Not satisfied with that, the CMC referred  the complaint  to us and it was reviewed by one of our 
adjudicators. He thought the advice  had been  suitable, noting that Mr and Mrs H had a limited 
disposable income under their existing arrangement that had been considerably improved by 
remortgaging. And he didnt think the legal administration service  had been mis-sold.
As the CMC didnt  accept our adjudicators opinion, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Hs complaint last month,  explaining why I 
didnt think it should be upheld in part.
On the mortgage  advice,  I said:
Like our adjudicator, Ive not found the brokers mortgage advice to have  been  
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs H. 
Ref: DRN97252942Firstly, I note that the CMC has repeatedly contested the accuracy of the income figures  
used during the application. But I think L&G has made a valid point on these,  in that the 
figures the CMC has provided take into account  only very limited  deductions  (tax and 
national insurance).  Its highly likely that Mr H wouldve also had other  deductions from 
his monthly pay, which would  account  for the difference. And the CMC has been free to 
provide evidence to the contrary throughout the complaints process, but has yet to do 
so. So I think its reasonable to rely on the contemporaneous record of Mr Hs income at 
the time,  that he signed to confirm  was correct. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances as recorded at the time, I think  they had a 
need to reduce their outgoings  and that was achieved  by the remortgage.  The fact find 
shows that after meeting all their existing commitments, they had just £113 a month left 
over. Notably too, they were living  in an overdraft  described as static in the 
application. So while  I accept  they may have been meeting their commitments,  I dont 
think they were in a particularly comfortable  position.
Consolidating their unsecured debts within the new mortgage deal facilitated a 
significant reduction in Mr and Mrs Hs monthly  outgoings.  L&G says that was £265, but 
I think it was more like £210  as Mr and Mrs H seem to have been paying more  than the 
required monthly payment  on one of their credit  cards  prior to the remortgage. Given  the 
situation they were  in, I think that reduction justified the consolidation  outweighing the 
additional interest theyd pay over the longer term. 
I appreciate the CMCs  specific  concern  around the consolidation of one of the credit 
cards, given  it only had an outstanding balance of £400. I think Mr and Mrs H could 
probably have  afforded to keep paying that off at the amount quoted within  the fact find 
(£50 a month).  So there doesnt  seem  to have been a strong  need to wrap it up in the 
mortgage  costing Mr and Mrs H more in interest over the long run. At the same time 
however, I think this is only going  to have cost Mr and Mrs H a fairly negligible amount of 
interest given the interest rates applicable to their mortgage and that which  wouldve  
applied to the credit card.  They were already rearranging their finances  and consolidating 
debts. And as Ive outlined, they had a need to bring down the cost of servicing their debts 
 which  were helpfully also brought into one monthly  payment. So I dont think  it was 
unsuitable to consolidate this particular  debt in light of Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances.
Given what Ive said above about  Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances,  I dont think further 
unsecured borrowing represented a more  suitable  option for them.  While  potentially 
cheaper overall, this would likely  have carried a higher interest rate and therefore  
cost more on a monthly basis. So I dont think it was unsuitable advice to proceed 
with the remortgage.
And on the legal  administration  service,  I said:
I understand that the broker referred  Mr and Mrs H to a particular  firm of solicitors  to 
complete the conveyancing work. I dont find that inappropriate  or unsuitable. The CMC 
has raised concerns  about commission paid to the broker for this, but its accepted an 
offer from L&G in settlement of that matter so I wont comment  on that further  here.
I also understand that Mr and Mrs H paid a legal administration fee of £250 plus VAT to 
the broker for certain formalities,  in addition to the legal costs  they paid to their solicitor. 
The CMC says those  costs werent  made  clear  to Mr and Mrs H and that they didnt  
agree to them. Ive asked  L&G for evidence of how the costs were  set out to (and 
agreed by) Mr and Mrs H, but its not been  able to provide anything.  
Ref: DRN97252943I appreciate that a considerable  amount  of time has passed since  the sale took place,  so 
documents might be limited. But lots of other paperwork from the time of sale has been 
provided. And Ive taken  into account L&Gs comments that the solicitors  couldnt have 
been instructed  if Mr and Mrs H hadnt  signed a particular form, agreeing to pay this fee. 
But ultimately, I have  nothing to demonstrate that Mr and Mrs H were  made  aware that 
the broker also charged an extra fee for legal work, which was on top of its fee for the 
mortgage advice  and separate to the legal costs billed for by their solicitor (in other 
words, this was quite an unusual structure). Its not set out in the letter of suitability, the 
key facts illustration or mortgage offer. And, more  importantly,  theres  no evidence that 
they actually agreed  to pay it  and to do so by adding it to their mortgage balance. 
So taking all of this into account, Im currently minded to require L&G to refund the legal 
administration fee  along with a refund of the mortgage interest it has incurred. If Mr and 
Mrs H have redeemed their mortgage,  then 8% simple interest will need to be added from 
the date of redemption to the date of settlement  to compensate them  for the time theyve 
been out of pocket.
Both parties  responded to say they accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with no further information  or evidence for me to consider, I see no 
reason to reach a different conclusion from that of my provisional decision. So this final 
decision confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint in part and require 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited to:
Refund them the legal  administration  fee, to which interest should be added  at the 
mortgage rate from the date the mortgage completed to the date of settlement. If the 
mortgage has been redeemed, then 8% simple interest should be added  from the date 
of redemption  to the date of settlement.
Honour its offer in respect of the commission received from the solicitors.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 May 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9725294