K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that Evergreen Finance London  Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk,  lent to 
him in an irresponsible manner. 
background
Mr J took out three instalment loans with MoneyBoat  between June and September  2015.  
The loans were  repayable in two instalments. Mr J had difficulty  repaying loan three. 
MoneyBoat froze his account and agreed a payment plan with Mr J. A summary  of Mr Js 
loans with MoneyBoat is as follows:
date £ amount 
borrowedno./ £ amount 
of repayments  
at outset
(rounded)date repaid
111 June 2015 500 2/300 27 July 2015
231 July 2015 800 2/516 20 August 2015
316 September 2015 550 2/318 25 August 2016
Mr J says that that he was in financial  difficulty at the time of the loans and wasnt in a 
position to repay them.  He wants a refund of interest, plus interest  and adverse information  
removed from his credit file. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Js complaint. Initially,  she said that whilst MoneyBoat 
should have carried  out more checks before loans two and three,  she didnt have enough  
information to say what those checks would have  shown.  So, the adjudicator  didnt think that 
she could say that MoneyBoat shouldnt have lent to Mr J. 
Mr J didnt agree with the adjudicator and provided  some further information.  The adjudicator 
looked at Mr Js complaint  again  and said that MoneyBoat  shouldnt  have given Mr J loans 
two and three. She said that proportionate checks would most  likely have shown that Mr J 
was having problems managing his money. The adjudicator  set out what  MoneyBoat should 
do to put matters right. 
MoneyBoat didnt respond to the adjudicators second assessment. As the complaint hasnt 
been resolved  informally,  its been passed  to me, an ombudsman,  to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr J 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN93704882But certain factors might  point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish  
whether Mr J could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint. 
Before lending to Mr J, MoneyBoat asked him about his income  and expenditure, which 
were over £3,000 and up to £1,200 respectively.  It also carried  out credit searches. 
I dont think that MoneyBoat  was wrong to give Mr J loan one. Given  his income, the level of 
the repayments for loan one, what was apparent about Mr Js circumstances at the time and 
his  history with MoneyBoat at that point,  I dont think it wouldve been proportionate  for 
MoneyBoat to do more than it did. There wasnt anything in the information Mr J provided or 
the information MoneyBoat should have been aware of, which meant  it should  have either  
done more or refused to lend to Mr J at that stage. 
Ref: DRN93704883I think the position changed  before loan two. I dont think that the fact that Mr J repaid loan 
one slightly late is material. And the fact that the credit search showed a previous default  
wouldnt, in itself, mean that MoneyBoat shouldnt have lent to Mr J again. But I think that 
MoneyBoat should have  done more than it did because Mr J asked to borrow £1,200  days 
after hed repaid loan one. I appreciate that MoneyBoat agreed to lend Mr J a lesser amount 
of £800. But the amount Mr J wanted to borrow was more than twice  the amount  hed 
borrowed before. I think that MoneyBoat should have asked itself why Mr J was looking to 
borrow a much larger amount so soon after repaying his previous loan. 
I think that before loan two, proportionate  checks wouldve included  asking Mr J not just 
about his income  and usual expenditure but also about any other short-term financial 
commitments. I cant see that MoneyBoat did that, so I dont  think that it carried  out 
proportionate checks for loan two onwards. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I think that proportionate  checks before loans two and three would 
most likely have shown  that Mr J was having problems managing his money. I think  
MoneyBoat would have become aware that Mr J had substantial  other short-term borrowing 
such that he couldnt afford to repay  further  loans. 
Before loan two, Mr J had borrowed around £1,230 from three  other short-term lenders. His 
income was just over £3,000 and his expenses £1,200. Taking  into account the interest hed 
already have to repay, I think proportionate  checks would have shown that Mr J couldnt  
repay further borrowing in a sustainable way. Mr Js financial position got worse and before 
loan three,  hed borrowed around £2,440 from other short-term lenders.  
I dont think that MoneyBoat  should have given Mr J loans two and three  as proportionate 
checks would have  shown  that he had problems  managing his money and that he was 
unlikely to be able to repay  further  borrowing in a sustainable way. 
putting things right  what MoneyBoat needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr J paid on loans two and three;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans two and three from Mr Js credit  file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as 
MoneyBoat.cp.uk to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr J a certificate  showing how 
much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN93704884my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Js complaint  in part. Evergreen  Finance 
London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should  take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019. 
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9370488