K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that an appointed  representative of Sesame  Limited delayed  and 
mis-handled their mortgage application, meaning their house  purchase fell through with 
serious consequences for them  and their family.  
background
Mr and Mrs C decided to buy a property  and approached Sesame for help with getting a 
mortgage. They met with one of its advisers  and discussed their finances and situation, and 
Sesame recommended a mortgage.
Sesame asked Mr and Mrs C for further information to support  their mortgage application, 
including accounts  and tax returns  Mr and Mrs C are self-employed and own their own 
business  but there  were difficulties in obtaining  the information.
For a brief period,  Mr and Mrs C were  considering  making an application elsewhere. But 
they decided that they did want to use Sesame. Sesame asked for further information, and 
set out what it would need. It then had queries about the source  of funds to be used for the 
deposit  which Mr and Mrs C initially said had come  from the sale of puppies  theyd  bred.
Sesame queried  this, as this income wasnt declared on Mr and Mrs Cs tax returns.  
Mr and Mrs C said they didnt need  to declare it, as they werent commercial breeders, they 
were selling the puppies of the family pet. Sesame said that it couldnt accept that as the 
source of funds for the deposit. It then decided that it didnt want to proceed with 
Mr and Mrs Cs application, and told them it could no longer act for them.
Mr and Mrs C complained. They  said theyd  told Sesame about the puppies  from the start of 
the application. When Sesame said that couldnt  be used as the source of the deposit, theyd 
sold their family car instead  for £5,000 less than it was worth. They  couldnt  afford  to buy it, 
or an equivalent car, back and that was causing  serious problems for their family. In the 
expectation that Sesame would be able to arrange  a mortgage, theyd given notice to their 
landlord and were now homeless. And they said one of the advisers theyd dealt  with had 
been very rude and had laughed  at their plight. They said Sesames actions had had a 
significant impact on their family.
Our investigator thought Sesame had acted  fairly  in the information it had asked for and in 
deciding it didnt want to act for them  anymore.  And she didnt think  the adviser  had been 
rude or unhelpful  in the call Mr and Mrs C had complained about. But she did think  that 
Sesame could have  identified the issue with the deposit sooner, as well as the other 
problems with the application. And if it had done  so, Mr and Mrs C might not have needed to 
sell their car. She said Sesame  should pay them £500 compensation. Sesame didnt agree 
with that so the case came to me for a decision to be made.
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
This wasnt a straightforward  mortgage  application.  Mr and Mrs Cs situation  is 
relatively complex. As self-employed borrowers with a difficult  credit history, the 
range of lenders and mortgages  open to them is relatively restricted.  Sesame was 
able to identify  a lender that may have been  able to assist, but it had strict 
requirements about what information  it would  need.
Ref: DRN92664312Unfortunately Mr and Mrs C didnt have that information  available to start with. They  
were behind in the production of their accounts  and tax returns.  So the evidence 
needed to prove their income wasnt available. I think Sesame was clear in what 
would be needed,  and it took some  time for Mr and Mrs C and their accountant to put 
it together.  This involved  submission of late tax returns (for which Mr and Mrs C were 
fined) and the production of accounts.   
But Sesames requests werent unreasonable. It asked  for information it knew the 
lender would need  indeed, that I know  from my experience that any lender would 
need  and its not responsible for Mr and Mrs C not having it immediately available.
I dont think Sesames concerns about  the source of funds to be used for the deposit 
were unreasonable either. Im not an expert  in tax law, and this is something that Mr 
and Mrs C may wish to discuss  with their accountant. But my understanding  is that 
their income from puppy breeding is income  that should be declared for tax purposes 
as it exceeds  £1,000   even if they regard the dog as a family  pet rather  than a 
business asset. And I think it was reasonable for Sesame  to be concerned about 
submitting a mortgage application relying on income  that hadnt been  declared to 
HMRC.
Our investigator thought that Sesame  could have raised this with Mr and Mrs C 
sooner, since it was aware  of this income  and that it hadnt been  declared  from 
the start of their application.  I agree with that. It was mentioned at the initial  
appointment, and Sesame could have discussed its concerns with Mr and Mrs C at 
that point. 
However, I dont think this was the only reason Sesame decided that it didnt want to 
progress Mr and Mrs Cs application sooner. It also had concerns about  the delays in 
preparing their accounts and tax returns, and some  discrepancies  between those 
documents and what it had been told, and whether as a result  Mr and Mrs C would 
be able to show that the mortgage was affordable. Sesame wasnt  aware of these 
issues from the start of the process, and it was the combination of its concern about  
all these issues that led it to make the decision  it did. I think this was a reasonable 
decision, and I dont think there was unreasonable delay in making it.
I dont agree that the adviser Mr and Mrs C spoke  to was rude, or dismissive, or 
laughed at them or their situation. I think he explained that Sesame wouldnt be able 
to take the application  any further, and Mr and Mrs C were upset by this. But I dont 
think the adviser handled the call in an insensitive or unfair  way.
There was a gap of a few days, in these  discussions,  between when Sesame told 
Mr and Mrs C that the puppy breeding income couldnt be used as the source of 
funds for the deposit, and when it told them it wouldnt act for them at all. In this 
window, Mr and Mrs C decided to sell their car to raise funds for a deposit instead.
I dont think the evidence shows they sold it for less than it was worth. Theres  a 
difference between  the price a dealer will buy a car for, and the price it sells it on at, 
which is represented by its profit. So just because a sale price  is lower than a 
purchase price, this doesnt mean  that the sale price  is less than the car is worth  as 
an item to be sold.
Ref: DRN92664313However, I understand that  the house sale having  fallen through  Mr and Mrs C 
have found themselves without a car and cant afford to buy another of the right size 
for their family. The adviser they spoke to on 17 October told them that the sale 
proceeds would be acceptable as a source of deposit funds. But she didnt 
encourage or persuade  Mr and Mrs C to sell their car; it was their idea because they 
were concerned about losing the property.  Its unfortunate  that Mr and Mrs C took 
this step at this time. But I dont think Sesame is responsible  for it, or the 
consequences that flowed from it.  
Its also unfortunate that Mr and Mrs C lost their rental property and have had 
housing difficulties since. But I dont  think  I can hold Sesame responsible for that. I 
dont think it ever guaranteed that Mr and Mrs C would definitely get a mortgage, and 
Mr and Mrs C told their landlord that they would be moving out before receiving  a firm 
mortgage offer. Ive seen no evidence that they did that on Sesames advice.
I do understand how upsetting this has all been for Mr and Mrs C. They have a 
difficult situation. Theyd set their hearts  on this house purchase,  and it fell through.  
They lost their rental property, and their car. But I dont think any of that was 
Sesames fault.  Sesame can only submit a mortgage  application  that it thinks  has a 
good chance of passing a lenders lending criteria.  It tried to work with Mr and Mrs C, 
but reached the point where  it felt unable to continue assisting them.  And Mr and Mrs 
C made some unfortunate choices in the expectation theyd be able to get a 
mortgage  but I dont  think that was because Sesame advised them to, or misled 
them. Ive considered everything very carefully,  and I dont  think  Sesame did 
anything wrong  in how it handled this mortgage  application, and so I dont think it 
would be fair to uphold this complaint.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Sesame accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs C didnt. Mrs C said when they first 
applied they were given a decision in principle, which was based on all the information theyd 
given Sesame. Sesame  knew about  their finances and their credit  history and told them it 
wouldnt be a problem  to get a mortgage.  They provided everything  Sesame  asked for  it 
did take time to get some things,  but they did it as soon as they could. It was only when they 
complained about the way things were  being  handled that there were problems with the 
application. She said it wasnt fair Sesame stopped assisting them just because they 
complained. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered everything again,  and I do understand Mr and Mrs Cs strength of feeling  
about what happened. I know they think Sesame stopped acting  for them  just because they 
complained, and they only needed  to complain because Sesame was making things difficult 
for them. But Ive considered  the evidence carefully, and I dont think  thats the case. A 
decision in principle is just the result  of the initial assessment  before  a full application, and 
supporting evidence, has been considered. Its not a guarantee that a mortgage will follow.  
I think Sesame made  reasonable requests for information needed  to support the mortgage 
application. And it took a reasonable decision to stop assisting Mr and Mrs C when it began 
Ref: DRN92664314to have concerns  about what it was being  told. Im pleased to hear Mr and Mrs C have now 
been able to get a mortgage and are about  to move into their new family  home.  But I still 
dont think that Sesame treated them unfairly  in how it handled the mortgage application it 
helped them with.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 August 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9266431