K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
background
Mr B was given eight loans by Uncle  Buck between  February 2012  and November  2013.  
Each of the loans  was repayable the following month but Mr B needed  to defer his 
repayment for a month by paying some additional  interest on three of the loans. And on 
loan 7 Mr B needed  to defer his repayment  twice. Mr B appears to have faced some 
problems repaying  his last loan and Uncle Buck  says it had to arrange  a payment plan with 
him. But all of the loans have  now been  fully repaid and a summary of Mr Bs borrowing from 
Uncle Buck  is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 18/02/2012 16/04/2012 £    250
2 17/04/2012 15/06/2012 £    350
3 20/09/2012 15/10/2012 £    425
4 17/10/2012 15/11/2012 £    250
5 23/01/2013 15/02/2013 £    300
6 16/07/2013 15/08/2013 £    600
7 19/08/2013 15/11/2013 £    650
8 13/11/2013 31/03/2015 £    500
 
Mr Bs complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He didnt think Uncle Buck  
had been wrong  to give the first three loans to Mr B. But he thought that Mr Bs borrowing 
history should have led the lender  to conclude that it wasnt reasonable to give Mr B the 
remaining loans. So he asked Uncle Buck to pay Mr B some compensation.
In response Uncle  Buck  offered  to refund the interest and charges  Mr B had paid on 
loans 4 and 8. But it didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment in regards to the 
remaining loans. Mr B rejected that offer. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr B accepts  my decision it is legally binding  on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN94288442Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading guidance on Irresponsible 
Lending defines sustainable as being  without undue difficulties and in particular 
the customer should be able to make  repayments on time,  while  meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. And it follows  
that a lender should realise, or it ought  fairly  and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower wont  
be able to make their repayments  sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without  borrowing  further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
The repayments on Mr Bs first two loans  were relatively modest compared to the income 
that he declared to Uncle Buck. So given Mr Bs repayment amounts, what  was apparent 
about his circumstances at the time,  and his history with the lender, I dont  think  it wouldve 
been proportionate for Uncle Buck to ask him for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable.  And there wasnt  anything  in the information 
Mr B provided or the information Uncle  Buck shouldve been aware of, which meant  it 
wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what he was saying.  So I dont  think  
Uncle Buck  was wrong to give these two loans  to Mr B.
Ref: DRN94288443There was a gap of around  three  months between Mr B repaying  the second  loan and him 
borrowing again. But the amount he asked to borrow, and so the repayment he needed to 
make, had increased greatly. So although  I still think it was reasonable for Uncle  Buck to 
base its lending decision on information that Mr B provided, I think  it should  have asked  him 
some very specific questions about  any other  short term loans that he was already 
committed to repaying. We asked Mr B for copies of his bank  statements  so we could see 
what these additional  checks  would have shown Uncle Buck.  He wasnt able to provide 
these to us. So Im not able to say that better checks  would have shown Uncle  Buck that it 
shouldnt have given  loan 3 to Mr B.
But looking  at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks  lending history with Mr B I think  by loan 4 
the lender should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Uncle Buck should have realised  that it shouldnt  provide further loans. 
I say this because:
By now Mr B had been  borrowing from Uncle Buck for almost eight months. Although  
there had been a short break in that borrowing, Mr B took loan 4 just a couple of days  
after hed repaid loan 3. I think that this evidence of frequent borrowing should have 
indicated to Uncle Buck that Mr B was most likely having significant  problems 
managing his money. 
When Mr B asked  for loan 4 he wasnt making  any inroads to the amount he owed 
the lender. Loan  4 was for the same amount as his original loan eight months  earlier.  
There was another  gap between loans 5 and 6. But given what  had gone before 
I dont think this gap was long enough  to give Uncle Buck any confidence that Mr Bs 
finances had returned to a more stable footing.  The amount Mr B asked to borrow  on 
loan 6 increased dramatically. And following that Mr B asked for a new loan 
immediately after repaying  his previous borrowing. So Uncle  Buck ought to have 
realised it was more likely  than not Mr B was having to borrow further  to cover the 
hole repaying  his previous loans was leaving in his finances and that Mr Bs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
I think that Mr B lost out because Uncle Buck continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Bs 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So I dont  think Uncle Buck should  have  agreed  to lend to Mr B from loan 4 onwards. 
Uncle Buck  needs  to pay Mr B some compensation.
Ref: DRN94288444putting things right
I dont think Uncle Buck should  have agreed to lend to Mr B after, and including, the loan 
that he took on 17 October  2012 (loan  4). So for each of those loans Uncle  Buck should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr B on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans  taken from loans 4 onwards means any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  4 to 8 should be removed from Mr Bs credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Uncle  Buck Finance LLP 
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9428844