K821x#15complaint
Mr H is unhappy about the way Kindertons  Ltd handled his claim after he was involved  in a 
road traffic accident.
background
In July 2018, Mr H was involved in a road traffic accident that he said wasnt his fault.  And he 
agreed to use the services of Kindertons, a claims management company (CMC),  that 
provided accident management  services.  They arranged  for Mr Hs vehicle to be repaired, 
and for the provision  of a hire vehicle whilst  this was being done. On Mr Hs vehicle being 
returned in September 2018,  he said there were  a range of issues  with the vehicle:
rear tailgate  lock hadnt  been  repaired properly;
wheel  arch moulding was chipped;
rear parking sensors werent working;
the licence  plate hadnt been replaced;
there was chipping to the paint and body work; and
there was additional  damage to the wheel trim.
Mr H complained to Kindertons.
Kindertons looked  to the repairing garage to consider the points identified  by Mr H, and in 
November 2018  a post repair inspection  was done by an independent  engineer. Based on 
this report they agreed that the rear tailgate and wheel arch moulding should  be repaired by 
Mr Hs choice of repairer.  With a repair date scheduled for 1 May 2019. They also accepted 
that the rear parking sensors,  licence plate and chips in the paintwork would be considered 
in the repairs.  But they didnt accept  the additional damage, as Mr H hadnt commented on 
this when he accepted the return of his vehicle.
Mr Hs chosen garage asked for an upfront  payment for the repairs  to be done of £3,219.52. 
Kindertons provided  the details to the third-party insurers  (TPI)  and were waiting for  
confirmation they would cover  the costs.
Mr H wasnt happy with their response  as the repairs had been agreed,  and hed already 
been waiting several months.  He referred  his complaint to us.
Our investigator said its wasnt fair that Mr H wasnt able to get his vehicle repaired when it 
had been agreed that the repairs  should  be done.  As Mr H used the vehicle for work, without 
the rear tailgate lock, he couldnt secure his vehicle. Our investigator said Kindertons  should 
cover the cost of the repairs. And for the delay they should compensate  Mr H £750 for the 
trouble and upset  caused.
Kindertons said the TPI were only willing to pay £1,000 up front repair  costs, and that the 
trouble and upset  award was too high as they had been trying to mitigate  the costs with the 
TPI. But offered £250.They asked for an ombudsman to decide. 
Ref: DRN96891662my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im upholding this 
complaint.
Up until 31 March 2019, AMCs were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And 
complaints about  AMCs were dealt with by the Legal  Ombudsman.  On 1 April 2019  the 
regulation of AMCs switched to the Financial Conduct Authority, and complaints moved to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because  the events Mr H is complaining about took 
place before this change  in regulation, my decision is based on the approach the Claims 
Management Regulator and Legal Ombudsman  would have taken. 
The Legal  Ombudsman didnt consider an CMC responsible for the repairs  carried out on a
car  this was the responsibility  of the garage. And, unless the garage was owned and
operated by the CMC (which isnt the case in this instance), the Legal Ombudsman  would
only expect the CMC to make the garage  aware  of any issues  with the repairs. They 
wouldnt expect the CMC to be able to force the garage to carry out any work.
From what  Ive seen, in October  2018, Kindertons worked with the garage to have Mr Hs 
vehicle inspected and for them to consider rectification.  But as there wasnt an agreement  
Kindertons arranged for a post repair inspection to be done. The independent  engineers 
report in November 2018 said rectification work  was needed for the rear tailgate  lock, poor 
paint work  and chipped moulding.  An email from the independent engineer also refers to the 
need for the licence plate to be replaced.
And in April 2019, Kindertons agreed for this work  to be done and had arranged for this to be 
done in May 2019 at Mr Hs chosen  garage. But it didnt happen as Mr Hs garage asked for 
an upfront payment for the repairs. I can see Kindertons  have been  in discussion with the 
TPI, but they are only prepared to offer £1,000. Generally, as rectification work is necessary 
due to the poor repair carried out by the garage, the additional cost would fall to the garage, 
rather than the TPI. The TPI is responsible for paying the accident  repair  costs  and not for 
the rectification  of poor quality of work.
Kindertons werent  responsible for the poor quality of repairs that were done either. But they 
did agree  the rectification work was needed and that they should be done by Mr Hs chosen 
garage. So I dont think  theyve acted  fairly  and reasonably by now saying these cant  be 
paid as the TPI wont cover the costs.
Some time has now passed, so the estimate Mr H initially provided by his garage will need to 
be updated to reflect the current cost for the rectification work identified by the independent  
engineer to be done. Once done  Kindertons should  pay the upfront cost and should look to 
recover the £1,000 agreed payment from the TPI. I agree that the award for trouble and 
upset should be at our higher end as Mr H vehicle  has been in a poor state of repair, and he 
has been without  its use for some  considerable time.
Ref: DRN96891663my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and ask Kindertons Ltd to:
pay the upfront  repair costs for the rectification work identified  by the independent 
engineer; and 
pay Mr H £750 for the trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2021.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9689166