K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that A J Bell Management  Limited  (AJB)  unfairly increased the charges it 
applies to his dealing  account.
background 
Mr S has a dealing account  with AJB. In 2016  AJB wrote to Mr S and explained it would be 
making changes  to its charging  structure.  It included a link to a calculator to show  Mr S what 
his new charges would be. Mr S was unhappy  with the increase in charges and complained.
Whilst this service was investigating this complaint  AJB made  an offer to Mr S through this 
service. This was to allow Mr S to transfer  his account to another provider free of charge, 
and to refund the increase  in charges from 2016 to the date he transfers the account with 
interest. Our adjudicator explained  to Mr S that she thought this offer was fair and 
reasonable and explained  the reasons behind this.
Mr S disagreed with the offer. He has since said that he has reached his own agreement 
with AJB going forward. But hes asked for an ombudsman  to look at his complaint as he 
feels it was unfair to change the contract he had entered into. So the complaint has been  
passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The adjudicator had explained the reasons she felt the offer AJB had made was fair and 
reasonable. Having considered this, I agree as it put Mr S in the position he would have 
been in had he been able to exit his contract with AJB as soon as the terms changed. 
However I have noted that Mr S says he has reached his own agreement with AJB going 
forward for his account. So I dont think  theres anything for me to add when a settlement for 
this complaint has been agreed by both parties.
my final decision
My decision  is the offer A J Bell Management  Limited made Mr S is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9789030