K821x#15complaint
Ms K complains  that Cash Converters (UK) Limited  lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Ms K took out a total of seven loans  with Cash Converters  between  February 2013 and 
December 2015.  All seven loans were repayable by a number of weekly  instalments.
Loan 
no.Date 
borrowedAmount Date 
repaidHighest 
repaymentNo. of 
weekly 
instalments
1 27.02.13 £300 14.06.13 £23.15 26
2 14.06.13 £600 21.10.13 £38.59 26
3 21.10.13 £600 16.05.14 £38.59 26
4 17.06.14 £600 25.11.14 £39.69 26
5 25.11.14 £750 05.06.15 £43.67 30
6 08.06.15 £1,000 01.12.15 £59.24 30
7 01.12.15 £1,500 15.07.16 £90.39 30
Ms K believes Cash Converters was irresponsible to lend to her. She says the loans trapped 
her in a spiral of debt,  and the repayments  took so much of her income  that she had to 
borrow again to cover her next months  expenses. She believes that it should  have been 
clear from the number of times she rolled  over loans or borrowed again that her debt 
problems were getting worse.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary,  she 
thought that Cash Converters  should have realised that from loan 4 onwards, there was a 
significant risk that Ms K would be unable to meet her loan repayments. So the adjudicator 
recommended that Cash Converters  refund all interest and charges that Ms K paid on loans 
4 to 7, with interest on the refund. And she said it should remove  all negative  information 
about loan 4, and all information about loans 5 to 7 from Ms Ks credit file.
Cash Converters disagreed with the adjudicators  view. So the complaints been  passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cash Converters needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Ms K could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.  
Ref: DRN90727022These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cash Converters  should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cash  Converters  was required to 
establish whether  Ms K could sustainably repay  her loans   not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Tradings guide  on Irresponsible  Lending  and 
then the Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook define sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties.
In particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower is unlikely  to be able to make  their make their repayments in a sustainable manner 
if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ks complaint.
Cash Converters carried out some checks before it lent to Ms K. It asked Ms K for details of 
her income and normal expenditure. It asked her for copies of her recent bank statements 
and wage slips and it carried  out a credit check each  time. 
Each of Ms Ks loans was repayable over six or seven months. So the amounts that Ms K 
needed to repay each  time were smaller than if shed taken a normal payday loan. But of 
course she was committing to making those payments over a significant period.
Ref: DRN90727023I think the checks which Cash Converters  carried out were proportionate. And I dont find 
that it was irresponsible to make  the first three loans. I say this because the payments that 
Ms K needed to make were a relatively small proportion of her declared monthly income. 
And I dont  think there was anything in the information that Cash  Converters had which 
should have led it to be concerned that Ms K couldnt afford the loans,  or that she was 
borrowing unsustainably.
Around a month passed between Ms K repaying loan 3 and applying  for loan 4. But the 
information she provided in her application  showed that her circumstances had changed  
since shed taken out loan 3. Ms K told Cash Converters that shed started a new job 
towards the end of the previous year. But the bank  statements she provided to Cash 
Converters with her application  didnt show any earnings in the previous couple of months. 
In fact, it looks as if Ms Ks only income at that stage was benefits. And the repayments on 
the loan would have taken  a significant proportion of Ms Ks reduced monthly income.
So taking everything into account, I think Cash Converters ought  to have realised that there 
was a real risk that Ms K would be unable to repay loan 4 sustainably. And I think  it was 
wrong to make the loan.
I acknowledge that Cash Converters has commented that Ms K gave  specific  reasons for 
applying for the loans.  But that doesnt take away its responsibility to check  that she would 
be able to repay the loans sustainably. And looking  at the overall pattern of Ms Ks borrowing  
from Cash Converters, I think that by the time she applied for loan 5, Cash Converters 
should reasonably have  seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. 
And so it should have  realised that it shouldnt  provide further loans.
I say this because:
This was now Ms Ks fifth loan request in around 21 months,  and it was for more than 
her previous loans.
Ms K had been borrowing from Cash Converters almost continually  during that time,  with 
only around a months break.
Ms K had repaid  some of her loans early. But with the exception of the break  between  
loans 3 and 4, she had immediately replaced the loan with a new one. I think  that pattern 
of frequent borrowing and early repayment  should have indicted to Cash  Converters that 
Ms K was likely to be having  problems managing her money.  And I think  it should  have 
been concerned that Ms K wasnt managing to repay the loans  without borrowing further.
I think that Ms K lost out because Cash Converters continued to provide borrowing from loan 
5 onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ks indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the extended period of time she owed Cash Converters money was likely to have  had 
negative implications on Ms Ks ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im upholding  Ms Ks complaint about  loans 4 to 7. 
Ref: DRN90727024putting things right
I dont think Cash Converters should have agreed to lend to Ms K after,  and including,  the 
loan that she took out on 17 June 2014 (loan  4). So for each of loans 4 to 7 Cash  Converters 
should:
refund  all interest and charges Ms K paid;
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per year to each of these amounts from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove all negative information  about  loan 4 from Ms Ks credit file;
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan 5 means that any information about loans 
5 to 7 is negative. So all entries about  loans 5 to 7 should  be removed from Ms Ks credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cash Converters to take off tax from this interest. Cash 
Converters must give Ms K a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Cash Converters (UK) Limited to 
put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9072702