K820x#14complaint
Miss I has complained to us that she was mis-sold a monthly premium payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy  by Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) in 1998 when she applied for a 
credit card.
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think Miss Is complaint should be upheld. 
Miss I didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Is case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Is complaint and Ill explain the reasons 
for this.
The sale took place  at a branch. First of all, there were rules about who could qualify for the 
cover. And based on Miss Is circumstances  at the time I think  she met those rules. So I 
think she could have  claimed under the policy if she needed to.
Next, Lloyds was required to make it sufficiently clear  to Miss I that the policy was optional.  
Miss I told us she didnt want PPI and had no recollection of it being discussed or offered. 
She told us that she wouldnt have taken  it out if it had been  offered  to her. 
Lloyds has been  able to provide us with a copy of the application form. I can see that a box 
has been ticked to take out the PPI and Miss I signed the form. Miss I told us that she 
doesnt think she agreed for the box to be ticked.  
I can understand Miss Is view, but I dont think its likely that Miss I would have signed  the 
form without reading it, given that it involved  an important financial commitment.  And I think  
that having read the form, its most likely  that Miss I would have understood that the PPI was 
optional. So on balance, Ive concluded that the policy was applied  to her card because she 
chose to take it out.
Next, Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss I so it had to make sure that it was suitable  for 
her. Looking at her circumstances  at the time,  Miss I doesnt appear to have been  affected 
by the main exclusions or restrictions in the policy. 
Miss I told us that if she was too ill to work or was made unemployed she would have 
received pay from her employer for three months.  But in the event that she made a 
successful claim, the policy would have covered her repayments for up to a year. She told us 
that her family could  have helped her make  her repayments. But that would have depended 
on the circumstances of the family  at the particular time. So it wasnt guaranteed.
Ref: DRN90245402Miss I also told us that she would have  sold her car in order  to make her repayments if shed 
needed to. But this is the type of difficult situation  that PPI is designed to avoid. So on 
balance, I think it would  have provided a useful  benefit for Miss I and I think  the 
recommendation was suitable for her.
Finally, Lloyds also had to provide Miss I with clear  enough information   in particular about  
the costs, benefits  and main exclusions/restrictions  in the policy  so that she could decide 
for herself  whether the PPI was right for her. 
Ive considered the possibility that the information  Lloyds gave Miss I wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But I dont think Miss I would have been caught out by the main  
exclusions or restrictions, for the reasons Ive set out above. So I dont think its likely  that 
better information about these matters would have put her off taking out the PPI. And the 
cost was comparable  to the cost of other, similar policies available at the time. So I dont 
think clearer information about that would  have changed her mind  about the policy  either. 
Overall, having taken everything  into consideration, I dont think Lloyds  mis-sold  Miss I this 
PPI policy  and I dont  require Lloyds to put anything right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9024540