complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about their home  insurer Society of Lloyds  (SOL)  because 
it has declined the claim they made for subsidence when they noted damage to their 
kitchen floor.
background
In October/November 2016 Mr and Mrs R were  replacing the tiles on their kitchen floor.  
They found  an area of the floor was sunken.
A structural engineer  was appointed. He made  a report on 2 November 2016 in which he 
noted that the floors sub-base  had been  poorly prepared  and said he felt this was likely the 
cause of it sinking.
Around the same time a claim was made  to SOL in respect of the damaged floor.  A civil 
engineer was appointed  and he visited the property  on 8 November  2016.  He felt the floor 
was distorted rather than meeting the building industry definition for subsidence. But he 
also felt it was of poor construction and that any movement was possibly caused by this.
Although in a letter  to Mr and Mrs R he also noted  that subsidence movement may have 
been an influence.
The engineer noted cracks to the kitchen walls   although he didnt confirm  whether he felt 
these were likely related to subsidence.  He also noted damage which he did accept  was 
likely due to subsidence  to the detached triple-garage and the boiler room which is attached 
to the main property.
The engineer carried out investigations and in February 2017 issued a further  report. 
Having now considered soil samples he felt the ground was likely moisture dependant and 
there were signs that it dried out, shrinking significantly during dry weather. He said,  
therefore, that subsidence was the most likely cause of the damage at the property.
SOL asked Mr and Mrs R to provide evidence from when theyd purchased the house. They  
sent their valuation survey   but also a survey  theyd recently been passed by the previous 
owner of the property.  This was dated  2010 and identified that the property  had been  
monitored previously  for movement but that there  was no current  (then)  or on-going signs  to 
cause concern. It also noted  the re-build value at £900,000. Mr and Mrs Rs pre-purchase 
valuation survey was undertaken in 2014.  That didnt include an assessment of the 
structure of the property.  It did recommend  a re-build  value  of £585,000. Mr and Mrs R 
insured the property for £700,000.
SOL then declined the claim.  It said if it had seen the 2010 survey when cover  was applied 
for it wouldnt have offered the policy, at least not with subsidence cover  in place. It said if it 
had known the re-build value there would have been different terms too. It said it didnt 
matter whether Mr and Mrs R had seen the 2010  report before or not, it was something they 
could have obtained so was pertinent to the insurance cover arranged.
Mr and Mrs R then complained. SOL reviewed matters and noted  that there had only been  
a claim made for the kitchen floor  not the rest of the damage  at the house. It also 
accepted it was relevant that Mr and Mrs R hadnt seen the 2010 report. However, SOL 
wasnt minded to accept  the claim for the damage  to the floor.  It said the structural  
engineers report  that Mr and Mrs R had commissioned showed the floor had been poorly 
constructed. It pointed  to policy  exclusions  for pre-existing damage and for anything  caused 
by faulty workmanship  or poor design.
Ref: DRN9598696By this point  SOL had decided  not to offer renewal of the policy.  It explained this was 
something it could do as it wasnt obliged to continue to offer cover beyond the end of any 
contracted term.
Mr and Mrs R complained  to this service.
Our investigator felt that SOLs engineers report was more persuasive as it had been  
completed following  extensive investigations.  He said SOL should accept the claim and 
resolve it in line with the recommendations  in its engineers report.  He noted the industry 
guidance and felt SOL should reinstate cover if Mr and Mrs R wanted  it to.
Overall Mr and Mrs R were pleased  by this outcome. They clarified  they had found alternate 
cover. SOL didnt think our investigators recommendation was fair. The complaint was 
passed to me for review.
I reviewed the complaint  and didnt agree with some  of our investigators findings. I issued a 
provisional decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I intend  to uphold this 
complaint in part.
I think the claim hasnt been  handled very well by SOL.  SOLs initial  decision  on the claim 
makes little real sense and certainly  isnt in-line  with how insurers  usually respond to 
information that comes  to light which pre-dates the start of the policy.  Mr and Mrs R couldnt 
possibly be expected to have told SOL about  documents they hadnt seen and had no 
knowledge of. In saying that Im mindful  that Mr and Mrs R and the previous home owner 
have confirmed that the document  was only provided to Mr and Mrs R in 2016.
Im also conscious that the initial investigations  seem to have overstepped the bounds of 
the claim that was made; to assess the kitchen floor. But then once further damage was 
found no clarity was sought from Mr and Mrs R to see if they wanted  to claim for this or not. 
Even SOL itself proceeded on the basis of the kitchen floor being the only claimed for item, 
without making enquiries with Mr and Mrs R and whilst knowing significant  subsidence 
damage had been  noted at the property. From what Ive seen I think  Mr and Mrs R do view 
the damage, other than that in respect  of the kitchen floor,  to form part of their claim.
SOLs engineer  wasnt particularly clear initially as to whether cracks in the kitchen  walls  and 
rooms above were caused by subsidence.  He was, however, satisfied that the boiler  room  that 
is part of the house, was suffering from subsidence damage.
Taking everything into account,  I think that SOL has to pay £250 compensation for the 
upset its failures have caused  Mr and Mrs R. I think it should  also contact them regarding 
their claim for the further damage at the property  which, from what  I have seen meets  the 
policy terms for a subsidence claim. It will need to assess the claim and consider what  
action needs to be taken by it.
In saying that I note that the property  hasnt been  monitored. I also note that Mr and Mrs R 
have sent photos which suggest  cracking  in the kitchen and rooms  above has got worse. 
So Id expect SOL to review that as a matter of urgency.
Ref: DRN9598696I think SOL, despite its initially stated  view on this, isnt seeking to maintain a position that 
Mr and Mrs R were under-insured. If it were, Id consider that to be unfair as I accept that 
Mr and Mrs R, in applying for the policy, relied upon  their valuation survey. That surveyor 
suggested a re-build value of £585,000 and Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs R had no good  
reason to question  that. When SOL considers the remaining parts  of the claim it will have to 
do so as though the sum insured is adequate.
With regret for the upset  I know this will cause Mr and Mrs R though, Im not minded to 
make SOL do anything  regarding the kitchen floor. I think SOLs  final response in this 
respect was fair and reasonable.
The structural engineer,  whilst he didnt  carry out ground tests  and the like, felt the 
construction of the floor was poor and that was the reason for it dipping. SOLs engineer felt 
the construction had played  a part too. He also notes it being distorted rather  than 
subsiding. He does  say, initially, that subsidence might have played  a part, alongside the 
poor construction. But hes far from clear  that is most likely the case.
In 2017 SOLs engineer  issued a further report.  That report came to a definite conclusion 
about the damage at the property being  caused  by subsidence. But it was a very 
generalised report. It did follow some  soil investigations and it did give a technical  
consideration as to the ground  conditions and the propensity for the soil to shrink  during dry 
conditions. But the engineer has then drawn  a line between that likelihood  and the fact of 
the damage to determine subsidence  (caused by shrinking soil) has been its cause. In 
doing that he hasnt looked  at whether the house and floor has actually moved  recently (no 
monitoring was undertaken). Nor has he explained away the poor construction of the floor 
such as to satisfy the reader that the subsidence  was so significant  that the poor work was 
negated. So, whilst his report  was made  following further investigations, Im not persuaded 
that its findings reasonably mean  SOL should accept the claim for the damaged  kitchen 
floor.
As I said above, I think SOL should  have done  more at the point it was satisfied it had no 
liability for the kitchen  floor. I think it was slightly blinkered to have progressed with that 
decline without at least speaking to Mr and Mrs R about the rest of the damage and the 
valid claim they could  be pursuing. But I think its conclusion regarding  the floor was fair and 
reasonable given the evidence available.
Ref: DRN9598696K822xAnd given  there was a valid subsidence  claim open  to being pursued,  I would question 
SOLs decision not to renew the policy. Following an industry agreement on the issue of 
subsidence to which a significant  portion of the industry signed up, it has become good 
industry practice for insurers to continue offering cover for properties  that have suffered 
from subsidence. This practice  also provides  guidance on how any such policies are to 
be rated, with the fact that a claim  was made  for subsidence specifically not adversely  
affecting the premium.  Whilst  Mr and Mrs R have found cover elsewhere it is likely they 
are paying  more for this, and/or have a policy that doesnt benefit  from subsidence  
cover. Either  way they are likely being disadvantaged because of SOLs unfair actions.
SOL will need to reimburse  them any extra  cost they can show theyve had for cover  
until the end of the current policy year. Then, if Mr and Mrs R want  to, SOL should 
reinstate their policy as if it had renewed  throughout. If Mr and Mrs R dont want to return 
to SOL then that is fine but it wont have  to compensate them any further for remaining 
with their chosen provider. If there has been  any new instance  of subsidence since 
SOLs policy  ended and Mr and Mrs R dont currently benefit from subsidence cover then 
SOL will need to act as though it had been  providing  cover for them.
Mr and Mrs R were largely content  with my findings but they did dispute what  Id said 
regarding the damage to the kitchen floor. A report from 2019 was provided. They also 
said that the compensation should be reviewed  not having access to their kitchen for 
all this time had been stressful,  inconvenient and embarrassing.
SOL said it agreed with most of my findings.  But it said it would be unable to reinstate 
Mr and Mrs Rs policy as it no longer has a contract with the provider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs R dont agree with my interpretation of the 2017  report.  But 
I remain of the view it is unpersuasive.  
It is my job to decide if SOLs response  on the complaint, based on the evidence 
available at that time, was fair and reasonable or not. As the 2017 report  is unpersuasive 
in light of the other concerns regarding  the construction of the kitchen floor, I remain 
satisfied SOLs conclusion that the floor wasnt suffering subsidence was fair and 
reasonable.
Ive now seen the report that Mr and Mrs R commissioned this year. As well as details  in 
their response explaining  how the damage to the kitchen floor has got worse.  I think  its 
reasonable to require  SOL to review the kitchen floor situation  when it assesses  the 
other damage at the property. If the property has continued to subside it may be that the 
floor is now suffering in that way. But, in terms of SOLs decision in April 2018, which 
was based on the reports and assessments available at that time, Im satisfied its 
decision was fair and reasonable. Beyond reassessing the floor,  taking into account any 
further reports now available, Im not going to require it to do anything  more.
Ref: DRN95986965I appreciate that having a damaged kitchen has been difficult  for Mr and Mrs R. 
However, as I remain of the view that SOLs decision regarding  the kitchen floor was fair 
and reasonable,  Im not going  to amend my compensation award. 
It isnt clear yet whether  Mr and Mrs R will want to return to cover with SOL.  Whilst 
I appreciate that SOL may not deal with the same  provider any more that doesnt change 
the fact that Mr and Mrs R should be able to benefit  from cover  with it, on the same  
terms and at the same rate (barring  any index or other rating changes or increases) as 
they had before, if they want to. So, if they do want to, SOL will have to arrange some 
cover for them that is like what it offered before, even if that is now through  a different 
provider, and treat them  as though  they havent had a break in cover. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Society  of Lloyds  to contact Mr and Mrs R 
regarding reviewing the damage  at their property in line with my comments  made above, 
both provisionally  and finally (the latter particularly regarding the kitchen floor). I also 
require it to pay them £250 compensation.
I further require  Society of Lloyds to reimburse  them any extra  costs  theyve had for 
cover with their alternate provider, until the end of the current  policy year.  It will then 
have to reinstate  their cover if they wish it to, taking into account what  Ive said in my 
findings above. And if there is currently no subsidence cover but there has been any new 
instance of subsidence damage, act as though cover  has been in place with it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9598696