K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mrs M says Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
There isnt much in the way of documentation  left from the time of sale.  But this isnt 
surprising given  Im looking at events from so long ago. What I do know  is Mrs M was 
sold a policy including  cover  for Accident, Sickness and Unemployment  and Critical 
Illness. This suggests Mrs M opted  against having Life Cover which was also available.  
In my view, this suggests its more likely that Mrs M was presented with a series of 
options before choosing  to proceed  with one of them. As this is the case, I think  BOS 
made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the MPPI  and she chose to take it out. 
Mrs M cancelling  the policy and keeping the mortgage supports  this.
BOS recommended the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the MPPI  was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, Mrs M wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover 
and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information BOS gave Mrs M about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover in the first place. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said  including the circumstances behind  her 
declined claim. But these points dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything 
Mrs M paid for it. But BOS has already offered to give Mrs M back  some of the cost of the 
MPPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
BOS will make arrangements to pay Mrs M now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ref: DRN93630842ombudsman
Ref: DRN9363084