K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC recorded  incorrect information on his credit file.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 30 May 2019, a copy of which is attached  as it forms part 
of this final decision. Lloyds didnt have  any further  comments. But Mr D has responded to 
the provisional decision and Ive taken  his comments into account when making  this final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D says that if the default  had never  been  recorded on his credit file, he would have had 
more opportunities  to borrow money from other businesses who were offering better rates  
than Lloyds. I can understand his point of view.  But I havent seen any evidence  that he was 
declined by other lenders or offered less favourable  rates  because  of the default. So I cant 
safely conclude that this happened  or that Lloyds are responsible for it.
Mr D also says that the compensation of £500  isnt enough to reflect the impact  of Lloyds 
mistake or the amount  of time the default was on his credit file. Its always difficult  to put a 
monetary value on the impact of a situation  like this. But I havent  seen any new information 
about loss or inconvenience Mr D has suffered, over and above what  Ive already taken into 
account when  making  my provisional decision. So Im not persuaded that theres anything 
else that he must be compensated for. And I still think £500 is the right amount to address 
the issues which I considered in my provisional decision. 
So, whilst I understand  that this will be disappointing  for Mr D, I havent seen anything  which  
changes my mind about the appropriate  outcome here.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, and as set out in my provisional decision (attached  below), I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN93139142copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC recorded incorrect information on his credit file.
background
Mr D had a joint bank  account with his ex-wife.  In 2011,  his name  was removed from the account.  The 
following year the account was closed  and passed to Lloyds Recoveries team. At that stage, Lloyds  
applied a default to Mr Ds credit file. But it was supposed to be applied  to his ex-wifes credit file 
instead, as she was by then the sole account holder.
Mr D complained to Lloyds  and they upheld his complaint. They  accepted they had made a mistake 
by registering the default against Mr D. They paid him compensation of £500 and corrected the 
information on his credit  file.
Mr D didnt think that was enough to reflect  what had happened, so he brought his complaint to this 
service. He says the default has affected his credit  score, which in turn has affected various  
applications he has made for credit. He says he has paid higher rates of interest on two loans and a 
credit card (all with Lloyds) because  of this and that it has affected him for a number of years. And he 
says he has had other credit applications declined  by Lloyds and other banks because  of the default  
marker.
Mr D wasnt  able to provide  evidence of why he was declined for other loans, credit cards and a 
mortgage. Our adjudicator  didnt think there was any guarantee  that those  other applications would  
have been successful, even  without the default.  So he didnt think  Lloyds needed  to pay any more 
compensation.
But he thought  the default  would have affected the interest rates on both the loans and the credit  card 
Mr D had with Lloyds.  So he thought they should  refund Mr D the difference  between the interest  he 
has paid and what he would have paid if they had given him credit at the lowest rates they were 
offering at the time he signed up to those products.
Lloyds say they dont think the default had been recorded on Mr Ds credit file at the time of his credit 
card and loan applications.  So they dont think it had any bearing on the terms of their lending. As 
they didnt accept our adjudicators findings, the complaint has been passed to an ombudsman  for 
review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My understanding is that the error on Mr Ds credit file came to light in 2018  when he was applying for 
a mortgage. Lloyds contacted his mortgage  advisor and explained that the default  had been applied in 
error. His mortgage  was then approved.  Mr D told our adjudicator that all the other relevant credit 
applications were with Lloyds and he wasnt able to provide any more  information. So Im only 
considering the Lloyds applications here.
Mr Ds credit report showed the date of default on the Lloyds account  as 10 August 2012. Mr D 
opened a Lloyds credit  card account a few days later.  And Lloyds granted  him loans in November 
2012 and October 2013. Both loans have now been paid off. Lloyds say they have no record of any 
other loan applications from Mr D after the 2013 loan. They say that Mr D was declined  for a credit 
card in 2016  but that he didnt contact  them  to discuss it further.
Ref: DRN93139143Lloyds have provided details  of the best interest rates they were offering on all three  products at the 
time Mr D applied for them. In each case, the rate given to Mr D is higher than the best rate but, 
Lloyds say, not the highest  rate. I would expect there to be various factors which the bank would take 
into account  when setting the rate for each individual customer, such  as the amount being  borrowed.  
So I dont think it would be safe to conclude that the reason Mr D wasnt offered the best rates  was 
because of the default  marker. Its possible  it could  have been  one factor  though.  Ill look at each 
product separately  and consider whether  I think thats the case.
credit card application  August 2012
Lloyds say that, because credit file information is usually  a month behind,  the default wouldnt have  
been visible at the time of Mr Ds credit card application.  So they say it wouldnt have had any impact  
on that application. I think thats likely. And the difference between what Mr D has paid for the credit 
card and what he might  have paid if he was on the best rate is minimal.  So I dont think Lloyds  have 
acted unfairly  in relation to the credit card.
loan applications
Lloyds have provided evidence  that theres currently no default  showing on Mr Ds customer profile.  
And they say there  never has been. But our adjudicator thought a default  could have  been recorded  
on Mr Ds profile  historically and then deleted  (correctly)  as part of the resolution of Mr Ds complaint. 
Im inclined  to agree.
Lloyds have  previously accepted  that there was a mistake on Mr Ds customer profile which meant 
his application for the loan in October 2013 was initially declined. Their records incorrectly suggested 
that one of Mr Ds accounts had been referred to their Collections Department.  Mr D complained  at 
the time and this was resolved by Lloyds. Mr D was then offered the loan he had been seeking. But 
this shows  that there was some adverse information recorded on Lloyds internal  systems  as recently  
as October 2013, which seems at odds with what they have said about  the customer  profile (outlined 
above). It also means  there could have been adverse information on Mr Ds records at the time he 
applied for the 2012 loan. But because the records have been  corrected in the meantime, its not 
possible now to see what was on the system at the time of the loan applications.
Likewise, because the credit  file has now been corrected, the credit reference agency isnt able to say 
when the default was first recorded. So, although the account was noted as being in default from 
August 2012,  its not clear exactly when  this information would first have been visible on Mr Ds credit 
file.
Lloyds say they dont think the default could  have  been  showing on Mr Ds credit file until after 
October 2013. Thats because they say they wouldnt have offered Mr D a loan if theyd known about  
it. But they can only speculate about this because they cant now see what  information  was available 
at the time of Mr Ds applications.
In Lloyds  letter to Mr D, responding to his complaint about the declined loan, they said:  As discussed 
you called into branch last Tuesday to apply for a loan but your request was declined  as our records 
suggested one of your accounts was with our Collections Department.  Despite a number  of attempts  
you could not get this resolved. You have  since been  into branch  again and now obtained the loan 
you were  originally looking for.
This confirms  that they declined  the loan because of the (incorrect) reference to their Collections  
Department. I find that to be supportive of their comments  that they would have declined the loan if 
they had been aware of a default.  And I think its likely that, if there had been a separate  default 
marker on Mr Ds customer profile it would have come to light when Lloyds investigated the reference 
to the Collections Department.
Lloyds letter says that the customer profile  was an internal policy matter and shouldnt  have any 
impact on Mr Ds credit file. They said that, if he obtained a copy  of his credit  report and found any 
Ref: DRN93139144adverse information, he should let them  know. This implies  that Lloyds  themselves werent aware of 
any adverse  data on Mr Ds credit file at the time. That being the case, they couldnt have taken it into 
account when assessing  the loan application.
So, based on the limited  evidence available, I dont  think the default can have had an impact on the 
2013 loan. If it did, its unlikely the impact was significant  because I think Lloyds would have 
discussed it with Mr D at the time, given  their investigation into why the initial application was 
declined.
And if the default wasn't visible to Lloyds  in October 2013, it seems unlikely they would have  been 
aware of it when Mr D applied  for the 2012 loan. I cant discount the possibility that the two loans were  
assessed on the basis of different data. Someone assessing  the 2012 loan could have come across 
the adverse data on the credit  file, even if Lloyds didnt  look at the credit file in 2013. I understand that 
the error only appeared on Mr Ds credit  file with one credit reference agency, even though Lloyds say 
they report  to all three of the main agencies. So that does leave scope for inconsistent information  
being available when Lloyds considered the two applications.  But overall,  I think  its unlikely the 
default had an impact on the 2012 loan. If Lloyds had been aware of a default  at the time, I dont think  
they would have approved  the loan application.
credit card application - 2016
Lloyds say this application  was declined  due to credit file data and wouldnt have been approved  even 
if Mr D had appealed. So its possible the default played a part in this decision by Lloyds.
summary
Mr D has explained the impact of the default on his mortgage application  and house purchase. I can 
see that it must have added  to the stress of the situation and Mr D says it caused him 
embarrassment.
Its always difficult to determine what the right  amount  of compensation might be  particularly when  
its not possible to accurately calculate the impact of interest rates because  there can be so many 
factors that influence  these. And while Mr D understandably thinks  that hes paid more interest on 
money hes borrowed  than might otherwise have been the case, its simply not possible to quantify 
this based on the information available.  On balance, I think the amount of compensation Lloyds have 
already paid is enough to recognise the impact of their mistake.
So I think that Lloyds have already compensated Mr D for the way their mistake  affected him and I 
dont think they need to do any more here.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, and subject to any further information I receive from the parties, I dont intend 
to uphold this complaint  in that I think Lloyds have already done enough  to compensate Mr D for 
their mistake.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9313914