K820x#14complaint
Mr T complained that Santander UK Plc:
-didnt tell him that he could only have a maximum of four months mortgage payment 
holiday. He said Santander agreed six months, then went back  on this;
-didnt tell him that he could make a minimum payment.  Mr T said Santander told him 
not to pay anything;
-passed his mortgage to solicitors,  though it had previously told him it wouldnt.
Mr T wants Santander  to take his mortgage  back from the solicitor, so he can start paying 
back his mortgage,  paying extra each month to make up the shortfall.
background
In February 2018,  Mr T lost his job. He let Santander  know,  and used savings to pay his 
mortgage for some months. 
In June Mr T rang Santander again.  He said it was taking  longer than hed expected to get a 
new job, and he asked  what his mortgage  options  might be  for example, whether the 
mortgage could  be put onto interest only for a few months. The adviser  told Mr T that 
Santander didnt  offer this. But she said that after completing an income and expenditure 
assessment, he might  be able to go onto a reduced  repayment plan. Mr T asked if this would 
affect his credit file, and the adviser said it would. Mr T didnt want  to do this, as he didnt 
want his credit file affected.
In July, Mr T rang again.  His mortgage  was still up to date, but he explained that his savings 
were running  out. He said hed been  told that there  were no options for interest  only, or for a 
payment holiday.  He was just setting up his own business and wouldnt get any income for 
three or four months.  He didnt want to go into arrears and wanted to know about the 
options.
The adviser said that the mortgage would go into arrears, and affect  Mr Ts credit file, if he 
couldnt pay the mortgage, because  Santander didnt offer interest only or payment holiday 
options. Mr T was very keen to sort things out. But he didnt yet have  confirmation  of the 
benefits hed applied for two months earlier, so the adviser said she couldnt sort out a 
solution straightaway. They went through  part of an income and expenditure assessment. 
Mr T rang back  on 24 July when he had the benefit  information, and he provided details to 
complete the assessment. This showed  he had a monthly deficit  of around £3,500.
Mr T asked  what the options would  be. He said he wanted to pay as little as possible over 
the next three to four months, then make up for it when  he started work again. The adviser  
told Mr T it wasnt affordable for him to make  any payments at all until he started to receive 
an income, so Santander would  make  an agreement for him not to pay anything  for the next 
three to four months.  She warned him that what wasnt paid would be reflected in his credit  
file, and hed be charged interest.  The adviser also said that if Mr Ts new business and 
income didnt pick up by December  time, it would depend on his circumstances  whether 
Santander could  extend this or not, or whether it would have to be referred to litigation if 
there wasnt an end in sight to Mr Ts financial difficulties. She told Mr T the arrangement  
meant he wouldnt receive calls or letters, or be charged the £40 monthly fee, but he would 
be charged for the extra interest.
Ref: DRN95994772Mr T asked  about litigation and the adviser said this normally started after three  months 
without any arrangements or plans in place. So this would be reviewed in December. 
Santander sent Mr T a letter which said it had been established that Mr T wasnt able to 
make any payments towards  his mortgage  account,  and that it had arranged for the account  
to be held for the agreed time. The letter didnt say how long that was.
In late October, Mr T rang Santander  again because hed had an arrears letter. He said he 
thought it had been agreed that there  was an arrangement in place until the end of 
November. The adviser told Mr T that it appeared no arrangement had been put in place, 
which was why hed had had the arrears letter. They went  through  Mr Ts current situation. 
The adviser suggested that a free debt advice organisation  might  be able to provide advice, 
and said shed put his mortgage  account on hold for 7 days  until Mr T rang back with a 
reference number  from the charity. She said Santander would extend  the breathing space 
beyond that if necessary.
Mr T said that hed been told the arrangement had been put in place to the end of 
November. He took the details, and the adviser emphasised it was important that he should 
ring back,  or calls,  letters, and arrears charges might start, and because of the level of the 
arrears there might also be litigation.  
Mr T rang back  with the reference number the debt advice had given him. The adviser said 
Santander would hold the account for another 30 days, until 2 December. Mr T asked for a 
hold until February. The debt charity had told him that, because  everything was under 
control at the moment and he had a plan, with his new business, it couldnt  help him. 
Santanders adviser accepted this and said Mr T should ring to update the bank in 
December, then they could continue it until January.
In December, Mr T received another  arrears letter. He rang Santander again. The adviser  
asked about Mr Ts contact with the debt charity, and expressed surprise  the charity  hadnt 
told Mr T to adjust  his budget. Mr T said hed already cut back  on outgoings, and he said he 
wouldnt be able to pay until February.  The adviser tried to enter a plan to put the mortgage  
on hold, but the system said hed exceeded  the maximum. The adviser  also queried the debt 
charity advice, especially  when Mr T told her hed been paying £50 a month towards a credit 
card. Shed expected the debt charity  to have told Mr T to pay only £1 a month  towards his 
other debts.  She told Mr T that if hed been paying  £50 a month  towards his mortgage,  shed 
have been able to set up another  plan on his mortgage. She asked how much Mr T expected  
to earn from February, and he estimated it would be £6,000 a month.
The adviser then checked with her manager,  and said that Mr T had exhausted all the 
options. A letter had been  sent out a few days before, which  Mr T wouldnt have received, 
saying it was going to legal action.  She asked Mr T if the previous  advisers  had told him 
there were limits, and he said no, hed never been  told that. 
Mr T complained. He said hed been keeping in touch, and was unhappy that it had suddenly  
been sent for legal  action. The complaints adviser  said that Mr T had a zero payment plan 
for five month, and hed now reached the maximum so had exhausted all options. He said he 
was never  given the option of paying  a reduced amount, perhaps £200  a month  but he 
couldnt afford the contractual payment of £2,062 a month. The adviser said she couldnt 
give false hope, but she would look at whether there was any other option. At the moment, it 
would have to be the full mortgage plus some more towards the arrears. Shed listen  to the 
calls and see whether  he was advised there was a maximum of 5 months.
Ref: DRN95994773In its reply to Mr Ts complaint, Santander  said it hadnt been able to find the call where the 
arrangement had been set up, so it couldnt  confirm what  had been  said.  So it had upheld  
Mr Ts complaint about this, and paid him £75 which it said was in the hope of restoring 
Mr Ts faith in Santander. But the letter said that its collections  team had said all options had 
been exhausted, so it couldnt  set up another arrangement. It told him that solicitors would 
be in touch.
Mr T spoke  to Santander again  in January 2019  and March.  In March, he complained to this 
service. He said Santander:
-didnt tell him that he could only have a maximum of four months mortgage payment 
holiday. He said Santander agreed six months, then went back  on this;
-didnt tell him that he could make a minimum payment.  Mr T said Santander told him 
not to pay anything;
-passed his mortgage to solicitors,  though it had previously told him it wouldnt.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. Mr T didnt agree. He said all he wanted was 
for Santander to take the case  back from the solicitor, and for him to start paying back his 
mortgage with an additional monthly  amount to make up the shortfall.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes listening to all the call 
recordings Ive described above.
Ive set out the different  parts of Mr Ts complaint in separate  headings.
Complaint that Santander  didnt  tell Mr T that he could only have a maximum of four months 
mortgage payment  holiday, but agreeing he could have six months then going back on this
In the July 2018 call which set up the arrangement, Santander didnt say Mr T could only 
have a maximum of four months payment arrangement.  But nor did it say he could have six 
months. What it did was to agree that Mr T didnt have to pay anything  for three  to four 
months, and said that what  happened  afterwards would depend on circumstances. At that 
point Mr T hoped that his new business  would start to bring him in a good income relatively  
soon. I think its unfortunate that Santanders confirmation letter didnt set out what timescale 
had been agreed, but I find that the timescale was clear in the call. So I dont uphold Mr Ts 
complaint about  the information  he was given.
Lenders can be flexible  about what they allow customers in financial difficulties, and its right 
that they can and do adapt  to individuals circumstances. So I wouldnt expect Santander to 
have a fixed policy about the number  of months a concession could last. In Mr Ts case, he 
went into arrears  from July 2018 onwards. And the calls make it quite clear that Mr T was 
really good at keeping in touch with Santander, and keeping it informed. But his monthly 
mortgage payment  was high at over £2,000, which meant that the amount of the arrears 
soon came to a high figure. I also note that in practice Santander didnt  send Mr Ts 
mortgage to solicitors within three or four months  of the July arrangement. It was much later.  
Complaint that Santander  didnt  tell Mr T that he could make  a minimum payment, but told 
him not to pay anything
Ref: DRN95994774In the July 2018 phone call, Santanders  adviser told Mr T that it wasnt  affordable for him to 
make any payments at all until he started to receive an income.  So I find that Mr T was right 
about this. But the adviser  did say, near the end of the call, that if he was able to make any 
payment going  into the last couple of months,  he should get in touch. Lenders arent allowed 
to pressurise borrowers where  the income and expenditure shows a borrower cant  afford to 
make a payment.  Mr Ts income and expenditure showed a deficit  of around  £3,500  a 
month. So I dont find Santanders  adviser acted wrongly when she didnt ask Mr T to make  
payments straightaway. 
In some of the later calls  for example in January 2019  this was clarified  further. I 
consider the January 2019 adviser was clear  and helpful to Mr T. When Mr T asked if he 
should pay something if he could, the adviser said the bank always  advised to pay 
something if a borrower could afford  it, but not if it meant not having enough to live. So I find 
that by the time the original concession had finished, it was reasonable to believe that Mr T 
would have known  he could pay something if he had the means to do so.  
I dont have information about  Mr Ts current financial position.  But I understand that as at 
the end of June 2019,  he hasnt made any payment  since  July 2018 and the arrears are now 
around £23,000. 
Complaint that Santander  passed Mr Ts mortgage  to solicitors, even though it had 
previously told him it wouldnt
In Mr Ts March  phone  call, he said that the January adviser  had told him his mortgage 
wouldnt be passed to solicitors. I have listened  carefully to these calls. In the January call, 
Mr T started  by saying he was phoning because hed been  told in December  that the 
mortgage would be passed to solicitors   and he hadnt heard from them.  What  the adviser 
replied was that Mr Ts mortgage  wouldnt have been passed to solicitors  because his 
complaint was still unresolved. But the adviser did go on to say that the account would be 
reviewed again  and that the same situation would happen again probably this month.  I 
realise that Mr T was relieved that the account hadnt yet been  sent to solicitors because  of 
the open complaint. But it was made clear that the account would be reviewed and referred 
to solicitors very soon.  So I dont  uphold this complaint. 
I appreciate that Mr T made a lot of calls to Santander, and that it was a very stressful  
situation for him. So its not surprising that he didnt remember everything  that was said 
during the calls. I consider  it would  be helpful to send Mr T the phone  recordings, at least for 
July 2018 and January 2019. So I will arrange  for the adjudicator to send Mr T copies of 
these with this decision.
I understand that Mr T was stressed about  the situation, particularly it appears  that his new 
business took longer to become established  than hed wanted. He used savings at the start 
of his period of unemployment, and kept in touch with Santander. But I find that Santander 
didnt give Mr T incorrect information about the payment arrangement  or making a minimum 
payment. Nor did it pass his mortgage to solicitors  after telling him it wouldnt.  Mr Ts arrears 
had rapidly built up to a significant sum over many months, and Santander was entitled to 
refer Mr Ts mortgage to solicitors under the terms and conditions  of his mortgage.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN95994775Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.  
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9599477