K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK plc wouldnt  ask for refunds on his behalf  under the VISA 
chargeback scheme  for three different transactions he carried  out in January 2018.
background
Mr A asked Santander to attempt chargebacks  for three transactions but he says it refused 
to do so:
His first transaction was payment for a 64 page passport but he only received a 32 page 
one. He wants the difference in price  to be refunded. 
The second transaction  was for a hotel stay where Mr A says that the service he 
received was below the standard he expected. 
The final transaction was to purchase  two products, where only one was received, and 
the other was faulty.
Santander says that it wasnt  able to attempt chargebacks for these transactions because Mr 
A didnt  provide it with enough  information  or evidence for the passport and product 
purchase transactions. It said it couldnt  proceed  with a claim against  the hotel because  Mr A 
had stayed and received  a service and his claim wasnt supported under the VISA  scheme.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. She didnt consider that 
Santander had made a mistake.  It had asked Mr A to provide further evidence for the first 
and third transactions but he hadnt done  so. As far as the second  transaction  was 
concerned, Mr A had stayed at the hotel  and there wasnt anything  to show  that the hotel 
had promised a refund.
Mr A disagreed. He said that the hotel  did agree  to refund the money, and that he didnt give 
Santander the evidence it needed  for the other  two cases because  it wouldnt let him send it 
electronically.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the VISA card scheme rules Mr A is entitled  to ask his card provider  Santander - to 
try and recover all or part of the money hes paid, provided there  is evidence  for the claim. 
Its important to note that a chargeback  isnt a right under the scheme.  Rather, its good 
practice for a bank  to try one if it has a good  reason to do so, and there  appears to be a fair 
chance that a chargeback request may succeed.  But banks dont have to raise chargebacks 
if it looks likely that the cardholder would lose. 
VISA regulations require that the cardholder must have tried to resolve  the dispute first so 
that the retailer has a chance to correct the problem. 
There is a strict time limit, which  is set by VISA, of 120 calendar days for a bank to raise  a 
chargeback against  a transaction  paid for by a VISA debit or credit card. This timescale 
commences from the date of processing or the date the cardholder expected to receive the 
goods. 
Ref: DRN97668312Importantly, chargebacks are decided  based  on the schemes rules,  and not on the merits of 
the dispute. So before trying a chargeback, Santander needed  to ask Mr A to provide it with 
information about the transactions  and what he had done to try to resolve his various 
disputes with the relevant merchants.
passport
Mr As complained to the merchant and asked  for a refund because he was provided with a 
32 page passport  instead of the 64 page one that he paid for. He asked  the merchant to 
refund the $31 difference but it didnt do so. If a customer doesnt  receive  the service  it paid 
for then a cardholder is entitled to ask for a chargeback to be attempted, for either all or part 
of the amount paid.
Mr A asked Santander to attempt a chargeback almost four weeks after he paid for the 
service. Santander asked him to provide further  information so that it could process  a claim 
for him. Mr A told Santander that he wasnt able to print the evidence and asked if he could 
send it electronically.  I see that Santander did then contact him to say that it wasnt  able to 
accept the evidence via email and asked him to provide it with as much printed 
documentation as possible. 
Im satisfied that Santander made  clear  that it wouldnt be able to process  the claim without 
this information.  I also find that it asked for the information a number of times but Mr A didnt 
provide it. I appreciate  that initially he might have  had some difficulty  in printing it off, but I 
consider that when  Santander said it needed paper copies he still had sufficient time, within 
the VISA rules, to find a way to do this.
In the circumstances, I cant conclude that Santander made a mistake  by not raising a 
chargeback claim for this transaction - because Mr A didnt  provide  all the evidence  that 
Santander asked  for, and required, to make  a claim.
hotel
Mr A says that he complained about  the service he received to both the agent he booked the 
hotel through  and to the hotel itself. The agent  has refunded  his deposit but, despite saying it 
would make a refund,  the hotel has refused to do so.
Mr A has provided copies of his email correspondence with the agent. Its clear  that initially 
he asked the hotel to provide a different room to the one he was first allocated because  he 
thought it would be too noisy.  The hotel  told the agent that it upgraded Mr A and his family 
from a double room  to a triple  at no extra cost. Mr A then suggests that this room was too 
noisy because the people in the room next to his played music  all night. He says he 
complained to the hotel reception but it didnt take any action.
Im not persuaded that Santander made a mistake in not processing a chargeback claim for 
Mr A here. He was provided with the service he paid for  a room  at the hotel. I appreciate  
that he might  have been disappointed with his stay,  but this isnt a valid reason for a dispute 
under the VISA  chargeback scheme.  And Santander doesnt have to raise a chargeback 
claim if it thinks its not likely to succeed.
Santander considered this to be a matter between Mr A and the hotel and I see that the 
agent, through whom he booked, also suggested  that if Mr A was seeking  a refund then he 
Ref: DRN97668313should raise his dispute with the hotel directly. Im satisfied this wasnt  a chargeback  issue, 
as Mr A received the goods/services he paid for.
faulty goods 
Mr A says that he didnt  receive one of the two items he bought and the other one was faulty. 
Hes complained to the retailer  from whom  he purchased the goods but hasnt  received  any 
satisfactory response.
VISA regulations require that a cardholder should first try to resolve any dispute about  not 
receiving or faulty goods with the merchant first. Under the rules,  faulty  goods  must be 
returned to the retailer  within 120 days of receipt.
Santander asked  Mr A to provide it with evidence  of the transaction, such  as copies of the 
invoice, email confirmation of the order and/or the despatch and delivery advice from the 
retailer but Mr A didnt provide any of these. Under  the VISA rules, Santander also needs  to 
see evidence that Mr A has tried to resolve  things first with the retailer. Santander  asked for 
copies of the emails  Mr A sent telling the merchant about the problems, and the responses 
he received. It also asked for proof  that he attempted  to send the faulty  item back. It made it 
clear that without this information it wasnt able to process a claim.  
Despite this, Mr A didnt provide any of this evidence. So I cant say that Santander was 
wrong not to raise  a chargeback claim on his behalf here.
I realise Mr A will be disappointed with my decision here, as I know  he has very strong 
feelings about the matters  but for the reasons Ive explained,  I cant fairly ask Santander  to 
refund him for any of these transactions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9766831