K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy Barclays Bank  UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) defaulted his credit card 
account without  notifying him.
background
In July 2016, Mr K experienced financial difficulties  and stopped  paying  his contractual  
minimum payments for his credit card account.
To assist Mr K, Barclays agreed a 30 day hold on the account. They  didnt agree a payment 
plan as Mr K was also struggling to pay his priority debts including  his mortgage.  
On 8 November  2016, Barclays sent Mr K a default  notice. This notice warned Mr K that if he 
didnt pay the default balance by 6 December 2016,  they would be required to report a 
default with the credit  reference agencies. Mr K disputes receiving this notice and has 
explained this is the reason he didnt comply  with it. 
On the 26 December 2016, Mr K says he had a conversation with Barclays about his 
account. Hes said that he wasnt informed about the default and a further 30 day hold was 
agreed. 
On 29 December 2016, the default was applied, and Mr K was sent a default registration  
notification. On 12 January 2017, the account was sold to a third-party business.
Mr K asked Barclays to change their decision and raised a complaint. In their final response, 
Barclays said the default was correctly applied  due to the amount of missed payments on 
the account. 
Mr K asked us to consider the complaint  in 2018 as he received a letter from Barclays  
explaining that theyd refunded interest  and charges for the same time period. He therefore 
believed this was additional grounds for suggesting his default should be removed.  Barclays 
consented to our service  considering this complaint in the circumstances. 
Our investigator considered the complaint  and concluded  Barclays  acted fairly by applying  
the default. He said he was confident the default  notice was sent,  and, in any event, Mr K 
wasnt in the financial position to be able to settle the default balance.
Mr K has requested a decision  as although  he doesnt dispute  that he was experiencing 
financial difficulties, hes said he would have found  a way to borrow the money  if hed been 
told about the default notice. He also doesnt understand why Barclays  registered the default 
despite the fact they agreed  a 30 day hold on the account.
Ive therefore  considered  the complaint afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account that The Information  Commissioners Office (ICO) says a default may 
be registered when  a consumer is at least three months behind  with their payments. And it 
Ref: DRN93249712would expect a default to be registered  by the time the consumer  is six months behind  with 
their payments. So I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly  by registering a default  
when it did. 
Mr K doesnt  dispute that his account  was approximately five months in arrears at the time of 
the default notice or that he was experiencing financial difficulties. But this does  mean it was 
appropriate for Barclays to consider defaulting  the account in the circumstances. 
Ive reviewed the default notice Barclays sent Mr K on 8 November 2016 and I think  it was 
sent to the right address.  I dont dispute  that Mr K has said he didnt receive this letter, but 
Im satisfied it was sent and correctly addressed. I do appreciate there  may have been 
problems with the post, but this isnt something  Barclays is responsible for and I cant  see 
that Mr K mentioned  this to Barclays at the time. 
In any event, regardless of whether Mr K received the default notice, I think he should 
reasonably have been aware about  the potential for his account  to default. I say this 
because Mr K was aware hed stopped  making  his payments and his statements showed  his 
account was in substantial arrears.
The default  notice  asked Mr K to pay the default  sum by 6 December 2016 and warned him 
about the consequences of not complying. As Mr K didnt contact Barclays  until after the 
default notice  expired   I cant say Barclays did anything wrong by arranging for the default  
to be registered.  
Ive considered Mr Ks argument that Barclays shouldnt have registered the default because 
they agreed a 30 day hold on 26 December  2016.  Unfortunately, the call recording for this 
conversation isnt available and there arent any telephone notes available.  This means there  
is no evidence to clarify what happened  during the call. 
However, I think it is likely  the outcome would have been the same in any event. I say this 
because at the time of the call, the default notice had already expired, and Mr K hadnt paid 
the default balance. Based on the information Ive seen I think  it is unlikely Mr K would have 
been able to make the necessary payment as he was struggling to pay his living expenses. 
Although Mr K says hed have been able to borrow money from a family member this isnt a 
guaranteed source of income and therefore  this doesnt change my thoughts about the 
outcome of this complaint. 
I also dont think the 30 day hold meant  Barclays acted inappropriately by registering the 
default on 29 December  2016. I say this because putting recovery action on hold doesnt 
stop arrears accruing on an account  or a default  being  applied. 
I also note that Mr K was warned about  this in the 30 day hold letter as it says:
Other than formal notices  we are required to issue under  the Consumer Credit Act 
well (sic) not contact you over the next 30 days.
As the default  notification letter was a formal notice under the Consumer Credit Act  this 
means Mr K should reasonably have been  aware  that the hold wouldnt stop Barclays from 
registering the default. 
Ref: DRN93249713In summary,  I think Barclays complied with the appropriate ICO guidance by defaulting the 
account when  they did and gave  Mr K enough notice before doing so. As Mr K didnt settle 
the default balance, this means Barclays acted fairly by defaulting the account so I dont  
think they should remove it.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9324971