K821x#15complaint
Mr P is unhappy about the way Hoist Finance UK Limited (Hoist) pursued  him for a debt.
Mr P was dealing with Hoists appointed  representatives, which means  Hoist  is responsible
for their actions. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to both as Hoist in this decision.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my earlier  provisional  decision. But to help with 
ease of reading, I set out the background again  here.
Mr P opened  a credit card account with a third-party  provider in 2004. His account fell into
arrears in 2009, and the original lender then sold the debt to Hoist.
In July 2015, having acquired the debt but failing to reach a payment arrangement, Hoist
took Mr P to the County Court in June 2016.  The Court entered  judgment on 17 June 2016.
Hoist continued  to pursue Mr P for this debt, and in 2017, Mr P contacted them  requesting
an explanation  of where the debt had originated.
Hoist told him the debt related to an account he had between 2004 and 2009 from another
business. Mr P understood the debt to have been settled and so he asked for more
information. Unfortunately, Hoist  was unable to provide  any further clarity.
In February 2018,  following personal  information provided by Mr P, Hoist  instructed its
solicitors to discontinue the litigation  against  Mr P. In a letter dated, 13 March  2018, its
solicitors served a Notice of Discontinuance.  This meant the Judgement was cancelled and
the CCJ set aside. Hoist carried on pursuing  Mr P for the debt he owed. Mr P complained
about this to Hoist,  as he didnt think they could pursue  him for the debt as the CCJ had
been removed.  He complained to Hoist, as he understood the letter to say no further legal
action could be taken  and so he didnt think the debt was enforceable.
On 22 January 2019, Hoist issued its final response. It said, it had discontinued litigation
after Mr P provided information regarding his personal circumstances but it had also
explained this didnt change his liability for the outstanding  and as such,  it was within  its
rights to carry on pursuing him for the debt.
Mr P wasnt  satisfied with Hoists response and as such  brought  his complaint to this service.
Whilst we investigated  Mr Ps complaint, he raised  a further  complaint that Hoist  didnt
supply him with enough details about  the debt.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint and gave a view.  She said that we as a service
cant determine if a debt is enforceable. But we can look at whether a business acted fairly
by pursing a debt. She didnt think that Hoist acted unfairly in pursuing the debt and from
what shed seen Mr P remained liable for the outstanding balance.  She noted that Mr P had
suffered from ill health for quite some  time and that he had held more than one account with
the original lender. One of these  accounts had been settled with another  third party
collection agency, and as Hoist hadnt been  able to clarify the information, she understood
why Mr P had become  confused. She contacted the original lender and was able to identify
the original account  quite  quickly.  She thought Hoist could have obtained the necessary
clarification Mr P was seeking  with relative  ease and had they done so matters  could have
been resolved  much  earlier. She asked Hoist  to pay Mr P £150 for trouble and upset hed
suffered because of this.
Ref: DRN92093862Hoist disagreed. It said that we, as a service,  couldnt look into their pursuit of
Mr P as a County Court had already assessed Mr Ps liability for the debt in June  2016.  It
also said the information about  the debt wasnt easily accessible to them at the time and it
had provided all the clarification available to Mr P, so it didnt accept it should pay Mr P the
£150 suggested.
Our investigator issued  a second view. In it, she said she had considered the issue of
jurisdiction raised by Hoist. She explained, as Hoist had discontinued  the court claim, no
court order  has been made and so she didnt  think this complaint is out of our jurisdiction,
nor is it one that we should dismiss. She also pointed out Hoist  had a regulatory
responsibility under the Standard of Lending Practice and the Consumer Credit Sourcebook
(CONC) to provide Mr P with the correct information  about a debt that its pursuing. She
remained of the view that Hoist hadnt  acted fairly and reasonably,  and she said it should
compensate Mr P for the trouble and upset  caused.
Hoist responded,  said it accepted the findings  of the investigator and would pay £150 for
trouble and upset  and would write  off the outstanding debt. Both parties  accepted the
settlement. But Hoist didnt honour the redress or provide written confirmation to Mr P that
the debt had been written off. Our investigator contacted  Hoist  numerous times but it still
failed to honour the agreed outcome.
On 6 April 2020,  a representative  from Hoist  spoke with our investigator.  He said the offer to
write off the debt wasnt authorised and as such had been withdrawn but agreed to pay the
£150 compensation.
Mr P disagreed. He feels it is very unfair of Hoist to withdraw their offer especially as he has
explained the effect the stress and delay this matter  has caused him. He asked for an
ombudsman review.
In my provisional findings, I looked at all the information from both parties afresh. I reached 
the same  overall  conclusion as our investigator, but I reached a different decision for how 
Hoist should put things  right.
I explained Id read and considered the whole file, but I concentrated my comments on what  
I think is relevant. I said, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed 
to take it on board and think about  it but because I dont think  I need to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I explained where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of 
it is here, I have to base  my decision on the balance of probabilities.  That is to say, what  I 
think is more likely  to have happened.
I said as Hoist continued to raise  the issue of whether  our service can look at this complaint,
I considered this first.
Hoist says that in June  2016, the county courts gave a judgement into Mr Ps liability for the
debt. It says this service doesnt have the jurisdiction to look at the merits of a complaint in
which a court has already decided.  I said I dont agree, and I explained why
.
The grounds on which an ombudsman  may dismiss a complaint are set out in the Dispute
Resolution Rules (DISP), which is set out in the Financial  Conduct Authoritys (FCA)
Ref: DRN92093863handbook. Whilst  I understand this case has been the subject of court  proceedings, DISP
doesnt say an ombudsman cant look into a complaint that has been dismissed by a court.
With that in mind, Ive seen that in February  2018, the court ordered that the judgement
entered in June 2016 should  be set aside and the claim be dismissed following an
application from Hoist  solicitors to serve  a Notice of Discontinuance to Mr P. So, I said I was 
satisfied I can look into the merits of Mr Ps complaint.
Did Hoist act fairly  by pursuing  Mr Ps debt?
I said, its not for our service to decide  whether  a debt is legally enforceable  only a court 
can decide this. However,  we can look at whether a business has acted fairly by pursuing  a 
debt. I think its clear  from what our investigator found, that Mr Ps debt arouse  from a credit 
card account  with a third-party provider hed previously opened  and operated between 2004-
2009.
The solicitor  letter notifying  Mr P that the legal action had been discontinued sent in
March 2018, also said:
.Please be advised  this does not mean  you are no longer liable for the debt and a specialist
team from Hoist may contact you to discuss this further...
Mr P became confused about the origin of this debt as he had settled  a credit card debt with
the same  original lender and asked for clarification to ensure this wasnt duplication.
Following a discussion between this service and the original lender, he has now accepted
this debt is his. Considering this, and from the evidence  Hoist has provided, I said I dont 
think it has been unfair by holding Mr P liable for repayment of the debt.
Customer service  issues
Mr P has said, despite numerous  requests, Hoist didnt give him enough information about
his debt when  he asked, and he thought hed already settled  the debt. I said I understood for 
Mr P, receiving letters about debts, which hed thought  hed settled must have been very
upsetting. It can be confusing when debts are transferred between  businesses, and I said I 
can see why he didnt  recognise the debt at first because of the various businesses
involved in the debt and its recovery.
I explained there are several regulatory responsibilities  a business must undertake when a 
customer asks for clarification and/or information  about a debt it is pursuing. These are set 
out in the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC).
CONC 7.5.3 says: A firm must not ignore or disregard a customers claim that a debt has
been settled or is disputed and must  not continue to make demands for payment without
providing clear justification and/or evidence as to why the customers  claim is not valid.
I said from what Ive seen,  Hoist  didnt provide Mr P with enough evidence/information  of the 
debt it was chasing. It originally told Mr P the debt originated from a previous lender and this 
was relating to an account that defaulted in 2004   2009. But Mr P told them he thought hed
already settled this debt with another business  and wanted more  information.
I appreciated Hoists view that they gave Mr P what information they had at the time, but I 
said I thought  they couldve easily found  out more information about the account. I said this 
as our investigator contacted the original  lender and found that Mr P had two debts with the
business, and he had cleared one of these. Information that I think  wouldve helped  Mr P
Ref: DRN92093864understand what debt Hoist were pursuing  him for. So, for these reasons I said I dont think 
they acted fairly here, and for that reason, I was minded to partially uphold the complaint.
Although the debt wouldve remained,  Mr P told us this was a difficult  and distressing time
for him. He was suffering  with significant mental  health issues, something  that Hoist  were
aware of. So, I said I understood, for Mr P, thinking  he was being pursued  for a debt he 
thought was settled, only added further  stress to his circumstances.  
Following the investigators second view in December  2019, Hoist sent Mr P an email  on
7 February 2020.  In it, it agreed to pay Mr P £150 for the trouble and upset this matter had
caused and confirmed it would not seek to recover the outstanding balance, it said the
account had now been closed. Unfortunately, Hoist didnt honour this offer, nor did it pay the
redress it had agreed to. This resulted in Mr P becoming ever more frustrated and distressed
as he sought to end this matter.
On 6 April 2020,  a Hoist representative  told this service the offer to write off the debt wasnt
authorised and as such, it was now formally withdrawing that offer.  It agreed to pay Mr P
£150 for trouble and upset to close the complaint. This being around  two months after it had
agreed a settlement with this service.
I said I found this particularly unfair. Not least because Hoist is fully aware  of Mr P,s mental  
health position, indeed it discontinued its legal action in 2016  because of the personal 
information Mr P provided.  It made the offer to write  off the debt voluntarily, only to withdraw  
it two months later, even though it has said it doesnt  intend  to take any further legal action to
recover the debt.  I said I could see how this has understandably caused Mr P further 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. 
Hoist said whilst Mr P may wish to complain about  its actions to withdraw the offer it objected 
to its being addressed within this complaint as it wasnt part of Mr Ps original complaint to 
this service. I explained that as Hoist has objected, I havent considered the withdrawal of 
the offer to write off the debt within this decision, but I have looked at all the actions taken by 
Hoist and whether  they are fair and reasonable.
I said if Hoist remains  of the view that it intends  to ask Mr P to repay  the debt it should 
ensure it acts fairly and reasonably in doing so. It should consider all Mr Ps personal  and 
financial circumstances and accept  what Mr P can reasonably afford to pay. If Mr P feels 
uncomfortable in dealing directly with Hoist,  I would encourage him to seek support from one 
of several free debt advice services,  such as Step change. Further, if Mr P feels  Hoist isnt 
being sensitive  to his position and acting fairly and reasonably he is of course  able to raise  a 
further complaint  with this service. I said he may also choose to raise  a separate complaint 
regarding the withdrawal of the offer to write off the debt.
Taking all the circumstances into account,  I said Im persuaded  Hoist hasnt acted fairly and
reasonably in the circumstances  of this complaint and I increased  the redress  for the
trouble and upset  caused to reflect this.
I said I intend to direct  Hoist Finance UK Limited to pay Mr P £500  for the trouble and upset  
this matter has caused. I invited both parties to make any further submissions they wish me 
to consider before making my final decision.
Hoist agreed with the findings of my provisional  decision. It accepts it had caused  Mr P 
significant trouble  and upset.
Ref: DRN92093865Mr P wasnt  clear what my provisional decision  meant about the outstanding debt and any 
redress.
my findings
I thank both Mr P and Hoist for their responses. Ive re-considered  all the available  evidence 
and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Hoist agreed with my provisional decision  and although Mr P has requested some clarity 
and remains dissatisfied  with Hoists lack of communication regarding  this matter,  he hasnt 
sent any new information about  the findings  in my provisional decision. On that basis, I think 
Ive no reason to change  the conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision.
For clarity,  Hoist has withdrawn its offer to write off the outstanding debt, it did so two 
months after making the offer and objected to me considering this decision within this 
complaint. I understand Mr P has made a separate complaint regarding this matter and so 
Im not able to reach a determination about this within this decision. I have considered the 
actions Hoist has taken  in its dealings with Mr P and, taken  into account Mr Ps personal 
circumstances which Hoist were  also aware  of. In doing so, it follows I have reached the 
same conclusion as that of my provisional  decision.   That is that I dont find Hoist  have  acted 
fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr P and this has caused  Mr P significant  trouble 
and upset for which he should  be compensated.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I uphold this complaint and direct  Hoist Finance UK Limited to:
Pay Mr P £500 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9209386