K821x#15complaint
Miss M says Casheuronet UK LLC trading  as Quick Quid (Quick Quid) irresponsibly lent to 
her.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  April 2019. 
An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I wont  repeat that 
information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold Miss Ms complaint from 
loan seven. In brief, I explained that the pattern of lending was unsustainable for Miss M  
given the number of loans  shed  had by that point and the length of time shed been 
borrowing for. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Miss M accepted 
the findings in my provisional decision.  Quick Quid didnt accept the provisional decision,  
and it provided a number of reasons.  
The points Ive noted as to why Quick Quid didnt accept my provisional findings are:
it asked what amounts to sustainable  breaking period in lending,  and how many 
loans a customer can request without the lending being unsustainable or harmful;
It said that Miss M could  clearly afford  the loans because she repaid the majority of 
them on time, and only incurred  one late fee;
It highlighted that, specifically for loan seven, Miss M would accumulate much  more 
disposable income than she had to repay  towards the borrowing;
It also highlighted that prior to lending to Miss M, Quick Quid advised Miss M of her 
repayment responsibilities, which she agreed to.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by explaining  that whilst Ive read and understood Quick Quids  response to 
my provisional decision fully, the majority  of the points it has raised relate  to the affordability  
of the loans. 
I appreciate that Miss Ms seventh loan was a three period one, and that Quick Quid  says 
she signed a declaration  which said that she could afford her repayments for this. But Quick  
Quid still had an obligation  to check that she would  be able to repay  her loans  in a 
sustainable manner.  
Ref: DRN97929122As Quick Quid will have  seen from my provisional  decision, I upheld loans seven, eight and 
nine because the pattern of lending itself showed  that the lending had become 
unsustainable. Thats not to say that Miss M couldnt afford the repayments  but I havent  
made any finding on this point.  Though I would point out to Quick Quid  that Miss M repaying 
her loans on time doesnt automatically mean she managed to repay  them in a sustainable  
way.
As I previously explained, Quick Quid shouldve been alerted to the unsustainable lending 
pattern in this case when  Miss M took her seventh loan. There isnt an absolute  number of 
loans beyond which lending  is unsustainable.  It depends on a number of factors. In Miss Ms 
case, shed been borrowing for around  two years,  without having made a dent in the amount  
she owed Quick Quid when she asked for her seventh loan. And at that point the loan was 
taken less than two weeks after the previous one was repaid, for a higher amount, and over 
a longer period of time.
Bearing in mind the purpose of this type of lending,  which by nature is high cost and 
intended for short-term  cash flow problems, Quick Quid shouldve realised that 
Miss Ms borrowing was no longer for short-term  purposes by this point. And so as I 
previously said, I think  Miss M lost out because Quick Quid  agreed to this loan and 
continued to lend to her beyond this.
I note the questions that Quick Quid has raised in relation to the acceptable length of the gap 
in between loans.  Again, there isnt an absolute  answer here  it depends  on a number of 
factors. The longest  gap was before Miss M applied  for her third loan.  In my provisional 
decision I said:
After the second loan, there was a gap in lending of around five months  before Miss M borrowed 
from Quick Quid again. So whilst I might  usually think a business shouldve  stepped up the checks it 
performed by the time a consumer borrowed for the third time, I think  the length  of this gap, this early 
on in the lending relationship, was enough for Quick  Quid to treat the third loan as though it were  
lending to Miss M afresh.
The gaps in lending before loans  7, 8 and 9 were much shorter  than this, and given where 
they came  in the lending history I didnt consider them  to be significant.  
In summary,  the significance of points Quick Quid has raised depend on a number of factors  
and its important for the lender to bear in mind its overarching relationship with its customer. 
There are certain points that should  alert the lender to unsustainable lending,  such as an 
increase in the amounts  borrowed, the length  of the lending relationship and reducing gaps 
between lending. But a fair and reasonable outcome will depend  on all of the factors  in each 
individual case.
I havent reached a different conclusion to what I reached in my provisional decision. It 
follows that I uphold  this complaint from loans seven to nine.
Ref: DRN97929123putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss M paid on loans seven, eight and nine;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove all entries about  loans seven, eight and nine from Miss Ms credit file. This is 
because the number of loans taken  from loan seven onwards means any information  
recorded about them is adverse;
I understand that loan nine hasnt been  repaid. Quick Quid  should remove any 
outstanding interest and charges that make up this outstanding balance. It can 
deduct any outstanding capital that it is still owed from the amount of refund it pays  
Miss M. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest.  Quick Quid must give 
Miss M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I partially  uphold  Miss Ms 
complaint about  loans  seven, eight and nine. I require Casheuronet UK LLC to put things 
right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN97929124EXTRACT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION DATED APRIL  2019
background
This complaint is about  nine payday loans Quick Quid provided to Miss M between May 2015 and 
November 2017. The loans were repaid  over either two or three payments. 
Miss Ms lending  history is as follows:
loan date taken amount date repaid term (days)
1 5 May 2015 £200 30 June 2015 56
2 1 July 2015 £200 1 September 2015 62
3 4 February 2016 £200 29 April 2016 85
4 12 July 2016 £300 30 September 2016 80
5 12 October  2016 £350 30 December 2016 79
6 22 January 2017 £150 31 March 2017 68
7 12 April 2017 £300 30 June 2017 79
8a (initial) 22 July 2017 £100 31 October 2017 69
8b (top up) 16 August 2017 £175 31 October 2017 44
8c (top up) 6 September 2017 £175 31 October 2017 55
9a (initial) 3 November 2017 £150 89
9b (top up) 7 November 2017 £200 85
9c (top up) 13 November 2017 £125 79
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Ms complaint and thought the loans from loan five onwards shouldnt 
have been given. Quick  Quid disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending  including  all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice   on our website. 
Quick Quid  needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss M could  repay  the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and Miss Ms income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable  
and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss M. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN97929125I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Quick  Quid was required to establish whether 
Miss M could sustainably repay her loans   not just whether the loan payments  were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. The Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being without undue  difficulties  and in particular  
the customer  should  be able to make  repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  It follows  that a lender  
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
Having thought about everything,  I havent  seen  enough  to make me think  that Quick Quid  shouldnt 
have lent the first six loans to Miss M. But I dont think that loans seven to nine shouldve  have been 
lent to her. Ill explain why.
I think  Quick Quid did proportionate checks before lending to Miss M the first four times. From what 
Ive seen, Quick  quid asked Miss M about her income and expenditure, as well as performing a credit 
search on each occasion. Having considered  the information  Miss M gave, it looks as though shed 
have been able to repay those loans from the disposable income she declared  and its not 
unreasonable for Quick  Quid to have relied on what 
Miss M said.
After the second loan, there  was a gap in lending  of around  five months before  Miss M borrowed from 
Quick Quid  again. So whilst I might  usually think a business  shouldve stepped up the checks  it 
performed by the time a consumer borrowed for the third time, I think  the length  of this gap, this early 
on in the lending relationship, was enough for 
Quick Quid  to treat the third loan as though  it were  lending to Miss M afresh.
Quick Quid  performed the same checks for loans  three and four. And although these  loans were  
slightly larger  than Miss Ms first two loans, I think it was reasonable for Quick  Quid to rely on Miss 
Ms self-declared income and expenditure before making  a lending decision. 
By the time Miss M borrowed for the fifth time, the amount of the loan had increased  to £350  and the 
loan was taken 12 days after the previous  one was paid off. The sixth loan was then taken  around 
three weeks after the fifth was repaid, albeit for a shorter repayment period and for a smaller amount.
Given the increased borrowing and the shorter gaps between loans,  by the time Miss M took loans 
five and six I think Quick  Quid  shouldve  done more to get a better understanding  of her financial 
situation. This couldve  involved exploring the other credit commitments she had, with a view to 
satisfying itself that Miss M wasnt  relying on short-term credit  to meet her everyday living costs.
Ive reviewed what I think its likely Quick Quid wouldve seen if it had done more thorough  checks. 
And Im satisfied that if it had done so it would most likely  still have lent to Miss M. I say this because 
she doesnt  appear to have been reliant on short-term  lending to meet  her day-to-day living costs,  and 
nor does she appear to have  been relying on this type of credit from other lenders to repay  her loans 
with Quick Quid. Im also mindful that her credit  file doesnt show anything that I think quick Quid  
shouldve been alarmed by.
So I dont think Quick Quid was wrong  to lend the first six loans to Miss M. 
Ref: DRN97929126Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of Miss Ms borrowing history with Quick Quid, with a view to 
seeing if there  was a point at which  Quick Quid should reasonably have seen that further lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. Thats  to say, a point at which  Quick Quid  should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided  any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Ms case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
seven. I say this because:
from loan seven onwards Miss M was provided  with a new loan within 13 days  of settling the 
previous one. So Quick Quid ought to have realised it was more likely than not Miss M was 
having to borrow further to cover  the hole repaying  her previous  loan was leaving in her 
finances. This in turn wouldve led it to realise  that Miss Ms indebtedness was increasing 
unsustainably.
loan seven  was also twice the size of the previous loan, and Miss M chose to repay  it over a 
longer period of time than the previous loan. 
Miss M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Quick  Quid. Loan seven was 
taken out almost two years after Miss Ms first loan. And it was for a larger  amount. So Miss M 
had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect,  service a debt to Quick  Quid over an extended 
period of time.
So I think that quick Quid shouldve realised  that the overall pattern of lending was unsustainable 
before it lent the seventh  loan to Miss M. And I think that Miss M lost out because  Quick Quid  
continued to provide borrowing from then on. I say this because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Miss Ms indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit  intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number of loans  was likely to have had negative  implications on Miss Ms ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost  loans.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I currently intend to uphold the complaint about loans seven,  eight and 
nine, so I think Quick  Quid should put things right in relation to those loans.
Ref: DRN9792912