K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains about the way that Creation Financial Services Limited has dealt with her 
account after it was transferred  to a third party. 
background
Creation Financial Services lent £10,000 to Miss C under a fixed sum loan agreement that 
she signed in November 2012.  She was experiencing  financial difficulties and a reduced 
payment arrangement was agreed  in November 2014. Creation Financial Services 
transferred Miss Cs account to a third party  in February 2016. 
She complained to it last year that it was still showing the account  as active  and about  the 
way that it had dealt with the account. It said that the account became  dormant  after it was 
transferred to the third party and that the communications that it had sent to her had been 
appropriate. Miss C wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think  that 
Creation Financial Services had acted  unfairly.
Miss C has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  She says that: 
Creation Financial Services has been  unfair  in its collections  practices; the income and 
expenditure form that it sent to her is linked to the many letters that it sent her; it also phoned  
her and she told it that she couldnt pay; and it debited money  from her account until she 
engaged with a debt advice charity. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C is clearly upset by her dealings with Creation Financial  Services and considers that it 
has acted incorrectly. She entered into a loan agreement with it in November 2012 and she 
had some financial difficulties which led to a reduced payment plan being agreed  with her in 
November 2014.  It collected payments from her but she says that she told it that she couldnt  
afford to pay them and it took money  from her.
Miss Cs complaint form to this service doesnt refer to her financial difficulties or the 
payment plan that it agreed with her. So Im unable to consider those issues  as part of this 
complaint. A lender  is required  to respond to a borrowers financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. That doesnt mean that its obliged to refund charges, or to take any other 
particular action, as whats  appropriate  in each  case will depend on the customers  individual 
circumstances. The evidence shows that a reduced  payment plan was agreed and that may 
be enough to show that Creation Financial Services responded  to Miss Cs financial 
difficulties positively and sympathetically.
Creation Financial Services was contacting Miss C about her account by letter  and phone. 
But it transferred  her account to a third party  in February 2016. It says that it hasnt sent her 
letters about  her account since then (other than in response to her complaint) - and Miss C 
hasnt provided  copies of any such letters that its sent to her.
Ref: DRN95837342She complained to it  and then to this service  that it had kept her account open after it 
was transferred to the third party. But, as I understand  it, she now accepts that the debt on 
the account is only being reported by the third party and Creation Financial Services says 
that its account with Miss C hadnt  been  operational since 2016.
 
I sympathise with Miss C for the financial difficulties that shes experienced. But Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Creation Financial Services has acted 
incorrectly in its dealings  with her about  the loan agreement, that its harassed  her for 
repayment of the loan or that its collection practices have been unfair. 
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require  it to 
pay any compensation to Miss C  or to take any other action in response  to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9583734