K821x#15complaint
Mrs Q is unhappy that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) hasnt honoured an offer 
to pay her compensation which  it made  to her in February 2018.
background
Mrs Q complained - through her representative  - to Gain  Credit  about her short term loans. 
On 13 February 2018 Gain  Credit  emailed its final response letter to the representative 
saying that Mrs Q had held five loans and that through its investigation it had identified that 
one of them had been unaffordable for her. It made an offer to pay her £131.25  the 
amount shed paid in interest and charges. The offer was accepted. Over the following 
months Mrs Q and her representative  were  in touch with Gain Credit on a number of 
occasions as the refund was not paid.
In May 2018  Mrs Q brought her complaint  to this Service.  She said that she was struggling  
financially and had been relying on the refund being  paid by Gain Credit.  
We asked Gain Credit  for its response to Mrs Qs complaint. On 12 June it told us that there  
had been a system  error and the offer had been made in respect of a loan which  hadnt been  
held by Mrs Q. It then provided a business  file in respect of the four loans which  Mrs Q had 
taken. It denied those  had been  mis-sold. 
When our adjudicator contacted Gain Credit the member of staff told her that it was waiting 
to hear from us but according to its system  it looked as though  the payment was still 
available.  So our adjudicator wrote  to Gain Credit and recommended  that it pay Mrs Q the 
amount of the offer. Mrs Q confirmed  shed accept that but the payment wasnt  received by 
her. Our adjudicator  chased up Gain Credit again.
On 1 November  our adjudicator spoke to Gain Credit. Its member of staff confirmed that it 
couldnt make payment  to Mrs Q because the loan had not been  hers.  It followed up with an 
email stating that it would  not be carrying out the settlement detailed  in the final response 
letter (sent in February). Our adjudicator  then explained in detail  including a history of the 
contact between the parties  - why she thought that Gain Credit  should pay Mrs Q £131.25. 
She felt that there had been ample  time for Gain Credit  to confirm that an error had been 
made. She added that if she were to consider  how much trouble and upset the error had 
caused Mrs Q the award would be higher.  She asked Gain Credit to provide its response by 
8 November.
Following our adjudicators assessment Gain Credit  said that it was considering her points 
internally and would update us shortly. But Gain Credit hadnt responded by 13 November 
so our adjudicator  told the parties  that as Gain Credit hadnt responded an ombudsman 
would look into Mrs Qs complaint and issue a final decision. She asked them  to let us have 
anything further  they wanted us to consider by 27 November. Gain Credit  didnt  respond. So 
the case came to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I intended  to uphold Mrs Qs complaint and 
how I thought  Gain Credit should  put things right. I invited the parties to provide their 
responses before I reconsidered Mrs Qs complaint  and issued my final decision.
Ref: DRN97559922my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mrs Q has confirmed she has nothing to 
add and Gain Credit  has confirmed that it accepts  my provisional  decision and will pay 
compensation in line with it. In these circumstances I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision. 
This is what  I said in my provisional  decision.
The Dispute Resolution  Rules (DISP rules) allow this Service to make a money  award of an amount 
the ombudsman considers to be fair compensation  for a number of things  including distress and 
inconvenience. I'm proposing to require Gain Credit to pay £250 compensation to Mrs Q for reasons  
Ill explain below.  
I accept that errors  can be made. And in many situations it may not be fair or reasonable  to require 
compensation to be paid  for example where  the error was noticed, communicated and rectified 
quickly. In this case, when Gain Credit considered  Mrs Qs complaint  in February 2018 it assessed 
five loans  when she had only taken four. It made her an offer of compensation in respect of a loan 
which she hadnt in fact taken. Over the following  months she and her representative  were  regularly in 
contact with Gain Credit  chasing the payment.  But Gain Credit didnt pay the amount offered.  And it 
didnt explain why the refund  hadnt been issued. 
I've seen  correspondence  from Gain Credit to the representative on 3 May saying that it was 
apologising for the delay and that the refund was still under process and would  be made  soon. Later 
in May Mrs Q says she was kept on hold for almost half an hour on the telephone and was promised  
a call back the following day. But that didnt happen  and she wasnt informed  of the error. As a result 
she brought her complaint  to this Service.
I acknowledge that Gain Credit told us in June that en error had been made but it didnt make clear 
what it was going to do as a result and no apology  was ever offered to Mrs Q  even though by this 
point shed been waiting  almost six months for her refund. Even after our involvement there were 
points in time when Gain Credit continued to give indications that the refund would be made.
Its clear that the error made by Gain Credit has caused Mrs Q significant  trouble  and upset. Shes  
made numerous telephone calls, emailed  regularly and has relied upon a payment being  made  to her. 
Its not my intention to require Gain Credit to pay compensation to Mrs Q because  it made  an offer.  
That wouldnt  be fair. As I say errors happen  all the time. But I think  that how the maker of the error 
then reacts is what is so important. Had Gain Credit acknowledged its error and explained to Mrs Q 
what had happened back in February or even March, shed have been able to consider her other 
options. But she was allowed to continue  in the belief that at some point soon she would  receive over 
£130. And as a result she was put to considerable inconvenience as she continued to pursue  the 
refund.
So what Im proposing is not that Gain Credit  should simply pay the amount of the offer.  I think  it 
should pay Mrs Q an amount of compensation  to cover  the trouble and upset shes been caused by, 
firstly the error, and then the delay in addressing  that error. In the circumstances  shes described I 
think that the sum of £250 would be fair and reasonable. Im aware that her representative has billed 
her for its work  almost  £50. And the amount I propose  includes an element  to allow Mrs Q to meet 
that bill. That - in effect - would leave Mrs Q with around £200. 
putting things right
I require Gain Credit  LLC to pay £250  to Mrs Q.
Ref: DRN97559923my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above and in my provisional decision I uphold Mrs Qs complaint 
and require Gain Credit  LLC to pay her fair compensation  of £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9755992