K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that the advice he received from Intuitive  Financial Associates LLP 
regarding the transfer of his pension was unsuitable.
background
At the time of advice,  Mr P was 54 years of age and worked as a coach driver. He had two 
personal pensions  with Friends Life with a combined value of around  £37,000.  
Intuitive met with Mr P in November 2016 and completed a fact find. It was noted that Mr P 
wanted to access  his pension at age 55 as he had no other savings or investments. He was 
advised to transfer his pension to a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP) and invest with a 
discretionary fund manager (DFM).
Mr P was paying an annual management charge of up to 1% on his Friends  Life pensions. In 
comparison, Mr Ps new annual charges were 1% to Intuitive and a 1% combined fee for the 
investment management,  custodian  and platform. There was also an initial  advice fee of 3%, 
and the investment manager charged a further  0.4% as an initial  charge.
Mr Ps representative complained to Intuitive. It said that the advice Mr P had received was 
unsuitable. Amongst  other  things,  it said that the investments within the SIPP  were not in line 
with his attitude to investment risk. But Intuitive  didnt  uphold the complaint, so Mr P brought 
it to this service.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and felt that it should be upheld.  He said 
that the value  of the fund meant there was limited opportunity to take advantage of the 
potential of a wider range of investments within a SIPP.  Further, he felt the increased 
charges following the transfer would have had an immediate impact on the fund value. This 
meant the fund would have to grow at an even higher rate to cover the initial  reduction in 
value and increased on-going costs.
The adjudicator said Mr P could not give a reason as to why he wanted to transfer his 
pension. Therefore, the adviser had listed points  which the adjudicator did not think  justified 
the need for Mr P to transfer his pension to a SIPP. Mr P was an inexperienced investor with 
no previous investment experience, other than his pensions.  As a result, the adjudicator felt 
the transfer to a SIPP and subsequent  investment with a DFM  was not suitable  for Mr P.
Intuitive does not agree with the adjudicators  view and so the complaint  has been referred 
to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have raised a number of issues. Ive considered everything that they have said 
but have concentrated my decision on those issues which I find to be central to Mr Ps 
complaint.
Ive had a look at the fact find completed  when  Mr P met Intuitives adviser. This showed that 
Mr P held no investments  other than his pension funds.  And Mr Ps answers to the questions 
Ref: DRN91895892in the attitude  to risk questionnaire  confirm this, with Mr P describing his level of investment 
experience as:
Not at all experienced; Im not very comfortable  with investing.
On this basis, I agree with our adjudicator that Mr P was an inexperienced investor. 
The fact find records that Mr P didnt feel he could explain the reasons for the transfer 
properly, and asked  the adviser to list from their discussion. The reasons given were:
He would like some money in the bank for a change, and would  like to buy a car, 
possibly next year, from tax free cash;
He was a bus driver  and needed  flexibility as to when  he could access  benefits or 
income;
He was divorced  and wanted to leave a lump sum to his partner;
He didnt want to purchase an annuity.
Having considered the reasons given,  Im not persuaded that they were  sufficient  to justify 
the need to transfer Mr Ps pension into a SIPP. The wish to buy a car or take benefits at 
some time in the future were not reasons to transfer  his benefits at that time. And I agree 
with our adjudicator  that, given Mr P had no other  savings or investments for his retirement,  
his wish to leave a lump sum to his partner should  not have been a priority.
In addition, the charges paid following the transfer were much  higher than he had previously 
paid. And there were further  charges in respect  of the transfer  itself.  As the adjudicator  
noted, this meant that the fund would have had to grow at an even higher rate to cover the 
initial reduction in value and increased on-going  costs. 
As an inexperienced  investor, Im persuaded that Mr P would have relied  heavily on 
Intuitives advice when  deciding to invest in the SIPP. And Intuitive was under a duty to act in 
Mr Ps best interests and only make recommendations that were suitable for him. But, for the 
reasons set out above, Im not satisfied that it was in Mr Ps best interest or suitable for him 
to transfer his benefits.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr P should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably  
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr P would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr P's circumstances and objectives when he invested.  
what should  Intuitive do?
To compensate Mr P fairly,  Intuitive  must:
Compare the performance of Mr P's investment  with that of the benchmark  shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Ref: DRN91895893Intuitive should  add interest  as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Intuitive  should pay into Mr P's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Intuitive is unable to pay the total amount into Mr P's pension  plan, it should  pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr P's actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr P would  
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr P £200 for the distress  and inconvenience this matter has caused.
Repay the advisers  fees together with simple interest at 8% a year, from the date the 
fees were paid to the date of the settlement. If the above comparison shows that no 
compensation is payable, the difference between the actual value and the fair value 
can be offset against the fees with interest.  
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Intuitive deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr P how much has been taken  off. Intuitive should give Mr P a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Novia SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
transferdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Ref: DRN91895894fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Intuitive totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr P wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr P's circumstances and risk attitude.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Intuitive  Financial  Associates LLP should  pay 
Mr P the amount calculated as set out above.
Intuitive Financial Associates LLP should provide details of its calculation  to Mr P in a clear,  
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9189589