K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  mis-sold  them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy twice, once in 2000 and again in 2001.  
background
This complaint is about single premium PPI policies taken out in 2000 and 2001. The loans 
were in joint names whilst  the cover  was solely for Mr W. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with 
our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. I explain why below.
I have seen the loan agreement for both sales. The credit agreements  describe the PPI as, 
Optional Credit Insurance.  The agreements explain  the cost and show how that adds to the 
total monthly payment. So, I think its more likely that PPI was presented  as optional  and 
Mr and Mrs W chose  to take it and thats  how it came to be applied to their loan accounts. 
But I understand why they might not remember this, given these events happened  at least 
18 years  ago.
Nationwide says the policies were sold without  a formal recommendation. Mr and Mrs W 
couldnt remember if advice was given, and thats  understandable  given how many years  
have passed since these events. Ive been shown no documentary  evidence or testimony 
that suggests that the policies were  sold on an advised  basis. So, it seems most likely that 
they were sold without a formal recommendation, so Nationwide  didnt have to make sure 
the policies were suitable for Mr and Mrs W. But Nationwide had to give Mr and Mrs W clear 
enough information about the policies so they could decide if they wanted to buy them. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI policies wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But I dont think better information would have stopped them  from 
buying them.  I explain why I say that below.  
 
Mr W was eligible for the policies. And there  are things that sometimes  arent covered by 
policies like this, or for which the benefit  might  be more  difficult  to get than may have been 
expected, but it seems  that Mr W wouldnt have been affected by those. For instance  Mr W 
told us he was employed and had no pre-existing medical conditions. 
And I think that Mr W had, most likely,  a need for the cover.  I say this because  whilst Mr W 
told us he would have  received good  levels of sick pay initially, I have considered that this 
would have dropped significantly after six months.  So whilst it may have  been  helpful for a 
while Mr W told us he had no other  means he could have relied on such that he thought he 
might have had to rely on his wife for help if he was out of work for an extended period, or if 
he lost his job. But these  policies could have paid out for up to a year in the event that Mr W 
Ref: DRN97694922lost his job, and for the remaining term of the loan in the event that Mr W was too ill to work. 
And the policies would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr W would have received 
and would have  reduced Mr Ws reliance on any help his wife may have been able to 
provide him. So, having considered this, on balance, I think that Mr and Mrs W would have 
found the policies useful.
The policies appear to have been flexible in that Mr and Mrs W may have got back a pro rata 
refund of the PPI premium if they cancelled a policy early. So I dont think  this meant  the 
policies werent  right for them.  
And whilst I could understand  it if Mr and Mrs W thought now that the policies were 
expensive, I think the costs were set out clearly on the agreement and I havent  seen  
anything to make me think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs W or that they had a 
need to keep costs down.  And given how long the policy could have paid out for, most likely, 
if Mr W made a successful claim,  they could have got back quite a bit more than they paid 
for it. 
I realise Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed  by the outcome. But on balance,  for the reasons 
Ive explained,  I dont think Mr and Mrs W have  lost out because  of anything Nationwide may 
have done wrong.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint about Nationwide  Building  
Society.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9769492