K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland, trading at the time as 
Bristol & West, (B&W) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs D bought  the policy at a meeting in 1997  at the same time as taking a mortgage. 
The policy provided  cover  on Mr D for accident, sickness  and unemployment   subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. According to the mortgage offer it cost £18.50 a month at the start 
and for a successful claim offered to pay each month, for up to 12 months, Mr and Mrs Ds 
mortgage payment  plus £150, their PPI premium  and their buildings and contents insurance 
premium if held with the insurer. Based on the mortgage offer, this equated to a benefit for 
Mr and Mrs D of around £370 to start, after MIRAS and their one-year  interest  rate discount.
The mortgage application says Mr D was employed as a machinist and had been  there  three 
years. And Mrs D was employed as a care assistant and had been there 8 years.  Its likely, 
from what I have, that Mr D was entitled  to statutory pay for sickness  and redundancy and 
that Mrs D was entitled to work redundancy pay and sick pay of no more  than six months  full 
pay followed  by six months  half pay.
Mr and Mrs D have also told us, in a questionnaire  that referred to a date a few years after 
this sale, of having savings of £2000  each which theyve said they couldve used to pay the 
mortgage if they couldnt work. 
From what  Mr and Mrs D have told us, they were in good health and hadnt had any health 
issues except for something more  than 20 years earlier  that Mr D had taken painkillers  for.
B&W has sent us evidence to show the mortgage account closed in 2003.  It also says Mr D 
claimed on the PPI policy in 1999.  Mr and Mrs Ds representative has made lengthy and 
substantial representations on their behalf.  I will not restate them  all here,  but I have read 
and considered them all carefully. In summary,  Mr and Mrs Ds representative  says:
B&W failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs D wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ds representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; 
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  B&W should have told Mr and Mrs D 
about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN97651952The common law duty of utmost good faith also means B&W should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs D and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Mr and Mrs D received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ds. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  about  s.140 of 
that Act and the rules  and guidance  made by the FCA about  the handling of complaints  
about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin  judgment, arent applicable.  
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN97651953The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like B&W at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ds case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
B&W was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If B&W gave  advice,  whether it advised Mr and Mrs D with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for them,  given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether B&W gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Ds 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN97651954Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr and Mrs D and 
B&W, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr and Mrs D know they had a choice?
B&W had to make it clear the PPI was optional. 
Mr and Mrs D have said they had no interest  in PPI and say it was just included  as part of 
the package with their mortgage. But their mortgage application form had a PPI section with 
boxes to tick to say they either wished to take the insurance or didnt  wish to take it. So it 
looks like the PPI was presented  there  as an insurance Mr and Mrs D had a choice about 
taking. The box to say they wished to take the insurance is ticked  on their form. The section 
was also completed  to say the cover should be on Mr D not Mrs D, and Mr and Mrs D both 
signed a declaration at the end of the section,  separate from signing for the mortgage itself. 
So, I think it likely they were aware of the selections  made there, and wanted cover on Mr D.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs D knew the PPI was 
optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did B&W provide  advice?
Both B&W  and Mr and Mrs D agree  advice  wasnt provided during  this sale. This means  
B&W didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs D. Instead, it had to give 
them sufficient, appropriate and timely  information  to enable them to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take the policy, including drawing to their attention  and highlighting 
 in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs D were given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is, it would protect their payments if Mr D were  unable 
to work through accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the approximate costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs D wouldve taken the policy  
without any sense of what it was for and of how much the premium might be. 
Also the PPI section of their mortgage  application form referred to the PPI as insurance to 
help pay your mortgage and related payments if you lose your income because  of 
unemployment, an accident or sickness.  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  B&W gave  sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs D agreed to take the policy.
So I dont  think B&W gave  Mr and Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  drawing 
to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN97651955In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ds representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Ds. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ds representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact much of the premium went  to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs D about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ds representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs D have suggested. And, taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude B&W ought  to have done either. 
what effect did B&Ws shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs D? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found B&W didnt do all it should  have done  when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs D. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not they would have 
still taken the policy,  had B&W done  things  properly. 
Mr and Mrs D say they wouldnt  have  taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs D had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the PPI against  the benefits  and potential consequences if they didnt insure  against  the risk 
of Mr D being unable  to work. As Ive found above,  Mr and Mrs D chose to take the PPI. So I 
consider it reasonable to conclude they had some interest  in the benefits offered by this type 
of insurance. But they made this decision based  on incomplete information. So what  they 
thought they were getting isnt exactly what they got. The extent to which  this differed  is a 
relevant consideration when determining if they have suffered any loss or detriment.
Although I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs D knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear B&W told them the exact premium at the point 
they applied. Having said that, I think it unlikely  Mr and Mrs D wouldve agreed to the PPI 
without first having some idea of the approximate  cost. Also, Mr and Mrs D were told the 
cost before the PPI started - it was set out in the mortgage offer:  If this had been significantly 
at odds with what  theyd expected when they applied, they mightve raised this with B&W at 
the time or reconsidered their decision.  Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs D would have 
found the cost unacceptable if they had been  given the exact figure during the meeting  in 
which they agreed to the policy.
Ref: DRN97651956In addition, Im not persuaded  B&W made clear exactly what  Mr and Mrs D would get back if 
they made a successful  claim. But I think its unlikely their expectations about what  the policy 
would pay (an amount  sufficient to meet their mortgage payment) were significantly different  
to what the policy actually did  if anything, as there was an additional cash  payment and the 
policy also covered  other  costs besides  the mortgage payment,  it is more likely than not the 
policy actually paid more  in the event  of a claim than they wouldve have expected.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs D thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims related to any health  issue Mr D knew or should reasonably  
have known about at the policy start or for which he had seen or arranged  to see a 
medical practitioner in the 12 months  before the start and which caused disability during 
the 12 months immediately following the start;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr D wasnt  
a permanent employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr D be totally unable to do his 
own or any other work  the insurer thought he was or may reasonably become qualified 
for in view of his training, education  and ability;
No benefit  was payable for the first 60 days of any unemployment or disability, and the 
PPI then paid its benefit  for up to 12 months  - not the remaining term of the mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs D pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs D from taking it. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr D was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proven  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. 
Mr D couldnt have  claimed for work  absences related  to the issue hed taken painkillers for 
more than 20 years earlier. But Ive seen nothing to suggest this past issue was ongoing or 
otherwise a concern for him at the time of sale. Also, theres  no suggestion it led to work  
absences when it happened - and Ive no reason  to think it was thought likely to lead to any 
absences more than 20 years later, directly or otherwise. With all this in mind, I dont think  
better information about the policy health exclusions  wouldve put Mr and Mrs D off taking 
the cover. Mr D hadnt had any other  health  issues and Ive nothing  to suggest he wouldve 
been caught by any of the other significant  exclusions  he was in permanent  employment 
for example. So, I think Mr and Mrs D still had some  good reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs D would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs D had known they could only claim for disability if Mr D were totally  unable to 
do his own or any other work the insurer  thought he was or may reasonably become 
Ref: DRN97651957qualified for in view of his training, education  and ability, it might have played  into their 
thinking about what to do. And I accept  it may have given them  pause for thought   
although, given  Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances  and the significant  drop in income  Mr D would 
likely have suffered if he were unable to work  for a while due to injury,  sickness or 
unemployment, on balance I think they wouldve still been interested in taking the cover.
B&W may not have  told Mr and Mrs D any claim they made  would be limited to 12 monthly 
benefit payments  or that the first 60 days of any disability  or unemployment wasnt  covered. 
This may have differed  from what they expected and mightve hoped for.
But 12 months was longer  than Mr D wouldve  received full sick pay and his redundancy 
entitlement was also significantly  less than 12 months income. I consider it likely in those 
circumstances that Mr and Mrs D wouldve still thought  a policy  that after 60 days paid up to 
12 monthly benefit payments, would benefit  them  and help them manage the consequences 
if Mr D were unable to work in the circumstances the policy  covered. The benefit could cover 
the mortgage payment and help reduce Mr and Mrs Ds other outgoings, helping ensure their 
home was not placed at risk and helping keep their savings intact  for other  uses  at what  
could be a difficult time for them if Mr D were  unemployed or too sick to work.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs D wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its likely they 
thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help them  manage  the 
consequences if Mr D were made redundant, or unable  to work through  accident or 
sickness. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs D wouldve 
taken the PPI in any event, notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ds representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs D would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs D believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Ref: DRN97651958Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs D in the position they wouldve been in if they 
hadnt bought the PPI. Thats because, while I accept  its possible they wouldnt have taken 
it, Im satisfied, of the two possibilities,  its more likely than not they wouldve still taken the 
PPI had they been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about the PPI they were 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude B&W should pay Mr and Mrs D compensation,  as that would put them in a better 
position than they wouldve been in if everything had happened as it should  have done. 
Im also aware Mr and Mrs D think B&W misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
B&Ws statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion  the reason why B&W failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  B&W gave Mr and Mrs D, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1997  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ds representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find B&W negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs D and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find B&W had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs D in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 December  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9765195