K821x#15Complaint
Mr B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) declined his claim 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (s.75; the CCA). And also declined  to 
raise chargebacks in the alternative.
Background
In June 2016 Mr B purchased a lifetime  digital marketing membership package  with a third 
party (the supplier).  In particular, he says that the package  was promoted as including: 
i)Global training centres
ii)Training and courses prepared and delivered by experts, including PHD qualified 
educators. were  never made available 
iii)An affiliates programme as an additional source  of income 
iv)A bonus programme  providing a commission based course  of income 
He paid for this, through two separate payments of £4,562.12 each (total  of £9,124.24), 
using his personal Amex credit card.  
Mr B says that in October 2017 the supplier announced a change  of ownership.  This led to 
the cancellation of several  elements of the membership package.  He says that up until that 
point he had only received an interim, alternative service that did not correspond  to what  he 
had been promised  so he has never received the package he paid for. 
So Mr B says that in November 2017 he cancelled his membership and requested a refund 
from the supplier.  But this was refused so he raised a dispute with Amex. 
Amex initially treated the dispute as a potential s.75 claim. But they subsequently wrote  to 
Mr B explaining  that s.75 didnt apply because the supplier had processed Mr Bs payments 
through a third party payment processor  (business A). They described business A as 
offering an alternative  service whereby individuals, or businesses like the supplier, can 
accept online payments without having to sign up as a merchant directly  with Amex 
themselves. 
 
Amex also considered the possibility of raising chargebacks. They  told Mr B that he had had 
120 days from the date of his payments  to raise the dispute,  so he was too late. Amex  
subsequently said chargebacks might  be possible before reverting back  to saying Mr B was 
too late. 
Mr B complained to Amex  about  how his dispute  had been  handled. In particular, that he 
believed he had had 540 days to raise chargebacks. 
Amex sent Mr B a final response letter. They expanded on why s.75 didnt apply. Namely, 
because the billing  had been processed by business A  a third party payment service. 
And that s.75 only applied when there was a direct contractual agreement  with the supplier. 
But Amex  had re-reviewed the chargeback position  again and accepted that a longer 
timeframe of 520 (sic) days  applied. So they offered to re-start  the chargeback dispute 
process and to credit Mr Bs account  with £100 by way of an apology for the delay in dealing  
with the dispute. 
Ref: DRN95639252Subsequently, Amex  once again informed Mr B that it was too late to raise  the chargebacks. 
And that Mr Bs terms and conditions stated that the merchant  wasnt  required to provide 
the information being requested due to the length of time since the payments. 
Mr B complained once  more, saying that his terms and conditions didnt stipulate a 
timeframe for chargebacks. He also explained why he believed s.75 applied and pointed  out 
that his credit card statement referred  to the supplier. But Amex  didnt change their mind  so 
Mr B brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator explained that for s.75 to apply there had to be a link between the 
debtor-creditor-supplier  (DCS link). In this case,  that meant Mr B, Amex and the supplier 
respectively. So the involvement of business A meant that the link was broken. 
As for the chargebacks,  our investigator said that Mr B had had 120 days from the date the 
goods and services were  received. This began from when the interim alternative  service  
began. So Mr B had been  too late to raise chargebacks. 
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. After reviewing the evidence, I 
asked Amex for some further information. This included the process by which business A 
elicited funds from Amex  following  Mr Bs purchase from the supplier. 
Amex explained  that information between them, their merchants (in this case business  A) 
and any funds are largely exchanged in an automated and systemic manner. As a payment  
aggregator/processor, the exchange with business A would be as follows:
 
 The supplier  signs up to business A as their customer. This provides the supplier with a 
gateway to accepting card payments through business A  either  by business As payment 
terminals or software to charge credit/debit cards. So the supplier doesnt need  a direct 
relationship with Amex.  
 Once the supplier accepts a payment by an Amex card holder business A will present the 
transaction/credit card information  to Amex. Part of that transactional  information includes 
the suppliers details. 
 Amex then processes the transaction by debiting  their card holders account  (in this case  
Mr B) and crediting business As account  with Amex (less Amexs  fee under their merchant 
agreement with business A). 
 Upon  receiving that credit, business  A in turn credits the supplier.
 
So Amex  say that the suppliers direct agreement is with business A only,  not with Amex, 
meaning that s.75 cant apply. They have provided an internal system  screen  shot of the 
details of Mr Bs dispute in support  of their position.  This shows  business  A as the 
merchant. The suppliers details also appear  but Amex say thats part of the transactional 
information referred to above. As opposed  to information held directly by Amex  so Amex 
have no responsibility  for that information.
I also asked Amex to provide me with a copy of their agreement  with business A but they 
declined to do so, telling  me its confidential  and business sensitive and that business A 
hadnt consented to it being  shared. 
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ref: DRN95639253Section 75 claim
I must decide what, if anything, Amex  should  do to resolve Mr Bs complaint. To do this, I
have to decide what I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to, amongst other things,
any relevant law.
In this case, the relevant  law is s.75 which says that, in certain circumstances, if Mr B paid
for goods or services on his credit  card and there was a breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier, Amex can be held responsible. In particular, s.75(1)
states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c)
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against  the
creditor, who, with the supplier,  shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
So s.75 only applies if:
i)There is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement of the type that falls within  s.12(b)  or 
(c);
ii)That agreement finances the transaction between the debtor (Mr B) and the supplier 
(business A); and,
iii)Relating to that transaction,  the debtor (Mr B) has a claim against the supplier 
(business A) in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract. If so, then
the creditor (Amex) is jointly and severally  liable to the debtor.
S.12(b) applies to:
a restricted use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b)  and is made  by the
creditor under pre-existing  arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements,
between himself and the supplier
S.11(1)(b) defines a restricted-use  credit agreement as a regulated  consumer credit
agreement:
to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier)  other than the
creditor
And s.189  says finance  means to wholly or partly finance, and that financed shall be
construed accordingly.
So with this in mind, the issues  I need  to decide in this case, and in this order,  are whether:
(1)The absence of a direct contractual agreement  between Amex  and the supplier 
means that s.75 doesnt apply (The direct agreement issue).
(2)If s.75 captures  indirect agreements, whether the nature of business  As role and 
involvement meant that there were  no relevant  arrangements between Amex  and the 
supplier under which Mr Bs purchase  was financed, and therefore  no DCS link. 
(The DCS issue).
Ref: DRN95639254(3)If there  was a DCS  link, whether there  was a misrepresentation or breach of contract 
by the supplier, which Amex must  remedy under s.75. (The liability  issue).
(4)And, if there  was liability,  its amount. (The quantum issue).
(1) The direct  agreement  issue
By way of background, the CCA  was enacted  at a time when credit cards were  generally
issued within  the framework of a three-party  structure which involved (i) an agreement
between the card issuer  and the cardholder to extend credit  by paying for goods or services
purchased by the cardholder from suppliers who had agreed  to honour the card;  (ii) an
agreement between the card issuer  and the supplier  under which  the supplier agreed to
accept the card in payment and the card issuer  agreed to pay the supplier  promptly;  (iii) an
agreement between the cardholder and the supplier for the purchase  of goods or services.
This three-party structure subsequently developed  into a four-party structure involving a
"merchant acquirer", whose function was to recruit new suppliers willing to accept the
issuers card. Under  this four-party  structure,  instead  of the agreement between  the card
issuer and the supplier, there  were two agreements: (a) an agreement between the
merchant acquirer and the supplier, under which the supplier undertook  to honour the card
and the merchant acquirer undertook to pay the supplier; and (b) an agreement  between the
merchant acquirer and the card issuer, under which the merchant acquirer agreed to pay the
supplier and the card issuer undertook  to reimburse the merchant  acquirer.
This impact of this development on the application  of s.75 was considered  by the Court  of
Appeal in the case of Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds  & ors [2006] EWCA Civ 268 (the OFT
case).
The Court of Appeal first considered whether the introduction of the four-party structure
meant that the system  had evolved  significantly beyond the state  of affairs  to which  s.75 had
been directed.  They  concluded  that it had not, stating at paragraph 55 of their judgment:
From the customers point of view  it is difficult to see any justification for drawing  a
distinction between  the different [three-party and four-party] situations. Indeed, in the case of
those card issuers such as Lloyds TSB, who operate  under  both three-party and four-party
structures, the customer has no means  of knowing whether any given transaction  is
conducted under one or other arrangement. Similarly, from the point of view of the card
issuer and the supplier  the commercial nature of the relationship is essentially the same:
each benefits  from the involvement of the other  in a way that makes it possible to regard
them as involved in something akin to a joint venture,  just as much as in the case of the
three-party structure.
The Court of Appeal also considered whether four-party structure transactions  between the
debtors and suppliers  were financed  by the credit agreement, even though the creditors
payment went to the merchant acquirer, not the supplier. They stated  at paragraph 56:
It is clear  that, whether the transaction is entered into under a three-  party or four-party
structure, the purpose of the credit  agreement is to provide the customer with the means to
pay for goods or services. It follows that in both cases  the card issuer finances the
transaction between  the customer and the supplier by making credit available  at the point  of
purchase in accordance with the credit  agreement.  The fact that it does so through  the
medium of an agreement  with the merchant acquirer  does not detract from that because it is
Ref: DRN95639255the card issuers agreement to provide  credit  to the customer that provides the financial
basis for the transaction with the supplier.
The Court of Appeal then examined whether the creditors were correct  to argue that the
four-party structure fell outside the definition  of restricted-use  credit,  because  section 11(3)
of the CCA excludes agreements under which the credit is in fact provided  in such a way as
to leave the debtor free to use it as he chooses.  They rejected the argument, because  the
card could only be used  to purchase  goods and services from some  businesses  namely
the suppliers who had agreed to accept the card.
The Court of Appeal also held that the definitions in s.187 were not intended to define  the
only type of arrangements  that fell within s.12(b).  The word arrangements  is capable of
carrying a broad meaning and, in the context of the CCA, must  have  been  deliberately
chosen by Parliament with a view to embracing a wide range of different commercial
structures having substantially the same effect. (Para. 61-66 of the judgment).
With all of this in mind, I have considered the particular facts of Mr Bs case. It doesnt
appear to be in dispute that business  A is the party that holds an account  and has a contract
with Amex. Amex have explained that the supplier, in turn, signs up to payment processing
services with business A. These services  allow the supplier to accept payments from its
customers via various  payment methods, including Amex  credit cards,  without having  to
have an account  or contract with Amex themselves.
This aligns with Mr Bs recollection of his payment  journey.  Namely,  the supplier redirected
him to a payment page with the words  powered  by [business A] on it. He has helpfully
provided a screen  shot confirming this.
So I accept  that this was a four-party structure  given that Amexs  direct agreement was with
business A only, although Ive not been shown the terms of that agreement by Amex. And
business A must,  in turn, have had an agreement  with the supplier under which it agreed to
process payments  from Amex and other card issuers for the supplier.
That being  said,  looking  at the principles outlined by the Court of Appeal,  its clear to me that
Amex provided credit  to Mr B which enabled  him, through the medium  of Amexs agreement
with business  A, to pay for services  from the supplier. Furthermore, not every  business
accepts Amex cards. So where a supplier does  agree to accept Amexs cards then that
results in Amex providing restricted use credit, no matter whether the suppliers  agreement  is
directly with Amex or not. So I think that Mr Bs credit agreement with Amex financed the
transaction.
I also think that its highly unlikely that Mr B would have appreciated that there  was no direct
agreement between Amex and the supplier  when making payment with his credit card. So
he would  have had no means of knowing whether his transaction with the supplier was
conducted under one or other arrangement. Plus Amex and the supplier  both undoubtedly
benefit commercially from the involvement  of the other, through  the intermediation  of
business A, in a way that makes it possible to regard them  as in something akin to a joint
venture.
For all of these reasons, I dont accept  that Amex needed to have a direct agreement with
the supplier in order for s.75 to apply.  And nor is the definition of an arrangement, for the
purposes of s.75,  confined to a formal contract.  Instead, I need to consider whether the
scope of business As role, and the nature of their agreement with the supplier, meant that
Ref: DRN95639256the DCS  link between Amex and the supplier was broken. This leads me onto the second
issue.
(2) The DCS issue
Clearly there were arrangements between Amex and business A. So the question  is whether
the nature  of business As service and role meant  that they extended those arrangements  to
the supplier. Before I outline my findings on this I think  it would be helpful, once more, to
refer to the OFT case. In particular:
The Judge  who heard  the OFT case at first instance ([2005] 1 All ER 843) considered the
meaning of the word  arrangements, as used  in section 12, and whether there existed
relevant arrangements  between creditors and suppliers in the four-party situation. She held
that the use of the word showed  a deliberate intention on the part of the draftsman to use
broad, loose language,  which  was to be contrasted with the word  agreement. She went on
at paragraph 26:
In my judgment, in the natural ordinary sense of the word, there are clearly arrangements  in
place made  between the card issuers and the suppliers, notwithstanding the absence  of any
direct communication between them, or any direct  contractual relationship, or even of
knowledge on the part of the issuer of the identity of the particular supplier. The fact that
there are a number of different  arrangements,  reflecting  the various roles, contractual or
otherwise, played  by different participants in the network, does not mean that there is not an
arrangement in place between  the issuer and the supplier. I consider that it is unrealistic to
look merely at the individual links in the chain; rather one should stand back and look at the
whole network of arrangements that are involved in the operation  of the schemes. If one
does so, one can, in my judgment, properly conclude that, by virtue of the supplier and the
issuer being subject to the rules and settlement processes common  to all participants in the
card network, there is indeed an arrangement  (albeit indirect) between  them.
In the Court  of Appeal, the creditors argued  that arrangements should be given a narrower
meaning that took the four-party structure outside the definition. But the Court of Appeal
agreed with the Judge that arrangements  had been used to embrace a wide range of
commercial structures having  substantially the same effect. They  held it was difficult to resist
the conclusion  that such arrangements existed between credit  card issuers and suppliers
who agreed to accept their cards, and stated:
Moreover, we find it difficult to accept  that Parliament would have been willing to allow  some
consumers to be disadvantaged by the existence of indirect arrangements when other
consumers were protected  because the relevant arrangements were  direct.
Its also important to note that in the OFT case the court saw evidence  about the particular
rules governing the activities of merchant acquirers. The Judge at first instance  drew
attention to the following  features (paragraph 30):
The evidence showed that the rules of the four-party card schemes control  which suppliers
may participate in the schemes by, for example, (i) stipulating that merchant acquirers  must
only put transaction details into interchange for suppliers with whom they have  valid and
subsisting merchant  acquirer agreements; (ii) requiring  merchant acquirers to screen
suppliers before entering into agreements with them, in order to establish  that the suppliers
are creditworthy and carrying on bona  fide businesses; (iii) requiring merchant acquirers to
monitor suppliers to deter wrongful activity; (iv) requiring merchant  acquirers to forward
information to the network merchant databases  where, for example, a supplier is suspected
Ref: DRN95639257of fraud  or where a suppliers ratio of transactions charged back by the card issuer  exceeds
established criteria.  Likewise card issuing creditors exert  leverage  over suppliers, through
the networks [operated by MasterCard, Visa and American Express], in that the networks
reserve rights to insist that suppliers  merchant acquirer agreements are terminated and to
exclude suppliers  from entering into merchant acquirer agreements.  Thus some sort of
leverage is available,  at least in domestic  four-party  transactions, but even if it were  not, that
would not affect  my conclusion.
So turning  to the facts of Mr Bs case, Ive noted  Amexs description of how transactions are
processed by business A and an email Mr B has provided, which was sent to him by
business A, confirming  that:
Opening a [business  A] account  is not the equivalent of opening a bank account as whilst a
bank account  can be used to hold deposits,  a [business A] account  can only be used to
facilitate payments.
Both pieces  of evidence  appear to indicate that business As role was confined  solely  to
payment processing.
To help me understand this better  I looked  at, and carefully  considered, the terms and
conditions of the agreement between business  A and the supplier. Those terms and
conditions can be found on business  As website under the Services  Agreement   United
Kingdom section. The following are of particular  relevance:
Section C.1 explains that business  A works  with payment method providers in order  
to give their customers (in this case the supplier) access  to various payment 
methods. Amex is expressly included within the definition of a payment method 
provider.
Section C.3 further expands on business  As role by stating:
To enable us to process  Transactions for you, you authorise and direct us.the
Payment Method Providersto receive and settle  any payment processing proceeds
owed to you through the Payment Processing Services.  You appoint  [business
A] as your agents  for the limited purpose  of directing, receiving, holding  and
settling such proceeds.
The terms and conditions  also expressly incorporate Amexs  own payment terms and their
card network rules as follows:
Section C.5 confirms  that additional  payment  terms will apply between the supplier 
and a given payment  method provider,  as part of the agreement  with business A. The 
section provides a hyperlink to the list of payment methods  and the corresponding 
additional payment terms  the applicable one here is Amex  Express  Checkout 
(AEC). 
The AEC payment terms are referred to as an addendum to the agreement
between business  A and the supplier. The supplier must accept the terms of the
addendum in order  to use the AEC payment method. The addendum also
incorporates Amexs card network rules  (para.6 of the addendum).
Ref: DRN95639258Section C.6 of the agreement also expressly refers  to, and incorporates, Amexs  card 
network rules and states that networks may amend Network  Rules  and business A 
reserves the right to change payment processing  services  at anytime to comply  with 
the Network Rules.
Other general terms include:
Section A.4 states:
In addition  to the Fees, you are also responsible for any penalties or fines imposed
in relation to your [business A] Account on you or [business A] by [business A] or any
Payment Method Provider.resulting from your use of Payment Processing Services
in a manner not permitted  by this Agreement or a Payment Method Providers rules
and regulations.
Section A.10 states:
We may suspend your [business A] Account and your ability to access  funds in your
[business A] Account, or terminate this Agreement, if (i) .. (iii) any Law, Payment
Method Provider  or Payment Method Acquirer  requires  us to do so; .. A Payment
Method Provider  . may terminate your ability to accept a Payment Method, at any
time and for any reason,  in which case  you will no longer be able to accept the
Payment Method under this Agreement.
Again, with the Court of Appeals principles at the forefront of my mind, its clear  from the
evidence Ive referred to above that business As role is to provide suppliers with access to
various payment  methods  and to process payments. The nature  of this type of business
means that it enters into very many  similar agreements with companies, firms and other
traders who use its payment processing services.  Given  this, and the express  references  to
Amex and their card network  rules in business  As agreement with the supplier, Amex  knew
the nature  of business As services. Indeed, their final response  letter  to Mr B confirms  this
knowledge. It follows that Amex must have consented to this commercial system  as
opposed to a one-off situation. So it would be unfair for Mr B to be disadvantaged by the
existence of an indirect  arrangement.
Of course in Mr Bs case, in contrast  to the OFT case, I havent  been told what (if any)
contractual restrictions Amex have  placed  on business As activities  in recruiting suppliers
for whom business A will process payments from Amex or monitoring their activities. Nor
have I been told what termination rights Amex  holds in its agreement  with business A.
But, by the same token,  I also havent  been shown anything to suggest that Amex had
prohibited business A from acting for the supplier. I think  that itd be reasonable to suppose
that it would  be within Amexs power to ban or restrict their arrangements with business  A, if
they chose to, but for their own reasons  they havent done so. Although not direct evidence
of this, the reference of a possibility that business  A could be fined by a payment provider in
section A.4 of their terms and conditions supports this conclusion. So it appears that some
sort of leverage is available to Amex.
In reaching these provisional  conclusions, the fact that the supplier could  only use AEC by
agreeing to Amexs  specific payment terms and card network rules is particularly significant.
As is the fact that Amex  are expressly  given the right to terminate the suppliers ability to
accept AEC as a payment method. So it appears that the supplier and Amex are subject to
Ref: DRN95639259the rules and settlement processes common to all participants.
So even though the Court  of Appeals  decision  in the OFT case was made  on different facts,
I think that a conclusion that arrangements  between Amex and the supplier existed is
consistent with the principles and approach expressed by the court in that case.  Thats
because it appears  that Amex were using business A, whether by design or accident,  as an
intermediary that somewhat resembles a merchant acquirer.
I have also considered the High Courts  judgment in Governor and Company of the Bank of
Scotland v Alfred Truman  (a firm) [2005] EWHC 583 (QB) (The Truman case).
In the Truman case, the bank (a merchant acquirer)  paid money to a solicitors firm under a
merchant services agreement, which it sought  to recover.  The solicitors acted for a car
dealership which had no facility to accept  payment by credit card and so used  the firm to
take credit  card payments from customers. The bank  paid money  to the firm under the
merchant services agreement in respect  of a series of transactions where  credit  card
payments had been taken from the dealerships customers. However, the card holders
involved in those transactions did not receive  their cars. The card holders made claims
under s.75 against their respective card issuers  for the reimbursement of the payments. The
card issuers  duly repaid  their card holders then recouped those sums  from the bank via
chargeback. The bank, in turn, sought repayment  of those sums from the firm, which
defended the claim  by arguing that the card holders  had no valid claim against  the card
issuers under s.75. Meaning that the chargeback scheme should not have operated.
The court was therefore considering a five-party structure (debtor, card-issuer, merchant
acquirer, solicitors firm, car dealership) in which the fifth party, the car dealership, had no
contractual or other  direct  relationship with either  the Visa or MasterCard  scheme. But it was
held that it did not matter  that the card issuers had no direct contractual  or other  relationship
with the dealership or that the card issuers had no idea of the existence  of the car
dealership. There  still existed arrangements  sufficient for the requisite DCS link.
In Mr Bs case, I think there are stronger indications  of relevant arrangements  than those in
the Truman case given that it involves a four-party structure and business A is specifically
and publicly in the business of payment processing. As Ive said above, this is a fact that
was known to Amex, who decided to contract directly with business A. Whereas in the
Truman case  the card issuers  dealt through a merchant acquirer with a merchant ostensibly
carrying on business as a firm of solicitors, rather than the business  of payment processing
for third parties. So, in Mr Bs case the card issuer would seem in a stronger position both to
know about and to influence or prevent the activities of the payment processor than the card
issuers were  in the Truman case.
For all of these reasons, Im minded to conclude that s.75 applies to Mr Bs payments. This
leads me onto consider what, if anything, Amex are responsible for under s.75.
(3) The liability issue
Mr B says that there  was no written contract  outlining the remit of the lifetime membership
package. Instead, he was sent promotional literature through the suppliers website and
webinars. Following a promotional  webinar  he was redirected to a page inviting him to
purchase the membership  at a discounted  pre-launch price, which he did. In particular, he
says that the package  was promoted as including:
Ref: DRN956392510i)Global training centres
ii)Training and courses prepared and delivered by experts, including PHD qualified 
educators were  never made available.
iii)An affiliates programme as an additional source  of income
iv)A bonus programme  providing a commission based course  of income
Mr B says that (i) and (ii) have never been delivered. He has only ever received old, 
pre-recorded training materials that had already  been sold separately over the previous 
years. Any new materials  after the change of ownership were  only available  with an 
additional subscription fee. And (iii) and (iv) were cancelled once the supplier changed 
ownership.
So, given there was no written contract, I need  to first consider the other evidence  available
to me in deciding the product and services that the supplier agreed to provide. Mr B has
provided several screenshots of promotional  literature from the suppliers webpage.  But the
following are particularly  helpful:
A copy of the promotional webinar invitation  page sent to Mr B before he signed up. 
This referred to the first of its kindan ACTUAL physical  internet  marketing  
college, a brand  new income  stream and your bonus payouts.
The page that Mr B was directed  to at the end of that webinar inviting him to 
purchase the package at a discounted pre-launch  price.
A copy of the page sent to Mr B, three months  later, with a link to register for the 
members site.
A description from the suppliers website referring to an elite  expert online business 
education and an affiliate program attached  to this. Together with a list of the 
upcoming courses in the winter of 2016. This also refers  to the involvement of 
Phd-derived curriculum developers.
An email from August 2016 inviting Mr B to a webinar  to explain, amongst other 
things, how the affiliate programme  works.
Copies of pages from the affiliate challenge promising a big prize  reward.
Copies of pages from the bonus  programme promising big prize giveaways.
Overall, this evidence supports what Mr B says about the package promising to include the
items at (i)-(iv)  above. So I accept his account. And it appears that these  parts of the
package were core elements of the membership.
I also accept Mr Bs evidence that the supplier breached the terms of their service by failing
to provide, or by cancelling, these core elements. He has been consistent with his account
throughout and I have  noted the emails he sent to the supplier in 2017 outlining the
breaches  which carries  considerable  weight  given their contemporaneous nature.
This conclusion is supported by Amexs own internal records from December 2017 which
state that this was clearly a case of goods/services not as described or defective  because
the terms and conditions of the [supplier] changed as evident  in the documentation
received.
It seems  clear  to me that, although  Mr B received a service of sorts, the supplier  breached
the core terms of the membership package by providing minimal services  and of a different
nature to what Mr B paid for. So I now turn to the quantum issue.
Ref: DRN956392511v) The quantum  issue
As Ive said above,  Mr B wasnt provided with the core, and material, parts of the package as
promised and Ive noted the email Mr B has provided confirming his cancellation request in
2017  so I accept  that he hasnt used his membership since then.
That being  said,  I have  considered the fact that Mr B did derive some benefit from his
membership up until the cancellation. For example, the old training materials   albeit this
wasnt what Mr B had paid for. And looking at a breakdown he has provided it appears that
he also received  the equivalent value of around $1,000 of the membership package.  This
related to internet  marketing principals and core training.
But I think it would be both unfair and artificial to consider the package  in piecemeal
elements. Thats because its clear from the promotional  literature  Ive referred  to above that
the nature  and intended purpose  of the package  was to provide various elements which,
when taken altogether,  would  give Mr B an opportunity to create and derive  an additional
income source. So delivering on a small element of the package  wouldnt have been much
use to Mr B without the entirety of the other  elements.
For these reasons, I think that Mr Bs purchase of the package  was a wasted cost,  even if he
did receive minimal parts of it. So I think that a fair and reasonable outcome  is for Amex to
refund Mr B the entire amount he paid (£9,124.24).
I think that Amex should also pay Mr B 8% annual simple interest  on that refund because
Mr B has been denied an opportunity to earn interest on it as a direct result  of Amex failing
to recognise that s.75 applied. The calculation should be from the earliest opportunity  that
Amex had to refund  Mr B  namely  the date at which Mr B provided all necessary supporting
information to support  his claim.  Amexs  case history states that Mr B provided all the
relevant information on 8 November 2017. So in the absence of any other evidence, it
appears that this would be the fairest date from which  the interest should be calculated.
Chargebacks
For the sake of completeness, Ive considered the issue of the chargebacks  as an alternative
remedy.
The relevant  chargeback  code is goods and services not received. The code states that the
timeframe for a chargeback is 120 days from the date a cardholder becomes aware that the
expected goods and services would not be provided, not to exceed  540 days.  So it seems
clear to me that the 540 days isnt an alternative timeframe to the 120 days, but rather
provides an overall  maximum  within which the 120 day period  must begin and end.
Ive noted what  Mr B says about  the change  in ownership being  the point at which  he
realised the service wasnt going  to be provided. But Im not persuaded by this. The change
in ownership was in October 2017   some 15 months after his purchase. And Mr B had only
ever received an interim service during that time.
Mr B has provided a copy of the registration link he was sent, three  months after his
purchase. He says that this unlocked  old, pre-recorded  training materials  only. So I think that
it would  have been apparent at that stage that he wasnt  receiving the package hed signed
up for. Or, at the very latest, within a few months  thereafter when the full product didnt
materialise.
Ref: DRN956392512For these reasons, I think that Mr Bs request for chargebacks were well beyond  the 120 day
timeframe from which Mr B was, or certainly ought to have  been,  aware  that the service
wasnt going to be provided. It follows that Amex wasnt unreasonable in concluding that
Mr Bs request was too late.
That being  said,  Amex  have accepted that they didnt  handle the chargeback  requests well.
And I can see how their final communication to Mr B added further confusion.  I say this
because its unclear which terms and conditions Amex were referring to and what
information they believe the merchant  didnt  have to provide.
I think that the offer of £100 compensation is a fair reflection of the frustration and confusion
Mr B undoubtedly suffered as a result  of this mishandling. Especially  given the time and
energy he has wasted trying to get a clear  answer on why his requests were  refused. It
appears that Amex  may have already credited Mr Bs account  with this money. But if that
isnt the case  then they will now have to do that.
The response  to my provisional  decision 
Mr B acknowledged  my provisional findings  and confirmed that he does not wish to provide 
any further information.
Amex confirmed that they are willing to agree to my provisional findings.  They  sought  
clarification of their understanding of the proposed  redress as follows:
To pay Mr B £9,124,24 and 8% interest  from 8 November 2017 to an estimated date 
of 30 September  2020.
The £100 compensation referred  to in their final response letter in relation to the 
chargebacks issue  has already  been paid to Mr B. So this is no longer  outstanding.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have seen nothing further to change my 
mind. So my provisional findings remain unchanged and final.
Amexs understanding of the refund amount plus 8% annual simple  interest  is correct.  That 
interest will need to be calculated from 8 November 2017 up until the date of settlement. 
Amex has referred to an estimated end calculation date of 30 September 2020. But it will be 
entirely a matter for them  to ensure that the calculation  is accurate  depending on the exact 
date of settlement.
In relation to the £100 compensation, again Amex is correct.  The £100  compensation I 
referred to in my provisional findings was the amount offered to Mr B in Amexs final 
response letter. So if that amount has already been paid to him then nothing  further  is owed 
in this regard.
 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I direct 
American Express Services Europe Limited  to:
Ref: DRN956392513Pay Mr B £9,124.24 plus 8% annual simple  interest* calculated from 
8 November 2017 up until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr B the £100 for his material distress and inconvenience offered, by Amex  in 
their final response  letter, if this has not already  been done.
*If Amex considers  they should deduct income  tax from any 8% interest  element  of my
award they may do so, but should  give Mr B the necessary certificate.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
Sim Ozen
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9563925