K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays  Bank  UK plc recorded a CIFAS marker against her name  
and closed her account. CIFAS is the UKs fraud alert service,  and Miss M says that the 
marker has prevented  her from opening  a bank  account elsewhere. 
background
Miss M had an account with Barclays. It was funded largely by small payments from her 
parents. 
In January 2018 two payments were credited to the account, totalling over £3,500.  At around  
the same  time, cash machine and assisted service device (or ASD) withdrawals were made, 
along with two supermarket transactions which included  cashback  payments. In total, just 
over £3,000 was withdrawn. 
Miss M noticed the larger  credit to her account  and contacted Barclays to say she didnt 
recognise it. Barclays said it would investigate,  but by that time the various  cash  withdrawals 
had been made. When Barclays did investigate, it identified that the payments into the 
account had been fraudulent  in the sense that the holders of the accounts from which 
theyd been made hadnt  authorised them.  Barclays removed the remaining money from 
Miss Ms account, closed  it and recorded a marker  against Miss Ms name. 
Miss M didnt think that was fair and complained  to the bank and then to this service.  She 
said she didnt know anything about the credits  to her account or about  the withdrawals and 
payments made at around  the same time. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  Barclays  had acted 
unfairly. He made the following points:
All the withdrawals and payments had been  made using Miss Ms genuine  card and 
PIN. Miss M said she still had her card when she contacted  the bank. 
The ASD withdrawal  would have required her date of birth as well as the PIN. 
A new mobile  phone was registered to the account shortly  before the transactions  took 
place. It and the phone that was already registered were used to access the account on 
numerous occasions  during the time of the transactions. 
It appeared  that undisputed transactions made  later were made using a replacement 
card. 
Miss M, through her representative, asked that an ombudsman review the case.         
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however come to the same  overall  
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar  reasons. 
Im satisfied first of all that the credits to Miss Ms account were fraudulent. Ive no reason to 
think that the banks  from which the payments were made didnt investigate  them  properly 
when their customers queried them and then concluded that they hadnt been properly 
Ref: DRN96788772authorised. It doesnt follow,  however, that Miss M was directly  involved  in them.  Payments 
to Miss Ms account could  have been  made using her account number and sort code, neither 
of which  would have  been difficult to obtain. So, the mere fact that payments were made to 
her account  doesnt  in my view implicate Miss M in any wrongdoing. 
However, I must consider all the circumstances in reaching my decision  including in this 
case the circumstances in which money was withdrawn.
I agree  with the investigator that the evidence shows that Miss Ms genuine card and PIN 
were used for all the withdrawals, including the purchases and cashback  transactions  at the 
supermarket. She hasnt  explained how anyone could have obtained her card  and indeed 
said that she still had it when she contacted the bank about  the credit  to her account.  It had 
however been  used  earlier the same day around  170 miles from her home.  
Nor is there any explanation as to how someone else could  have obtained Miss Ms PIN. Its 
not recorded in unencrypted form on the card itself and its unlikely anyone  could have 
guessed it. It had been used at a petrol  station  the day before the disputed withdrawals 
started, but Miss M hasnt  suggested that anything unusual happened  then. 
I note as well that a new phone was added  to the account and then used to access  the 
banks mobile banking app. That could only have happened with Miss Ms log-in details. The 
phone was used  to access the account  (on the face of it, in order to monitor account  
movements) during  the disputed withdrawals.   
For these reasons, I believe that Miss M was more closely involved here than she has told 
us or Barclays. It may be that she hasnt benefited  directly from the funds wrongly  credited to 
her account,  but at the very least I believe she has given someone else access to her 
account. In the circumstances, I dont think Barclays has treated her unfairly. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Miss Ms complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss M to accept or reject  my decision before 22 February  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9678877