K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide Building Society  (trading  as Derbyshire Building Society) mis-
sold them  payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 1999  and bought a PPI policy  at the 
same time. It gave them  an equal  joint benefit  and wouldve  paid a monthly  amount for up to 
12 months if either Mr or Mrs M made  a successful accident, sickness or unemployment 
claim.
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide told them they had to have PPI to get the mortgage. And they 
say they didnt need it because their sick pay was adequate to cover  the mortgage.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  didnt uphold  it. Mr and Mrs M 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
I should make it clear my decision here is only about  the PPI policy sold alongside                     
Mr and Mrs Ms 1999 mortgage and not about  PPI sold with any other mortgage they had.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I know this will 
disappoint them but I hope  the reasons Im about to give help them to understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
Nationwide needed  to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs M they had a choice  about  PPI and get 
their agreement to it when they bought  it in 1999. And I should say that, while our adjudicator  
also looked at what happened when Mr and Mrs M amended  their cover in 2007  and 2010, 
my main  focus has been on the sale itself. 
Mr and Mrs M say they were told they had to have the PPI to get the mortgage. Ive looked  
at the recommendation letter their adviser  sent them at the start of their mortgage application 
process. In it, she says she recommends  they take out PPI. She also includes details of the 
benefit split she recommends  and what this would cost each month. And finally  the adviser 
refers Mr and Mrs M to a leaflet on PPI she says they already  had for further  details. So it 
looks to me as if Nationwides adviser  recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M  which  is not 
the same  thing as saying  they had to have it to get the mortgage.
Ive also looked  at Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage  application  and the separate PPI application 
form they signed. Theres nothing in these  documents saying PPI is a condition  of the 
mortgage. Its possible Nationwides  mortgage adviser said something to Mr and Mrs M to 
make them think they had to have the cover to get the mortgage. But  I think  its more  likely  
especially given the documents Ive seen  that she made a recommendation which, at the 
time, Mr and Mrs M chose to accept knowing  they didnt have to (although, understandably,  
after such  a long time, I know this isnt how they remember things).
Ref: DRN93912022Nationwide says it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it needed to make  sure it was 
right for them. I dont know what steps  it took to do this. But, from what Ive seen of the policy 
details, and from what Mr and Mrs M say of their circumstances  at the time, I think it was 
right for them. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs M were  eligible for the PPI and it doesnt look as if theyd have  been  
affected by any of the main things it didnt cover   like known health issues  or 
unusual employment  terms.  So I dont think there  was anything to stop them claiming  
the full policy  benefit if theyd needed  to.
I think the PPI couldve been of use to Mr and Mrs M. A mortgage  is a significant and 
long-term financial commitment.  It was secured  on Mr and Mrs Ms home, which  was 
at risk if they fell behind  with their repayments.  Mr M says hed have got better sick 
pay  up to six months full pay  than Nationwide says hed have got (based on its 
records in 1999). And they say Mrs M wouldve  got six months full pay followed by 
six months half pay. But the PPI wouldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months 
for each successful accident or sickness claim Mr and Mrs M made, which  is longer 
than their full sick pay lasted. And it wouldve paid out on top of their sick pay, which 
they mightve needed for other things. It would also have covered them in the same 
way if either of them lost their job. 
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr and Mrs M couldnt afford the cover.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for them,  Nationwide also had to give                    
Mr and Mrs M enough clear information  about  it for them  to be able to make  an informed 
decision about whether they wanted  it. I dont  know  what  steps Nationwide took to do this. 
But, as Ive said, I think its likely Mr and Mrs M agreed to the cover and I think  it was right for 
them in their circumstances. So I think clearer information, if it had been needed, would only 
have confirmed this to them and wouldnt have made them  change  their minds.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs M paid on their policy   and whether 
Nationwide treated them unfairly. 
Nationwide has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ms policy  was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Nationwide  has been working this 
out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ms commission  was 
less than half the cost of the policy. As thats  the case, I dont think it needed to tell them  
about the commission  so I dont think Nationwide treated them unfairly.  This means  it 
doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs M back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN93912023my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 September 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9391202