K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Society  of Lloyds decision to decline his accident claim.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision, a copy of which can 
be found below,  but to summarise:
Mr B suffered  from mechanical back pain and had been diagnosed with a constitutional and 
degenerative condition. Hed also injured himself whilst moving some pots around in the 
garden in September 2012.  The symptoms  Mr B had suffered got progressively worse after 
this incident and thats why he claimed on his accident policy. 
Lloyds declined his claim early on in January 2013, although, it appeared to do this 
prematurely as the independent medical  examiner was not in possession of Mr Bs full 
medical history. In any event, after the second  IME reached the same outcome as the first, 
and with the specialist having considered  the missing information, Lloyds declined his claim 
again as it was satisfied he did not meet the terms of the policy. 
Mr B challenged this further and, although  unsuccessful, he received £7,000  compensation 
for the lengthy  delays he was subjected to throughout the claims process.
Our investigator was satisfied Lloyds had not unreasonably declined  Mr Bs claim, however, 
he awarded a further £200 compensation because one of Lloyds subsidiaries, who had 
managed the claim, ignored Mr Bs emails asking for updates in relation to his complaint.
I also agreed that Lloyds  had not unreasonably rejected Mr Bs claim. But I did not think  it 
fair that Lloyds pay a further £200  to Mr B for the reasons given in my provisional decision. 
On balance, I felt the £7,000 compensation already paid was fair and so I asked both Mr B 
and Lloyds if they had anything further  to add before I reached a final decision. Neither made 
any further submissions and so Ill now make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  not made any further  representations,  theres nothing  further  for me to 
consider here. Whats  outlined in my provisional findings will now become my final decision.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Bs complaint because I consider the compensation already paid is fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN92224402[copy of provisional decision]
complaint
Mr Bs unhappy with the way hes been treated by Society of Lloyds and its decision to
decline his claim.
background
Mr B had accident protection cover through his employer.  This was a group policy and
he brings this complaint as a beneficiary under that policy.
Mr B made a claim  following a fall he had in September 2012. He injured his lower  back and
had a discectomy the following month. Since then, hes suffered from lower back  pain and
was diagnosed with Cauda  Equina Syndrome  (CES) which means the nerves in his lower
back are compressed.
Ref: DRN92224403Mr B said Lloyds failed to assess his claim  fairly  because it used inaccurate medical
information about his condition.  He also said it handled his claim  unfairly because  it failed to
take on board  suggested  comments he made about the independent medical examination
(IME). Hes also unhappy  about  the overall time taken to investigate his claim and said
Lloyds had caused unnecessary delays throughout the claims process. Mr B received £950
in hospitalisation and convalescent benefit under the policy. But ultimately,  he would now
like Lloyds  to accept his claim for permanent disability and pay further him compensation.
Lloyds said it could have  handled things better. In particular, it caused lengthy and
unnecessary delays over the four years it handled  Mr Bs claim. It paid him £7,000
compensation for this. But Lloyds said the decision to decline the claim  was fair because
Mr B didnt meet the terms of the policy.
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had declined  Mr Bs claim unfairly.  He said Lloyds was
entitled to use the information it did to reach an outcome. He felt £7,000 was a fair amount of
compensation for the delays in handling  his claim, but said a further £200 should be paid
because Lloyds effectively ignored Mr Bs requests to make  a complaint in early  2017.
Both Mr B and Lloyds disagreed  with our investigators findings,  Ill summarise both positions
below.
Mr B said:
 He wants  Lloyds to cover  the cost of another independent medical examination (IME)
which he equates  to over £2,000;
 The £7,000 compensation award was in fact an ex-gratia payment, meaning it should
not be taken into consideration by this service and would  therefore ask we assess his
case on that basis  and;
 He wants  a full and frank apology from Lloyds for the way it handled his claim.
Lloyds said the £7,000 it paid was compensation, not an ex-gratia payment. It also said this
is enough to reflect the level of trouble and upset  caused  by the delays and it would not be
appropriate to pay any more. And so its for me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I do not think  Lloyds
should do anything more  than it has already  in terms of this complaint. I say that because  I
consider the compensation  its already  paid Mr B to be fair and proportionate in the
circumstances. Ill explain why.
Lloyds has a responsibility to ensure it handles all claims promptly  and fairly. It also should
not unreasonably reject  a claim. This is its obligation  under Insurance Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (ICOBs)  set by the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA).
Mr B first raised  his claim in December 2012, following a fall he had in his garden in
September the same  year. Mr B identifies this incident  as the cause of the majority of his
problems with his lower  back. But Lloyds  declined his claim  and in January  2013 said the
policy does not provide cover for pre-existing medical  conditions. Lloyds took this decision
following a review of the hospital records which suggested Mr B had;
a three  year history of lumber region back pain
Ive also seen  Mr Bs extensive medical  history  back to 2009 and Im satisfied this was the
case. He suffered with sciatica since  2009 but said this was mild and under  control. I note he
was under the care of a physiotherapist for this. I also saw that hed suffered  with lower back
pain just a month before the incident in the garden following being cooped up on a flight.
This too prompted him to reach out for medical  support and Mr B underwent  the discectomy
in November as hed been diagnosed  with a ruptured L5/S1 disc.
Ref: DRN92224404Mr B said that since  then hes developed  CES and that its caused him a number of
problems with not only lower  back pain,  but also numbness in his legs and groin area. Its
because of this he raised a claim under the permanent disability section of his policy. Under
the policy,  Lloyds describes an accident as;
accident means a sudden, unexpected unusual specific event  which occurs at an
identifiable time and place during the period of insurance
Lloyds has said Mr B does not meet this term because his problems were  not caused by an
unexpected, unusual event  because they resulted from a degenerative and constitutional
condition. On that basis I dont think Lloyds  rejected  his claim unfairly  because it was clear
Mr B had suffered  with lower  back pain for a number  of years prior to the incident  in the
garden. Further,  Lloyds acknowledged the incident  in the garden  may have exacerbated the
injury which  was already present, but because it was not the sole cause, it said Mr B did not
meet the policy terms.
Mr B spent the next three years disputing  Lloyds decision to decline his claim. He received a
further letter  declining  his claim  in May 2016. This was following a visit to an orthopaedic
specialist for an independent medical  examination and an MRI scan. It was the opinion of
the specialist that all findings  were  constitutional and that Mr Bs discs  had degenerated 
which is consistent with the IME findings. In other words, the problems he suffered since
2012 were  not solely caused by the incident in the garden as the problems  appear to be
degenerative over time;
having reviewed records provided to me, I am of the opinion that these changes  were
developmental and continued the natural course of disc degeneration  and disc herniation
and not the result of the reported index accident
I also note Mr B had discussed his MRI scan with a neurosurgeon  in March 2013 where it
was confirmed  that there was further  disc degeneration and residual/recurrent  disc
degeneration. Meaning  there was always a chance that his condition could  get worse  over
time because  it was degenerative.
I know Mr B did not accept  the findings of the first IME and made further  objections to Lloyds
relying on them  because the specialist did not have access to his physiotherapists  medical
notes. I agree this could  have potentially jeopardised the accuracy of that report  but Im not
persuaded that it means the report should be ignored  altogether.  I say that because Lloyds
paid for a further IME with another  independent specialist and this second report supported
what the first identified. 
Following this Lloyds sent a further letter declining  Mr Bs claim at
the beginning of 2017. When asked  whether  the second specialist felt the symptoms
experienced by Mr B were  caused solely  by the garden incident, he said;
in my opinion on the balance of probabilities the incomplete CES and persisting symptoms
are not related to the index  accident of 6 September 2012 other than being  the final insult to
a serially damaged disc over a number of years
Its for these reasons I do not find that Lloyds rejected Mr Bs claim  unfairly.  From  the
evidence available, it would suggest  the issues  with his back were already present at the
time of the accident. And these were developmental over a period of time  meaning  Mr Bs
condition was not solely caused by an accident  as described under the policy. The reason
this is important is because Mr Bs policy  also describes  a bodily injury as;
BODILY INJURY means identifiable physical injury which:
(a) is caused by an accident, and
(b) solely and independently of any other cause, except  sickness or disease directly resulting
Ref: DRN92224405from, or medical  or surgical  treatment rendered  necessary by such injury, occasions YOUR
death or disablement  within twelve months from the date of the ACCIDENT
And so to be clear,  Mr B does not meet the definition of an accident as described under his
policy, nor does he his injury the result of an independent cause.
Mr B made the argument  that Lloyds should consider  the discectomy  and the CES as two
separate conditions, which Im satisfied  it has. But the two are also intrinsically linked as
described by the two specialists.  Im also more persuaded by the specialists comments
about the CES not being caused by the incident in the garden.  I am, therefore, satisfied  he
does not meet the policy terms.
Ive considered all Mr Bs arguments in response to this and whilst I take on board what hes
said, Ive not seen  any medical evidence  that persuades  me otherwise. Lloyds  has offered
Mr B the opportunity to produce a medical  report which challenges those already on file, but
Ive not seen  anything  of this nature so far. I will of course ask Lloyds  to consider this, should
Mr B produce  one within the deadline given  for this decision.
Mr B has made other arguments about the style of questions Lloyds  put to the independent
specialists, particularly because he wanted to effectively  authorise what  it wanted to ask.
Lloyds said itd consider Mr Bs proposals  which  Im satisfied  it did. Thats  not to say Lloyds
should accept the changes Mr B made to its intended questions. Lloyds  is entitled to ask
questions in order to validate a potential claim. Further, Ive not seen any evidence that
suggests Lloyds did this unfairly.
Mr B has asked that Lloyds pay for a third IME, but I do not find in his favour  here either. I
say that because its already  paid for two and both are consistent in that theres no medical
evidence to suggest Mr Bs injuries were caused solely by the incident  of September  2012.
Therefore, its now for Mr B to prove  his claim  and any further medical examination  thats
required will need to be at his own cost.
Overall, the claim  began in December 2012 and Mr B received his first decline  letter  the
following month.  I accept there  needed  to be further investigation into Mr Bs reported
symptoms after this and that took some time. To complicate matters, Lloyds  outsourced its
claims handling to a subsidiary, which was later changed during the life of Mr Bs claim.  This
caused further  unnecessary  and lengthy delays. Mr B raised this with Lloyds and was paid
£7,000 to acknowledge the poor claims  handling  experience. 
Mr B said this should not be
considered as part of our investigation. But I do not agree because I consider it to be Lloyds
way of apologising and compensating  him for the overall trouble and upset  it caused.
Ive thought about the delays  Mr B experienced and the action taken  by Lloyds to try and
resolve these.  I consider  the £7,000  compensation award to be substantial and more than I
would have awarded had there been no payment made for the trouble and upset  here. And
so although our investigator awarded  a further £200 compensation, I do not think  this is
payable because the compensation  already paid by Lloyds is more  than fair.
I note Mr B asked to raise  a complaint following  the third letter  declining his claim in at the
beginning of 2017. Lloyds subsidiary responded to Mr Bs email  and referred him to
complain directly to Lloyds. But Mr B did not do this. Instead, he continued to email the
subsidiary over the next six weeks asking for updates. Given  hed been signposted to
Lloyds, its unclear why he chose to do this.
However, I still think it reasonable to expect the subsidiary to have acknowledged Mr Bs
emails and perhaps reminded him to get in touch directly with Lloyds,  rather than simply
ignore him. In any event, however, I find the compensation already paid by Lloyds enough  to
acknowledge the additional  trouble and upset this caused. And thats why I will not be asking
Lloyds to make any further payment.
Ref: DRN92224406my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained Im planning on rejecting Mr Bs complaint because  I consider
the compensation hes already received  to be fair.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9222440