K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited has defaulted  her account, repossessed 
her car and terminated  her conditional sale agreement. And she complains about the service 
that shes received  from Moneybarn.
background
A used  car was supplied to Miss M under a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn that 
she signed in November 2014.  The agreement had a term of four years  and Miss M agreed  
to make monthly payments of £241.53.  She contacted Moneybarn about  a missed payment 
in 2016 and a reduced repayment  arrangement was set up  and it was reviewed every 
three months. Miss M missed the payment that was due under the reduced repayment 
arrangement in March  2017 and then didnt make  a payment until July 2017. Further 
reduced repayment arrangements were agreed   the last of which ended in March 2018. 
Moneybarn tried to contact Miss M and, when it was unable to do so, it issued a default 
notice on her account. She contacted  Moneybarn  in April 2018  and it recommended that she 
should obtain independent financial  advice  and call it back three  days later.  She didnt do 
that so Moneybarn terminated her agreement and obtained a court  order in June 2018 for 
repossession of the car. Miss M complained to Moneybarn but wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She said that she 
had the utmost  sympathy  for the situation in which Miss M found herself but she didn't think 
that it would  be fair for her to insist that Moneybarn  overturn  its decision to end the 
agreement. She said that it was evident that the account wasn't brought up to date and that 
Miss M didnt seek to retain the car. 
Miss M has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in 
summary, that shes facing financial difficulties due to the agreement  being ended unlawfully 
by Moneybarn and that the default  on her credit report is making it hard for her to get 
another car - which is causing her stress. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Miss M contacted Moneybarn in 2016  because  she was unable to make  her monthly 
payments as a result  of an attachment of earnings about her council tax bill. A reduced 
repayment arrangement  was agreed  and Moneybarn sent details  of it to Miss M. The 
reduced repayment arrangement was then reviewed  by Moneybarn every three months and 
further reduced repayment arrangements  were  agreed. 
A credit provider is required to respond to any financial difficulties that a customer  is 
experiencing positively and sympathetically. When Miss M contacted Moneybarn about her 
financial difficulties it agreed a reduced repayment arrangement  which it reviewed  
regularly. So I consider that it responded to Miss Ms financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. 
Miss M missed the payment that was due under the reduced repayment arrangement in 
March 2017 and then didnt make  a payment until July 2017. But Moneybarn agreed further 
Ref: DRN94595152reduced repayment arrangements with Miss M and didnt take any other action against her 
about her missed payments. So I consider that it continued to respond  to Miss Ms financial 
difficulties positively and sympathetically.
The last reduced  repayment arrangement ended in March 2018 and Moneybarn  says that it 
tried to contact Miss M by post,  e-mail and text  but she didnt respond to it. So it issued a 
default notice  on her account later that month which said that further enforcement  action 
would be taken if she didnt pay the arrears on her account and an administration fee - 
£875.65 in total  by a specified  date in April 2018. Miss M contacted  Moneybarn  on the date 
that the payment was due and it extended  the default notice by three  days to allow her to 
obtain independent financial advice and it said that she should call it back three days  later.  It 
says that it received no contact from Miss M so it terminated her agreement. And it obtained 
a court  order  in June  2018 for repossession  of the car. 
I consider that Moneybarn  complied with the terms of the agreement  when it terminated the 
agreement and it obtained a court order before repossessing the car. The car was then sold 
at auction and the sale proceeds were deducted from the outstanding amount that remains 
due from Miss M. Im not persuaded that Moneybarn unlawfully terminated the agreement   I 
consider that it acted  fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. And I consider that the 
information that its recorded  on Miss Ms credit file is true and accurate  so Im not 
persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require it the remove  that information.
Miss M has complained about the service that shes received  from Moneybarn.  But Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the service that shes  received from 
Moneybarn has fallen  below a reasonably acceptable standard. Its clear that Moneybarns 
representative was firm and direct when talking to Miss M about the default notice  but Im 
not persuaded that she was treated rudely.
I sympathise with Miss M for the financial difficulties that shes experienced. But Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Moneybarn  has acted incorrectly  in its 
dealings with Miss M. The agreement has been terminated and the car has been 
repossessed and sold. So her agreement cant be re-started. And I find that it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for me to require Moneybarn  to pay any 
compensation to Miss M - or to take any other  action  in response to her complaint.
Moneybarn must continue to respond  to Miss Ms financial difficulties positively  and 
sympathetically when  taking any further  action  to recover from her the outstanding amount 
that she owes to it.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2019.  
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9459515