K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that AXA Insurance  UK Plc has rejected her home insurance claim for 
accidental damage/loss and theft of her items during their removal from storage  when  
moving home. She further complains  that the policy was mis-sold to her leading her to 
believe she would be covered for the removal.
background
In November 2015 Ms M completed the sale of her former home and arranged  for a removal 
company to move all her goods into storage. She asked her then insurer if it would cover  the 
move and it said it would not. In December 2015 Ms M found  a policy with AXA through  a 
price comparison  website.  She spoke to the sales team to clarify  some matters and to 
arrange the purchase of the policy. Specifically  she asked if she would be covered for the 
removal of the goods  from storage to her new home.  She was told this coverage came as 
standard. She queried what the meaning of professional removers was and was later called 
back with clarification for this. She later spoke  to a different member of the sales team and 
purchased the policy.
In December 2015 Ms M completed the purchase  of her new property.  The same company, 
which had moved  her items in November to the storage unit, removed her goods from 
storage to her new property. However on looking through her goods Ms M noticed a large  
number of items had gone missing, including some  jewellery. Also a number of other items 
had been damaged. She initially informed the removers who sent her a claim form for their 
insurance. Ms M later,  in January 2016 made  a claim to AXA.  She was advised initially  that 
the claim wasnt covered  under the policy terms. This was because  removals  were only 
covered from the home to a new private  residence,  not to or from storage. 
Ms M protested that if she had been  told the removal from storage was not covered, shed 
have bought a different policy to cover  her. AXA agreed  to look at the claim.  It appointed loss 
adjusters who came  out for a site visit in late January. It was agreed that Ms M would draw  
up a list of items lost with their values and any proof of ownership, receipts etc. Ms M drew 
up a partial list and following this the loss adjusters carried out a further  site visit in March  
2016 and took a full statement  from Ms M. AXA agreed to wait for the police report and in 
the meantime  it still awaited a full loss list from Ms M. AXA was contacted  by Ms Ms 
representative but despite several  attempts by the loss adjusters to discuss the matter, 
neither Ms M nor her representative responded. The claim was closed in December 2016.
Ms M contacted AXA again in January 2017. She explained that she hadnt been able to 
draw up a fuller loss list. The loss adjusters attended  her home again and reported back  
further to AXA. After reviewing the circumstances of the case  AXA advised Ms M in 
August 2017 that it wouldnt be paying the claim.  It said that this was because the policy  
didnt cover removal from storage. It also said that it was likely that the goods were lost or 
damaged before the policy started. It did say that there had been delays and that it shouldnt 
have told her previously that it would  consider  the claim. It paid her compensation of £200.
Ms M pointed out that her complaint was about  the mis-sale  of the policy  to her and that this 
hadnt been addressed.  AXA issued a final response  on this point  in January 2021. It said 
that while it accepted Ms M was given incorrect information this wasnt the sole reason the 
claim was declined. It pointed out that there  was an exclusion for jewellery under the 
removals term in the policy  and that, on balance,  it was likely that the loss and damage 
occurred before the start date of the policy. So even if the policy  were to cover the removal  
Ref: DRN94008142from storage the loss occurred before then. AXA paid Ms M a further £100 because  of the 
incorrect information.
Ms M referred  her complaints  to this service. We considered  the decline of the claim 
separately from the mis-sale though  for reasons I shall explain I think the two complaints 
should be considered together. In respect of the claim our investigator  said that the policy 
didnt cover removal from storage. This included any damage or loss caused up until the 
removal was complete. In respect of the alleged mis-sale our investigator advised  that 
though Ms M had been given incorrect information, there was no mis-sale of the policy  and 
the payment of compensation was sufficient to address this.
Ms M disagreed, she said she had very clearly  been  mis-sold  the policy having been 
assured it covered her from the storage  facility  to her new home. She thought it most likely 
that the loss and damage occurred at her new home. She pointed  out that there were 
random items missing because of the way they were packed,  so they were likely to have  
been taken from the removal  van by an opportunistic  thief outside of the new home. She 
thought it unlikely that the goods  had been  stolen from her former home as this is in a 
remote location where strangers would have  been  noticed. She further said that when AXA 
reconsidered its initial decision  it promised it would  pay the claim and that it has gone back 
on that promise.
Ms M made  further complaints that she was discriminated against on the grounds  of her 
disability and that when she made her claim, she was told not to approach  the removal  
companys insurer or her former insurer. Those complaints have been dealt with by me 
already, under a separate refence number, within a previous final decision.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that although I thought that the policy had been mi-
sold to Ms M, I didnt think  that she had shown that the loss likely occurred during the policy  
term.
AXA accepted my provisional decision.
Ms M didnt accept my provisional decision.  She made the following points:
It is not the case that she asked her then insurer if it would cover the move and it said it 
would not. The previous  insurer  did cover  the move, from their end. But as the period 
between her house sale and new purchase was then thought likely to be more than a 
month they said they would not insure her for longer  than this time. 
She disputes my saying that despite  several  attempts by the loss adjusters to discuss 
the matter neither  she nor her representative responded.
She believes that on the balance of probabilities at least a percentage of the damage  
happened at the new property. She never thought AXA was solely  liable for all the loss 
and damage.  It should pay a proportion of the loss.
She says there is evidence, by way of admissions from the removers that some of the 
damage to her items  took place  in her new home.  
AXA should treat her claim  on the basis it was sold to her, as she has established  at 
least a few things  she knows for sure happened at or on the way to the new home.  Then 
Ref: DRN94008143by AXA reopening up and accepting  these few things, it will also have to then become 
responsible for the claim on the removers insurer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following  were my provisional findings:
claim
Ms Ms claim was under the removals section  of the policy. This covers:
Accidental damage or loss to contents  while being  removed by professional  removal  
contractors, from the home  to any new private  residence. 
So from the point  of view of whether the policy terms which actually applied covered removal 
from storage to Ms Ms new home  its clear  that they dont  only removal from one home to 
another is covered. So, even if the damage and loss occurred whilst items were  unloaded at 
Ms Ms new home, the policy itself doesnt  cover the claim. For the avoidance of doubt, if it 
could be shown that there was accidental damage or loss caused  by the removers within the 
new home this is still not, in my view, covered under the above term as the contents were  
still being handled as part of the removal process  which began at the storage unit. 
mis-sale
Ms M says she was mis-sold the policy and was specifically told that it covered the removal  
from storage. Ive listened to the calls made in December 2015, In the first call Ms M 
specifically asked if the policy covered removal from storage to her new property. The sales  
person confirmed that it applied as standard. He referred to the policy term on removals  but 
didnt read it out in full, as Ms M queried  what professional removal contractors  meant. The 
sales person advised  he would go away and find out, and it was arranged that he would call 
Ms M back. He duly did so and would have had the opportunity to clarify  the meaning  of the 
policy term. If he had drawn  Ms Ms attention  to the exclusions she could  have been  advised 
that it didnt apply to accidental  loss or damage while in storage or to jewellery.
I note AXAs  point that Ms M should have looked at the policy terms herself  but where her 
very reason for buying the policy was to ensure  cover during removals,  and where  shed 
specifically asked AXA a question in this respect  to ensure the cover was suitable,  I think it 
was reasonable  for her to rely on what the sales person had told her. And while she allowed  
the policy to remain  in place for a further  two years the initial advice to her concerned the 
removals. So although I note that AXA offered to cancel the policy and refund  the premium  
this didnt remedy the problem its initial poor advice had created.
I think the policy was mis-sold to Ms M. Im satisfied that if it had answered her question  
adequately, she wouldnt have taken this policy and would have found cover  elsewhere that 
did suit her needs. This means that AXA should act as though  the policy in place would have 
covered the contents whilst being  removed from storage.  But as with any claim, Ms M 
reasonably needs to show that the loss or damage occurred during the policy  term  in this 
case during that removal.
Ref: DRN94008144proof of loss
The onus is on the policyholder to show that an insured event  most  likely caused the 
damage or loss. This applies in all cases whether or not as here the policyholder  was 
wrongly advised they have cover. So I must  consider whether Ms M has shown that 
accidental loss during removal or any other  insured event in the policy  most  likely caused the 
damage. Ms M believes the damage was most likely  caused in or outside her new property. 
The reasons  she gives are that the removal van was parked on a busy road and anyone 
could have taken  a box or two. She says this couldnt have happened outside her old home 
as it was in a remote location  and strangers would have been noticed.
Whilst I understand Ms Ms reasoning, I note that Ms M wasnt  present at her old property 
(for understandable  reasons)  when  the removers  took the goods from there to storage, and 
no inventory was undertaken. I understand the boxes  were in an unoccupied house for 
several days and that as well as the removers the agents and a handyman had the key. 
Ms M also says some of her jewellery  boxes  were returned to her empty which would  rule 
out an opportunistic  thief grabbing them  from the van.
As regards  damage, Ms M refers to items being  damaged by the removers but isnt able to 
say that they were  damaged by them at or in transit from storage to her new home.
So bearing in mind that the policy only came into effect on the date of removal  to Ms Ms 
new home, I dont think shes been  able show that the items went missing or were  stolen or 
damaged during that removal. If she has evidence that items were  damaged  by the 
removers whilst at or in transit from storage to her new address, I would invite  her to show  
the evidence to me in response  to this provisional  decision.
I note the possibility that items might have  been stolen by thieves when in the new home.  If 
that were the case the normal theft policy term applies. But Ms M still has to show  that that 
most likely happened  and I dont think she has.
In conclusion I dont  think AXA acted unfairly  when  it concluded that Ms M has been unable  
to show that an insured  event under the policy terms most  likely caused the damage or loss. 
Im currently  satisfied that its refusal  to make any settlement to Ms M was reasonable. 
advice/delays/promise to pay the claim
I think its clear  that right from the start AXA had decided  that it couldnt  pay the claim under 
the terms of the policy. But it did agree to consider the claim on account of the mis-sale.  It 
seems that was a direct  result of it considering the sales  calls and realising Ms M had been 
misled. Thats why in my view it only served to confuse matters  when AXA said it wasnt 
considering mis-sale and Ms M had to make a specific  complaint about it.
I dont think AXA promised to pay the claim  it clearly said it would be considering the claim 
and as part of that instructed its loss adjusters to investigate the claim. I think it was 
reasonable to ask Ms M for a loss list and for it to be complete with values and all available  
receipts and proof of ownership. This didnt amount to an agreement to pay what  Ms M set 
out. Ms M says she did supply that but clearly the loss list she supplied  wasnt  complete. I do 
note Ms M had health difficulties from March 2016 which meant  that she wasnt  able to 
address the list. But she had appointed someone to represent her and the loss adjusters 
made several attempts  to make contact. It was only in January 2017 that Ms M said she was 
Ref: DRN94008145now acting for herself that the matter  was able to progress.  And I think  that the loss adjusters 
tried to help with the itemising of the list.
AXA advised  Ms M in August 2017 that it wouldnt be paying  the claim.  I do think this was an 
unnecessary delay from the point of the claim being  reopened in January 2017. I note that in 
its final response letter AXA referred  back to the policy term on removal and I take Ms Ms 
point that it could have told her this in the first place rather than holding out that it would be 
considering the claim. I think it should  at that stage have specifically referred to the mis-sale. 
Having said that it did explain  that it also considered that the loss occurred before the policy 
came into being.
I do think there were delays and that AXA was unclear about the reasons for it reconsidering 
the claim.
compensation
AXA has paid a total of £300  compensation, £200 for the delays and in holding out that it 
would be considering the claim  and £100 for the wrong advice  leading  to the initial  mis-sale  
of the policy. Having considered all the issues and bearing in mind my conclusions  I think  
that a reasonable amount  of compensation has been paid. So I wont  award any further 
compensation.
With regard to Ms Ms previous insurer, it may well be that it wouldnt have covered the 
move into storage for the same reason that AXAs policy wouldnt cover the move from 
storage. But I dont know if that was the case as no claim was made  to those insurers,  and 
Im not considering  here a complaint  about  those insurers. In a previous decision I dealt with 
the issue of the advice  given to Ms M about  recovery, and I said that AXA wasnt at fault in 
that respect.  Ms M was aware from August 2017  that AXA had declined to pay the claim. 
Whilst Ms M disputes that AXA tried to get in touch with her or her representative during the 
period from March 2016 to January 2017,  I can only go from the contemporaneous  notes on 
the file. These show it made attempts to contact  her then representative and received no 
reply.
Turning to the question of proof of loss, I considered  very seriously whether I could be 
satisfied that the loss/damage most likely  occurred  at or in transit to Ms Ms new property, 
even in part. And as Ms M says the loss could have happened at her old home, and theres 
a lot of speculation about how or when the loss occurred. Put simply no-one really  knows,  
and I should clarify that Ive not made  a finding  as to where I think  the loss occurred.  And in 
those circumstances  I cant  justify  making  AXA responsible for even a small proportion of the 
claim, as that would suggest that there  is evidence that part of the loss occurred at the new 
property.
As regards  the specific items Ms M says she has evidence were damaged at her new home, 
I cant see that, apart from Ms Ms assertions, any such evidence  exists. She says the 
removers made admissions to that effect.  In her witness statement to the police, Ms M says 
she questioned  the manager  of the removers  via WhatsApp about missing items. He denied 
any responsibility and said it was impossible for items to go missing. She contacted  him 
again when she found further  items  missing.  He said he would be contacting his legal team,  
and she asked for the name of his insurer. In response he sent her a claim form to complete. 
Ive not seen any evidence that any written admissions were  made  by the removers  about 
losing or damaging any items. In a report to AXA of 28 July 2017, the loss adjusters set out a 
Ref: DRN94008146list of items damaged  and the cost of repair. Some of those items Ms M says she has proof 
of where they were  damaged.  The loss adjusters  commented however that we do wish to 
reiterate again  that we have no way of establishing whether these items were  damaged  or 
broken as a result of the transit.
So I havent seen  evidence that establishes whether  it is most  likely  that any items were 
damaged at or in transit to Ms Ms new home.  I should add also that even if could  be 
established that AXA has a liability for a few items, that wouldnt reopen  the claim so far as 
any of the other items are concerned. If it paid for those items  AXA could choose to try and 
recoup the money from the removers insurers. But it wouldnt be required to and in deciding 
whether or not to pursue such a recovery it would  likely take into account that, over 5 years 
later the chance  of such action being  successful might  be limited..
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 August 2021.
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9400814