K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the advice he received from The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited (Prudential) when  he wanted  to take the tax free cash from his pension plan 
to pay off his outstanding  debts. He says as a result of Prudentials actions he had to 
withdraw all of his retirement  benefits   so he has no pension provision left  and had to pay 
around £8,000  in tax. He wants Prudential to compensate him for this loss. 
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 12 May 2020- a copy of which is attached  and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld and 
invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make. 
Prudential said it didnt  have anything further to add and accepted the provisional  decision. 
Mr D said he was disappointed with the outcome. but didnt have anything further to add. 
Although he asked if would still receive  the £100  that the investigator had originally 
recommended as compensation.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided any further 
information for me to consider, I see no reason to change the conclusions I came to in my 
provisional decision. 
I know Mr D would still like to be paid the £100 our investigator originally  recommended. But 
as I explained  within the provisional  decision, I didnt think Prudential  was responsible for 
Mr D encashing his whole pension pot, and I was satisfied that Prudential had made Mr D 
aware of his other options when he wanted to draw his benefits. 
So, I dont think Prudential has done anything wrong here and it wouldnt be fair for me to 
ask it to pay compensation if I thought  it had acted fairly. 
my final decision
For the same reasons  Ive already given in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ds 
complaint against  The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 September 2020.
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN96740142Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr D complains about the advice he received from The Prudential Assurance Company Limited  
(Prudential) when he wanted  to take the tax free cash from his pension plan to pay off his outstanding  
debts. He says as a result  of Prudentials  actions he had to withdraw all of his retirement benefits  so 
he has no pension  provision left  and had to pay around £8,000 in tax. He wants Prudential to 
compensate him for this loss. 
background
Mr D contacted Prudential in June 2018 as he was approaching 55 years of age and was considering 
using the benefits  from his pension  to repay his outstanding debt management  plan, which consisted 
of four separate creditors. He was advised to call back within 30 days  of his retirement date which  he 
did on 27 June 2018. On that date Prudential  gathered  some information  from Mr D, highlighted  some 
of his options, and said it would send out an information  pack.  
Following receipt of the pack Mr D contacted Prudential  to discuss  the matter  further. During the call it 
was identified that Mr Ds plan only permitted an annuity  to be taken  and didnt  allow for the 
drawdown option he was considering. So Mr D was referred  to an adviser  who said that he would 
have to transfer the pension to a flexi-access drawdown  plan and then withdraw his tax free cash to 
pay off his debts. But in order to do that, and for her to provide advice, the adviser said Mr D would 
need to provide an accurate  settlement figure from the debt management company.
The debt management company said it was unable to confirm whether the individual creditors could 
make a claim on Mr Ds pension  and suggested  that he spoke with the Citizens  Advice Bureau. When 
Mr D forwarded this information to the adviser  she said Mr D needed to resolve the issues with his 
creditors and get back to her when hed done so. But by August 2018 Mr D hadnt been able to get a 
settlement figure  from his creditors and decided  to take all his pension benefits as cash, as he wasnt  
required to take financial advice  in order to follow  that course of action.
In September 2018 the adviser contacted Mr D who confirmed that hed fully encashed  his pension. 
He said he felt that Prudential had left him in a difficult position and thought its actions were 
responsible for him having  to take all the benefits as cash.  He asked the adviser to register a 
complaint on his behalf.  He said hed paid £7,134.83 in tax which he didnt think he was fair as hed 
only originally asked  to withdraw the tax free cash sum. 
Prudential didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said its adviser told Mr D that he would need to obtain 
confirmation of the amounts outstanding from his creditors before it could pay the tax free sum. It said 
this was its usual process to ensure it could  justify its advice  to pay out the funds  required, so it 
thought it had acted correctly in this case. It said it didnt  tell Mr D he had to encash the entire  fund 
and  had he contacted it before doing so, could have discussed other alternatives with him. 
Prudential also explained  that Mr D was able to encash  his pension because he didnt require advice 
to do so but in order for him to transfer his funds to a drawdown plan and withdraw his tax free cash 
he did need to take advice.
Mr D was unhappy with this outcome, so he brought his complaint  to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. She thought that Prudential had provided  some unclear 
information during a telephone call in July 2018, which had influenced Mr Ds decision to withdraw his 
pension as a cash lump sum. She thought it ought to have explained the option for Mr D to transfer 
his pension to alternative providers and should pay him £100. But she believed he was still likely  to 
have required advice to enter drawdown with another provider so she didnt think  Prudential  should  
compensate Mr D for the tax hed paid. 
Ref: DRN96740143Both sides disagreed  with the investigators  assessment. Mr D said he had a drawdown plan with 
another provider into which he could  have  transferred  his Prudential plan and withdrawn funds   
without taking  financial advice. But he says Prudential didnt make him aware  of that option. 
Prudential said it had made Mr D aware of the option to shop around and transfer his fund to other 
providers before  the call of 11 July 2018. And it said it thought it explained the situation  clearly in that 
call too. But the investigator was still of the view that Prudential could have been clearer during that 
call and that it should  pay Mr D £100. 
As no resolution has been found the complaints been passed to me for a review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Was Prudential responsible for Mr D encashing his whole  pension?
When Mr D asked to withdraw  his pension benefits, for the purpose he gave,  I would have expected 
Prudential not to put unnecessary barriers  or impose penalties upon his request. But, at the same 
time, Prudential was providing Mr D with advice on what to do, so it had to ensure this advice was 
suitable for his circumstances. 
Prudential has confirmed that if Mr D simply wanted to encash his pension he could  have done so 
without advice, but if he wanted to withdraw some tax free cash  and leave the residual fund, he would 
have needed to transfer his pension  to a drawdown plan  which necessitated him receiving advice.
If Prudential had simply given  Mr D any sum of money he requested  without understanding  why- 
this may have led to Mr D receiving unnecessary income and/or  tax free cash  an outcome which 
could have been seen  as giving Mr D unsuitable advice.
So it seems  reasonable to me that, as a first requirement, Prudential would need to know how much 
cash Mr D needed, and also that he should provide some  evidence of that amount from the creditors 
concerned.  And, in Mr Ds case,  it was unclear whether the individual creditors  as opposed to his 
debt management company   might have a further claim on his pension.  So I think  its reasonable 
that Prudential asked for some proof of that position too.
The adviser  asked Mr D to contact her when  he had the required information, and he did provide her 
with the information from the debt management  company. But it was inconclusive and I think  it was 
reasonable for the adviser to ask Mr D to make further enquiries. I havent seen any evidence to show 
that at that time Mr D was advised to encash his entire  pension to achieve  his objectives with the 
consequences that entailed.  
When the adviser next spoke  to Mr D to find out the situation Mr D explained  that hed encashed his 
pension. He said he felt Prudential had put him in a difficult  position whereby he couldnt  get the 
information it requested and therefore he couldnt get the advice he needed to transfer to a drawdown  
product  which I accept was probably  more  suitable for his circumstances  at that time. 
But there isnt any persuasive evidence to show Prudential wouldnt  have given  him the help and 
advice he wanted   it simply needed some information first.  And theres  no evidence to show that 
Prudential told Mr D that it was in his best interest to encash the entire pension  fund. It had explained  
that was one of his options  which  didnt  require any advice. But I dont think it suggested that was a 
course of action Mr D should undertake. 
So I dont think Prudential has done anything wrong regarding this matter and I dont think it was 
responsible for Mr D having to encash his pension fund. That was for Mr D to consider when he 
realised he may not have  been able to get the information  about his outstanding debt.  
Ref: DRN96740144I think  it was his decision  alone  to take that option  without discussing with Prudential  what other 
options there  might  have  been. 
Did Prudential make Mr D aware of his other options?
 
Prudential has provided evidence to show that it spoke to Mr D several times before the call of 
9 July 2018, when the various options were discussed  following Mr Ds receipt  of the information  
pack. Ive listened carefully to those calls and heard how Mr D was signposted  to call Prudential  within 
30 days of his retirement date  his 55th birthday.  During the call of 27 June 2018 Prudential 
introduced the concept  of contacting  Pension Wise and offered to give Mr D its details. It also said, 
the next step would be to send out an options  pack to you, which  would highlight what  you need to 
consider including  how to shop around.its important that you understand all these options available 
to you. 
Mr D says he held a drawdown plan with another provider which  could have accepted a transfer from 
his Prudential plan and paid him the tax free cash sum available. He says Prudential didnt  make him 
aware of that option. So Ive carefully  considered  the information  Mr D was provided with in the 
options pack  of 9 July 2018. Mr D has confirmed that he received this information and that it was this 
which led him to contact  Prudential on 11 July 20118,  so Im satisfied that Mr D was given the 
opportunity to consider the information contained within the brochure.  
On the second page of one of the brochures,  entitled decisions decisions  Prudential confirmed the 
importance  of shopping around which said When you're deciding  what you want to do with your 
pension pot, you should consider all the options and their tax implications. Pension  providers offer 
different products with different features and options,  including the product terms, rates, funds or 
charges that might be appropriate for your individual needs and circumstances. That's why it's 
important you shop  around.  So whatever you decide to do - whether  that's  an annuity, drawdown or 
something else, its the right decision for you".
And the covering  letter enclosed the Money Advice Service guide and Pension Wise flyer, both of 
which contained sections  on shopping around and getting advice. The letter also confirmed Its 
important to remember that different providers offer different options,  some of which may be more 
appropriate for your individual needs and circumstances. In view of this, you should  shop around so 
that whatever you decide to do, its the right decision for you.
So I dont agree  that Prudential  didnt  make Mr D aware of his other options. Although it didnt 
specifically tell him to transfer to his drawdown plan with another provider it did set out his alternatives 
 which included speaking to other providers to see if it could offer an option that was in his best 
interests. And while Prudential suggested that Mr D did speak to its financial adviser  to determine his 
most suitable option, I havent seen any evidence which  said such  advice with Prudential  was 
mandatory. Indeed, during  the telephone conversation  Mr D had with Prudential  on 11 July 2018 
Prudential advised  do you need to take the full policy?  Or you can transfer it to another provider that 
may offer anything else.
I know Mr D would like me to conclude  that Prudential should have told him to transfer his benefits  to 
the drawdown  plan with the other provider, but I dont think that was a reasonable  expectation. 
Theres nothing to suggest Prudential  was aware of the other drawdown plan and it was only 
providing information  to Mr D at that point, so I wouldnt  have expected  it to do anything other than 
provide generic information  about shopping around.
When Mr D decided to encash his pension, Prudential  wrote to him enclosing the relevant paperwork. 
It advised  Mr D to approach Pension Wise for impartial  information about his retirement  options. Mr D 
ticked a box in his application for the return of funds form which said yes, I have used the pension 
wise service. So I have  to conclude that he did consider  the information  Pension Wise  provided  
including a brochure entitled  your pension: its time to choose  which contained  a number of 
important statements and which confirmed  Mr Ds alternative options.  
Ref: DRN96740145One such  note said Even if you just want to access your tax-free  cash for now, you still have to make 
a decision about what to do with the other 75% of your pension pot. If you dont then it's likely  it will 
end up by default in your current  provider's  flexi-access drawdown product. Your current provider's 
product may be the best one for you, but you won't know unless you have compared it to other 
products on the market.  To help you shop around we strongly suggest you see a regulated financial 
adviser.
In addition, Ive seen the cancellation notice that was included with the application  and confirmed,  
within the section headed  What is the Open  Market Option?
 This allows you to transfer your pension  fund to another pension company  which may mean  that you 
are able to get better rates for setting up your pension, or give you access  to a wider range of pension 
options.
 Different pension companies  will offer different  rates for buying a pension,  and different rates 
depending on the type of pension  you choose.
 If you buy your pension with a company other than Prudential,  the fund will be transferred to the 
other company. 
Within the paperwork Mr D received there  were  also a number  of other references about transferring 
the pension to other  providers, and several  sections allowed for the inputting  of the other providers 
details where required.
So, even at the point  Mr D had decided  to draw  his pension entirely  as cash, he was provided  with a 
number of documents which  confirmed the other options available to him  one of which was to 
approach other  providers  to set up an alternative drawdown plan. Im satisfied that Mr D was made 
aware, at various times during this process, of the opportunity to transfer his pension elsewhere   
including to his existing drawdown plan  instead of having to use Prudential.
Of course Mr D had initially spoken to an adviser  from Prudential, but Mr D didnt  seek any further 
advice before  he encashed his plan. In any case the adviser worked for Prudential, so she wouldnt 
have been able to directly  advise on the drawdown plan Mr D held with another provider, although  Ive 
taken into account theres no evidence  to show that the adviser was even aware Mr D held the other 
plan. But I think the information that was set out within those documents ought  to have alerted  Mr D to 
the fact that he could have  spoken to other providers before he decided to encash his plan.  
I note the calculation  that was carried out to confirm how much Mr D would receive when he fully 
encashed his pension was carried out, as required, on a month 1 basis. So its possible, depending 
on Mr Ds tax position  for the rest of the tax year that he may have paid additional  tax. He might 
therefore consider contacting  HMRC to see if he can claim a refund.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  that Ive given Im not currently minded to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9674014