K820x#14complaint
Mr T and Ms K complained because they feel Avantia Insurance Limited mis-sold their home 
insurance policy and their legal expenses insurance  policy.
background
Mr T and Ms K were  having a loft conversion and they wanted  to insure their home and 
contents while the renovation was taking place. They were looking for a policy  that would 
provide cover for things that could go wrong  during the renovation  specifically the builder 
doing a poor job and/or  the builder failing to complete the work.
After searching the internet for renovation insurance, Mr T completed an application  form 
on Avantias website. He then spoke to Avantia, who clarified  the nature of the renovations 
and that the information  Mr T had provided in the application form was correct.  Avantia sent 
Mr T details  of the quote.
Amongst the information  provided, Avantia outlined some endorsements that would apply to 
the policy. Two of those  were:
17. Contractors Exclusion  clause
Loss, damage or liability arising out of the activities  of contractors is excluded
and
Renovations Endorsement Two
Whilst the HOME or OUTBUILDING  is being  renovated, WE wont  provide  cover for:
INSURED  LOSSES or damage  to any part of the building or renovation  works whilst  
works are in progress;
INSURED LOSSES, damage or liability from any work done by a contractor;
Unfixed materials or goods used as part of the renovation  work;
ACCIDENTAL DAMAGE under all sections of YOUR policy;
Storm, water ingress, weight of snow and escape of water if the property  is not fully wind or 
watertight1
Mr T spoke  with Avantia  on three more occasions.  He then bought two policies  one for 
buildings and contents and one for legal expenses.
After the sale Avantia  sent the insurance  policy documents to Mr T confirming the cover 
provided. The Contractors Exclusion  clause  endorsement had now been removed, but the 
Renovations Endorsement  Two remained.
1 This is how the endorsement is set out in the Insurance Offer part of the information that was sent; 
although the wording is the same, its set out slightly  differently (ie with five bullet  points) in the 
Statement of Fact part of the information that was sent.
Ref: DRN90918652The builder  didnt complete the work  so Mr T and Ms K tried to claim under their policies. 
They were  told the policies didnt provide cover for (a) the remaining outstanding work  to be 
completed, or (b) the legal costs  they might  occur in taking the builder to court. 
Mr T and Ms K have  complained because  feel they were sold the wrong policy  and were  
misled by Avantia.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I didnt think the complaint should  be 
upheld. The relevant parts of that decision are outlined below.
general considerations  
Ill generally only uphold a mis-sale complaint  if the policy  was mis-sold  and if the 
consumer was disadvantaged by the mis-sale.
This wasnt  an advised sale as Avantia didnt advise Mr T and Ms K or recommend that 
they buy the policies. Avantias obligation was to provide sufficient  clear  information so 
Mr T and Ms K could  decide whether or not to buy the policies. It didnt have to ensure 
the policies met Mr T and Ms Ks needs.
buildings and contents policy
Avantias website (which Avantia confirmed hadnt materially changed from the time of 
the sale) described  the policy as:
home renovation insurance
home insurance during renovation
renovation insurance;  and
need renovation  insurance, get a quote,  it only takes  10 mins.
For details of the cover the policy provided the user had to click on a Policy booklets  link 
and then onto a Buildings and/or Contents  cover pdf link.
I didnt think the information in the website was misleading. Although it mentioned  cover  
for homes being renovated,  it didnt say or intimate that the policy provided the specific 
type of cover Mr T and Ms K were looking for. It essentially explained the policy  was a 
standard buildings and contents policy, which covered homes that were being renovated.
Id listened  to recordings of the telephone  conversations Mr T had with Avantias 
advisors during  the sale. There was no discussion in any of them  about  the type of policy 
Mr T and Ms K were  looking  for or the specific cover they wanted.  The discussion 
centred on cover  the policy  provided.
In the second  call (ie the first call after Mr T had received details of the quote) Mr T said 
hed noticed there was no accidental damage  cover  during the renovations.  Avantias 
advisor said he was still covered  for everything  and that the wording of the policy  was 
being changed as it looked  like he wasnt covered for anything  which  wasnt  correct. 
Mr T mentioned that if there was any damage  he could claim on the contractors 
insurance but if there was a dispute  over who caused the damage it was nice to know  
theres cover. Avantias  advisor confirmed that Mr T was 100%  covered. Mr T finally 
Ref: DRN90918653asked if accidental damage was covered during the renovations,  and Avantias advisor 
said no but everything else was covered.
In the final call Mr T talked about  a potential dispute  with the builder,  but he asked 
whether the legal expenses policy would cover that situation. Later in the call Mr T 
referred back to the second call when he was told hed be covered  during the 
renovations except for accidental damage. Avantias advisor  said that was correct.
I didnt think the information Avantia gave during the telephone calls was misleading. It 
didnt intimate or confirm that the policy provided  the specific type of cover 
Mr T and Ms K were  looking  for. Avantias advisors said things like youre  covered for 
everything and youre 100% covered,  but I thought that was in respect to all the other 
parts of the policy  being in force rather than it confirming there  was cover for absolutely  
everything that might happen.
Avantia wasnt to know, because it was never  discussed, that Mr T and Ms K needed 
and wanted cover  for the builders poor workmanship or for him failing  to complete the 
work. Given the nature of the policy Mr T and Ms K applied for (ie a standard  buildings  
and contents policy), I thought Avantia was entitled to work on the basis  that was the 
cover they needed and wanted.
I concluded that the buildings  and contents policy wasnt mis-sold as I didnt think  Avantia 
gave Mr T and Ms K any misleading information regarding  the cover  provided by the policy.
legal expenses policy
The policy wont pay for losses or costs of legal action  arising  directly  or indirectly  from 
altering or constructing buildings.  In the final call Mr T referred to a potential dispute with 
the builder and asked Avantias advisor if the legal expenses policy would cover that 
situation. The advisor said yes if Mr T and Ms K chose full cover;  and that theyd get 
£25,000 for legal  costs for property related disputes under  the basic cover. Mr T then 
said he thought  goods and services  were in the cover he selected  and the advisor 
confirmed that was the case.
I thought Avantias advisor confirmed to Mr T, or gave him the strong impression, that 
hed be covered for legal costs if there was a dispute with the builder. But that was 
incorrect  as legal action arising from the building work wasnt covered. I didnt think 
Avantia telling Mr T to read the full policy wording was enough to correct  this 
misinformation. I therefore concluded that Avantia mis-sold the policy.
But I didnt think the mis-sale disadvantaged  Mr T and Ms K. Mr T and Ms K had another  
legal expenses policy that covered them for the dispute they had. But their claim was 
ultimately declined/abandoned as it didnt have any prospects of success   because the 
builder had closed  his company and there were no funds  available to pay Mr T and Ms K 
even if they won a court case.
I felt this meant that if Avantias  mis-sold  policy had covered Mr T and Ms K for a dispute 
against the builder, it was most likely  the same thing would have happened.  So they 
hadnt lost out because  of the mis-sale or the policy excluding  legal action arising  from 
altering or constructing their home   they lost out because the builder closed his 
company and left no funds to pay any costs.
Ref: DRN90918654Although I felt the policy had been  mis-sold, I didnt think this disadvantaged Mr T and Ms K.
responses to my provisional  decision
Avantia confirmed it had received my provisional decision but it didnt make any further  
comment.
Mr T and Ms K didnt  agree with my decision.  They  provided me with a copy  of the 
information Avantia  sent them after the first call (which I didnt initially  have).  They felt that by 
saying they were 100% covered after Mr Ts enquiry about the endorsement Avantia 
confirmed they would  be covered for all eventualities. So they thought  my conclusion on the 
buildings and contents policy was unfair.
They also felt my conclusion on the legal expenses  policy was unfair given Id decided  it had 
been mis-sold. They questioned why they were being penalised when the mis-sold policy 
denied them the opportunity of pursuing the builder through the Courts.  They said the claim 
on their other policy was months after the problem with the builder occurred, and if they'd 
been able to claim on the Avantia policy when  the problem was first reported they might 
have been able to take the builder to court and/or been able to recoup some  money.  They 
didnt think their other policy should have any effect  my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
buildings and contents policy
I remain of the opinion that Avantias website  wasnt  misleading in describing the type of 
policy being advertised. It used words and phrases such as home renovation  insurance 
and home insurance  during  renovation and thats what the policy covered  insurance for 
the buildings  and contents whilst the home  was being renovated.  I accept the policy  didnt 
provide the exact cover  Mr T and Ms K wanted,  but in my opinion  the website  never said or 
intimated that the policy provided  that cover.
I dont agree that using renovation insurance  leads people to conclude  that problems with 
the build  or workmanship will be covered.  And I dont agree that Avantia asking questions 
about the renovation and requiring things like the builders liability  insurance indicate that 
Mr T and Ms K would be insured for the type of eventualities they wanted  to insure against. 
Avantia needs  to collect the information about  the renovation so the insurer  can decide 
whether its prepared to provide insure  the property and, if so, at what  cost.
Im also of the opinion  that Avantia didnt provide Mr T with any misleading information 
during the first phone call. Mr T highlighted a part in the call where Avantias advisor  said so 
this is surrounding  the renovation work of the property,  but I dont think that adds anything. 
The advisor wasnt asking  a question (and thereby possibly confirming anything about  the 
policy cover)  he seemed to me to be introducing that he was getting confirmation from 
Mr T that what  hed put on the application  form about the renovation was accurate.
The documents that were sent to Mr T and Ms K after the initial  phone  call were confusing  in 
the sense that the policy was being  advertised  as providing buildings and contents  cover 
whilst a home was being  renovated but the endorsements quoted  above  appeared to take 
Ref: DRN90918655away that very cover. I can therefore  see why Mr T wanted to get clarification on this from 
Avantia.
An endorsement outlining  what  isnt covered replaces or adds to whats excluded in the 
standard terms of the policy. So if the endorsement is deemed to not apply whats  covered 
and whats excluded reverts back to whats in the policy. Something  excluded by an 
endorsement isnt suddenly covered by the removal of the endorsement if that cover was 
never there in the first place.
Avantias advisor  said in the second  call that Mr T and Ms K would be covered for everything 
(corrected to everything apart from accidental damage later in the call) and that he was 
100% covered when Mr T raised the issue about  accidental damage not being covered 
during the renovation works. But I remain of the view that this wasnt misleading in respect of 
it intimating or confirming  that the policy provided  the specific  type of cover Mr T and Ms K 
were looking  for. The comments along the lines of youre covered for everything  and 
youre 100% covered essentially confirmed that all parts of the policy (apart  from accidental 
damage) were in force. They didnt confirm that there was cover for absolutely everything 
that might  happen  and specifically the two main things Mr T and Ms K were concerned 
about.
Overall, I accept  Mr T and Ms K bought the policy believing it was an enhanced product 
(compared to a standard buildings  and contents policy) that would provide them  with cover 
for the renovations if things went wrong.  However,  Im not persuaded that misunderstanding 
was caused by Avantia giving misleading information  or mis-selling  the policy.
legal expenses policy
Neither party made any comment arguing against  my conclusion  that this policy  had been  
mis-sold. Mr T and Ms Ks comments concerned a potential claim they were unable  to make 
at the outset had the Avantia policy not been mis-sold, and their denial of the opportunity  to 
pursue the builder in court.
A policy being mis-sold  isnt enough  in itself for me to uphold a complaint. I dont have the 
power to fine or punish a financial business  simply because it did something wrong. The mis-
sale has to have disadvantaged the consumer. I disagree with Mr T and Ms K about  their 
other policy not having an effect  on this complaint, as this gives  an insight to the likely 
success of any claim  they might have been  able to make under the Avantia policy.
It will never be known whether Mr T and Ms K would  have fared any better if theyd been 
able to make  a legal  expenses  claim  earlier  than they did. There are many variables on what  
might have happened. But I decide  complaints on the balance of probabilities   that is, what 
I think would  most  likely have happened given all the circumstances. Given  what did happen 
once Mr T and Ms K lodged their claim, I think its a fair conclusion  to say thats what  most 
likely would have happened  had the claim been lodged  earlier. So I dont  think 
Mr T and Ms K being denied the opportunity  to take the builder to court ultimately led to them  
being in a different position.
I accept I dont know what would  have happened, and that I havent seen the same evidence 
that a judge might have seen if the matter had proceeded to court.  But that doesnt prevent 
me from reaching a conclusion in order to decide  the complaint.
Ref: DRN90918656So my conclusion remains  that although the policy was mis-sold,  Mr T and Ms K werent 
disadvantaged by the mis-sale.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9091865