K820x#14complaint
Ms R says Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her an Ultimate Rewards 
Current Account (URCA), which was a packaged  account, in 2010.
background
Ms R first opened a fee-fee current account  with Halifax in 1996, which was later upgraded 
to the fee-paying URCA in February 2010. This was downgraded back to a fee-free account 
in 2019.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and didnt  feel Halifax  mis-sold the URCA. Because 
Ms R didnt agree, the complaint has been  passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to
help me decide  Ms Rs complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that Halifax mis-sold  the URCA. Ill explain why.
Ms R has said she received a cold call from Halifax in which they sold her URCA.  Shes  said 
it wasnt made clear that the additional policies  were optional or that she could have an 
overdraft with a higher balance on a fee-free  account. 
Theres no longer  a recording of the telephone  call, which isnt unreasonable considering  it 
was ten years ago. Because of this, its not possible  for me to know exactly what  was said 
during the call, so I must consider what I think is most likely in the circumstances. I can see 
that Ms R had a fee-free  account with Halifax for 14 years before it was changed to an 
URCA, and during this time she took out an overdraft of £150  which  she decreased  and 
increased by a small amount several  times.  When the account was upgraded to an URCA, 
the overdraft limit was £250. Considering this, I think its more likely Ms R was aware she 
could have a fee-free account  with an overdraft facility attached to it. 
In December 2009, just two months before Ms R converted the account, Halifax  changed
the charging structure of overdrafts on its fee-free accounts. Now consumers would incur a
daily £1 planned overdraft  usage fee. One of the benefits of the URCA was an interest  and
fee-free planned  overdraft of up to £300. This means that if a consumer stayed within  the
£300 planned overdraft limit, they wouldnt have to pay the daily £1 overdraft usage fee. The
monthly fee for the URCA was £12.50,  so as long as they used their overdraft within the
£300 fee-free  portion  for 13 days or more each month, they were  financially better  off by
having the URCA.
As I mentioned above, Ms R had a planned overdraft limit of £250 at the time of the sale, 
which was within the interest and fee-free  portion that the URCA offered. So, I think  its likely 
this would have  been a factor in Ms R agreeing to take out the URCA. 
Overall, while  I do appreciate what Ms R has said about the sale itself, on balance I think its 
more likely she agreed to upgrade  the account because  she was interested  in some  of the 
benefits, in the knowledge  that she could keep  her fee-free account  if she wanted to. 
Ref: DRN98737792Based on what Ive seen,  Halifax didnt give a personal recommendation to Ms R for the 
URCA, so it didnt have  to make sure it was right for her. But it did have to give her enough 
information so she could make sure she wanted  it.  
As Halifax was trying  to sell Ms R an account  with a monthly fee, I think its more  likely the
representative told her about the benefits to make the account  sound more attractive to her. 
As explained above, I think  Ms R would have seen  the overdraft benefit as potentially  useful 
to her at the time.  And, I can see Ms R did rely on some of the other benefits that were 
available on the account. 
At the time of the sale, the account  came with mobile phone  insurance, breakdown  cover  
and travel insurance. In 2012, Ms R claimed  on the breakdown  cover  twice and registered a 
handset under the mobile phone insurance. And she made an additional claim on the 
breakdown cover in 2013. So, I think its likely  she was given enough  information  about the 
benefits to know  how to use them. 
I appreciate Ms R has offered to send  in a written statement  from her friend  who had a 
similar experience to her, and I want to thank her for the efforts shes gone  to in order to 
provide information  for the complaint. I must look at each case  based on its individual  merits 
as every case is different.  So, I wouldnt consider the experience  of another  consumer when 
assessing Ms Rs case. 
On balance, I think Ms R agreed  to upgrade  the account, knowing that she didnt  have to. 
And I think its more likely she did so because she was interested  in the overdraft benefits on 
the account, and that she had a need  for the insurance policies on the account also.  
my final decision
I dont think Halifax mis-sold the URCA and I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9873779