K820x#14complaint
Mr A requested a refund under Section 75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974 and is unhappy 
that MBNA  Limited  (MBNA) hasnt upheld his claim.
background
Mr A has told us that he used his MBNA  credit  card to make two separate transactions 
online, totalling £3,719.20. He says he believed he was buying  shares  in an online cashback 
and reward business.  However, Mr A has told us that the shares that were  eventually issued 
to him had no value.  
Some years  later Mr A got in touch with MBNA to say he hadnt received what he thought he 
was buying, and requested a refund under Section 75 provisions. MBNA  rejected  Mr As 
request, saying that the criteria for a Section 75 claim had not been  met. Specifically, MBNA 
said that there was no direct debtor-creditor-supplier  relationship (often called the DCS  
relationship). 
Mr A raised a complaint with this service. Our Investigator considered  the complaint, and 
agreed that the payments  were made  to a third party,  rather than directly to the online 
business. Our Investigator also checked  to see if there was any link between  the third party  
and the online business, but couldnt find any evidence of this. As such, he concluded  there 
was no direct relationship  between the creditor (MBNA) and the supplier (the online 
business). So our Investigator agreed  with MBNA that the DCS relationship  was broken, 
meaning no Section  75 claim  could  be made.
Mr A disagreed and requested that the case be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
Investigators findings.
This complaint is about the handling of a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. In this case, it could  make MBNA responsible for a breach 
of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier. However, certain criteria must apply to 
progress a Section  75 claim, including an unbroken DCS relationship.
In this case there is a direct relationship  between the debtor (Mr A) and the creditor (MBNA). 
However, the creditor and supplier  relationship  is harder to establish, as a copy of the 
original contract is not available. From everything Ive seen, Mr As contract was with the 
online business he was dealing with, which Ill call S. However, it seems the credit card 
payments were made  to another business, which Ill call T.
Weve asked MBNA to make enquiries  as to any link between businesses  S and T, and 
weve also carried out our own research. Unfortunately,  the transaction took place  some  time 
ago and the investigation has been hampered by a lack of paperwork. Overall,  its not been  
possible to identify a relationship between  S and T and so Ive been unable  to establish a 
Ref: DRN91938522direct link between MBNA  and the supplier (S). As such, I agree with our Investigator  that 
the DCS  relationship appears to be broken.
I understand Mr As frustration with the situation, and sympathise with his position. But the 
transactions he is complaining about do not seem to be covered under Section  75 
provisions, so I am not upholding  this complaint.  
For completeness, Ive also considered whether MBNA shouldve  done anything else to help 
Mr A; for example, whether a chargeback mightve been raised instead. However, it appears 
that the time window for doing so had already elapsed, so this option  wasnt available.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Ellie Clare
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9193852