K822xcomplaint
Ms V is unhappy about the service  that she received from First Payment Merchant 
Services Limited.
background 
Ms V runs a business under a trading name but for ease, I will refer to Ms V throughout my 
decision. 
Ms V renewed her card payment services agreement with First Payment in early 2017.
Ms V was unhappy  to find that she was being charged for Payment Card  Industry  (PCI) 
non-compliance.
Ms V says she wasnt  able to complete the PCI compliance questionnaire that shed 
received from the payment provider, E a limited  company.
Ms Vs business couldnt meet Es PCI compliance  requirements so she researched 
alternative providers.
First Payment gave Ms V the wrong information about ending  her agreement  with it. On the 
basis that First Payment  wasnt  going  to charge Ms V to end her agreement,  she signed a 
new agreement with another provider,  limited company N.
The investigator thought that Ms Vs complaint should be upheld. He thought  that First 
Payment should  have made  Ms V aware  of the costs that E would charge, including  the 
costs associated with PCI non-compliance. 
The investigator thought that it was reasonable of Ms V to rely on First Payments  
assurances that it wouldnt charge any cancellation  costs. 
The investigator thought that as it took Ms V about  seven months to find an alternative  
provider, this should be factored in to any reimbursement of charges. This was because  for 
this seven month period, Ms V wouldve still needed to pay First Payment on a rolling basis.
The investigator asked  First Payment  to cancel Ms Vs card payment services without 
applying any charges, reimburse  some charges and pay compensation of £200.
First Payment didnt agree with the investigators recommendation but didnt  give a reason 
why not.
Ms V pointed to some factual inaccuracies in the investigators recommendation. Ms V 
thought that First Payment should pay more compensation given the amount of time she and 
the business had spent  sorting the problem out. And because the main terminal  lease  
provider - limited company P - wont do business  with Ms V in the future.
Ref: DRN97356032my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, I consider that the investigators uphold is fair. I agree that it was reasonable to 
expect First Payment to give Ms V more details about the costs she would incur,  including 
any PCI non-compliance charges.  
I also agree  that First Payment gave  Ms V conflicting and confusing information  about her 
agreement. And that relying on this, Ms V decided to find an alternative  provider spending  a 
significant amount  of time doing so.
First Payment hasnt explained why it doesnt agree with the investigator. And Ms V agrees 
with most of what the investigator recommended. So I dont  consider  that I need to say much  
more about why Im upholding the complaint. Instead I think  I should  concentrate  on the 
additional points  that Ms V made in reply.
additional compensation for time spent
I appreciate that Ms V has spent  time dealing with PCI compliance before then bringing her 
complaint to First Payment and this service. But in addition to the £200 that I am awarding 
her for the impact of what went wrong,  I have taken account of the other  sums  that First 
Payment will write  off and refund. So I still consider  £200 is fair compensation. 
market restriction
Ms V says that the merchant service provider N cancelled the new agreement because P 
said it wouldnt service any future agreements with N or any other  merchant service  provider 
if Ms V ended its agreement with First Payment.  
As I understand Ms Vs point  this now means that P  the main terminal  lease provider to 
merchant service providers - wont service any future agreement. So she thinks that First 
Payment should  pay her more compensation to reflect the resulting market restriction  she faces.
Ive thought about this but it doesnt  change my decision. I dont think  it was reasonably  
foreseeable that P would  respond to the situation  by saying that it would not service any 
future agreements with any other merchant service provider. So I dont consider its fair to 
require First Payment to compensate Ms V for the impact  any possible market  restrictions 
might have on her when trying to find an alternative provider in the future.
Overall, I consider that its fair to make my final decision along  the lines set out by the investigator.
putting things right  what First Payment needs  to do:
cancel Ms Vs card payment services agreement without applying  any charges;
pay the difference between what Ms V wouldve paid to N less seven months  of First 
Payments own charges from the date of renewal to the date it cancels the agreement;
Ref: DRN97356033reimburse Ms V for the PCI non-compliance charges that she incurred from the date of 
renewal to the date of cancellation less seven months  and what N wouldve charged  
Ms V for PCI compliance;
reimburse the costs  Ms V incurred with N from October 2018 to January 2019 totalling 
£64.20; and
Pay £200 compensation
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require First Payment 
Merchant Services Limited should  take the steps  outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9735603