K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains HSBC Life (UK) Limited continued to collect  his mortgage protection policy  
premiums after he repaid his mortgage. 
background
In 2005 Mr P took out a mortgage protection policy with HSBC that would pay off his 
mortgage in the case of his death. This was a decreasing  term life policy  which wouldve still 
paid out a lump  sum if Mr P died after his mortgage  had been  repaid. Mr P repaid  his 
mortgage in 2016 but the policy wasnt cancelled, and he carried on paying  the premiums.  
Mr P says he tried to cancel  the policy, but HSBC  told him its better to keep the policy and 
that he couldnt cancel it. HSBC didnt  think it had done anything  wrong.  It said Mr P was 
given enough  information about the policy and how to cancel it. It also said that Mr P never  
gave them instructions to cancel the policy. But HSBC have offered Mr P £150 in 
compensation because it felt on one occasion  it couldve  given Mr P more  information about 
how to cancel. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the Mr Ps complaint. He felt that HSBC had given Mr P 
enough information about how to cancel the policy and had sent reminders about the policy  
still being in force after the mortgage had completed. He also didnt find any evidence that 
made him think Mr P gave HSBC instructions to cancel the policy.  
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator. He says HSBC told him he could cancel  the policy 
anytime, but when he tried to do this it didnt let him. He says HSBC should refund all the 
premiums he paid from the date the mortgage  was redeemed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.  
I appreciate Mr P feels he didnt need  the policy once his mortgage had been  redeemed. But 
the policy Mr P took out wouldve still paid out a lump sum had Mr P died during the life of 
the policy, even  after the mortgage  had been paid off. And it was for Mr P to cancel the 
policy if he no longer  wanted this cover. 
Mr P says he tried to cancel  the policy, but HSBC  told him it was better  that he kept it and 
didnt allow him to cancel it. But Ive listened to the calls HSBC  have supplied between 
7 January 2016 and 3 February  2016. Ive also looked through  HSBCs memos of the calls 
and correspondence  between Mr P and HSBC.  From what  Ive seen and heard I am not 
persuaded that Mr P told HSBC to cancel  the policy. 
I have seen that Mr P and HSBC discussed the policy a number of times after the mortgage 
had been paid off. HSBC  explained several  times that he could cancel the policy anytime  he 
wanted to. I did not find any evidence to persuade  me that HSBC  didnt  let him cancel the 
policy or that he gave  them instructions to do so. HSBC also sent Mr P several letters  
reminding him that the policy  was still in force after the mortgage had been paid off and 
informing him that he should make an appointment with his local branch if hed like to review  
his situation. 
Ref: DRN96728602Although the policy was designed to repay a mortgage and was taken out to protect Mr Ps 
mortgage, this policy  wouldve  have paid out a lump sum if hed died after his mortgage  was 
repaid. So, I still think  the policy provided  some useful cover.  And as Im not persuaded that 
Mr P told HSBC  to cancel his policy, I dont  think it has done anything wrong by continuing to 
collect the premiums. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9672860