K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called CASH  
ON GO LIMITED,  trading  at the time as peachy.co.uk (Peachy). 
Mr M says Peachy lent to him irresponsibly because the loans he was provided with were 
unaffordable and he wasnt  creditworthy.
background
We now know that Mr M took 2 loans  from Peachy;  one in February  2012 and again  in 
March 2012. Its worth  noting that the terms were as follows:
loan 1: (£100)  required repayment  in 1 instalment; and  
loan 2: (£100)  also required  1 instalment.
Ive enclosed a summary  of Mr Ms borrowing with Peachy, based on the information it 
provided to us, which can be found in an appendix  at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into the complaint and told Mr M that they didnt  
think it should be upheld.  Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicator and asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Mr Ms 
complaint.
Peachy needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr M could  repay both the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These  checks ought 
to have taken  into account a range of different  factors,  such as the amounts being lent, the 
total repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Peachy should  have  fairly and reasonably done more  to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN90689872the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully  considered all of these things 
and what they mean  for Mr Ms complaint.
Peachy told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr M, including 
assessing his income,  expenditure and net disposable income. It says that based on what  
was said, this information showed that Mr M would be able to make the loan repayments he 
was committing to on both occasions. 
For the first loan, in February 2012, Mr M declared  his net income  (after  tax) as £1,500 per 
month and he also provided details about his expenditure. I think  a more  detailed check 
would have shown  his income was a bit lower  than this, probably  around £1,100. 
However, Im afraid this doesnt really  affect what I think because having  carefully  
considered Mr Ms situation,  I think the first loan would most likely have still appeared to 
have been affordable to Peachy when it carried out checks in 2012. The amount borrowed 
was also moderate.  For the second loan, his net income and outgoings were unchanged and 
once again I think  the repayment  amount and his other expenditure would have  appeared 
affordable given the types of checks that were carried out. Again, the loan amount being 
requested by Mr M was moderate.
So I think it was reasonable in this case for Peachy to have relied on this information to 
decide about whether to lend to Mr M on both occasions, bearing  in mind what Ive said 
about the early  stages  of a lending relationship. Both the first and second loans were  
relatively small when set against both what Mr M said he earned, what he actually  earned  
and his other monthly commitments.
I accept that Mr Ms overall financial position might well have  been  more apparent to Peachy 
if further information, such as more detailed credit checks, had been obtained by it at these 
stages. But Peachy made its decision based  on the information it had available at the time 
and as it was still in the early stages of a lending relationship with Mr M, I dont  think it had 
yet reached the stage  where there was an obvious and greater risk of either  loans being  
unsustainable for him. In short, I think the checks it carried out in this case were 
proportionate.
I looked in detail at the credit report he himself says he obtained, parts of which  post-date his 
2012 lending.  I dont think Peachy would have necessarily seen this type of information 
when it lent him the monies and I dont think it acted  unreasonably given the amount of 
lending Mr M asked  for, or the time frame over which the loan applications were made.
So in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think it was irresponsible for Peachy to 
lend Mr M either of loans  1 or 2.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont  direct  CASH ON GO 
LIMITED, trading as peachy.co.uk, to pay Mr M any compensation.
Ref: DRN90689873Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix 
Loan Sequence Amount Settled on
1.16/02/2012 £100 09/03/2012
2.09/03/2012 £100 Outstanding
Ref: DRN9068987