K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC was irresponsible in offering him pre-approved 
loans through  his mobile banking app. He said Barclays didnt carry out sufficient checks  to 
make sure these were affordable and hes found himself struggling  to manage his debts.
background
Mr D has a current account  with Barclays and uses its mobile  banking  app. In October 2015, 
Barclays offered him a pre-approved loan amount through the app. Mr D first applied for a 
loan of £2,000, and then a further £12,000  a few days later.  
In August  2016,  Mr D applied for a further loan of £15,000 after being offered this through 
the app, and then another  of £7,700  in December 2016.
But Mr D found that he was having  difficulty managing  his money and meeting his financial 
commitments with Barclays and his other creditors. And so he sought  help from a debt 
advisory service.
In 2018, Mr D complained  to Barclays that the loans had been mis-sold to him as his ability  
to afford them hadnt been properly assessed.
Barclays looked at Mr Ds income and expenditure at the time of each loan and felt the first 
two had been affordable for him. But it said it thought the third loan wasnt and shouldnt 
have been offered to Mr D. It wrote off the remaining balance of the loan and reduced the 
balance of his second loan by £1,445.70,  which represented the payments Mr D had made 
to the third loan. It also paid £200 into Mr Ds current account to recognise the 
inconvenience hed been caused.  Barclays  said that it could arrange  for the remaining loans 
to be combined and invited Mr D to contact its collections department  to discuss this.
But Mr D didnt agree  that the second loan was affordable based on his income at the time 
and the combined  repayments for the loans. Barclays said that it believed it was affordable 
through Mr Ds disposable  income.  However,  it deducted interest of £962.16 off of the 
balance of the second loan as a gesture of goodwill. It also sent Mr D a cheque  for £100.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld. He said 
that Mr Ds credit file showed  that he was managing his existing arrangements  when he 
applied for the first loan in October 2015,  and that Mr D was up-to-date with his credit  
repayments when  he applied for the second  loan.  The investigator thought that there was a 
reasonable gap between  these two loans and he didnt think either was unaffordable  at the 
time he applied  for them. 
The investigator said that Barclays had accepted that the third loan wasnt  affordable for 
Mr D and had written  off the balance,  using the payments Mr D had made to it to reduce the 
balance of the second loan. The investigator  said Barclays's actions in doing this; refunding  
interest on the second loan and offering to speak with Mr D to arrange a way of repaying the 
remaining balance of the two loans was a fair way to resolve his complaint.
Ref: DRN94384452Mr D didnt accept the investigators findings.  He said that although he had been  able to 
keep up with his debt repayments,  this was only possible  through  him working overtime  and 
using credit cards to support his outgoings. He said the loan repayments for the first loan 
were more than the money he had left over from his income after his living costs. He doesnt  
understand how it could be said that the first and second loans were affordable when looking 
at the combined  repayments compared with his income. 
Mr D feels that the loans were never going to be affordable but taking them  has forced him 
into taking out further credit and having  to borrow  money from his parents. He asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry  to hear of the problems Mr D has experienced, both financially and with his health. I 
can understand how Mr D feels that these loans have  added to the difficulties of manging  his 
finances. However, I am pleased that Mr D has felt able to seek the support from a debt 
advisory service, and this has been positive for him.
These loans were offered to Mr D through his mobile banking app. Ive thought about all that 
Mr D had said about his circumstances,  and can appreciate how being alerted to the 
possibility of being able to borrow money in this way wouldve been appealing as a way for 
him to try and manage his outgoings.
Barclays has told us about the information it uses to assess  any lending limit it may offer a 
customer, so I dont think the offers  it made available for Mr D were done without any review 
of his income, affordability and past management of credit. However, it has accepted that the 
third loan Mr D took out wasnt affordable for him at the time. It has looked to put this right by 
writing off the balance  of that loan and using Mr Ds payments to reduce the balance  on the 
second loan.
Ive looked through Mr Ds current account  statements which  give a background to his 
income, monthly commitments  and other  expenditure at the time each  loan was accepted,  
alongside the credit history record that hes provided. 
Having done this, I dont think there is anything to indicate that the first loan wouldve been 
unaffordable for Mr D. I say this because although I can see that he had other forms of credit  
 a personal loan,  credit  cards and a mortgage taken earlier  that year  he was managing  
the repayments for these. And I can see that £4,500 of the loan amount was paid to another  
bank, and that Mr Ds monthly loan repayments to that bank then significantly reduced.
Although I appreciate what  Mr D has said about  the ways he was managing  his finances and 
using credit cards to pay bills, I can also see that the second loan was largely used to make 
repayments to these credit cards, possibly to consolidate these debts, as the 4.9% Annual 
Percentage Rate on the loan was likely to be less than that charged on the credit  cards.
Ref: DRN94384453Taking everything into account,  I dont think that the first and second loans were  lent 
irresponsibly to Mr D. Barclays has accepted that the third loan was unaffordable for him  
writing this off and offsetting the loan repayments Mr D made  to it with the outstanding 
balance of the second loan. It has also refunded  interest of £962.16 to that loan and has 
sent Mr D a total of £300 to recognise  his inconvenience in making  his complaint. Although I 
fully appreciate Mr Ds strength of feeling  about  this matter, I think  Barclays's actions have 
been fair.
Barclays has asked Mr D to contact it to agree a mutually acceptable way of repaying the 
remaining amount  of the loans, and I can only suggest that he looks  to do this, if he hasnt 
already. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9438445