K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that TSB Bank plc hasnt paid him the correct amount of credit  interest  
due on his current account. Hes also unhappy with how his complaint has been handled. 
background
Mr P called TSB in June  2018 because he thought he hadnt  received the full cashback 
reward for his Classic  Plus account. He was told it was because  he wasnt  registered for 
paperless statements. He was then told that was a mistake.  So, not having paperless 
statements wouldnt affect his cashback  reward. But it meant  Mr P wouldnt receive credit 
interest on his account.
Mr P then complained to a senior  adviser.  They explained that the reward payments were 
paid the month after they were accrued. The payment Mr P received  early was for April and 
he hadnt been paid the May payment yet. Mr P was paid compensation and his complaint 
was then closed.
Mr P called TSB again  in July 2018 and complained about not receiving his usual reward  
payment. He spoke  to a senior adviser  who explained the qualifying criteria and confirmed 
Mr P hadnt  made enough debit card transactions  to qualify for a payment. Mr P also 
complained again about the timing  of when the reward payments were made. His previous 
complaint was reopened, and he was told TSB would investigate his concerns. 
Mr P called TSB in December 2018  and asked  why he hadnt been  receiving  any credit 
interest on his Classic  Plus account.  He was told he should be, because  he was meeting all 
the qualifying  criteria. Mr P was asked when he went  paperless. He said he thought it was in 
June after hed spoken with TSB about  not receiving his reward payments.
Mr P then spoke to a senior adviser.  He told her that hed switched  to paperless statements 
in June but still wasnt receiving credit  interest.  And hed recently received a call from his 
branch manager  who told him he should  be receiving credit interest.
The senior adviser confirmed that Mr P was registered for paperless statements.  She also 
checked to see if Mr P was meeting the other  qualifiers. She was unable to determine why 
Mr P wasnt  receiving credit interest. The senior  adviser then gave Mr P an update on his 
existing complaint and was unable to give a timescale for resolution. 
Mr P then brought  his complaint to this service  and asked us to only look into two aspects  
the handling of his complaint and the issue with credit interest. His complaint was considered 
by one of our investigators. She didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. She said there  was no 
evidence showing when  Mr P had registered  for paperless statements.
She thought  because Mr P didnt receive credit interest until January 2019, it was more  likely 
that Mr P didnt switch  to paperless statements until December 2018. She also didnt think 
TSB treated Mr P unfairly by reopening his complaint instead of opening a new complaint. 
Mr P didnt agree with her opinion and asked  for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
Ref: DRN99525772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  Mr Ps 
complaint. I will now explain why.
the handling of Mr Ps complaint
Mr P has raised concerns about  how TSB handled his complaint. Hes unhappy that TSB 
reopened his complaint in July 2018  instead  of opening a new one. However,  complaint 
handling is not a regulated activity and is outside the jurisdiction of this service.  So, I cant  
consider what Mr P has said about  how TSB handled his complaint.
credit interest
The qualifying criteria  to receive credit interest are:
Each month you must  pay at least £500  into the account
You must be registered  for Internet Banking, Paperless Statements and Paperless 
Correspondence 
Ive reviewed Mr Ps statements and I can see that he pays  in at least £500 per month.  TSB 
have also confirmed Mr P is registered  for internet banking. The only part of the criteria that 
there is any doubt about is when Mr P was registered for paperless statements  and 
correspondence.
Mr P has said he switched to paperless statements in June following the conversation he 
had with TSB. While  I have no reason to doubt  Mr Ps recollections,  I must balance this 
against any documentary  evidence such as the reports  TSB have provided.
During the call Mr P made  to TSB in June 2018, Mr P confirms he receives his statements 
through the post. The adviser then explains what Mr P needs  to do to switch to paperless. 
Mr P tries to do this while he is on the phone to the adviser but is unable  to do so. The 
adviser explains that Mr P can only make  the change on through the desktop  version  of 
internet banking and not on the mobile app.
TSB have  said theres no evidence to show when Mr P switched to paperless statements. 
There isnt an audit  trail, or any system  notes  to show when, or indeed  if, Mr Ps statements 
were sent to him. However,  theyve  recently provided reports  from June and December 2018  
to show when Mr P logged into internet banking and whether this was through the mobile 
application or the desktop version.
The report  for June  shows that Mr P didnt access the desktop  version  of internet banking. 
But the report for December shows that he accessed the desktop version on 6 December. 
Ive also noted  that Mr P didnt start receiving credit interest until January 2019.
So, having  considered all the evidence,  I think its more  likely than not that Mr P didnt make 
the change to paperless until December  2018  when the report  shows he accessed the 
desktop site. So, Im not persuaded  that Mr P was due any credit interest before it was paid 
in January 2019 and I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN99525773my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Marc Purnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9952577