K820x#14Complaint
Miss C complains that TSB Bank  plc (TSB) incorrectly included another  persons  
information in her account statement  that it gave to her. 
Background
Miss C visited  her local branch to get a copy  of her TSB bank account statement. TSB gave 
her a statement which included another TSB customers name and address  in error. 
Miss C didnt notice this and included it in a job application. Shes said that she didnt get the 
job as a result of another persons information being on the statement. She complained to 
TSB and it apologised,  paying her £150 compensation. Miss C says the compensation isnt 
enough. 
She bought  the complaint  to our service  and our investigator looked into it. They found that 
TSB couldnt be held responsible for Miss C not getting the job and thought  £150 was fair in 
the circumstances. 
Miss C remained  unhappy, so the complaint  has been passed to me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigators findings. Ill explain why. 
Its not in dispute  that the statement showed Miss Cs account information  - but also included 
someone elses name and address. TSB should have provided only Miss Cs account  
information and not another customers details. The error was caused by a system problem 
TSB was experiencing at the time,  which meant that some customer  details were  shared 
with other  customers by mistake. This problem has now been resolved. 
Im sorry  to hear that Miss C may have potentially lost out on securing a job. Our investigator 
asked her to show us that the account statement was the reason why this happened. Miss C 
hasnt been able to show us this - so Ive based  my decision on the evidence available. 
I appreciate that having someone elses details  on her account statement might  raise 
questions during recruitment. But I cant be sure that this was the sole cause of Miss C not 
being successful  in her application. And I dont  find it reasonably  foreseeable that TSB could 
have known its error might mean Miss C would  lose out on a potential job offer.  So I cant  
hold TSB responsible for the impact on Miss C for not getting the job. 
TSB has taken steps to assure Miss C that no other errors have been made in sharing 
information. And her account statements have been corrected. So I dont find that TSB need  
to do anymore in this sense. 
I can understand that Miss C would have experienced some inconvenience as a result  of 
TSBs error.  In the circumstances, I find the £150 TSB has awarded fair and reasonable. So 
Im not asking it to offer any further  compensation for what happened.
Ref: DRN95098962My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2019.
Matthew Belcher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9509896