K820x#14complaint
Mrs J has a number of complaints about the way Topaz Finance Limited (Topaz) has dealt  
with her mortgage account. The main  issues I will be looking at are these:
to settle a previous complaint, Mrs J says Topaz  had agreed to credit her account  
with £1,500 as redress for its mistake in cashing a cheque for £1,500 in error (which  
was later returned unpaid), but Topaz subsequently refused to do this;
Topaz has failed to send paperwork to remove her ex-husband from the mortgage  
account, even  though  the previous business which  held the mortgage had approved 
his removal from the account;
solicitors were instructed by Topaz  to issue a letter before eviction, even  though 
Mrs J had sent Topaz details of her income and expenditure and payment proposals;
Mrs J is unhappy at fees and charges added to the account;
when responding to a Subject Access Request  (SAR) Topaz breached data 
protection legislation by sending its response in a package  which was not properly 
secured, and by leaving  the package with a neighbour;
Mrs J has been unable to use Topazs  web service or voice recognition.
To settle  the complaint Mrs J wants her ex-husband removed from the mortgage account, for 
Topaz to adjust the account to show no arrears  and for any adverse entries on her credit file 
to be removed. Although  initially Mrs J said she didnt want  compensation she has also said 
that any outcome  will now need  to be pretty substantial  as an offer for them to prevent me 
from raising a civil case against them. .
background
Mrs J has a mortgage on her home  originally  taken out in 2007 with another lender but now 
owned by Topaz.  The mortgage is in the joint names  of Mrs J and her husband,  Mr J, from 
whom she is separated. The amount advanced was £88,880 on an interest-only basis  over a 
term of 20 years. It was originally on a two-year fixed rate, following which it reverted to a 
variable rate of 3.49% above Bank  of England  Base Rate, but with a proviso  that the rate 
would not fall below 4.00%. The current rate is 4.24%.
Mr J has had no involvement with the mortgage for some years and Mrs J remains  living in 
the property. She wants the mortgage account to be transferred into her sole name. Mrs J 
says that the previous lender had agreed to this, but after it took over the mortgage, Topaz 
refused to send out the documentation so that Mr J could be taken off the account.
The account  has been in arrears for some time, and there is a suspended possession  order 
on the property.
The events giving rise to the complaint happened in the last half of 2018.  I think it is worth 
setting them out in detail.
In July 2018 Mrs J borrowed £3,000  from her employer  to clear debts. She sent a cheque for 
£1,500 to Topaz. The arrears balance at the time was just over £1,700. Unfortunately  there  
was a delay in handling the cheque so it was agreed between Mrs J and Topaz that she 
would instead  make a card payment  of £1,500,  and arrange to cancel the cheque. The debit  
card payment left an arrears balance of about  £225.
Ref: DRN91263872It appears Mrs J didnt  cancel the cheque and, in error, Topaz processed it, crediting the 
account with an additional £1,500. It used this to clear  the arrears  balance and the 
remainder of about £1,275 was applied as a lump sum overpayment. 
Mrs J complained to Topaz  about  how it had dealt with the cheque, and Topaz issued its 
final response on 10 September 2018.  Topaz agreed it had made a mistake  in processing 
the cheque and it agreed to put things  right for Mrs J.
No payment had been made  for August or September 2018, and arrears  of £636.32 had 
accrued. To sort things  out, Topaz offered  to reverse  the lump  sum overpayment of £1,275  
and use this amount  to pay off the arrears,  leaving the account in credit by about  £638.  
Topaz also offered  to amend  Mrs Js credit  file for August 2018  and refund  the arrears  fee of 
£50.  
Mrs J accepted this offer,  but has now complained that Topaz has failed to carry out what it 
said it would  do.
Topaz says that this is because, on 11 September 2018, Topaz  discovered that the cheque 
had been returned unpaid. Although Topazs bank had notified it of an unpaid cheque  at the 
end of July 2018, no account  details were provided. So it took until 11 September 2018 for 
Topaz to find out that the cheque was the one Mrs J had provided. As a result, Topaz 
reversed the payment  that had cleared the arrears balance of about  £225 and reversed the 
lump sum overpayment..
No payment was made for October  2018,  and I see from Topazs notes that on 8 October 
2018 Topaz spoke  to Mrs J. She said shed previously received a final response from Topaz 
and accepted its offer to use the £1,275  overpayment (from the £1,500 cheque) to clear  
arrears and put her account in credit. But now shed had a letter  saying she was £2,463 in 
arrears. Topazs agent looked at the account and saw that there had been  a returned 
cheque for £1,500 on 11 September.  He said he would update her about this, and did so on 
11 October 2018.
During the call on 11 October 2018,  it was explained to Mrs J that the offer made  in the final 
response letter of 10 September 2018  was no longer valid,  because the cheque had 
bounced the following day. Mrs J said that the way she read the final response is that Topaz  
was aware the cheque  would bounce,  but would in any event apply a credit  on the account 
to the value of £1,500 to correct its error  in cashing  the cheque  in the first place and as 
compensation after messing up for so many years. Mrs J said shed told Topaz the cheque 
wouldnt clear before it issued its final response.
On 12 October 2018 Mrs J told Topaz that she has mental health issues, as a result of which 
she is unable to process information  and when it came to money  if someone asked where 
her money had went she wouldnt know (sic).  
Mrs J also said that she needed  to know where  her account stood before she could discuss 
a payment arrangement. She was concerned because shed had a letter saying her account 
was in arrears. Mrs J thought this was incorrect, because, as far as she was concerned, 
Topaz had applied a credit  of £1,500 to her account.  The call handler  said that this would be 
looked into, but that Topaz would still need  to discuss payment proposals  going forward.
During November  2018  Topaz tried to contact  Mrs J by telephone but wasnt able to speak 
to her until 20 November  2018. During  that call Mrs J confirmed shed used £1,500  of the 
£3,000 shed borrowed towards  the mortgage  arrears. Mrs J was unhappy  about  way Topaz 
Ref: DRN91263873had dealt with the cheque  issue. She said again  that Topaz had agreed to credit  her account 
with £1,500, but then retracted the offer.  Mrs J also said that shed emailed details of her 
income and expenditure (which Topaz hadnt received) so she said shed email them again. 
On 30 November 2018 Mrs J spoke to Topaz again. Shed been unable  to make payment 
through Topazs web service. Mrs J made  a payment that day of the current instalment plus 
£50. Mrs J also said that shed sent across  the income and expenditure information and 
payment proposals  by email. Topazs  agent said they would check if this had been received.
By 17 January 2019 Topaz hadnt received any payment for December 2018 and so 
instructed its solicitors to proceed with an application for a warrant  of eviction. After receiving 
a letter  from the solicitors, Mrs J contacted Topaz. She said shed emailed her income and 
expenditure details to Topaz and was unhappy that Topazs administration was so poor that 
it hadnt received  these  or dealt with her payment proposals. Mrs J said she was proposing 
to pay the current  instalment plus £200 with effect from January 2019. She also told Topaz 
she had complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Mrs J also made a request for a SAR,  which was processed by Topaz.  The documents  were  
sent out by courier,  and were marked that they were for the addressee  (Mrs J) only.  
Unfortunately, the box the paperwork was in was damaged in transit, leaving some  of the 
contents visible. The courier also left the package with a neighbour, despite the directions on 
the address label.
Mrs J complained about this to Topaz. Mrs J also complained about fees and charges on her 
account, which she says are unfair, and about being unable  to use Topazs web service. 
An investigator looked at Mrs Js complaint. He was satisfied that Topaz had done nothing  
wrong in reversing the £1,500 cheque credit  on Mrs Js account. 
The investigator also noted that Topaz had offered £300 compensation for the problems with 
the SAR. He thought this was fair, but said that Mrs J could also complain to the Information 
Commissioners Office  (ICO) about  how Topaz had handled her data.
He also noted  that Topaz  had re-set Mrs Js login details, which should have resolved the 
difficulties in her using the web service.  
With regard to fees and charges, Topaz didnt agree to us looking at any fees applied to the 
account more  than six years after the complaint was raised  about  these  in November 2018. 
The investigator explained to Mrs J that we could only look at fees and charges applied after 
November 2012.  Topaz  agreed to refund £350 in arrears fees back to the account. These 
had been charged in months when the full monthly payment was made.  The investigator was 
satisfied this was fair.
Mrs J didnt accept the investigators findings.  She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Mrs J says that all the investigator has done is take Topazs word and not looked 
at the bigger picture. She says Topaz has affected  her credit rating for a year due to its 
errors. Mrs J also says Topaz knew the £1,500  cheque hadnt cleared because she told 
Topaz this before her complaint about it was concluded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN91263874The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
cheque payment: The complaint arose largely because of the issues relating to the cheque  
for £1,500. Mrs Js provided  a letter from her bank dated 30 July 2018 explaining that there  
were insufficient funds in her account  to pay the cheque.
Mrs J says that shed told Topaz  that the cheque  wouldnt clear before it issued the final 
response letter on 10 September  2018.  (Topaz was finally able to trace the bounced cheque  
to Mrs Js account on 11 September  2018.)   Ive  read through Topazs contact notes, and I 
cant see that Mrs J said this to Topaz.  I can see that Topaz said that Mrs J should cancel 
the cheque, but it appears she didnt  do so. 
Its unfortunate it took so long for the bounced  cheque to be linked to Mrs Js account  but I 
accept Topazs explanation  that its bank didnt provide  any account number and so it wasnt  
immediately apparent that the cheque related to Mrs Js mortgage.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that if Topaz had known on 10 September  2018  that the 
cheque hadnt  been paid,  it wouldnt have offered redress  for mistakenly  taking two 
payments of £1,500  one by debit card and one via the cheque.
Ive noted what  Mrs J has said  that she thought the wording of Topazs offer in its 
10 September 2018 final response letter meant that it would credit Mrs J with £1,500 by way 
of compensation  for its errors with the cheque  and for the way she considers shes been 
messed about by Topaz over the years. Mrs J says she didnt think that Topaz was acting on 
the basis that it thought the cheque had been paid.
But Ive read the final response and its clear from this that the redress  offered by Topaz was 
on the basis that the cheque had been paid.  So I have some difficulty in accepting  that Mrs J 
genuinely thought  when  she already  knew the cheque had bounced  that Topaz  would be 
paying her an additional  £1,500. In the circumstances,  I cant  find any basis on which it 
would be reasonable to expect Topaz  to pay Mrs J an additional £1,500 in compensation. 
That would not be fair or proportionate to the error made. Topaz did agree  to amend Mrs Js 
credit file for August and September  2018,  which I think is fair. Im not upholding this part of 
the complaint.
solicitors letter:  Mrs  J was very upset  to receive a letter  from solicitors in January 2019 
stating that Topaz was applying for a warrant of eviction. Mrs J had made a payment on 30 
November 2018  (including an extra £50), but I see that no payment was made for December 
2018. Mrs J argues that Topaz should  not have instructed  solicitors  because shed sent her 
Ref: DRN91263875payment proposals  and details of her income  and expenditure  to Topaz,  which it had 
ignored. Mrs J thinks the legal fees added to her account for this should be removed.
Ive looked at the email Mrs J says she sent to Topaz. Having done  so, I note that this is 
dated 31 November 2018  a date which doesnt exist. In the circumstances, Im not 
persuaded Topaz received details  of Mrs Js income  and expenditure and payment 
proposals before it instructed its solicitors  in January 2019. This means  that Im not 
upholding this part of the complaint.
joint mortgage account:  I can appreciate  that it is frustrating that the mortgage  is still in 
joint names, even though  Mr J hasnt  had any involvement with the account for several 
years. Mrs J says that the previous lender had agreed that Mr J could be removed from the 
account. But the account is now held with Topaz,  and so its up to Topaz to decide  if Mr J 
can be removed.
That will require Mr and Mrs J to make an application jointly for Mr J to be removed  from the 
account. It will also depend  on whether or not Mrs J meets Topazs lending criteria to have 
the account in her sole name. Im satisfied that Topaz isnt under any obligation to remove  
Mr J from the account outside of those circumstances, so Im not upholding this part of the 
complaint.
arrears fees:  Topaz  hasnt consented  to us looking  at arrears fees applied to the account 
before November 2012. Under our rules,  unless Topaz consents, we cant consider a 
complaint about  something that happened  more than six years before the complaint was 
brought to us, unless its only in the last three  years  that Mrs J first knew she had cause to 
complain. Im satisfied  the fees and charges were set out in the annual statements, so Mrs J 
knew about them at the time they were  applied. Im also satisfied there were no exceptional 
circumstances which prevented her from complaining earlier about  fees and charges applied  
before November 2012.
Topaz has acknowledged that it should  not have  charged an arrears administration fee in 
months when a payment was made. Topaz  has reviewed the account and agreed to reverse  
£350 in fees for months when a payment was made. Ive reviewed the payment history, and 
Im satisfied that this is fair. Topaz will also need to remove any interest  added  on those fees 
as well.
web service: Topaz has acknowledged that Mrs J was caused some inconvenience  
because she wasnt able to use Topazs online service for a period of time. I understand that 
Topaz has now re-set Mrs Js credentials so she should no longer be having a problem with 
this. Topaz  has offered  compensation  of £50 for this. I think  this is fair in all the 
circumstances.
subject access request:  I am very sorry to learn of the issues  Mrs J had with her SAR. Ive 
looked at the photos  shes  sent us and its clear that the package was damaged  in transit  
and the contents were  visible.  I can also see that its clearly labelled as being for the 
addressee only  yet the courier left the package with a neighbour, in contravention of this 
clear instruction.
I think its more likely than not that the package was damaged whilst  in possession of the 
courier. But the courier was Topazs  agent  and so ultimately Topaz  has acknowledged that 
its responsible for the distress caused to Mrs J by the damage to the package.  This was 
made worse by the parcel  being left with a neighbour, when it was damaged to the extent 
that the contents could be seen.
Ref: DRN91263876Im satisfied that this caused distress to Mrs J for which a payment  of compensation is 
warranted. Topaz has offered £300, which I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. If Mrs J accepts this, it in no way affects her entitlement to refer a data 
breach to the Information Commissioners Office, if she wishes  to do so. Their remit is 
different from ours.
further points:  I am very sorry to learn that Mrs Js mental health issues are impacting on 
her ability to deal with her finances. Topaz  will be aware of the need to treat vulnerable 
customers with appropriate  care and it will (or should) have a policy in place for this. I also 
think, given that Mrs J has said she finds it difficult to keep track of her finances, that she 
might also find it helpful  to have some  advice from one of the free debt advisory  services  
such as StepChange,  Citizens Advice  or Shelter.  We can provide Mrs J with contact details 
for those  agencies, if shed like us to.
This is an interest-only mortgage with less than eight years remaining of the original 20-year 
term. I would  be remiss if I did not mention that at the end of the term, the full balance 
outstanding under the mortgage will be due and payable to Topaz. Mrs J will need to give 
some thought about how the balance will be repaid  in 2027, and she might  find it helpful to 
speak to a financial  adviser about  this.
conclusion: Im satisfied that the compensation offered  by Topaz  of £300 for the issues with 
the SAR, £50 for the problems with the web service and a refund of £350  in fees (plus 
removal of interest on those fees) is fair in all the circumstances. This means that I am not 
ordering Topaz to pay any additional compensation or make any further adjustments  to the 
account.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  insofar as Im satisfied the redress offered 
by Topaz  Finance Limited  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I simply leave it to 
Mrs J to decide if she wants  to accept it in full and final settlement of her complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9126387