K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC didnt give them  the options they were 
entitled to with regards to a corporate action on one of their shareholdings. 
background
In 2006, Mr and Mrs T began investing in an oil and gas company which  I will refer to as 
company L. Over  the years, they kept adding to their position  and had invested over £3,200 
in the stock. However, in 2015, L delisted  from the stock  exchange.  
In the autumn of 2018, Barclays  posted  a corporate action notice about L on Mr and Mrs Ts 
account. This let them know about a compulsory buy back scheme  but advised  the couple  
that there  was no action  required  at that point.  
The following  month, Mr T became  aware  that they did in fact have the option of having  their 
holding certificated  something that Ls original press release had said.
But by the time Mr T had called Barclays to ask about this, hed missed the deadline. Mr T 
says Barclays told him theyd decided not to offer the certificated option  given the short 
timescales involved. 
Mr and Mrs T say they received £35 following the buy back. Unhappy about  what  had 
happened and having lost so much money, they made a complaint to Barclays. Over the 
course of the next five or so months, Barclays gave the following responses:
the deadline for certification had been missed by the time Mr T called
theyd made a business decision  not to offer the certificated option, given the short  
timescales involved 
conflictingly, they werent  even given the certificated option  according to the stock 
exchange instructions  
their terms  didnt  require them to have done any more 
and ultimately, while  there had been no error on their part they offered a goodwill 
gesture of a hamper  or £30
Mr and Mrs T asked  for our help.  They  said theyd  have taken the option for a share 
certificate, had they been able to. And they asked  to be compensated for the full cost of their 
shares  around  £3,200. 
One of our investigators  had a look at what had happened.  He agreed that Barclays hadnt 
let Mr and Mrs T know about the certification option. But didnt think there was any financial 
loss given the value of the certificate  would only have been the same as the value of the buy 
back. Despite  this, he felt there had been  inconvenience and confusion caused  from how 
Barclays had handled things so he asked them to pay £200  compensation.  
Barclays didnt agree with what our investigator had said.  They pointed to their terms which 
said they werent obliged to have  notified Mr and Mrs T of the corporate actions. And that on 
this occasion,  they wouldnt  have had the resource to offer the certification  option for 
company L shareholders. But they agreed their subsequent service  could  have been  better  
so agreed to pay the £200 our investigator had suggested. 
Ref: DRN93866482Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy. They felt our investigator had failed to recognise  what  they 
felt was a significant financial loss. Our investigator asked Mr and Mrs T how theyd  
calculated that theyd incurred a financial loss, as from what he could understand, L had 
delisted and he couldnt obtain any share  price. 
Mr and Mrs T agreed that they couldnt now get hold of a share  certificate and that there  was 
no share price available for L. They felt this meant their holding was irreplaceable  as it could  
relist from anywhere between zero and infinity. So to put things right, they asked that they 
were put back in the position they were in before investing in L  meaning the £3,200  theyd 
put towards the shares would be back in their bank account. 
Our investigator pointed  out that the error which had occurred was in September  2018, not in 
2006 when Mr and Mrs T began investing. So it wouldnt be fair to ask Barclays  to 
compensate them for the value of their holding. Instead, if a loss was identified  as a result of 
the missed certificate,  this would have been something we could consider. Mr and Mrs T 
shared an example of a previous decision issued by our service where a consumer  was 
compensated in a matter which they now seek.
As things  remained unresolved, the case was passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2015, following changes within company Ls management, shares in L were  suspended 
from trading before being cancelled, or delisted,  from the exchange they were traded on. 
Three years  on, company  L announced  a buyback programme with intention  of repurchasing 
and cancelling  millions  of shares.  They  said, in part:
"If you are the beneficial holder, via a nominee account, your shares  are held 
electronically, if you wish to remain a shareholder then you must  contact  your 
nominee and instruct  them  to request a hard copy share certificate on your behalf,  in 
your name. This will be issued to you free of charge.  The time limit for hard copy 
share certification issue is 30 days from publication of this statement
Around a week  and a half or so later, Barclays flagged company Ls action on Mr and 
Mrs Ts account.  However, what they explained  was a little different to what company  L had 
said. The notification Mr and Mrs T would have  seen said:
"[company L] has announced via a press release that it will proceed with a 
compulsory Share Buy Back programme, which will result in the mandatory sale of 
your holding. 
What this means for you... 
There is no action required at this point. We will be in touch when further information 
becomes available. 
The pence  per share  is still to be confirmed"
Ref: DRN93866483Barclays terms and conditions say the account is execution-only meaning, amongst other 
things, theyre under  no duty to notify Mr and Mrs T of movements on their account. 
Furthermore, the terms say that Barclays dont have to notify the couple, or take their 
instructions, with regards  to corporate actions. 
But in this case, Barclays did notify the couple. The issue here instead being that Barclays  
notification was not as complete as it could  have been. It told the couple about one of the 
two options they had. Without letting them know there was another  option  on the table  
even if it was somewhat  troublesome. 
I do recognise the possible issues around  timescales and resources that Barclays  would 
face in offering the certified  option. Barclays are a large organisation and are very capable  of 
handling situations like these. But I appreciate that they also a very busy organisation and 
have a lot of clients. 
There was a delay  in notifying clients of company  Ls action, of ten days  or so. In an ideal 
world, Barclays  would notify clients of action immediately and give them  all the options 
available. But I recognise we do not live in an ideal world, and there will be a number of 
constraints as to why things dont function in this way. I also recognise that Mr and Mrs T 
have an execution only account  meaning, amongst other things, it was their responsibility 
to monitor their holdings  and remain up to date on what was happening  with their 
investments. 
For various reasons,  it cannot be known for sure whether Mr and Mrs T in one way or 
another could  have  received a share  certificate had they have seen  the announcement  from 
L earlier  than they did. I am persuaded by their testimony they would have elected for this 
had they been given  the choice. And while Barclays say they didnt have to let the couple 
know about what was happening, the fact is that they did. But instead of choosing  to detail 
both options (even if one had a very tight deadline  or was otherwise greatly restricted) they 
only detailed  one. So from the fair and reasonable standpoint, and rather  like our investigator 
suggested, I do think Barclays  could  have done  more here.
But what  follows is that I have to think about  the position Mr and Mrs T might  have  been  in 
had things have  gone differently. That would be that instead of the £35 they say they 
received, theyd instead hold a paper certificate  for their shares.  
It doesnt seem that obtaining that certificate  is now possible. So thats not something  we 
can suggest. Instead, we could think about how else to put things right  that might  be 
compensation. But, what I havent  seen  is any evidence that a financial loss has been 
suffered as a result  of the undesired option. 
I have done what  I can to look into company Ls situation, but it appears more  likely than not 
that any share certificate may only have  been  worth the same,  or a similar, amount that 
Mr and Mrs T received for the shares.  So I cant see that they have lost money as a result  of 
Barclays not giving them the choice about  what to do.
I appreciate the couple are very disappointed to have invested so much  money  and to not 
have much to show for it now. But I think it is important to note here that the fall in share 
price and respective  value  of Mr and Mrs Ts holding was the combined result  of company 
Ls actions and stock market movements. Not because  of anything Barclays  did. It is not 
Barclays fault that the investment did not turn out to be a good one. So it would not be fair or 
right to ask Barclays to compensate the couple  for the £3,200 they ask for now.  
Ref: DRN93866484It is not known whether  or not Mr and Mrs T could have reinvested  the proceeds  of the sale 
into company L shares once again  and indeed, to stand to benefit from higher share prices 
if (as they speculate)  company  L were to relist again in the future. They  could perhaps have 
enquired about  reinvesting the proceeds of their sale to re-establish a similar size holding.  
But that was an enquiry  for them to make  at the time. And there  is not enough for me to be 
persuaded that there is the real chance  company  L may go on to relist in the future, or that 
something else might happen that warrants significant loss of opportunity for the couple. 
There has been no news from company L for a considerable amount of time, so it would be 
too much  of a stretch for me to speculate on that now  especially to the extent that would 
be required  to award compensation.  
Mr and Mrs T pointed  us to consider another decision issued by our service  on a different  
complaint  they feel the situation  is similar, yet more compensation was paid. We consider 
complaints on their own merits, so it isnt the case that we would  necessarily follow the 
outcome reached  here. Despite this I would like to assure the couple that I have read and 
considered the decision, but for the reasons explained I still have not been persuaded they 
have suffered financial or opportunity loss in the way they claim.  
I am pleased  that Barclays have  agreed their customer service could have been better here, 
but think the £200 compensation our investigator proposed  is a fair reflection of the trouble 
Mr and Mrs T were  put to in having to chase things  up and for the confusion  caused by some 
of the explanations they were given.  
While I appreciate Mr and Mrs T will remain unhappy, from all that I have seen  I dont think 
Barclays are responsible for their losses. There is no guarantee  theyd have been  able to get 
a share  certificate  given  the timescales and moving  parts. And even if they did, I havent 
seen enough that persuades me they have missed  an opportunity  for which we could 
compensate them now. So Im just asking Barclays to pay the £200  for their trouble. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £200 compensation. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to accept or reject my decision 
before 30 July 2020.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9386648