K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  which 
Mr H says Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Limited (PSL) mis-sold to him in 2007. 
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in July 2019, setting out why I thought 
the complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.   And  I asked  both parties  to provide any further 
submissions or information  to me within one month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve had responses from both parties 
and neither wants to send  in any new information  or arguments. So theres no reason for me 
to change the findings I set out in my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. And dont require Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  
Limited to pay any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN92384132copy  provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy which  
Mr H says Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Limited  (PSL)  mis-sold to him in 2007. 
background
The policy covered Mr H in the event  of him being unable to work or losing his job. Our adjudicator 
who looked at this case  recommended that it should be upheld.  
PSL disagreed  with this and asked for an ombudsman  to make a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, I dont  intend to uphold this complaint. Im very sorry  to disappoint Mr H.
Im also sorry this complaint has taken a while  to reach an ombudsman. However,  its been an 
unusual case where liability for the sale was disputed. The mortgage and the MPPI  were issued by a 
high street bank but the actual sale was carried  out at a face-to-face meeting by a PSL 
representative. 
PSL has conceded  it was involved in meeting with Mr H and introducing him to the bank. But it has 
consistently denied  being responsible for the MPPI sale. All this has taken  quite a while to sort out 
and I completely accept it will have been very frustrating for Mr H.
Despite this, I can see weve  tried hard to keep Mr H up to date with whats been happening and I 
note a colleague ombudsman issued a decision in March 2019 saying PSL should  be held 
responsible for the sale of the MPPI. She said there was clear evidence to show that the MPPI was 
sold by PSL, including screenshot evidence  which  has PSLs  details on it and the name  of the 
individual consultant who sold the policy. We were also shown evidence that PSL received 
commission for the MPPI sale.  
Further to this, Ive carried out my own enquiries  which  showed that PSL was mentioned on the 
application form as recommending certain financial products. In short, theres compelling evidence  
that PSL is responsible for this sale and for answering Mr Hs complaint. And I think  PSL could  and 
should reflect  on how it might have  handled  Mr Hs complaint better.
Did Mr H properly consent to MPPI cover?
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr Hs complaint points are and Ive also taken into account  
that sale was back in 2007. So I cant be certain weve  got all the paperwork from the sale. I 
therefore dont think its possible to be absolutely sure about what happened, but I can say what I 
think is more  likely to have happened.
Mr H specifically  said this about his complaint: I was made to feel I had a better chance of getting 
the mortgage if I took out the insurance. I wasn't aware  at the time it was [M]PPI.
Whilst Ive got no doubt Mr H honestly and genuinely believes this now, I take into account  the length 
of time involved and the difficulty in remembering  what happened at one or two meetings in the past.  
And of the very few documents PSL could  show me, one was a disclaimer form which was signed  
by Mr H. It basically said hed been told about  MPPI  and that he had decided not to have it. The 
Ref: DRN92384133disclaimer went  on to say he accepted the responsibility  for the mortgage repayments was his, in the 
event of him losing his income.
By definition,  this must mean that MPPI was indeed discussed at the meeting  and that Mr H had 
given some thought as to what he wanted to do. The reasonable conclusion  must, in my view,  be 
that Mr H wasnt persuaded to have MPPI at that stage  and was prepared to sign the disclaimer  to 
say so. He would have therefore known  the MPPI  wasnt  compulsory and that he had a choice   and 
his choice at that point was not to buy it.
I was also sent a copy of the Mortgage Offer  he was given by the bank. Theres a section about  
insurances on the document which  says the only insurance he needs to have is buildings cover.  It 
also said You're not required to take out any insurance  through [the bank]  or through  POSITIVE  
SOLUTIONS (FINANCIAL  SERVICES) LTD. As an Offer  is an important document, I feel Mr H 
would have wanted to read this quite carefully. 
So by signing  the disclaimer  saying he didnt want MPPI - and by seeing  that his Offer basically said 
he didnt need to buy it - I think Mr H would have known he had a choice about whether or not he 
ought to buy this type of protection.  Im afraid I cant agree  he was made  to feel the MPPI was 
something that he was required to buy.
Theres no real dispute  that MPPI was eventually sold. But its obviously possible that Mr H changed  
his mind and decided to buy the cover after all. We do occasionally see these  types of situations 
because the mortgage approval  process can take days or weeks to complete. The central  point Im 
making here is that Mr H would  have  known  by that time that this type of cover wasnt something he 
needed to buy and he would have known  he had a choice.  And going back  to his main complaint 
point, this was that he was told he had to buy it. Im afraid I dont find this likely.
I also find it unlikely that PSL would have portrayed the MPPI as something he needed to buy and 
then have Mr H sign something that basically  said the opposite. The information  in the Mortgage 
Offer then strengthens that view. 
Mr H would have probably also then been sent something about the MPPI by the third party insurer 
and hed have had to authorise  the monthly premium  to leave his bank account for the MPPI to start.  
Again, I think  if he hadnt ultimately agreed to the policy, he would have wanted to know why he was 
being charged  for it and / or sent information about it.
So I think its more likely he agreed even though weve  got no documents from 2007 to show this.
Was the MPPI suitable?
I think  this was an advised sale where the policy was specifically discussed  and recommended to 
Mr H. So PSLs duty in this case was to make sure the cover was suitable  for him. Overall I think it 
was.
I think  he was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major  exclusions we tend to see in 
these policies.  The cost seems affordable for him and the mortgage was secured  against his home. 
So I can understand  why he might have wanted this type of protection. Mr H didnt  appear to have 
much other  protection against sickness with his job and had been in it less than 2 years. 
Mr H told us his parents  would have always  been  able to help if needed. I dont doubt  they would 
have wanted to do that, but making such a commitment over the term of a mortgage isnt as reliable 
as a formal insurance  policy. So having thought very carefully about all the circumstances I think  the 
MPPI was suitable for him.
Mr H was entitled  to be given clear information so he could make an informed decision.  I obviously  
cant say this happened for sure or that PSL did everything  right. But I think the disclosure  form he 
signed shows  there was most probably  a discussion  and that he broadly knew what this type of 
protection was for.
Ref: DRN92384134I completely accept that some of the documents Id like to see arent  available anymore. However 
this was all in 2007 and businesses arent required to keep  records indefinitely.  What Ive seen is 
that MPPI was probably  discussed and Mr H could  easily  see it was optional.  On that basis  Im afraid  
I cant  see how he would think he needed to buy it.
my provisional  decision
I dont intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint or direct Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Limited to do 
anything more.  
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 8 
August 2019  after which I will issue a final decision.
Ref: DRN9238413