K820x#14Complaint
Mr A has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC wont refund transactions, which  he says he 
didnt make.
Background
Mr A said his nephew stole his debit card details and opened an account  with an online 
casino. He said his nephew spent £19,000 of his money on the casino. This sum was 
debited from his Lloyds  account.
Mr A said he contacted Lloyds when he first saw the payments on his account. He said 
Lloyds told him it was blocking his card. However,  two payments went through after hed 
reported the fraud.
He asked Lloyds  for a refund. He said he didnt know about the online casino account or that 
his nephew had stolen his card details.  He also said Lloyds was responsible  for the last two 
payments because it failed to block  his card, as agreed.
Lloyds investigated  his complaint and decided not to refund him. It thought  hed made the 
payments himself because:
the disputed  transactions  were completed online using the same IP address as the 
one Mr A used when he logged on to his online banking account
some  of them were completed on the same day as other large genuine  transactions  
to another gambling site
his nephew couldnt benefit  from any winnings as they would be paid into Mr As 
account 
there were too many inconsistencies in Mr As explanation of what happened.
As Mr A didnt agree  with Lloyds decision,  he asked this service  to investigate.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr As complaint. In summary, she felt unable to conclude that 
the nephew made the payments. She was persuaded they were  most likely made and 
authorised by Mr A. 
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view. Hes asked  for an ombudsmans  final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts,  the transactions,  the 
relevant regulations and the evidence.  Both Mr A and Lloyds have read the investigators  
view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those  which form the basis  of my decision. 
However, I can assure Mr A that Ive read the file, including his comments  and evidence.
Ref: DRN92922282Having considered all the available evidence and arguments, Im afraid my review has led 
me to the same overall conclusions  as those reached by the investigator  and for broadly the 
same reasons. I will explain why.
In short,  Lloyds is required to refund  the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (the PSRs  
2017). Mr A says he didnt  open the account with the online casino or make the disputed  
transactions. So, my primary concern is to come to a view about  whether or not I think  Mr A 
authorised the transactions by making them himself.
Having reviewed Lloyds  technical evidence Im satisfied Mr As card details were used to 
make the disputed transactions and that they were  authenticated. However, despite what Mr 
A has said, Im not persuaded  his nephew opened  the account or made the transactions.  In 
coming to that view,  Ive taken into account the evidence below. 
IP address
Mr A told us his nephew took pictures of his debit card and used Mr As phone  to perform  the 
transactions. He said his nephew often went into his room  to use his PlayStation when he 
visited. He also said his nephew and his parents used to live with him.
Lloyds technical  evidence shows that Mr A logs on from two IP addresses  one for his 
online account and the other for mobile  banking. The disputed  payments to the casino were 
made from the same IP address as the one he uses for online banking.  I understand the 
device was a laptop, not his phone.
Mr A has explained how the opportunity might have  arisen for his nephew  to be in his house.  
However, according to the banks audit report,  the first four payments were made 
between 5.44am and 7.06am on 4 June  2018,  which was a Monday. It seems unlikely to me 
that his nephew would be in his room at these hours, even  if he were still living with him, 
especially as Mr A works.
Based on this evidence,  Im satisfied the disputed  payments were  made  on Mr As laptop 
and from his home. I dont  consider his nephew  was in the house or in his room  on 4 June 
when the first four payments were made. I think Mr A made these payments. And I think  it 
follows that he made the last two payments on 5 June.
Online and mobile banking activity
Lloyds online audit  report shows that Mr A logged on to his online and mobile banking 
several times before and after the disputed payments. For example, he logged  on several 
times between 07:19am and 5:48pm on 4 June 2018. So, he would have seen that £10,000 
had left his account. Yet, he didnt contact  Lloyds until the next day at 7.55pm.
Mr A said he thought the payments were  his monthly direct debit payments for his outgoings  
and thats why he didnt question it. However,  his bank statements show  five direct debits 
each month  totalling  £1,580.81  a significantly  lower sum. I cant see how he could confuse  
the £10,000 with his normal outgoings.  He would also have seen where the payments went  
 to the casino.  I can only conclude  that he knew what the payments were.
Payments to other gambling sites
There is a history of gambling on Mr As account.  The disputed payments are consistent with 
other similar payments, which he hasnt disputed. For example, on 3 and 6 June there were 
Ref: DRN92922283several payments  to another  gambling website.  The amounts  are similar  to the disputed 
payments.
As the disputed transactions are consistent  with the other gambling payments, I think its 
more likely than not that Mr A made  them.
No financial benefit
As already pointed  out, any winnings would have been paid into Mr As account. Theres no 
explanation for how his nephew could benefit from the winnings. So, there was no financial 
benefit to the nephew  in placing the bets.  And it makes no sense for the nephew to use his 
card and not benefit financially.
Telephone numbers
The first transaction  was declined. It was followed within one minute by a successful 
payment to the online casino. Lloyds said it would have sent a text message to Mr As 
mobile number. Mr A said he didnt receive any text messages. He said his phone  was 
stolen earlier  that year and although it was later returned, his number might  have changed.
However, the evidence  from the bank shows that he registered  three  numbers with it on 
multiple occasions. This suggests he used different sim cards,  as hed been using the same  
device for mobile  banking.  The investigator has set out the phone  history in details. I agree 
that its more likely than not that he received the text message and responded to it.
The casino account
Mr A relies  heavily on the evidence from the online casino, which shows that the name, 
address and email  address on the account are not his. However, the mobile number, which 
was registered  to the account, was one of the three numbers hed registered with Lloyds. 
And his card details  must have been  registered to the account so that winnings could be 
paid into his account. This is evidence linking him with the casino account.
Again, Ive thought about whether his nephew  opened the account using his details but as 
Ive already mentioned its difficult to see how he would have benefited from any winnings. 
Also, the mobile number, which was registered on the casino account, was originally 
registered with Lloyds in May 2018  and again  in September  2018.  It wasnt a number he was 
using at the time, which means another sim card must have been in the phone. This begs 
the question, how did the nephew know the other number? I dont think he did. I think Mr A 
opened the account.
For all the reasons Ive given, I think its more likely  Mr A made the disputed  payments to the 
online casino himself,  rather than his nephew. It follows that Lloyds is entitled to hold him 
liable for them.
Fair and reasonable 
Mr As main complaint is that Lloyds failed to block his card, as promised, when he first 
telephoned it. This is his only comment on the investigators view.  He hasnt responded to 
the evidence,  which connects him to the disputed transactions.
The investigators view sets out the history  of Mr As first phone call to the bank. Initially, 
Lloyds said he didnt  call on 5 June to report the disputed transactions. It later confirmed  he 
had called and it had told him it would  block his card and stop further transactions. Lloyds 
now say it was a block  for a specific transaction.
Ref: DRN92922284I think Lloyds did mislead Mr A into thinking it would stop transactions to the casino. Ive 
considered what  this means for Mr As request  for a refund. My primary task has been to 
decide if he authorised the disputed transactions. I cant decide  he didnt authorise them just 
because Lloyds failed  to block his card. I have to look at the evidence, which connects him 
to the disputed transactions. And that evidence is set out above.
Having decided theres no evidence of fraud here and that he authorised  the transactions,  
Im afraid I dont think its fair and reasonable to ask Lloyds  to refund him  not where he has 
made the payments.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mr A, especially  after a long wait. I hope the 
reasons for my decision are clear and I thank him for his patience.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9292228