K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains he was mis-sold a loan from Sainsburys Bank Plc at a much higher annual 
percentage rate (APR) than was advertised in store. He also says Sainsburys failed to send 
information he requested regarding early  resettlement of the loan. 
background
Mr B says that he saw a loan advertised  in store with an APR of 2.8%. He applied for this 
product. He was offered a loan for £10,000 with Sainsburys  at what he thought was the 
same rate. He later realised he was paying  an APR of 14.6% over 50 months.  
Mr B says he was misled by Sainsburys and wants them to reduce the APR to 2.8%.  Mr B 
also says that he contacted Sainsburys in October 2017 and requested an early repayment  
quote but did not receive this. 
Sainsburys said it had considered Mr Bs financial situation at the time of his loan 
application and had given him the most appropriate  APR based on its lending criteria. It was 
not willing to reduce the level of interest charged. It also said it had no record of his request 
for an early settlement quote.
Mr B didnt accept Sainsburys explanation  and brought his complaint to our service.  
Our investigator did not think that Sainsburys had done anything  wrong  because  they had 
made the terms of the loan agreement clear.  Mr B didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have decided not to uphold  Mr Bs 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I have looked  at the loan agreement signed by Mr B. The agreement is clear in explaining  
that borrowing  £10,000 over a 50 month period would cost Mr B a total of £13,345.44. It 
confirms that the APR is 14.6%, resulting in £3,345.44 added interest. Mr B signed the 
document in the box where it clearly  states Sign  only if you want  to be legally bound by its 
terms. I think that this was enough information to make Mr B aware  of the agreement  he 
was entering into and that it was at a higher APR than 2.8%.  
Sainsburys has provided a copy of a leaflet from the period Mr B took out the loan and 
whilst it does not specify typical APRs,  it does state the following:
Terms & Conditions 
The rate you are offered will depend  on your personal circumstances, credit assessment 
procedures and other related factors.
Please check our website  for the most  up to date rates.
Although I dont know that this is the exact  same leaflet Mr B saw, from other examples I 
have seen I am satisfied  it is typical of the information included in its marketing  materials.  
And because of this I think  its more  likely  than not Sainsburys made  it clear  what the terms 
and conditions of the loan Mr B was entering  into were.
Ref: DRN92515402In addition, I note that Mr B had a 14-day cooling off period in which he could have raised 
any queries he had regarding the terms of the loan or, alternatively,  cancel  the agreement. 
Mr B did not contact Sainsburys to query or cancel the agreement.  On balance, I think this 
shows Mr B accepted the loan at the higher  APR.  
I have taken into account that Mr B says he had little knowledge of how loans worked  at the 
time he signed the agreement. However, for the reasons Ive set out above, I am satisfied 
that he was aware  of the agreement he was entering into had a higher APR, and Sainsburys 
did not mislead him.
Ive also thought about Mr Bs complaint regarding his call to Sainsburys in October 2017 
about repaying the loan early. Sainsburys say it has no record  of any request made. It 
confirms that a note regarding  such a request would be logged  on their system  notes  and 
there is no record of this. 
However there is no doubt Mr B did call at this time. Although Sainsburys has not been  able 
to provide a telephone recording from October  2017 I have reviewed the call notes.  The 
notes say that Mr B requested a capital and interest statement, which was sent to him. 
There are no further notes to show Mr B contacted  Sainsburys  again  to query the statement 
or request an early repayment  quote.  
I have no reason to doubt Mr B believes he requested an early repayment quote but I have 
to consider all the evidence  available  to me. Ive placed more  weight on Sainsburys system 
notes because they were  made at the time of the events being  complained  about. I also note 
Mr B didnt follow up his request after he received  a statement which  appears  not to have  
met his needs. So I think its more  likely  than not theres been some confusion  about the 
request Mr B actually  made. Based on what Ive seen I dont think it would be fair for me to 
say Sainsburys has done anything wrong  here. 
For these reasons I cannot agree  that Sainsburys misled Mr B when it offered him the loan 
or that it failed to provide  him with an early  repayment statement.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, it is my final decision that Sainsburys Bank  Plc has acted fairly 
and reasonably. I will not be asking it to take any further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Greg Callander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9251540