K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with how Bank  of Scotland plc (Halifax) has handled  his mortgage account.
 
background
Mr M has had a number of ongoing  issues  with his mortgage. Our service has looked into 
two previous complaints Mr M has had with Halifax and the background to this particular 
complaint is well known  to both parties.
Mr M is unhappy:
the automated  payment system doesnt give him the option  to speak to someone,  
and the service he was given,
the way his request to change his payment  date was handled,
that a call he had with Halifax was terminated, and;
he has been unable  to complete a product transfer since  November 2017 and would 
like the product transfer backdated  to this date.
Mr M has also raised a number of issues about  the interest rate he is being charged  on his 
mortgage, the outstanding  balance and that he hasnt  been provided with a key facts  
document he requested. Halifax has already explained that these points have been looked 
into under  previous complaints. As our service  has already considered them  under his two 
previous complaints I wont  be commenting  on these any further.
Halifax sent its first Final Response Letter in June 2018. This letter addressed  the issues 
raised about the automated payment system, changing his repayment date and having a call 
terminated. It confirmed  its automated payment  system did give an option to speak to 
someone. It also said when Mr M called  raising  his concern its agent tested the system and 
called Mr M back  to confirm it was working  correctly. It confirmed the information he was 
given about changing his repayment date was correct. Finally,  it said it couldnt find the call 
Mr M had said had been terminated.  Halifax  did tell Mr M that one of their complaints  
managers had had to end a call as the conversation had become unproductive.
Halifax issued a further Final Response Letter in July 2018. This letter explained that it had 
no record of Mr M requesting a product transfer  in November 2017 and therefore wouldnt be 
backdating the transfer. It also confirmed that the mortgage balance  was correct.
Unhappy with the response Mr M referred his complaint  to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. She felt that Halifax had treated Mr M fairly. 
Mr M disagreed so his case  has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking Halifax to take any further  steps to resolve this complaint.  
Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN90743122Ive listened to the initial call that Mr M had with Halifax to discuss  his concerns about the 
automated payment system and changing  his mortgage payment date. During the call the 
advisor explained to Mr M which option he would need to select  to speak to a person. He 
also explained what the impact would be on changing his repayment date and how he could 
go about doing this. Im satisfied that the Halifax advisor gave Mr M the correct information, 
including offering to test the automated system for any issues.
During this call Mr M raised a number  of issues about his previous complaints. I think  the 
advisor tried to help where they could and did explain to Mr M that they had access to limited 
information. I feel that the advisor acted professionally  and politely at all times during the 
call.
Halifax has provided our service with a number of calls it has had with Mr M. Ive listened to 
all of these. With the exception of calls with complaint managers  I havent heard anything  
that suggests that calls were terminated.  And I dont think  the call with the complaint 
managers was terminated unreasonably. It was clear that the call was becoming 
unproductive and causing  distress to Mr M.  
The fixed  rate on Mr Ms mortgage came  to an end in November 2017. At this point his 
mortgage reverted  back to Halifaxs standard variable rate. Mr M has said that prior to this 
happening he had tried to make  an appointment with a mortgage advisor and Halifax had not 
helped him. He would like Halifax to complete a product  transfer and backdate this to when 
his fixed rate ended. Ive thought carefully about this point, as I know it is something that Mr 
M feels  strongly about. 
Im not persuaded Halifax should  backdate a product  transfer. I say this because I havent  
seen anything that suggests  Halifax have  been un-cooperative or unwilling to arrange an 
appointment with a mortgage advisor,  either  in branch or over the phone. Halifax contacted 
the branch Mr M had visited  to request a mortgage  appointment to verify what  he was saying 
happened. However, the branch was unable to do so. 
And in a call that Mr M had with one particular complaints manager he was advised the 
process he would need  to follow  to arrange the product transfer.  Ive also noted  that during 
the call Mr M had with the Halifax advisor  to talk about his concerns about the automated 
payment system, he said he was looking to move his mortgage  to another lender. 
In summary  Im satisfied  that Halifax has treated Mr M fairly when dealing with his concerns 
about the automated payment system,  his request  to change his mortgage  payment date, 
the handling of the calls it has had with him and what hed need to do to complete a product 
transfer. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9074312