K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains Premium  Credit Limited (PCL) failed to set up a direct debit for his car 
insurance on time. This resulted in increased monthly premiums,  Mr S felt he then had to 
cancel the policy,  and hes now being  asked  to pay a one-off  amount for the period he had 
on cover  which he feels PCL should be liable for.
background
Mr S took out a car insurance policy, which he wanted to pay for by monthly instalments. 
The insurance company  used  PCL to finance  this  they would collect  the premiums  via 
direct debit from Mr S.
Mr S agreed to take out this policy  in October 2018, but PCL didnt set up a direct  debit  and 
no payments were made.  PCL realised their mistake in January, and contacted  Mr S asking 
him to pay the full yearly insurance amount,  spread over the remaining nine-months that the 
policy was in force. Because  of this, the monthly  payment increased. Mr S was unhappy with 
this, and immediately  cancelled the policy. PCL then cancelled their credit agreement  with 
Mr S, confirming he owed PCL no money.
The insurance company  tried to recover a portion of the premium from Mr S, reflecting the 
amount of time hed been covered. He wasnt  happy about this, and hes made separate 
complaints relating to this to the insurance company  and their collection agents.
Mr S also complained to PCL about the way theyd dealt with this matter, and they upheld  
his complaint. They agreed theyd made  an error in not starting  the direct debit on time. They 
paid Mr S £50.00  in compensation  as an apology for the inconvenience theyd caused. 
However, Mr S was unhappy  with this, and brought his complaint to us. He said the insurer 
was now seeking  a one-off payment of over £250  for the period he was covered  and as 
this was all PCLs fault for not setting up the direct debit properly at the beginning, why 
should he be liable for this amount now. He wants the insurer to cancel the amount,  or PCL 
to pay it.
Our investigator didnt  agree with Mr S, saying it was fair he was being asked to pay for the 
time he had on cover  because hed had the benefit  of the insurance. Also,  Mr S has some 
responsibility to ensure  his monthly payments were  being met. Our investigator did agree 
that PCL were at fault for not setting up the direct debit properly, and for not communicating 
properly with Mr S, but agreed their offer of £50 compensation was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S asked an Ombudsman  to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before doing so, I want to make clear that I am considering the actions of PCL only.  Mr S 
has made complaints  against his insurance company and their collection  agent, but these  
are being  dealt with separately,  so I wont be making  any comment  on them here. PCL were 
responsible for collecting the premium from Mr S for an insurance  policy  hed agreed to take 
Ref: DRN92531112out  so Ill only look at PCLs  actions trying to collect the premium by setting up the direct 
debit, and how their failure  to do this affected Mr S.
Before doing this, I need to comment on the one-off amount the insurer is seeking  to recover  
from Mr S, and which he thinks PCL should be liable for. This amount, just over £250,  isnt 
all related to the particular  policy  that forms the basis of this complaint.  I understand Mr S 
took out an earlier policy in September 2018, which he then cancelled in October 2018 
because the premium increased.  There was an amount payable  for this first policy  - about  
£75  which is included  in the £250  the insurer is claiming. This had nothing to do with the 
second policy Mr S took out in October 2018  the one PCL forgot to set up the direct debit 
for. So, I can separate this £75 charge from the amount the insurer is seeking, and say PCL 
is not liable  to pay this £75 Mr S is being charged  this first policy  was cancelled by Mr S, 
and the amount due isnt as a result of any failing on PCLs  part.
The second  policy  started in October 2018  and appears to have followed on from the 
cancelled first policy. I havent seen anything or heard the sales  call where this second 
policy was agreed   although  Ive heard the sales call for the first policy,  and the script the 
insurer went through when a new policy is agreed. This offers paying monthly as an option. I 
think its more likely  than not Mr S went through a similar script when  the second policy 
started, and so think its likely Mr S was offered the same direct debit option  for the second 
policy. This being so, I think its more  likely  than not Mr S was aware hed taken out a new 
policy in October 2018, requiring monthly  direct debit payments.
So now,  I need to consider how PCL dealt with setting up the payment option for that 
second policy. PCL have  already agreed they failed  to set the direct  debit  up on time 
because of an internal oversight. There is no dispute  regarding this. Its clear  they failed  to 
set up the direct debit  in October 2018, and I agree they were at fault here.
But, Mr S did have  insurance cover in the period, so PCLs mistake  didnt  result  in him not 
being insured  - just he wasnt paying for it. But I can see Mr Ss monthly payments increased 
because the premium would be collected over nine months, and that Mr S decided this 
wasnt something he was prepared to pay. He chose to cancel the policy because of this.
The insurer  said Mr S must pay a cancellation  amount  for the period he had on cover   
about £175 (the £250 claimed, less the £75 charged  for the first policy). This amount is 
made up of what is effectively a £25 cancellation fee, and about £150 as a pro-rata amount 
of the full premium  in respect of the days Mr S was covered.
Dealing with the £150 first, I dont think PCL should have to pay this on Mr Ss behalf. Mr S 
was covered by the policy in the relevant  period, and as Ive said above I think its likely he 
knew he was covered. I also think its likely Mr S knew payments should have been paid 
each month, so I think Mr S would have known he had insurance  he had an obligation to pay 
for. PCL may not have  set the direct  debit up properly, but I dont think  it follows  they 
become liable for the period of cover  that Mr S benefitted from. Whilst Im not prepared to 
say here whether Mr S should have to pay this  this is an issue better dealt with in Mr Ss 
complaint about  the insurer  I am prepared to say that PCL shouldnt  have to pay it.
However, I do think PCL should  pay Mr S the £25 cancellation fee the insurer is charging. I 
think it would  be appropriate  for PCL to cover this cost to Mr S because of the position  its 
actions put him in - he felt he had to make the choice  to cancel. Ive contacted PCL,  and 
theyve agreed to pay this extra amount.
Ref: DRN92531113Finally, I want  to look at the amount of compensation PCL have  paid to Mr S. They have 
paid £50 to compensate for the inconvenience their actions (or inactions) caused.  In 
deciding whether this amount is fair, I need  to look at the effect PCLs error  had on Mr S.
Mr S felt he had to cancel  his insurance  due to the increased monthly  premium,  and was no 
doubt unhappy hed have  to make up the payments he thought hed been making. However, 
against this, I believe  Mr S wouldve known hed agreed to take out an insurance policy on 
monthly terms, and so is more likely than not to have been  aware  of the need  to make 
monthly payments  from that time on. As such,  I think £50 provides a fair reflection of the 
inconvenience experienced  by Mr S, and I wont be asking them to increase this amount.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require Premium Credit  
Ltd to do the following:
-Pay £25 to Mr S, to compensate him for the cancellation fee being charged  to him by 
his insurance company  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Mark Evans
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9253111