K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained about Ageas  Insurance  Limiteds handling of a claim against his motor 
insurance policy.
background
Mr As car was in a minor incident at a petrol station when his daughter opened her car door 
and caught the mirror of another car (the accident). Ageas received a claim for repairs  and 
personal injury from the driver of the other  car. Ageas settled that claim for around £3,187.
Mr A didnt think Ageas had dealt with the claim reasonably and brought  his complaint  to us. 
Our investigator said that Ageas  had settled the claim fairly. Mr A didnt agree so the 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not going to uphold it. 
Solicitors acting for the other driver contacted  Ageas to make  a claim against Mr As policy. 
Ageas tried on numerous occasions, both by phone and by post to contact Mr A but wasnt  
successful. 
The other drivers solicitors said that the other  driver had already  incurred  costs  of £3,187 for 
damage to his car. It added that if Ageas  didnt  settle that part of the claim then costs  were 
likely to increase as the other driver might need a hire car. At that time Ageas didnt have   
Mr As version of events.  So it couldnt  have known that Mr A would later provide evidence  
that all the damage  to the other car was unlikely to have been  caused by the accident. So to 
prevent costs from escalating it made an interim payment to the other drivers solicitors  on a 
without prejudice  basis.
Mr A later contacted Ageas. He told it that his car door had only hit the other cars mirror and 
couldnt have  done the significantly damage  the other driver was claiming. He had a witness 
to support his argument. He also didnt believe that the other driver could have been injured.
At that point Ageas did contest the other drivers  claim. But in terms of the personal injury  
claim it noted that the other driver had provided  a report of attendance at A&E, had been 
signed of sick by a doctor and had a medical report confirming that hed suffered injuries as 
a result of the accident. And, after talking  legal advice, Ageas didnt think  it could 
successfully defend that part of the claim if the case went to court. So it offered to settle the 
entire claim, including  the personal  injury  and damage claims for the amount it had already 
paid £3,187.
I understand that Mr A thinks Ageas shouldnt have paid anything. But he doesnt dispute 
that the accident caused his car door to hit the other  car. So it was always likely that Ageas 
would have to settle a claim for some  damage to the other car. And that means that the 
accident would be considered as a fault claim. Also I understand that where  a claim for 
personal injury is supported my medical  evidence, as was the case  here, then it would have  
been very difficult for Ageas  to successfully defend that claim. And, if the matter  had gone to 
court there was always  the chance that the claim could have cost Ageas significantly more 
Ref: DRN93891942than it had already  paid.  So, in those circumstances I think it was reasonable for Ageas  to 
settle the claim as it did. 
I understand that Mr A is unhappy  that the claim has affected his no claims discount  (NCD)  
and his premiums going  forward. But its usual for insurers  to see drivers  with recent fault 
claims on their insurance history as higher  risk than drivers without such claims. And 
insurers recognise that increase in risk in the premiums they charge. So I dont  find it 
unusual or unfair that the claim  has affected  Mr As premiums. Similarly, its usual for 
insurers to step back NCD following such a claim.  And I can see thats  whats  happened in 
this case. So I dont think Ageas has treated Mr A unfairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9389194