K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc acted unfairly when it closed  his business bank 
account.
background 
HSBC wrote to Mr L about  a safeguard  exercise in which it asked him for more  information 
about his business. HSBC  says he did not provide this within  the timescale it set out. And so 
it closed his account. Mr L disagrees  and says that he did provide all the information and 
was told that his account would not be closing. He only discovered it had after the closure  
had taken place.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld,  that the account  be reinstated 
and Mr L paid £200 in compensation. She said she thought that the information had been  
provided in time. And HSBC had told Mr L that he had provided  what it needed.
HSBC did not agree and did not accept  that the information was provided in time.  It said that 
if was required to reinstate the account then it would give Mr L 60 days  notice of closure. It 
agreed to pay the compensation. Mr L did not agree to its offer of mediation  and remained of 
the view that it had not acted fairly.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 April 2019. I set out below what I said:
I set out a timeline below  of what I understood happened below, taking into account  HSBCs 
response to our adjudicators opinion:
Ref: DRN99727062timeline
-28 November 2017 - HSBC writes to Mr L explaining the safeguard exercise  which is 
designed to reduce  fraud and financial crime by ensuring it has up to date 
information.
-21 December 2017 - HSBC writes to Mr L this time saying he needs  to input 
information online about his business within  60 days. If he does not then his account  
may have to close.
-18 March 2018 - HSBC views the information  on the account. It is not clear if any 
further contact is made with Mr L.
-13 April 2018 - Mr Ls information is recorded  as being uploaded.
-9 May 2018 - the information is reviewed by HSBC and a letter is sent to Mr L asking 
him for more information and referring  only to providing the information  by the 
deadline date.
-18 May 2018 - HSBC  writes to Mr L and says that it will no longer be going to provide 
banking services to him and that the account will close  on 22 July 2018.
-22 May 2018 - Mr L has a web chat online with a member  of HSBC  staff. Mr L tells 
the member of staff that he can see information  is requested  when he logs on. But 
when he tries to access this he receives a message  saying  the account will be 
closed. The member  of staff tells him that the one question  outstanding is about the 
percentage of his business income  that is used to keep the business  going. Mr L had 
misinterpreted this before  and now confirms that all funding  for the business is 
generated from income. He is told that the information will be sent to the processing  
team.
-There are records of his log in to internet banking on 4 June 2018, and on 9 and 20 
July 2018 - Mr L says that after the web chat the banner saying that his account will 
be closed and the requirement  for information  had been removed. HSBC disputes 
this and says that this would not have happened.  Neither  Mr L nor HSBC have any 
actual screen shots for his account showing this.
-25 July 2018   further web chat when Mr L says he cannot  access  his account.  He is 
told it has been closed.
-26 July 2018   HSBC sends a final response saying that when  Mr L did not respond 
to its letter of 9 May 2018 it decided to close his account giving the required notice 
under the terms  and conditions. It concludes To date,  HSBC Safeguard has not 
been completed and is the reason we have closed  your account in line with our letter  
of 18 May 2018.
assessment
I said that in my view HSBC is entitled to collect the information about Mr Ls business  that it 
thinks is necessary to meet its regulatory and legal requirements. And to use this information 
as part of this safeguard  exercise to help it address  financial crime and fraud. It provided a 
notification to Mr L that he needed to complete information  within 60 days  of its letter. He did 
not do so. It gave him a further opportunity to address one question it was not satisfied with. 
He did not respond  before  it decided to give notice to close  his account.  The evidence  Id 
seen from the web chat is that he later provided  this information to HSBC.
The issue  here is that HSBC allowed Mr L further  time to complete his information even 
though his first submission was outside  the deadline. But when it wrote  to him on 9 May 
2018 it did not clarify what the deadline was. And that letter  came 26 days  after he had 
uploaded the rest of his information. It turned out that he was then being  given eight  
calendar days to address  this. He was in contact with HSBC following the letter of closure. 
Ref: DRN99727063Its clear to me he thought he had provided  what was required - thats a reasonable 
interpretation of the transcript of the web chat.  And I thought if his account  was still going to 
be closed that should have been  made  clear  to him by the person he dealt with. 
I was persuaded  by his evidence that he either  did not see the banners online again or did 
not believe these  to be applicable any further.  He didnt agree with HSBC  when it said in its 
final response that he hadnt  provided  all the information. He was clearly  inconvenienced  by 
his business account closing given  he no longer  expected  this to happen.
I said I was struggling to think that HSBCs  intention was that the process would operate in 
this way and with this result  for Mr L. Had it been  robust about  the deadlines and 
requirements then I think Mr L would have been  in no doubt his account was going to be 
closing. Instead  it appeared to be taking a reasonable approach and allowing some leeway. 
Mr L clearly spent some time trying to address the outstanding requirement.  I considered  he 
was misled by the web chat he had.
resolution
Our adjudicator has asked HSBC to reinstate the account. Its said We wouldnt  look to 
reopen facilities in this instance. Ultimately  we have made a decision we do not wish to 
continue this relationship. Therefore, reopening will just lead to us issuing 60 days notice 
again and closing the accounts again.
I said that HSBC in my view has the legitimate  commercial discretion to decide whether to 
offer banking facilities or not. Thats not something this service  would normally interfere with. 
And with knowledge of all the circumstances (around compliance  with deadlines in providing 
information) HSBC now still takes  the view it does not want  to operate  an account for Mr L. 
Even if I were to agree  with the adjudicators recommendation on HSBC reinstating Mr Ls 
account, the bank is clear  it would simply give him the required notice  (again). That doesnt 
help matters from Mr Ls point of view  and it simply continues an unsatisfactory  situation 
for a short period of time. So I said I wasnt intending to require it to re-open the account.
Instead I thought  about the compensation appropriate for whats happened.  I thought  Mr L 
has been caused inconvenience  as he did not realise his account was still being  closed.  He 
spent unproductive  time trying to provide  additional  information. He received unclear 
information about deadlines.  And he disagreed with the statement in the final response letter 
that he had not provided all the information.  Thats  taken the investigation of this service to 
address. I noted he hasnt  provided any information  about any specific  financial loss due to 
the account closure.
Having considered all these factors and taken into account our published guide on 
compensation for trouble  and upset in my provisional view the fair amount here is £500.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC said that it accepted  my assessment. 
Mr L said that he understood  the provisional  decision but still found  it unfair  that HSBC  would  
not accept its error and reopen the account. Thats especially as it confirmed to him that the 
Ref: DRN99727064account would not close. He did not see it had a legitimate reason to close it. He wanted 
confirmation that this would  not affect  his credit record or his ability  to open  a business 
account with another  provider.
I asked our adjudicator  to confirm with HSBC whether  anything  adverse had been recorded 
on his credit record about this matter.  It told us that as the account  was in credit  nothing was 
added to his credit file. However, Mr L may wish to check his record  and if he feels  that any 
information recorded about his prior HSBC  account is incorrect  or unfair  then he would be 
able to raise that as a separate complaint. I cant say how other providers might view 
HSBCs decision  to close his account.  He has this decision with my findings and thats as 
much as I am able to comment on.
I have reconsidered  my decision and taken into account the points hes emphasised again to 
me. I understand his position. But Im afraid  nothing  hes said has led me to change my view 
on this complaint  or what I think is an appropriate resolution. I know he will be disappointed  
by my assessment.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC  UK Bank  Plc to pay    
Mr L £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9972706