K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) decided  to close  his bank 
accounts. He feels  that he has been discriminated against because  he was born overseas.
background
Mr R is a longstanding  customer of NatWest. He also holds an ISA account, which he 
believed was with NatWest. 
Mr R works  overseas, but received his pay into his UK NatWest account. 
In February 2019,  NatWest wrote to Mr R saying that, following a review, it had decided  to 
close two of his accounts.  It gave  him 60 days notice of the account closures from the date 
of that letter.  
Mr R contacted NatWest in response. He was concerned that he was being  unfairly  treated, 
and was worried about what would happen  to his ISA account,  as this had not been 
mentioned in the initial letter. NatWest  agreed  two meetings with Mr R. One of these was 
cancelled at short notice  and the other did not take place as the staff in branch were  not 
aware that an appointment had been made.  
Mr R spoke with an agent of NatWest and was asked  questions about his account usage 
and payments into and out of his account. Mr R answered these questions,  and the adviser 
said that if any further information was needed then someone would contact Mr R. 
Mr R received no contact to ask any further questions. 
Mr R complained, and appealed  the decision to close the account. Within his complaint he 
explained he was unhappy that his ISA had been transferred to another branch of the 
business with out his being made aware  of this.  
NatWest then sent Mr R its final response  in late February 2019. This accepted that Mr R 
had received a poor customer service in relation to the branch  having agreed to meetings 
and then cancelling these. 
It also accepted  that Mr R had not been  recently informed that his ISA was transferred to 
another part of the business.  In respect  of the account closures  NatWest  did not uphold  Mr 
Rs complaint and explained that it had taken the decision properly and in line with its terms 
and conditions. 
NatWest offered Mr R £50 compensation in respect of the customer service issues  he had 
encountered. 
NatWest subsequently confirmed its decision to reject Mr Rs appeal against the account 
closure in March 2019.
Mr R was not happy with this and asked us to reach  a view on his complaint. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and set out a view to the parties. This 
was that NatWest had not done  anything substantially wrong and she did not recommend it 
do anything further.  
Ref: DRN96347822Mr R did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should make  clear that I understand Mr Rs frustrations at his accounts  being 
closed. This is inconvenient at any time but must have been particularly so when dealing 
with his accounts from overseas. I also appreciate that to believe that the accounts were 
being closed for discriminatory reasons would have been very upsetting. 
I do, however,  have  to look at whether there is evidence of the bank doing anything  wrong.  
As the investigator  explained, banks are entitled  to choose whether to continue  to offer 
accounts to any of their customers, just as customers are able to choose  to leave the 
account. NatWest has provided  evidence of it carrying  out an account review  and deciding  to 
close the account for commercial reasons. It is entitled to do this. 
NatWest gave sufficient  notice in line with its terms and conditions,  and Mr R received this 
notice. I have not seen any evidence that NatWest applied any discriminatory criteria, and 
NatWest has said that it does not retain  information  on customer nationality, so this would 
not have been a factor in its consideration. 
As a result, whilst I understand that there has been  an impact upon  Mr R at the decision to 
close the accounts, I cannot say that NatWest  was wrong to take this decision. 
In respect of Mr R not being advised  that his ISA was transferred to another  part of the 
business, in its response  to the complaint NatWest accepted customer service failings, but 
has also provided evidence that the ISA moved to the different part of the business in 2010 
and Mr R had been dealing with his ISA using the correct business details since that time. I 
therefore do not uphold this element of the complaint as it appears that Mr R was properly 
aware of details of his ISA account,  and where it was held. 
Finally, Mr R complained that he did not receive a returned call that he was promised. I have 
listened to the recording  of his conversation  and cannot hear that he was promised a return  
call. I do, however, acknowledge that NatWest  accepted that there  had been customer 
service failings in it agreeing appointments with Mr R wrongly. It offered compensation to 
reflect these  service failings. 
As a result, whilst I acknowledge that Mr R has experienced some customer service failings, 
I think that NatWest has appropriately addressed these in its offer of compensation.
I realise that this will be disappointing  for Mr R, but I do not ask NatWest to do anything 
further
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I agree with the investigators view and do not uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. 
I do not ask National  Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further. 
Ref: DRN96347823Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9634782