K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited failed to adjust her 
direct debits following  a partial payment.
background
In July 2017 Ms G entered into a finance  agreement with MBFS.
In December 2017 Ms G made a partial payment and asked for her monthly instalments to 
be reduced to £25.
In February 2018  Ms G contacted  MBFS and complained that her direct  debit hadnt been 
adjusted to reflect the partial payment. She was also unhappy that shed received an arrears  
notice and that a late payment marker  had been added to her credit file.
MBFS acknowledged that there had been an error adjusting the monthly  repayments  
following the partial settlement. It also said the arrears letters  had been sent in error  and 
should be disregarded. It said it would arrange for any late payment  information to be 
removed from Mr Gs credit file and offered a goodwill gesture of £150.
Ms G wasnt  happy with MBFSs response so she complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said it wasnt clear  whether MBFS had contacted  
all of the credit reference agencies  to request the removal of the late payment marker and 
recommended that MBFS provide Ms G with a letter to show that it had done this. The 
investigator felt that the compensation offered by MBFS was fair.
Ms G didnt agree. She said her credit  record was adversely affected for a significant  period 
of time and felt that £150 didnt reflect the impact of the error  or the time shed spent  trying  to 
resolve matters.
MBFS didnt agree either. It said it had already asked the credit reference agencies  to 
amend their records and that they had already  advised Ms G that her credit  file had been 
updated.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that MBFS made an error  when it sent arrears notices to Ms G and 
reported late payments  to the credit reference  agencies. I understand how distressing  it 
mustve been for Ms G to find herself in this situation through no fault of her own. And I 
appreciate shes  unhappy  about the level of customer service  shes received from MBFS.
The way in which this service approaches awards for distress  and inconvenience is to look 
at the impact  of the error. Ive also looked at what MBFS did to try and put things right.
Ive noted Ms Gs concerns that her credit file was affected for a significant  period of time. 
But from the information available, Ms Gs ability to obtain credit hasnt been affected.  It may 
be the case that Ms G didnt apply for credit during this period. Had she done so  and been 
Ref: DRN95978082declined because of the later payment marker   my views might be different. I understand 
Ms Gs strength  of feeling about this but taking the circumstances into account Im satisfied 
that the offer of £150  is fair and in line with what this service might  award.
In terms of what MBFS has done to try and put things right,  it has said that it wrote to the 
credit reference agencies. However,  Ms G has provided evidence  to this service  which  
shows that the late payment marker is still being reported by at least one credit  reference 
agency. I dont  think MBFS  should have told Ms G that her credit file had been updated 
without checking  that all of the credit reference  agencies had actioned the request to remove  
the marker.
Because of this I think MBFS  should write again  to all of the credit reference  agencies 
requesting that the marker  is removed.  MBFS should check that the marker  has been 
removed and then write  to Ms G conforming  that her file has been updated.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  in part. Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services  
UK Limited  should:
Wrote  to the credit reference agencies requesting that the late payment marker is 
removed
Check that the credit reference agencies have acted on the request to remove the 
marker
Write  to Ms G confirming that the marker  has been removed
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9597808