K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms M complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Ms M took out a mortgage in 1987. 
Halifaxs records show that they first paid for PPI in September 1991. The certificate of 
insurance Halifax sent Mr and Ms M shows they were both covered for accident,  sickness  
and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Ms M disagreed with our 
adjudicator. Mr and Ms M initially  complained that they didn't know theyd been sold PPI and 
didnt need it. In response to our adjudicators assessment they also say that the way the 
benefit was split between them made the policy unsuitable for their needs.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Ideally, Id like to have seen the paperwork from the sale,  to show whats likely to have 
happened and how the PPI was likely  to have been presented.  But its not surprising, given 
how long ago this sale happened,  that this paperwork isnt still available.  I wouldnt expect 
Halifax or Mr and Ms M to have kept this. And although Ive thought carefully  about  
everything theyve told us, it wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what  Mr and Ms M 
remember about the sale after such a long time.  
I have to look at everything  Ive been told and sent and decide what  I think  is most likely.  
Although Halifax  couldnt  provide any documents from when it sold PPI to Mr and Ms M its 
records show that Mr and Ms M first paid for PPI around four years or so after the mortgage 
was set up. This suggests to me that theyd probably taken out their mortgage  without  PPI in 
the first place. And Mr and Ms M have told us they took out the PPI during a meeting in a 
Halifax branch in 1991. So I think they wouldve understood that PPI was an optional extra 
when they did that. 
Mr and Ms Ms mortgage was a major  financial commitment, repayable over a number of 
years. Their home  wouldve  been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
PPI provided dependable cover and better protection than they had otherwise. So, I can see 
why Mr and Ms M mightve felt PPI was useful  to have. 
From what  Ive read and been told, I think Mr and Ms M wouldve had to fill in a separate PPI 
application in order to take out PPI. I think thats likely to be what  happened and so they 
would've been able to choose the amount of monthly benefit and say who they wanted the 
policy to cover- and if they wanted to share the policy  benefits.  
Ref: DRN95363752On balance, I think its likely that Mr and Ms M decided they wanted  to protect their home by 
taking out the PPI offered  - and it was set up for them  and added  to their mortgage  account 
in line with the information they put on their application when they chose to buy the policy.   
Both Halifax and Mr and Ms M say they were  personally advised to take the PPI that Halifax 
sold them.  So Halifax  shouldve taken reasonable steps to make sure the cover was suitable 
for them. And it had to give Mr and Ms M important  information they needed to know in a 
clear way. If that didn't happen,  I have  to think about  whether this makes any overall  
difference to the outcome of their complaint. 
I've seen nothing  to show that Mr and Ms M werent  both eligible for the policy.  
The certificate of insurance Halifax sent Mr and Ms M indicates  that they were covered for 
up to 24 months benefit each time they claimed successfully on the policy.  
I've thought carefully about what I've seen and been  told about Mr and Ms Ms 
circumstances in 1991. Theyve said that Ms M wasnt  entitled to any sick pay. And I've 
taken into account  that Mr M told us he would've  been entitled to up to a year on full pay if 
he was off work sick. I appreciate that after so long its difficult for him to find evidence  to 
show hes right about  this  I'm happy  to accept what he says and Im deciding this 
complaint on the basis that what hes told us is probably  correct. 
But the certificate of insurance indicates that the policy would've paid the monthly  benefit  
shown for 24 months - a lot longer than Mr M told us he would've been entitled to receive  full 
sick pay from his employer. And the policy wouldve  paid out on top of any work benefits, 
providing a useful additional  benefit  at whats likely to have been a difficult  time if 
Mr M or Ms M was off work sick. 
As well as this, the policy couldve  paid out for up to 24 months  per claim in the event Mr M 
or Ms M became unexpectedly unemployed  on top of the redundancy pay Mr M has told 
us he wouldve got and whatever, if any redundancy payment Ms M mayve been entitled  to.
They couldve made repeated claims on the policy. So PPI provided long term cover whilst 
Mr and Ms M had to pay their mortgage  and wouldve  left intact any savings they mightve  
had.    
The certificate of insurance names  both Mr M and Ms M  and, looking at Halifaxs  records 
and the likely policy terms,  this means  they would've  shared the policy benefits equally 
between them.
I appreciate that Mr and Ms M are concerned that theyve been disadvantaged because this 
benefit split halved their entitlement  to benefit  if either of them alone had made a claim. And 
that it didnt reflect their very different  comparative earnings when they took it out.
Looking at the likely terms that Halifax says wouldve  applied  when Mr and Ms M set up their 
PPI, their only options were to have the policy in one name  only  or to share  it equally.  And 
I can see why they mightve wanted to share the policy  benefits.  
Ref: DRN95363753As the mortgage  was taken out when Mr and Ms M were  both in work, I think  its likely  that if 
either of them  couldnt  work this wouldve had an impact on their joint finances in the long 
run. I think they mightve found it hard to keep  up the monthly mortgage repayments on top 
of all the other household expenses if only one of them was working  especially if they 
faced additional  expenses as a result  of disability or illness. 
I dont know what,  if anything was discussed about  how the policy  benefits would be 
allocated between them  or what advice, if any Halifax gave about that. But its likely  the 
policy wouldve cost the same,  however  the benefit  was split. And as Mr and Ms M didnt 
make a claim under the policy, they havent in my view lost out financially, even if the way 
the benefit was to be split may not have been  right for their circumstances  and needs.
From what  theyve told us, Mr and Ms M werent affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover. So, I think it unlikely that having  better information about  the policys exclusions 
and limitations wouldve  affected their decision  to take it out.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Ms M when they bought the policy.  But 
it looks like the PPI was something they wanted  as they arranged  to take it out some years 
after the mortgage had been  running without PPI. They wouldve had to set up separate  
payment arrangements  at their bank to do this  so it looks like they were happy to pay for 
the cover  they wanted at the time and they havent suggested that they couldnt  afford  the 
monthly premiums. And as they were  paying  for it monthly, if their situation changed or they 
no longer wanted  it, they could cancel the PPI without further cost.
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  But I think 
Mr and Ms M still wouldve  decided to buy the policy  if theyd been given better  information  
as the policy  gave them useful protection in their particular situation. So I dont find theyre 
worse off financially  as a result of anything that Halifax mightve done wrong.
I appreciate that Mr M is unhappy with the service he has received from Halifax in the course  
of it responding  to this complaint. Although it is clear this has caused him some  frustration, 
overall I dont consider  theres sufficient reason to award compensation for this.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr M would like to be able to send in additional  information to support his claim but he says 
that as his complaint dates back so many  years, theres nothing else he can now send me. 
Halifax hasnt made any further comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, after taking carefully  into account  everything that Mr M has said in response 
to my provisional decision,  I dont feel that he has said anything  new or different  that 
changes my view. 
Ref: DRN95363754I appreciate its frustrating for Mr M that, due to the passage of time, its not now possible for 
him to produce all the information hed ideally have liked to send  in support of this complaint. 
But Id like to reassure  Mr M that even though he cant now provide his company handbook 
with details of its sickness  and redundancy pay policy, this makes  no overall difference. 
I say this because  Id already accepted what Mr and Ms M told us about their sick pay 
entitlement. Mr M told us he was entitled to full sick pay for up to a year from his employer. 
But the policy certificate provided  shows  that he was covered for up to 24 months  per claim if 
he was off work sick  and the policy also provided  24 months cover in the event Mr M lost 
his job unexpectedly and was out of work. The policy also covered Ms M and provided her 
with these benefits. 
Taking all this into account, its fair and reasonable for me to say that the policy  provided 
significantly more and better cover than I think its likely Mr M and Ms M wouldve had 
otherwise. 
So, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision. 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 December  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN9536375