K820x#14Complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 
2000. Mr J says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Js case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Based  on a copy of Mr Js signed  credit card application form, I think RBS made it clear 
that he didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand if he doesnt remember this given how long ago the sale took place.
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr J so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr J got the information  he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose to take out the PPI  so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover  so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J because: 
RBS expected to get a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr J about that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mr J, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr Js said  including what he said about having other means 
of meeting the monthly repayments if he wasnt working. However, the PPI benefits paid out 
on top of his employers sick pay and for longer at up to 12 months per claim.  It covered  him 
for unemployment too. I dont know enough about the other insurance policy  he says he held 
to conclude the PPI RBS sold him wasnt also useful. And, although  he says he could have 
relied on his partners earnings,  that source of income likely wasnt guaranteed  unlike the 
PPI benefits. Overall, Mr Js points dont change  my decision.
Ref: DRN93313912My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr J any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand its already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9331391