K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about a faulty  laptop he bought using his Creation Financial Services Limited 
(Creation) credit card. He would like a refund.
background
Mr F says he bought laptops for his three children in January 2016 using his Creation credit  
card. Unfortunately  he says within a few weeks one developed a fault  an intermittent 
flickering on the screen. And the screen would  then turn off. He says he reported this by 
phone to the manufacturer but as his daughter had to use the laptop for her studies she was 
unable to send  it back to the manufacturer  to be repaired  until July 2016. The manufacturer 
repaired the laptop but Mr F says shortly after the screen kept turning off. Mr F says he 
contacted the manufacturer in September 2016 to say the repair had been unsuccessful and 
he wanted a replacement/refund.
He says the manufacturer wouldnt agree to replace or refund the cost of the laptop as Mr F 
was outside the cooling off period to return the item.
He said he had had other problems with the other two laptops he bought.  One was 
successfully repaired by the manufacturer one by a third party.
Mr F said he then contacted Creation to recover his money but hasnt been able to do so.
Creation said that it couldnt help under the Charge Back Scheme rules as more than 120 
days had passed  since the fault occurred. It did consider a claim under  Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 19754. But said it couldnt  help as it couldnt confirm if the fault was a 
manufacturing error/defect. Or if the fault still existed. And the laptop  was still under warranty 
and the manufacturer had offered to repair it.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She found  that as the fault occurred within a few 
weeks and was reported within the first six months it was likely the fault was due to a 
manufacturing error. And there have been  two attempts to repair the laptop.
She recommended that Creation offer a replacement laptop.
Mr F accepted this but Creation didnt. It queried  why it took so long for the laptop to be sent 
back to the manufacturer. And why Mr F turned down  the manufacturers offer to send an 
engineer to look at the laptop on site.
It also said as the item was still under  warranty so it expected the warranty  to be used to 
deal with any issues. It felt the manufacturer had showed it was confident it could resolve the 
problem and was willing to do so.
It queried if leaving the laptop  faulty for six months might have resulted in further  issues with 
it. And didnt  feel there was any evidence the other laptops Mr F bought at the same time 
were faulty  so didnt  agree that there  was necessarily a manufacturing issue.
Finally it said as a finance company if the complaint  was upheld  it couldnt provide Mr F with 
the suggested redress of a replacement  laptop.  It could only provide a refund.
Our investigator considered these comments but didnt change her view. 
Ref: DRN93168772She felt that as there  had already been two attempted repairs  to the laptop it was reasonable 
for Mr F to have  some  concerns about  a third attempt. Although she noted Creations other 
comments she felt that as there had been  problems  with the laptop  within  six months of its 
purchase. And two attempted repairs. It was reasonable for Mr F not to have to pursue a 
repair. She noted Creation wasnt able to replace the laptop. And as Mr F now wanted  a 
refund she recommended  that Creation refund the cost of the laptop.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think there is any dispute that there  have  been problems with the laptop  Mr F bought. 
The email  trail he sent us between him and the manufacturer confirms  the attempted  repairs.
The email  trail also confirms that another of the laptops he bought had the same  problem of 
an intermittent flickering  on the screen.  And  he has given us evidence to show the cost of a 
computer repair which he says was for the third laptop.
Mr Fs complaint however is only about  the one laptop he asked for a refund from the 
manufacturer and then from Creation  for.
I agree  with Creations  point about  there is no evidence of a manufacturing defect/error in 
the correspondence between Mr F and the manufacturer.  But  equally  there  is no reference 
to misuse or accidental damage to the laptop; I think the latter is unlikely since two of Mr Fs 
children experienced  the same problem with the same laptop.   It would be unusual for two 
people to cause  the same accidental damage. Mr F has also given us evidence  of repair 
costs for the third laptop. Taking all of this information together I am persuaded there was a 
problem with these  laptops.
Its unfortunate that the manufacturer was able to repair one but not the other one that had 
the same  problem. 
Ive noted Creations comments that the manufacturer has offered to send an engineer to 
look at the laptop. I am not persuaded by Mr Fs comments that this would be something his 
daughter wouldnt  be able to accommodate due to her busy  schedule. I can see there might 
be some  sensitivity,  as Mr F has suggested,  to having an engineer  alone with a student in 
her room. But t his daughter could have asked a friend to be there with her. Or she could 
have found a neutral place she felt comfortable  in to have the laptop looked  at.
However I am also mindful that the manufacturer has taken  back  the laptop twice and been 
unable to resolve the problem. So I think there  would have been some inconvenience  to Mr 
Fs daughter  in organising for a third attempt  at repair either via an engineer  visit or by 
arranging to have  the laptop  collected again. I am also not persuaded Mr F, or his daughter,  
would have any faith in a third repair. 
Mr F says the problem arose within the first few weeks of his daughter  having  the laptop  and 
he says he called the manufacturer in February  2016 about this. I cant  see any evidence of 
this from the information Mr F has given  us. The email trail with the manufacturer  starts in 
July 2016. This first email relates  to collection arrangements of both laptops so its clear from 
that there  has been some prior communication.  So I am persuaded there  has been an 
Ref: DRN93168773ongoing problem  from soon after delivery of the laptop which was reported to the 
manufacturer within six months.  After two unsuccessful repairs  I think its reasonable to 
consider a refund.
I have considered very carefully if its reasonable to expect  Creation to refund the full cost of 
the laptop as Mr Fs daughter did have some  use it. However Mr F has now given us proof 
that he bought a replacement laptop on 1 August 2018. He has been very honest  in telling 
us that this laptop was initially for himself  even though the invoice is in his daughters name.  
But he has told us when  the second  attempted repair  was unsuccessful his daughter kept 
the new laptop for her own use.
I am persuaded both by the fact that two repairs were unsuccessful  and that Mr F bought a 
new laptop that a full refund is reasonable. During his complaint Mr F mentioned specific  
software that he had purchased for his daughters laptop. However given  his daughter  did 
have some use of the laptop I dont feel its reasonable to expect Creation to cover this cost.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement.  Creation  Financial  Services Limited  should  refund the cost of the 
laptop.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9316877