K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the information that was provided to him by Yorkshire Building Society
(YBS) when  his Fixed Rate  ISA was due to mature because he believes the information
provided to him gave  him unsuitable financial advice and was misleading.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 11 December 2018 explaining that it was my intention  to 
reject this complaint  and make no award. In short I made the following findings:
Mr A wasnt given  advice as he suggested. He was given  four options and could 
choose which one he wanted.
I wasnt satisfied that YBS had to give him every possibility as to what he could do 
with his account on maturity. One of the options was to do something else other 
than the three other options  which was a catch-all  option.
The catch-all option wasnt limited to offers after the email of 16 April 2018 as he had 
said. The wording made  it clear there were other options  as well as new offers.
It was reasonable  for YBS to base the options  on what was to happen after his 
account ended.
Mr A was aware when  he received the email that there were other ISA accounts  
currently available so he couldve opened  another account if he wanted to.
It wouldnt have been appropriate for YBS to refer to offers  available on 16 April 2018 
as it was quite  possible  an ISA rate available on that date wouldnt be available  when 
his account matured on 1 May 2018.
I didnt think YBS had a standard offering as Mr A suggested.
I didnt think he was steered towards the second of the four options as he had said as 
there was nothing to suggest which option he should choose.
YBS could only offer the fixed  rate ISA account it did in the letter,  and not other  
possible fixed rate accounts,  as it was the only account it knew would be available  
when his account ended.
I wasnt satisfied I needed to make any findings  on any specific  piece of consumer 
legislation as the regulators rules  required YBS to provide information that is fair 
clear and not misleading. So any breach of consumer  law is likely to be also a breach 
of those rules.
Mr A has made reference  to the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading 
Regulations 2008 (the CPUTR) with regard  to YBS using the term special offer. In 
particular he says that as the offer wasnt better than one previously that had been  
available for 28 days  there was a breach. But I wasnt persuaded that the use of the 
words special offer meant a product has been  sold on less favourable terms 
previously.
I thought the use of the words special  offer  was potentially  misleading as there 
appeared to me nothing that made  the offer special  in any way given the ISA rate 
being offered  was lower than other rates available at the time. But I dont think it did 
actually mislead Mr A as he had made  his own enquiries and was aware there were 
other, higher  ISA rates available  at the time.
I wasnt satisfied YBS hadnt dealt with his complaint appropriately as it had provided 
a final response within  a day of his complaint and a further  response, when he made 
additional comments, within a week.
Ref: DRN99526952YBS accepted my provisional decision  but Mr A didnt agree with it and, in summary,  made  
the following  points:
YBS refused to discuss its use of the term special offer when  he brought this to its 
attention  or consider  whether  it had breached  the CPUTR  2008. 
He wasnt prepared  to commit to a long term arrangement with it until he had its 
assurance it would try and ensure all future representations are honest, accurate,  
truthful, and comply  with regulations. This is why he suspended his future  dealing  
with it and ended up with his ISA being  rolled  over for another  year earning 0.75% 
instead of 1.5%.
It is part of our role that the FCA is made aware  of persistent law breaking by firms  
and the public is aware whom it should complain  to if they find a firm is blatantly  
ignoring legislation.  He wasnt made  aware that we would only look at law-breaking  in 
certain circumstances.
As he has suffered  financial  loss as a result of what YBS has done and will suffer  
further loss if it continues to refuse to accept it needs to verify  that the information it 
supplies is accurate  and not misleading, consideration needs to be given as to 
whether there has been a breach of the CPUTR 2008.
He was provided with three options,  not four, and one was described as a special 
offer indicating it was superior  to the usual  offer.
He isnt unhappy he was only given a limited number of options. He is unhappy he 
was given three options that were inferior to the current  offering  to the public, one of 
which was falsely called  a special offer.
There was not an option of doing something  else. This was just a reminder of what 
would happen  if he decided to wait.
When he received the email  he checked to see if a previous ISA option he had seen 
had been suspended  and found  it still existed and was superior to the special offer.  
YBS shouldve told him to check the current offering before accepting the offer and 
shouldnt have  used  the term special offer.
YBS shouldve made clear the offers  were  decided some time before and may not be 
as good as ones on offer to the general  public  at the time the email  is received.
YBS has ISA rates that are available to the general public on a particular  day which 
is what he means by standard offering.
His understanding is that we have to consider the law, and if it isnt relevant, explain 
why, to demonstrate  that we have considered it.
The Chartered Trading Standards  Institute  issued a guidance for traders on pricing 
issues which requires a price promotion shouldnt contain false information about  the 
price, the manner in which the price is calculated or the existence  of a specific price 
advantage. This applies  to all consumer goods and services so how have I 
interpreted the term special offer?  He believes he is entitled to expect that the use of 
the words special offer does of itself mean  a product has previously been sold on 
less favourable terms and this has to be what was meant.
If I accept  the words special offer were  potentially misleading then YBS breached  
the guidelines and therefore  the CPUTR 2008  and so I need to consider if he has 
suffered any financial  hardship.
The fact he was aware there were ISA accounts at better  rates, together  with a belief 
his complaint would be dealt with promptly, led to him delaying his re-investing and 
losing money in interest.
He doesnt  understand  why the response to his complaint within  a day was beneficial 
when it didnt deal with the issues as the person he spoke to wouldnt consider the 
email he was sent.
Ref: DRN99526953The further response didnt correspond with the facts as it said there was no special 
offer and didnt  explain  why the term was used.  It also said there  was no need  to be 
trained in consumer  law.
He was told in a Freedom  of Information  response that if there is no past present or 
future loss we may decide there is no valid complaint. But that an allegation of 
financial hardship whether  justified or not is effectively an allegation  of loss which we 
can investigate.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the various points made by Mr A but Im not persuaded to change  my 
decision not to uphold this complaint.
I said in my provisional decision it isnt my role to sanction a business  if it has done  
something wrong. So there isnt any misunderstanding about  what I mean, I am talking about 
the notion of imposing some kind of fine or penalty  on a business.  That is quite clearly the 
role of the regulator.  I can only award  something  to an individual complainant when  I find 
that the business has done something  wrong  and the person complaining has themselves 
suffered some loss or harm as result of this. 
I didnt say that we would only look at law breaking in certain circumstances  although we 
are not able to look at every complaint made  to us - and that isnt what I meant when I said it 
isnt my role to sanction YBS.
I note Mr A has said that there were only three options but I dont agree. I acknowledge that 
the first option was the default option,  in that if he didnt choose any of the other options  he 
would automatically  be put in an ISA earning 0.75% interest which  is what  he ended  up 
doing. I dont think this means  this wasnt an option  which he could choose   as in fact he 
did by default.  
The fourth option was to do something else other than the first three  options  which  again 
was an option  that was open for him to take. I note when he complained to YBS he said this 
was vague. But if he had chosen this option  he couldve then explored with YBS what  else 
he might  do with his money.
Mr A says he is unhappy that he was given options that were inferior to the current offering  
to the public. But given the fourth  option was to do something else - which  refers  to YBS 
having a wide range of accounts available and the regular launch of new offers - Im not 
persuaded that he was offered something inferior to the public  at large.  And at the time the 
email was sent it couldnt offer him any of the other  ISA accounts it had available  as there 
was no guarantee  these  would be available when his ISA account finished  on 30 April 2018.
I didnt say I hadnt considered the law. I made  specific reference  to the CPUTR 2008, 
although limited  my finding to the specific point  made by Mr A that the use of the words 
special offer meant that the offer was a better deal than one that had been available for the 
previous 28 days - I said I didnt think was something that was necessary before the words  
could be used and I have seen nothing that makes me think I was wrong to make that 
finding. 
Ref: DRN99526954I dont think I need  to make any other finding about any potential breach of the CPUTR or 
other consumer legislation as I found  there  wasnt a basis for YBS using the words special 
offer anyway - as it seemed to me there  were likely to be better rates available for Mr A to 
choose from when  his ISA account ended at the end of April 2018. I have seen nothing that 
would justify the use of that phrase in the circumstances and YBS hasnt suggested that my 
finding on that issue is wrong.
Given I decided there  wasnt a basis for YBS using the words  special offer  anyway, and that 
the regulator requires businesss to provide information that is clear  fair and not misleading, 
whether there was also a breach of the CPUTR I dont think adds anything  as the issue I 
then have to decide is whether Mr A has suffered any loss as a result  of what  YBS did 
wrong.
And I still dont think he has suffered any loss or financial hardship  as a result. It is clear 
from what he has said he chose not to invest differently until he had received what  he 
considered a satisfactory assurance about the accuracy of any further information YBS was 
going to provide along with its compliance  with regulations. So he wasnt  misled  by the use 
of the words special offer.
And I dont  think it is reasonable to expect YBS to pay Mr A any redress because he chose 
to leave his money  in an account he knew provided a low interest rate for a year. He was 
aware from the enquiries he had made  when  he received the email that YBS had other  ISA 
accounts available offering better rates.
There was no need for him to leave his money  in a low interest account whilst waiting for 
some assurance from YBS about  the information  it provides  to him  such assurance would 
provide no guarantee YBS wouldnt make the same mistake again or any greater protection 
than Mr A already has as a result of the requirements the regulator  places on firms.
I note what Mr A has said about the way his complaint was handled. I acknowledge that he 
feels the first response wasnt of value because the person he spoke to said that they 
wouldnt consider  the actual  email  that was sent to him. But the second response explained 
that the email  was generic  so there  wasnt a need  to consider the specific  email  he was sent. 
The second  response said there  was no special offer. This is accurate with regard to the 
email itself which provided the four options - the reference to a special  offer isnt in the 
email itself but in the link which  the email provides. The investigation was perhaps more  
limited than it shouldve  been. But Mr A didnt go back to YBS and point out it was wrong 
about there being no reference to special offer or where he had seen this. Instead  he 
referred his complaint to us  within three weeks of his initial  complaint to YBS.  
As I have already  said, my role isnt to impose a sanction on YBS if it did something  wrong.  
And Im not satisfied  that the way it dealt with the complaint has led to any loss or harm to Mr 
A even  if I accept that complaint  handling  is an activity we can look into. 
 
Ref: DRN99526955my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before xxxx 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99526956COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr A is unhappy  with the information that was provided to him by Yorkshire  Building Society (YBS) 
when his Fixed Rate ISA was due to mature because he believes the information provided  to him 
gave him unsuitable financial advice  and was misleading.
background
Mr A had a one year fixed  rate ISA with YBS that he had taken out in April 2017.  It was due to mature 
on 30 April 2018. YBS emailed him on 16 April 2018 to remind him his ISA was due to end. It 
explained that when  it did the proceeds would automatically be put into its variable rate cash ISA 
providing a 0.75% return. 
It then gave him four options as to what he could  do with his money. The first was to leave  it in the 
variable rate ISA, the second was to transfer to a fixed rate ISA offering 1.10%,  the third was to take 
his money and the fourth was to do something else  under which YBS said it had a wide range of 
products to choose from and new offers that would  arise.
Mr A complained about the content of the email the same day it was sent.  And YBS provided  its final 
response the following day. It didnt  uphold  Mr As complaint. It said that it sent out maturity  packs in 
good time before  an ISA was due to finish which offered  products that are similar  to the maturing ISA 
and will be available on maturity. It said it doesnt offer products that may not be available on maturity 
and it does inform customers within the pack that other products may be available.
One of our adjudicators  also didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  He was satisfied that the 
information provided  was not giving Mr A financial  advice  but just gave him options as to what  he 
could do when his ISA matured.
He also explained that the business could only provide  details  of products that were certain  to be 
available when his plan matured, as such it could  not provide  details of accounts that were offering  
higher interest rates  when it emailed him as these might not be available.
Mr A didnt agree  with the adjudicator and thought his opinion was unbalanced. He said:
YBS advised him that he only had four options. The second one  to invest in another fixed  
rate ISA - was closest to his goal but doesnt state  that this is one of a number of fixed  term 
options and uses the term special offer  when it should say the offer is at a lower  rate than 
other ISA products available.
YBS had selected  one option (for a fixed rate ISA) out of many and this had a lower rate than 
its standard rate and increased  the investment from one year to two. By providing only one 
option they are giving advice.
YBS have said this is a special  offer   a specially  reduced price or other financial 
inducement usually available only for a limited time.  As it is less advantageous than its 
standard offering  it is intentionally misleading.
YBS is in breach of consumer  law by calling  it a special  offer as it is not superior  to any other 
offer made in the last 28 days.
The fourth  option   to do something else other than the first three options  relates to offers 
which may be launched after receipt of the email and at the end of the existing ISA. It doesnt 
apply to offers at the time of the email.
We should be the experts in complaint handling and bring poor complaint handling to the 
attention of both YBS and the regulator.
As Mr A didnt  agree  with the adjudicator the matter has been referred  to me for review.
Ref: DRN99526957my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I think  it is important to explain that my role is to decide whether a complaint should or shouldnt  be 
upheld and if I do uphold a complaint whether any award should be made. It is not part of my role, or 
that of our service,  to impose any sanction on a business for breach of any law or regulation. That is 
an issue for the regulator.
I have considered the various points raised  by Mr A in his complaint and in response to the 
adjudicators opinion.
In the complaint form Mr A completed when  he referred the complaint to us he suggested that the 
options he was given amounted to advice  from YBS.  But advice is where a business gives advice 
about the merits of investing in a particular product.  Given he was provided with four options as to 
what he could do with his money he clearly wasnt being advised. So I am not considering whether 
YBS gave suitable  advice or not.
Mr A is unhappy  that he was advised he only had four options and wasnt given a comprehensive list 
of alternatives. But one of the options he was given was that he could  do something else  than the 
first three options. This is a catch-all option that I think covers other possibilities  not within  the first 
three options.  I dont think it was necessary,  or reasonable  to expect, that YBS would set out every 
possibility open to him.
Mr A has suggested that the catch-all  fourth option  was limited to offers after the email of 16 April 
2018 and when his existing ISA ended. But this option wasnt limited to new offers as it stated that 
there was a wide range of products to choose from and that we regularly launch  new offers. 
So it was clear  that this option wasnt just limited to new offers  but also to existing  products. I 
acknowledge that it indicated  contact should be made  after his ISA had ended but all of the options 
were based  on his existing ISA having come to an end and Im not persuaded that YBS did anything  
wrong because it didnt give him the option of opening another account  before this  I think it was 
reasonable for it to base  its options on what happened  after the end of his existing ISA.  
Im also mindful  that Mr A was aware  on the day he received the email that there were other ISA 
account available,  so he couldve opened another account if that is what he wanted to do.
I also think  it wouldve been inappropriate for YBS to refer to offers that existed as at the date of the 
email of 16 April 2018 as it is quite possible  that an ISA rate available on that date wouldnt still be 
available as of 1 May 2018.
Mr A says he was steered  towards  the second  option - to take out a two year fixed  rate ISA offering 
1.10% - which was worse  than YBSs standard offering. But I dont think YBS had a standard  offering  
as such.  It had a number  of fixed rate ISAs available  as of 16 April 2018 with different terms and 
different rates which might  not be available when  his existing ISA ended. 
With regard to him being steered towards this, I dont  think this was the case in relation to the four 
options as there was nothing to suggest which option he should  choose. If he is referring to him being 
steered towards this over other fixed rate ISA accounts, this was the only account that it could say 
with certainty would be available when  his existing ISA ended as it was guaranteed to be available 
until the end of May 2018.
Im not satisfied that I need to make  any findings on any specific piece  of consumer legislation to 
make my decision. The rules set out in the regulators Handbook require that a businesss 
communication to a customer is fair, clear and not misleading. I dont think  it is necessary to look 
Ref: DRN99526958further than that to decide  if YBS did anything wrong  as any breach of consumer law in relation to the 
information provided  is more likely than not to be a breach of the rules anyway.
But Mr A has made specific reference to the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 
2008 which I will briefly  comment  on. He says the use of words special  offer in relation to the ISA 
that was offered is a breach  the regulations because this wasnt  a better  deal than one that had been 
available for the previous  28 days. 
But this is where a business offers  a product at a lower price  or on more favourable terms than 
previously and refers to this when selling the product so as to induce customers to buy the product. 
The use of the words special  offer doesnt of itself mean a product has previously been sold on less 
favourable terms  and I have seen nothing that indicates this is what  was meant.
Having said that, it isnt clear  to me why the words  special offer  were  used by YBS. Having 
considered the rates YBS had available throughout  2018 as published in Moneyfacts  I think  it is of 
note that the fixed rate ISA that was on offer was lower than any other fixed  rate ISA it offered to 
customers either before  or after the email, so this wasnt a special  rate and it appears to have had no 
other characteristics that set it apart from other  ISAs that were likely to be available. In saying this, 
whilst I accept  that there was no way to be certain what specific fixed  rate ISA accounts  would  be 
available after 30 April 2018, I dont  think there is much  doubt there would be fixed rate accounts 
available.
So I think the use of the words special offer was potentially misleading as I think it could be read as 
meaning this was something better than other accounts that might be available. And, as I have said,  
considering what YBS had offered before 16 April 2018, it was unlikely  that it wouldnt have an 
account available  that offered a better rate when his existing ISA ended, even if this wasnt  something 
it could offer him as of 16 April 2018. 
But although  this couldve  misled Mr A, it didnt do so in any significant  way given he made  his own 
enquiries and was aware on the date he received the email that there were  other ISA accounts 
available offering  better rates.
Mr A has also indicated  he is unhappy with the way his complaint was dealt with. He has made 
reference to the person he initially spoke to being  unwilling  to consider the email he was sent. But 
YBS provided  a final response within a day of him complaining. And when  he made further comments 
in response to this it provided  a further response only a week later which went through each  point he 
had raised.  Im not persuaded that YBS didnt  deal with his complaint satisfactorily in the 
circumstances.
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  this complaint  and I make no award.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9952695