K821x#15complaint
Miss E says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about five instalment loans Uncle Buck provided to Miss E between August 
2017 and April 2018. The amounts Miss E borrowed ranged between  £100 and £600. The 
loans were to be repaid  in three  or six monthly instalments. Loans one to three  were  repaid 
early but Miss E then borrowed again  the same day generally for larger amounts. Loan four 
was the largest  amount borrowed, £600.  Miss E exercised her right to withdraw  from loan 
five. Miss E repaid all her loans. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Es complaint  in part and thought loans four and five shouldnt  
have been given. Uncle Buck disagreed. It said there was no legal requirement to obtain  
consumers bank statements to verify  information.  It said Miss E had continued to borrow 
until she complained.  And so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss E could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Miss E could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN90460192Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Es complaint.
Uncle Buck  asked Miss E for information  about  her income and expenditure and it carried 
out credit  checks.  Miss E said she earned £1,900 a month and Uncle  Buck said it verified 
this. Miss E said her monthly outgoings  ranged between £850  and £650.
For loans one to three,  given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Miss Es 
circumstances at the time and her history  with Uncle Buck , I dont think  it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Miss E then provided or the 
information Uncle Buck shouldve  been aware of, which meant  it wouldve been  
proportionate to start verifying what Miss E was saying. From Miss Es stated disposable 
income and what Uncle  Buck  saw in its credit checks, I cant say it was wrong to provide 
loans one to three.
But I think Miss Es borrowing history should  have prompted Uncle  Buck to make  better  
checks for loan four. Miss E had been  borrowing continuously for five months.  Loan  four was 
for a substantially larger amount. So I think Uncle Buck should have checked what  Miss E 
was telling it about her circumstances. There  was no legal obligation to obtain bank 
statements, but I think these are one way that Uncle Buck could  have verified Miss Es 
situation. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans four and five would most likely 
have shown that Miss E was having difficulty managing her money:
She was gambling  heavily and bet £1,340 in the month before she asked for loan four;
This should have  raised concerns about  Miss Es ability to meet her ongoing monthly 
repayments.
Uncle Buck  said gambling was a lifestyle choice and it couldnt tell a consumer how to spend 
her disposable  income.  But I think that if Uncle Buck had seen  the extent of Miss Es 
gambling by making  proportionate affordability  checks then it would have queried whether 
she could repay her loans  sustainably. I dont think Miss Es continued requests for loans 
until she complained  shows that the loans were sustainable for her. 
So I think if Uncle Buck  had made better  checks on loan four it would have seen that Miss E 
would be unlikely to sustainably repay  this loan and any subsequent  loan. So Im upholding 
the complaint  about loans four and five and Uncle Buck should put things right.
Ref: DRN90460193putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss E paid on loans four and five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans four and five from Miss Es credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Miss E a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Miss Es complaint. I 
require Uncle Buck Finance LLP to pay Miss E compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 September 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9046019