K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that esure Insurance Limited  (esure) undervalued his car when he 
claimed on his car insurance policy following an accident. 
background
Mr Js car was written-off (known  as a total loss)  after being hit while it was parked. After  
investigating the claim esure said the market value  of Mr Js car before the accident was 
£3,750 and it offered him this amount to settle  his claim. Mr J rejected  this offer and esure 
increased it to £4,500,  which  Mr J also rejected.  He said his car was in a good condition and 
had a number  of extras on it.
Our investigator thought the valuation  esure  reached for Mr Js car was fair and reasonable 
and in line with the values  produced by the relevant motor trade guides. He didnt think  esure  
needed to increase its valuation further.
Mr J didnt think the valuation was fair and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  esures valuation 
of £4,500 is fair and reasonable.
Mr Js policy  says the most esure will pay to settle  a claim for damage is the market value of 
the car at the time of the loss. It defines this as the amount  you could reasonably  expect to 
sell your vehicle for on the open market immediately before the loss. The policy further  says 
that the value  would be based on research from motor trade guides.
Our service doesnt value  cars. Instead we check to see that the insurers  valuation is fair 
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Our usual approach  to 
a complaint about a cars valuation is to look at the relevant trade  guides  for valuing second-
hand cars. We usually  find these  reliable as theyre  based on extensive  nationwide research  
of sales prices.
esure said Glasss guide  gave  a valuation of £4,280, CAP gave £4,145  and Parkers  £5,331.  
Our investigator also obtained  valuations from the available trade guides. Ive also checked 
these myself, including all of the extras  Mr Js told us his car had,  and Im satisfied they are 
in line with those  obtained by esure. 
Ive seen the specification of Mr Js car and I understand  the car had many  extras  that would 
have cost a significant amount when they were originally added.  Unfortunately  its often the 
case that while these  extras  may make  a car more  desirable, they add little, and in some 
cases no additional value  to a car when it is sold second-hand. 
The guides  also consider the values based  on cars being in good overall condition. Whilst 
its clear Mr J kept his car well serviced and took good care of it Im unable  to say esure  
should increase  the valuation it placed on his car because of this.
Ref: DRN93902422As esure has offered a value for Mr Js car within the range of the motor  trade  guides I think 
its offer was fair and reasonable and I dont  think it should  have  to offer Mr J anything further 
for the value  of his car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9390242