K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains as executor of the estate of the late Mrs D that Clark Thomson Insurance  
Brokers Ltd set up a home insurance policy  but failed to advise properly concerning  the 
rebuilding cost. As a result the property was underinsured and when a claim was made for 
storm damage, the insurer  reduced the payment for the damage.
background
In December 2016 Mrs D in her role as executor set up a policy  through Clark Thomson. 
She had decided to use them as they had been  the brokers who had set up the insurance for 
her late mother  in 2006. As the property was unoccupied, and the property was to be 
transferred to her, Clarke  Thomson gave Mrs D the option of insuring for three months. She 
says that she discussed  the rebuilding cost, advised Clarke Thomson of the probate value 
and pointed out that it was higher than the value  insured. She says she was advised this 
was alright and that the property owned  the land. She further  says that she told Clark 
Thomson that the property had a red sandstone  frontage which she thought could affect  the 
value and that she was told by the person she spoke  to that they were  aware  of this type of 
property. 
The policy was renewed at the end of March 2017.  Mrs D says she had to ring Clark 
Thomson the day before it expired  as she hadnt  had any renewal documents. She says she 
was told that Clark Thomson had had computer problems. She says she received the 
renewal documents  but no reminder  letter. That letter, which  she saw later when making  a 
complaint, had a paragraph in it warning about  keeping up to date with rebuilding costs. This 
wasnt in the December letter setting up the policy.
In June 2017 the property  suffered storm damage. The insurer reviewed the claim and 
advised Mrs M the property was substantially underinsured. The insurer  reduced  the amount 
of its pay-out  by the proportion the property was underinsured. It said that the red sandstone 
frontage contributed significantly to the propertys value. This meant that the estate had to 
contribute over £2,000 to the claim, although  as the property was to be transferred to Mrs D, 
she suffered the loss. She complained to Clark Thomson. It replied that it gave no advice on 
the rebuilding  cost and that this was made  clear  in its terms and conditions.  It hadnt 
recorded the telephone  conversations with Mrs D but could  find no evidence  in its notes that 
the rebuild value of the property had been  discussed.
Our investigator ultimately  didnt uphold the complaint. He wasnt satisfied from the evidence 
provided that conversations took place  concerning  the property  value nor of the particular 
construction of the property. He said that the March  renewal letter had likely  been sent even 
if Mrs D hadnt received it. So Clark Thomson could fairly  say that it didnt  offer advice on the 
likely rebuilding cost of the property.
Mrs D disagreed  she said the conversations regarding the value took place in December, 
and no evidence had been provided of them. She also said that as a new policy  was being 
set up Clark Thomson should particularly have asked her about the propertys unusual 
construction and it should have ensured  she was satisfied with the valuation. She also 
pointed out that she had been told the property  owns the land  and questions  where  she 
would have got that information from if Clark Thomson hadnt  told her. She further said there  
were some changes in the policy which hadnt  been brought to her attention.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
Ref: DRN92915732my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
rebuild value
Mrs D contends that she had several conversations with Clark Thomson particularly in 
December 2016  about the rebuild value of the property. She says that she advised Clark 
Thomson about  the probate value  of the property,  which was higher than the value stated in 
the policy. She says she also told Clark Thomson  about the red sandstone frontage  and it 
didnt tell her that this would likely  affect  the value.
Clark Thomson has provided evidence of notes of conversations which took place in May 
and November 2016, and in March  2017. There are no notes of any phone calls Mrs D says 
took place in December 2016. From the notes Ive seen, nothing was recorded about the 
propertys value. Indeed it seems  that the details of the property were taken from Clark 
Thomsons records of the previous policy. 
I have to decide whether its more likely that Mrs D raised the issue of the value  than Clark 
Thomsons assertion, that the value wasnt discussed. I cant come to a conclusion about 
this. Mrs D has raised the issue of the probate value, but that is different from the likely 
rebuild cost, so the fact that it was more  isnt necessarily something  that would have led 
Clark Thomson to advise Mrs D to amend the sum insured. And the probate valuation 
includes the land unlike  the rebuild  cost which is where the remark that the property owns  
the land may  have come from. Im not persuaded that, apart from that, the value was 
discussed, save to confirm it.
As for the sandstone  frontage,  I dont  think this would necessarily affect the question  asked 
about the propertys construction which was to confirm that the property is built entirely of 
brick, stone  or concrete  and roofed  with slates,  tiles, concrete or asphalt, and it is in a good 
state of repair  and will be maintained as such.  This appears on the renewal documents,  and 
since a sandstone  frontage could be fairly described as stone, I dont think that affirming  
those details would be wrong. Indeed as I understand it the frontage  may have affected the 
value but not whether the insurer  was willing to insure it. So whilst Mrs D says she 
specifically mentioned it, Clark Thomson says she didnt and I cant say one way or the other 
which is more likely.
renewal letters/terms and conditions
Clark Thomson points  out that in its terms and conditions it has a term specifically saying 
that the customer is responsible for the valuation of the property, and whilst it may offer help 
with this it isnt responsible for the value. It also on its renewal  letter highlights the 
importance of regularly reviewing the value. Mrs D says that she received no renewal letters  
in March 2017. She contacted Clark Thomson  the day before  its expiry  and was sent 
renewal documents  but no letter advising about  renewal, or the importance  of reviewing the 
valuation. She has seen the March renewal letter since  she made her complaint and points 
out that the warning about the valuation isnt in the December letter  setting up the policy.  
She further says that when she queried renewal documents  she was told Clark Thomson 
had had computer  problems when the renewal was supposed to go out.
Ref: DRN92915733Ive seen no evidence  that Clark Thomson sent out any renewal letters  whether by post or 
email before  Mrs D contacted it at the end of March. But it has shown us the renewal letter 
which was presumably sent after the phone call in March, which does have the warning 
about valuation.  I cant say whether Mrs D received  that letter but Im satisfied its likely that 
it was sent. And whilst it was unsatisfactory not sending the renewal documents  before then, 
it didnt prevent the policy from renewing  because Mrs D rang up. I cant make  an award for 
what might  have happened.
Clark Thomsons terms and conditions do say it isnt responsible for valuing the property and 
whilst that term is at the end of a page of close printing, it does seem likely that Clark 
Thomson took steps to draw it to Mrs Ds attention.
other policy changes
Mrs D has pointed out that the contents figure on the policy  was reduced and the personal 
possessions cover removed in March 2017  without telling her. She also says the renewal 
documents said the property was a permanent residence although it was unoccupied. I cant 
see that this was raised with Clark Thomson. This should have been  done when she 
received the policy  documents. Ive noted  anyway that the contents figure was deemed 
sufficient by the insurer. And the permanent residence phrase appears in the statement of 
demands and needs   the correct description is given in the policy.
overall
Overall, whilst the evidence of the phone calls is unsatisfactory, I dont think I can say that 
Mrs Ds account of her conversations is more likely than Clark Thomsons  account.  So I cant 
fairly and reasonably uphold the complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D as executrix 
of the estate of the late Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9291573