K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
credit card in 2004. Mr K says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.  Ill explain the reasons for my decision 
below.
Mr K applied for his credit card in October  2001. Ive seen his credit  card application 
form declining PPI. Barclays says PPI was added some years later, in February 2004, 
after a phone call with Barclays.  
As Mr K had had the credit card for some  time without PPI, I think it likely he wouldve 
understood that PPI was an optional and separate product and that he didnt need PPI to get 
the credit. So, I think it probable that PPI was added because Mr K said he wanted it.
I cant see that Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr K. But, even if it did, I cant  see that 
this was an unsuitable recommendation in his circumstances. PPI didnt look inappropriate 
for him. He couldnt remember if he wouldve got any sick pay through  work  and didnt 
have any savings to fall back on. So it looks like PPI couldve provided him with valuable 
cover if he wasnt  working. And Mr K hasnt said anything that shows  he was affected by 
any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover.
Its possible the information Barclays  gave  Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  It seems like it could have been useful for him if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think having better  information  about the PPI 
would have put him off taking  out the cover.
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K. 
But Barclays has agreed to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr K and 
that looks to me like a fair way to resolve this complaint.
.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9694757