K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mr C says HSBC  Bank  Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
HSBC hasnt been able to say how the policy was sold.  Mr C told us he thinks  the policy 
was sold through  a postal sale, and I think this is likely to be right.  Unfortunately HSBC 
hasnt been able to provide any paperwork from the sale. This is perhaps  not surprising 
considering the length of time since the sale. But without  persuasive  evidence to indicate  
otherwise, I think its more likely than not that HSBC made it clear that Mr C didnt have 
to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
cant remember this.
As the evidence suggests this was a postal sale, its likely HSBC  didnt recommend the 
PPI to Mr C. So it didnt  have  to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure 
Mr C got the information  he needed  to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. 
Mr C says he wouldve received some sick pay from his employer. He also says he 
wouldve been able to rely on his family  to help make his repayments. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay he wouldve  received  and for up to 12 
months if he was unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. And 
having the PPI meant he wouldnt have to rely on his family  whose  ability to help would 
depend on their own circumstances at any given time. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put him off taking 
out the cover. 
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. 
But HSBC  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  HSBC didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN94449282To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
HSBC has to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back  to Mr C any extra interest  he paid 
because of that.
HSBC should  re-work  the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr C the difference between  
what Mr C owes  and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. HSBC should also pay Mr C 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C. 
But HSBC  Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9444928