K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that TenetLime  Ltd pressurised him into taking our medical insurance and 
proceeded with his application against his wishes including requesting a medical report from 
his GP. He wants the medical records removed.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 10 October  2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Neither party commented on my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  previously outlined I do not believe this complaint can be upheld.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN96229722provisional decision
complaint
Mr S complains that TenetLime Ltd pressurised him into taking our medical insurance and proceeded  
with his application  against  his wishes  including  requesting a medical  report from his GP. He wants 
the medical records removed.
background
Mr S, in an initial phone call, gave Tenet permission for the product provider to get a medical report.
In follow-up calls Mr S asked various questions about the proposed policy and expressed some 
doubts about  what he was looking for and whether he intend to go ahead  with the application without 
giving things further thought.  He was also sent a form to complete - to give the provider  permission to 
get a medical  report - but didnt complete this.
An adjudicator at this service said the evidence  showed the medical  report had not in practice been 
obtained. But he felt that Tenet had made the process confusing and should have checked whether 
Mr S wanted  to go ahead with medical reports before approaching the provider. 
He recommended it pay £200 for the trouble and upset this had caused.
It did not agree, saying  it believed Mr S gave permission  in the earlier  calls and had not actively 
withdrawn that consent. It argued that simply  asking for time to consider whether to go ahead  did not 
imply he had withdrawn consent for the go-ahead to obtain medical  reports. If it had stopped the 
process this would have delayed things, and to Mr Ss potential disadvantage. It also felt £200 was 
excessive. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Firstly, having listened  to the numerous phone calls I can understand why Mr S claims that Tenet  was 
pushy and that he felt pressurised into buying this policy. But he did initially choose/agree  to take out 
life cover which he clearly expressed a desire for. This was the reason for the subsequent calls i.e. to 
obtain all the relevant information. At no point did Mr S state that he had changed his mind  and didnt 
want Tenet to pursue things.
Given this, I have considered whether, fundamentally it did something wrong.
Mr S gave his explicit permission for Tenet to progress an application on his behalf including seeking 
the required medical  information from his GP. If he had not done so then I would  be upholding this 
complaint. I accept he expressed some doubts,  particularly about  what  type of plan he wanted (the 
lengthy discussion about shares/trusts etc.) but I dont agree  with the investigator that he clearly told 
Tenet to put things on hold.
Overall, I dont think there is sufficient evidence to justify upholding this complaint. 
Ref: DRN96229723my provisional  decision
I currently dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9622972