K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold Mr O and Ms O 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2003. 
The PPI was a joint policy designed  to cover  a joint mortgage. Both Mr O and Ms O were  
eligible to make a claim if they lost their employment or werent able to work for a time due to 
sickness. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint should  not be upheld. Mr O and Ms O disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me. I agreed  with the adjudicator  
that the complaint should not be upheld. But first I wanted to explain in detail why I thought 
this, and to give everyone  the chance  to comment further. So I wrote  a provisional decision.  
In it I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general 
approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this case.
NatWest has previously  upheld a complaint relating to this PPI to the extent that it 
covered Mr O, and has refunded part of the premiums to Mr O. It says this was 
because Mr O was self-employed and so would have been caught by limitations  in 
the policy. However it has declined to refund the premiums for the cover  provided to 
Ms O, saying  that she would not have been  caught by these limitations. 
Ive looked into possible ways in which the PPI might have been mis-sold. Ive 
concentrated in particular  on Ms Os circumstances, as NatWest has declined to 
refund the premiums  relating  to her cover. However, on the evidence  I currently 
have, I cant say that it was mis-sold. I will explain why. 
I dont have evidence  to show that NatWest  failed to make  Mr O and Ms O aware the 
PPI was optional.  Mr O signed an application  form for the PPI, separately from their 
mortgage application, so I think they would have known it was a separate product. 
Their mortgage  quotation called it optional.  And the mortgage interview notes say 
there was discussion  about  how the PPI worked  and what  it cost, and it was 
presented as a choice.  
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr O and Ms O, as being  particularly suited to 
their individual needs. This means it didnt have  to check if the PPI fitted  their 
circumstances. It would have been for Mr O and Ms O to decide whether it was 
suitable. But, even  if it had made  a recommendation, I think it would probably have 
been an appropriate one, from what I know about  their circumstances at the time. Not 
being able to pay a mortgage  can cause significant  difficulties, and the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to any employer sickness and redundancy benefits,  and 
possibly for longer. I dont think Ms O would  have been affected  by any of the 
significant restrictions  and, despite  NatWest  decision  to refund part of the 
premiums, I dont actually have separate evidence that Mr O would have been 
unfairly restricted either. Mr and [Ms] O havent  told us about  any savings or other 
Ref: DRN92864322means they could  have  used for their mortgage repayments. And Ive not been told 
anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out. So it would 
have been potentially useful. 
Its hard to know how well NatWest explained  the costs  and benefits  of the policy. But 
I dont anyway think full and clear information about  this would have affected whether 
Mr O and Ms O took the PPI. Thats because,  as Ive said,  I think  the PPI could have 
been helpful for them and the paperwork shows theyd decided  they wanted  cover of 
this sort.
Its possible NatWest didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mr O and Ms O would have been affected by any of these. Its likely 
they were eligible for the policy, and theyd be paying for it monthly, so they could 
cancel it at any time without further  cost if their situation  changed.
So overall, based on the information Ive got at present I dont  think  I can fairly  and 
reasonably say that the PPI was mis-sold.
NatWest said it had no further comments to make. Ms O didnt make any further comments.  
Mr O said told the adjudicator he didnt understand the difference between his circumstances 
and Ms Os circumstances,  and why that meant  NatWest had refunded  his premiums  and 
not Ms Os
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O has said that he doesnt understand why NatWest refunded  his premiums and not 
Ms Os premiums.  I asked NatWest this and it said that it believed that Mr O would have  
been caught by the terms of the policy, because he was self-employed; but Ms O would still 
have been able to make a claim easily because she was not self-employed.  
When I looked at the facts  of the case, I couldnt  actually see a reason why NatWest needed 
to make any refund  the evidence I had was that the policy  was suitable  for both Mr O and 
Ms O. Some PPI policy wording did make it unsuitable for self-employed  people   but the 
policy wording that was likely to apply to Mr O and Ms O didnt  make  it particularly difficult to 
claim, even  if you were self-employed. However, if NatWest thinks it is fair to refund  all or 
some of the premiums, even if I wouldnt have made  them do this, it is free to do this.
So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im still not upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O and Ms O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9286432