K820x#14complaint
Mr E complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a buildings  insurance claim he 
made because water  was getting into his house through the roof.
background
Mr E said on the complaint form he completed  that the claim was initially accepted  but was 
then declined the same  day. He also outlined various aspects of how Aviva had dealt with 
the complaint  that he was unhappy with (eg spelling his name incorrectly). 
Aviva later reversed its decision to decline the claim.  Mr E told us Aviva had offered him 
£300 compensation. He was happy  with the offer, but not with the fact that the payment 
would be recorded  as part of a claim, which he would then have to tell future insurers  about.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think it was important 
what payment system  Aviva used to pay the £300. He said records  would show  the claim as 
being withdrawn  and the payment being made  as compensation. He felt that was accurate, 
as thats what happened.
Mr E disagreed with our investigator. He said that as hed already  told us he wasnt  going  to 
accept the offer if it was recorded as part of a claim, hes going to end up with no 
compensation even  though Aviva admitted that it was wrong to decline the claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint Ive been asked to decide isnt quite the same as the complaint Mr E originally 
brought to us. Initially the issue was over how Aviva had handled the claim whereas now its 
more about how any compensation  payment is made and recorded.
Insurers record losses suffered and claims made by policyholders on a central database 
called the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). Every claim made under a policy is 
recorded on CUE regardless of whether it is accepted and settled, declined or withdrawn.  
Thats because whatever the eventual  outcome  theres still been a claim thats  been  made  
under the policy.  So, Mr Es claim will be recorded on CUE regardless of the eventual 
outcome of it. 
CUE also records the total amount  paid by an insurer in relation  to a claim. That amount will 
include all payments  made  including any amount an insurer  paid to put things right that it 
got wrong eg the cost of putting  right poor repairs, compensation for poor claim handling. I 
know Mr E feels  the £300 is compensation and not part of any claim he made under the 
policy, but as far as recording the payment on CUE is concerned  it still counts as being in 
relation to the claim. Irrespective of what actually happens with Mr Es claim for the damage 
to his home, the £300 (if its eventually accepted  and paid) will form part of the overall 
amount Aviva has paid in dealing with the claim.  It will therefore be recorded  on CUE. 
I dont have any jurisdiction over CUE  so I have no authority to make  it change what 
information it records and/or how it records that information. However, if any information 
given to CUE by an insurer is inaccurate then I can make the insurer  correct that information. 
Ref: DRN98251562But thats not what will happen here if Mr E accepts Avivas offer.  As Ive said above,  the 
£300 will form part of the overall amount Aviva pays in dealing with the claim and its correct 
that the £300 is then recorded on CUE.
I nevertheless appreciate  what  Mr E is saying about  the amount recorded  given that it 
wouldnt have needed to be paid if Aviva had properly  dealt  with the claim. I can make  
insurers compensate  consumers if theyve been disadvantaged because a compensation 
payment is recorded  on CUE as part of overall claim costs. That might happen for example if 
an insurer charges  more if a policyholder has a previous  claim where more  than a certain  
amount was paid,  and compensation paid by an insurer  as part of a claim tipped the 
policyholder over that threshold. But I dont make insurers  compensate consumers for any 
disadvantage that might happen in the future.  I only consider what  has happened. And I 
havent seen anything which shows that Mr E has been disadvantaged by the £300 being 
recorded as part of the claim.
Mr E has commented on Avivas payment systems in respect of there having to be an 
alternative. I agree with him in this respect   there must be alternative  ways  for Aviva to 
make compensatory payments. This is evidenced by the fact that Ive made Aviva pay 
compensation in respect of complaints when theres no claim involved. But in my experience  
its not unusual  for insurers to arrange  compensation  payments  for poor claims handling 
through its claim system. In any event, regardless of what  system Aviva  uses  to make the 
payment, Im not persuaded it will make  any difference because the amount recorded on 
CUE will still include the £300.
Overall, I conclude  that Aviva hasnt  treated Mr E unfairly by saying that any compensation 
payment will be recorded as being  paid under  the claim. I understand Mr Es concern about 
having to tell future insurers about  the claim.  However, what  hell have to declare  will be 
exactly the same irrespective of how any compensation payment is made.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9825156