K821x#15complaint
In 1999, Mr O took out a loan with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays). At the same  time, 
Barclays sold him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  Mr O thinks that Barclays  
mis-sold the policy to him and believes it should refund him all the money he paid for it, plus 
interest.
background 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint. 
Mr O had a health  condition, sometimes called a pre-existing medical condition in 
insurance policies,  when Barclays sold him the policy.  The adjudicator thought  this meant  
that the policy was unsuitable for Mr O and recommended that Barclays should uphold his 
complaint. Barclays didnt accept the adjudicators recommendation  and asked  for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint, so it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints involving the sale of PPI on our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding 
what to do in Mr Os case.  Ive looked into everything  that Mr O and Barclays have told us or 
sent us about  the complaint and Ive decided to uphold  it. I explain why below.
Mr O has complained about several  aspects of the way Barclays sold him PPI. Hes told us 
that Barclays didnt  tell him that the policy was optional, that the policy  wasnt  suitable or 
appropriate for his needs, that Barclays didnt explain  the policys  terms and condition to him 
and didnt tell him about exclusions which could have affected him.
Early in our investigation,  Mr O also told us that he was self employed when Barclays  sold 
him the policy and so he thought wouldnt have been to use it. However, he later clarified 
that while he has been self employed for part of his working life, he was employed when he 
bought the policy. 
I dont think that Barclays  made as many mistakes as Mr O has told us about, but I do agree 
with our adjudicator  that it mis-sold the policy to Mr O and for the same  reasons.
 
Barclays and Mr O have both said that Barclays sold the policy  during a meeting at one of its 
branches and that Barclays  advised  him to buy it. This meant that Barclays  had to check  that 
the policy was suitable for Mr O and tell him about  it fairly and clearly.  
Mr Os policy  was designed  to help him repay his loan if he was off work due to an illness  or 
injury (sickness benefit) or if his employers made him redundant (unemployment benefit). 
Barclays has sent us a policy document which it says describes the features of the policy it 
sold to Mr O and is similar to information it would  have  given  him during or shortly after the 
meeting. For sickness benefit, the document says that customers would only be covered for 
an "illness or accident which (they) first had after the policy started. It also states that the 
policy would not cover customers for any condition they knew about before  the start date. 
Ref: DRN91044542When Barclays sold the policy to Mr O, he had already been  suffering from his heath 
condition for several  years. This doesnt  automatically mean  that Barclays mis-sold  the 
policy, as exclusions for pre-existing medical conditions can affect different policyholders  
with different conditions  in different  ways,  so Ive looked into Mr Os personal situation and 
how his condition affected him. 
Mr O has told us that he was taking medicine to help control  his condition but it still caused 
him a lot of pain.  His condition would last throughout his life and despite  his medication it 
was likely to get worse. I understand that when Mr O bought the policy  his pain had not 
stopped him from working; but I think  it could  well have gone on to affect his working life, led 
him to take time off work and try to claim on the policy. I think the exclusion in the policy 
would have been significant  for Mr O and made it unsuitable for him, so I dont think  it was 
reasonable for Barclays to recommend it to him. 
Barclays has argued that Mr Os loan was only set up to last for two years and that Mr O was 
unlikely to need it for his condition during this period. It has disputed some of Mr Os 
comments and has also told us that no claims had been made under the policy which  may 
have been another source of evidence to support the customers testimony .
During our investigation, Mr O told us that he tried to make  a claim but couldnt. Its now well 
over 15 years since these events took place and I cant  tell for sure if or how Mr O tried to 
make a claim or why Barclays has no record of it. But I dont accept Barclays position  that 
the (possible)  absence of a claim means  it sold PPI properly, or that its recommendation was 
suitable because  the loan only ran for two years.
Barclays has also argued that Mr O was employed  in (an industry)  which  indicates  that he 
was able to continue to work alongside  the pre-existing medical condition. 
However, there is no dispute that Mr O was working  when  Barclays  sold him the policy and 
that he already  had the condition. If he hadnt been  working, he wouldnt have been eligible 
for the policy; and if he had known he was going to stop work altogether he would probably 
have been caught by other exclusions. I dont think Mr O being in work  during the lifetime  of 
the policy justifies Barclays  selling  it to him. 
Barclays has also pointed out that if Mr O had lost his income  from work  he would have had 
relatively few other means with which to repay his loan. So it thinks  the policy  was right for 
him. 
I accept that Barclays may well be right about  Mr Os financial situation. But Mr Os health 
condition was one of the most likely factors which could have led him to make a claim, so I 
dont accept Barclays argument that the state of Mr Os finances meant the policy was right 
for him. 
Barclays has also told us that it would have explained policys terms, including  the exclusion 
about pre-existing medical conditions, clearly to Mr O. However,  Im not convinced that it did 
this properly. The document  I have quoted  from above was written  in small font and was 
quite lengthy.  Im not satisfied that Barclays did enough to bring this important  term to Mr Os 
attention. Had it done so, I dont think Mr O would have  bought  the policy.
So, in summary  I think Mr Os health  condition made it unreasonable for Barclays to 
recommend the policy to him. And I think Barclays failed  to explain important terms of the 
policy to him. Given Mr Os particular personal  circumstances,  if Barclays had done things 
Ref: DRN91044543properly, I dont think he would have bought the policy. Im satisfied that Barclays  mis-sold  it 
to him. 
putting things right
Mr O borrowed  extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve  been. He 
paid more than he shouldve each month and it cost him more to repay the loan than it 
wouldve. So Mr O needs to get back the extra hes paid.
So, Barclays  should:
Work  out and pay Mr O the difference  between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid without PPI. 
Work  out and pay Mr O the difference  between what it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it would have  cost to pay off the loan without  PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr O paid from when he paid it until he gets 
it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr O made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr O a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am upholding Mr Os complaint against Barclays  
Bank UK PLC. It should put things right by paying  Mr O the compensation I have  already  
described. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019 .
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9104454