K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about how CIS General  Insurance Limited  dealt with a claim he made  on his 
home insurance policy. 
All references to CIS also include its agents. 
background
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point  that has been  made.
Mr M noticed several areas of cracking around  his house and made a claim under his home 
insurance policy. CIS sent out one of its contractors to review the damage and provide a 
report. From this it was concluded the cracking  was most likely due to thermal/moisture  
induced movement and so the claim was declined as this wasnt  damage  covered under the 
policy.
Mr M said hed been misled, he was told an engineer would visit his property, but this didnt 
happen. An unqualified  individual  visited who took photos and videos. Mr M was also 
unhappy with the lack of detail contained  in the report, so he complained to CIS. CIS offered 
to either  send a senior engineer to the property or to arrange a different contractor entirely  to 
visit. Mr M asked for a visit to be arranged from a different contractor.   
Mr M raised  other issues with CIS about the initial visit and content  of further 
communications.  
Two investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint  but felt CIS had done enough to put the claim 
back on track by arranging for a new contracting company to visit. Having reviewed the 
timeline of events they didnt feel CIS needed to do anything further or that any 
compensation was due. 
Mr M strongly disagreed,  he reiterated  the points hed made previously including  that hed 
been misled, and that CIS hadnt  acted in good faith as it was meant  to. He explained he 
didnt think the case had been investigated  thoroughly and asked for an ombudsman to look 
at the complaint. Mr M wants CIS to apologise  to him.
The case  has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr M feels very strongly  about  the points he has made and how his claim was 
dealt with. I can assure Mr M I have taken  into account all of his points and the information 
he has provided; however, I will concentrate my decision on what  I think  are the main points 
of the complaint rather than addressing everything  he has raised. I dont intend this as a 
discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in it.
Ref: DRN91960122Mr M says he was misled about  who would  visit his property, he was told an engineer  would 
visit but the person who attended told him they had no qualifications.  The report  that was 
then sent to him wasnt very detailed and he had concerns about how thoroughly his claim 
had been looked at. 
I can see the initial letter sent to Mr M does say an engineer will visit his property and the 
leaflet accompanying it explains what will happen on the visit. I can understand why 
therefore Mr M would  have been unhappy  the person  that visited,  was not who he expected.  
However, in recognising this, I have to think about if it had an impact  on Mr Ms claim. The 
photos and videos taken on the visit were subsequently reviewed by a subsidence specialist 
who reported their findings  back to CIS. CIS has provided information  to this service  about 
the qualifications of the individual who reviewed the information and Im satisfied they were 
appropriately qualified.  So, while I accept  the person who was sent to Mr Ms property was 
not an engineer  as he was led to believe,  I dont think  this significantly impacted how his 
claim was assessed. 
The written  report that was provided  to Mr M was very brief and he was not provided with the 
videos that were taken.  Mr M was sent a separate  letter which  summarised the damage 
assessed, and conclusion reached. Mr M was unhappy about this and given the concerns he 
had about the person that visited, I can appreciate  why. CIS, after discussion with Mr M 
arranged for a different contractor to visit and reassess the property.  I think  this was a 
reasonable action for it to take in an attempt to resolve Mr Ms concerns.  
While Mr M was discussing his concerns with CIS, he received a voicemail from the original 
contractor. CIS had initially contacted them to ask them to send a senior  engineer to Mr Ms 
property however they subsequently agreed with Mr M to send a different contractor.  The 
voicemail was left in the middle  of these discussions, while  Mr M and CIS were speaking  on 
the phone  and before CIS had the chance to cancel the request.  
Mr M says the voicemail promised hed be called back, and this didnt happen. There is no 
recording of the call or the voicemail available. Even if I accept a call back  was promised I 
dont think CIS need to apologise or compensate  Mr M for the fact this wasnt followed up. 
As the conversation hed had with it meant  the original contractor would no longer be 
involved in his claim - so the call back wouldve had no purpose. 
Ive thought about the other concerns  Mr M has raised about  CISs handling of his claim and 
his subsequent complaint. I cant look into how CIS dealt with Mr Ms complaint as this isnt a 
regulated activity however, I have taken onboard his general unhappiness about  the matter.  
Claims and complaints usually do involve an element of inconvenience  and unhappiness  
which is unfortunate. I can assure  Mr M I have fully considered what hes said and why he is 
unhappy but, I dont think the issues combined  warrant any compensation or for me to 
require CIS to take any further action.
Having considered everything, I wont be asking CIS to do anything more.  Mr M has asked 
for an apology from CIS, but I dont think it needs  to do this, it listened to his concerns and 
arranged for a different contractor to visit. It didnt have to do this, and the fact it did so, I 
think was sufficient to recognise Mr Ms unhappiness and it was an appropriate action to 
take in an attempt to put the matter  right.   
Ref: DRN91960123my final decision
My final decision is that I reject Mr Ms complaint against CIS General Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9196012