K820x#14complaint
Miss E complains  that PDL Finance Limited  trading  as Mr Lender lent her money that she 
couldnt afford to repay. She wants a refund of interest and charges applied to the loans.
background
Miss E took out four loans with Mr Lender between July 2014 and March 2015.  A summary 
of the loans are below:
No. loan
Date of 
LoanAmount borrowed
Number of 
instalments Highest monthly 
repaymentDate repaid
1 11/07/2014 £120 1 £162 30/07/2014
2 07/08/2014 £300 6 £140 31/12/2014
3 07/01/2015 £1000 6 £398.66 25/02/2015 
4 7/03/2015 £100 1 £116 26/03/2015
Miss E says that she was trapped in a cycle of lending and was borrowing from a number of 
payday lenders.  Miss E says that she was borrowing increasing  amounts and was upset and 
distressed by her financial situation and she shouldnt have been given the loans.
Mr Lender recorded  Miss Es net monthly  income  to be £2015  with monthly outgoings  of 
around £900. Mr Lender carried out a credit check each time which  didnt reveal any defaults 
within the previous  three years.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Miss Es complaint be upheld.  She thought  that 
Mr Lender carried out adequate  checks before agreeing  to lend the first two loans. She 
thought that for loans three and four Mr Lender  shouldve checked to make  sure Miss E 
wasnt reliant on short term credit  and asked her about any other short term loans she may 
have had. The adjudicator looked at Miss Es bank statements for this period and said that if 
Mr Lender had done better checks it was reasonable  to agree to lend as she could still afford 
the repayments.
Miss E disagrees with the adjudicators recommendation. Miss E says that because enough 
checks werent done for loans three  and four she has been mis-sold those loans. She said 
her borrowing was increasing and Mr Lender  should have seen she was reliant  on this 
credit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions of the adjudicator.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to carry out checks  to make  sure      
Miss E could afford  to repay the loans before it lent to her. These  checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount borrowed, the repayments and any lending 
history. But there wasnt a set list of checks Mr Lender had to do.
loans one and two
Ref: DRN91790202Miss E hadnt borrowed from Mr Lender before so there wasnt any lending  history to 
consider. 
The maximum monthly repayments on loan one represented a fairly small proportion  of Miss 
Es declared  income.  I think it wouldve been reasonable of Mr Lender to agree  to lend 
based on her income alone. 
Mr Lender went  further than this and asked Miss E to give it details of her monthly  expenses. 
It also carried out a credit check. The check  didnt  show any defaults. I think that it was 
reasonable of Mr Lender to have a degree of confidence that the information that Miss E 
gave about her income and outgoings was correct.
Miss E asked for loan two around  a week after loan one was repaid. Miss E asked for £300  
but this was repayable in instalments at around the same amount as was due for loan one. 
This represented a small proportion of Miss Es declared disposable income and there  was 
nothing in her repayment  history  for loan one that should have prompted further checks.
Im satisfied that Mr Lenders  checks went far enough before agreeing loans one and two. I 
cant say that it was wrong  to agree to the loans.
loans three  and four
Miss E took out loan three around  a week after repaying loan 2. Miss E asked for £1000  
which was a significant increase. Her highest repayment for this loan was £398 and so I 
think it was reasonable  to expect Mr Lender to ask Miss E specifically about her other short  
term lending commitments  because she had been borrowing regularly and her debt was 
increasing each  time.
Miss E paid off loan 3 early on 25 February  2015 and then applied to borrow again on 7 
March 2015. For the same reasons  as I have outlined above  I think that by this stage Mr 
Lender should have specifically checked  that Miss E was not reliant on short  term credit.
Just because I think the checks the lender  did werent enough  for loans  three and four that 
doesnt mean Miss Es complaint should  succeed.  Id need to be persuaded that if Mr Lender  
had done those checks it wouldnt have given Miss E the loans. 
I have looked  at Miss Es bank statements for the relevant  period  and I can see that although 
she did have some other short term lending it didnt mean that she couldnt afford the 
repayments to Mr Lender. In the month before taking out loan three Miss E had to pay an 
extra £60 and before  loan four an extra £200 that she hadnt  declared. If Mr Lender had 
discovered this I dont think it would have made a difference  to its decision to lend to her as 
she could still afford  the repayments.
I dont doubt that Miss E was in some difficulty with payday lenders during the time she was 
borrowing from Mr Lender. If the borrowing had continued I might have expected  even 
further checks like a review of bank statements and payslips. But for the loans I have  looked  
at I dont think proportionate checks would have  made any difference  to the decision to lend 
and so I cant ask Mr Lender to do anything. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN91790203Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9179020