K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  with the quality and process of the repairs Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc (RSA) completed under a claim on their household insurance  policy.  They 
would like compensation for the annual leave they have had to take and for the problems 
that occurred. In addition, they would like the window boards in the conservatory fixed  or 
replaced.
background
In October  2016 Mr and Mrs D made a claim under their home insurance policy  because  
their conservatory was coming  away from the main house and tiles lifting  on the floor.  RSA 
arranged for the claim to be investigated.
It was determined a tree in Mr and Mrs Ds garden  and another in their neighbours garden  
were causing the conservatory to subside. The claim was accepted, and Mr and Mrs D have 
told us they were instructed to remove the trees themselves as this work was not covered 
under the insurance policy. 
Works were planned for March 2017 but they were delayed due to discussions about  the 
excess being payable  before repairs would  start.  The works  were eventually scheduled and 
were to start in December  2017,  however, they didnt start until January 2018. Mr and Mrs D 
were told the works would take six weeks. There were numerous issues  with the works done 
including leaving the conservatory open to the elements over a weekend in February 2018 
resulting in more  damage. Some repairs had to be redone and there were snagging items 
that needed addressing. In addition, contractors caused damage to other  areas of the house 
and a garden structure.
Repairs were done, or compensation paid, for most of these problems by the time the 
complaint came to us. The outstanding  issues were  the window boards/sills in the 
conservatory, having cracked and shrunk, leaving gaps at joins.  In addition, Mr and Mrs D 
were unhappy  with how the fitting  of the radiators looked. Compensation has subsequently 
been paid for this issue. 
Complaints about  the delays  and claim handling  prior to repairs  starting and payment of the 
policy excess were made  and responded to by RSA in 2017.  This service also considered  
those issues, so this complaint  doesnt  take any of those matters into consideration. It 
considers only the events  since that time.
Mr and Mrs D raised  a further complaint about  the repair process  and the errors that 
occurred.
In April 2018 RSA accepted the service Mr and Mrs D had received during their claim had 
not been what it should have been. It apologised for the mistakes and the fact that the claim  
hadnt been handled proactively. In recognition of this it increased the amount of 
compensation its representatives had offered from £150 to £400.
RSA responded  to the further complaint  in its letter of 17 July 2018.  In relation to the number 
of days Mr and Mrs D had reported as needing  to take annual  leave to be at the property, it 
didnt agree this was the case. It said on many of the occasions detailed Mr and Mrs D 
hadnt need to be present, but had declined to allow the contractors access  to the property 
unless they were there. In addition, it pointed out that Mr and Mrs D had locked its 
Ref: DRN99949442contractors out on numerous occasions,  delaying repairs  and adding to costs.  RSA said the 
cost of annual  leave was not covered by the policy, and so it wouldnt consider the matter 
further.  
In relation to the radiators, RSA said that they were  positioned in exactly the same places as 
they had been before the damage to the conservatory. It also said the works had been done  
using the original batons and pipework, which  evidenced the radiators were exactly  where  
they had originally been. Various other  issues were  addressed in the letter,  which Mr and 
Mrs D didnt then ask us to consider. The matter of the window boards  was not commented 
on. However, an additional £50 was offered for the inconvenience and upset that had been 
caused because  a contractor hadnt arrived when it was booked for him to be.
Mr and Mrs D werent  satisfied with the responses from RSA and referred their complaint to 
this service. When doing so they specified three issues they were complaining about to us:
They were unhappy about the handling  of the claim and the amount of annual leave they 
had needed to use in order to move  the claim forward. They said that the latter  issue  
meant they were  unable to go on holiday in 2018. The poor claim  handling meant that 
when an older  relative had needed  a place to convalesce,  they were  unable to provide 
her with that support and the works  were  disruptive to their teenage child who was 
studying for exams.
They want compensation for problems with the fitting of the radiators. They said that the 
pipework in the floor was replaced and is now bent at the point it comes  through  the floor 
and is at differing  distances from the walls  between 35mm  and 100 mm.
They want the window  boards  replaced or fixed as they have gaps where  they are mitred  
into corners and one has split along the grain.
Subsequently Mr and Mrs D confirmed that they had received a settlement figure for the 
issues with the radiators. The email from the loss adjusters making  this offer detailed  that 
there were things the plumbers could try to do to rectify the distorted pipework,  but that 
Mr and Mrs D had expressed  doubt  about the likelihood of success  of the proposal. As such 
the sum of £145 compensation was offered and Mr and Mrs D accepted that offer. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and asked RSA to comment  on the issue 
of the window boards. The response received detailed that the window boards were not 
acclimatised to the environment they were to be installed  in before that installation. However, 
it said they were purchased during  a heatwave and spent a week in a machine  shop  before  
installation. It said that even if the product had spent weeks  being acclimatised before 
installation, the boards  would still move due to the weather conditions within  a conservatory. 
It was pointed out that movement with a natural timber product is to be expected.
The investigator considered all of the evidence available  following  the further investigation, 
but didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt accept the investigators opinion and expressed disappointment  with his 
conclusions. They said the compensation offered  by RSA didnt come close  to compensating 
them for the distress  and inconvenience caused  by RSA and its contractors. The lives of 
their entire family had been  thrown into turmoil  until the contractors eventually left site. 
Ref: DRN99949443In addition, they said they accepted case settlements for items in order  to minimise further  
disruption to their family  life. It was pointed  out that the problems with the window boards 
had been there since  the day they were  fitted  and were not problems that had developed 
over time.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me for consideration.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 August 2010 in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt of that document.
As Mr and Mrs D have  accepted redress for the problem with the radiators, I dont intend to 
comment on that matter further. However,  this issue will form part of my consideration when 
looking at the handling of the repairs as whole. 
In relation to the matter of the window boards, I note that RSAs contractor has admitted that 
the boards were not acclimatised before they were cut and installed. As I understand it, it is 
normal practice for wood  products, especially those that will not receive  a decorative finish  
where problems can be hidden, to be acclimatised in the environment they are to be 
installed into. This involves the wooden product being stored in such  a way as to allow air to 
flow around all surfaces of the wood for a period before installation.  This allows  any 
shrinkage or other damage  to happen  before installation, so that problems such  as those 
Mr and Mrs D have encountered dont happen. Whilst I accept there will always be some  
movement in a natural  product, if it is appropriately  acclimatised before  installation,  that 
movement should  be minimal and shouldnt create  the type of problems present in this case.
As such,  I consider that RSA should  arrange  for the window boards  in the conservatory to be 
replaced. It should ensure that the new boards are appropriately acclimatised before being 
fitted. Mr and Mrs D will need to facilitate  the storage of the boards in the conservatory  for a 
short period  as part of this process.
RSA has admitted this claim  has not gone well. I dont intend to detail all of the problems 
here but there was a lack of co-ordination  between contractors. There  were  also some very 
poor decisions made, for example leaving  the conservatory over a weekend  in February with 
no roof and nothing  in place to make it water-tight.  This resulted in more work needing to be 
done and several  weeks  of delay for it to dry out and allow work to recommence. In addition, 
damage was caused to areas of the home not subject to repairs  and extra work had to be 
done because  of mistakes, for example the conservatory floor was laid at the wrong height 
resulting in new patio doors from the main  house needing to be installed. 
Mr and Mrs D have asked to be compensated for the amount of time they spent on the 
claim. It is clear that they lost confidence in the contractors and I dont think  RSA did 
anything that really reassured them. The loss adjuster that was meant to be dealing with the 
claim on behalf of RSA certainly doesnt  appear  to have made much effort  to reassure them  
or put in place  plans to do so. Given the number of errors and delays, I cant  say I am 
surprised at Mr and Mrs Ds concerns and reaction. That said,  I am not persuaded they 
needed to be at the property as much as they felt they did. 
I note that RSA has said that some of the delays in the claim were caused  by Mr and Mrs D 
locking the garden  gate and not allowing the tradesmen access to the key lockbox and 
thereby the property.  Mr and Mrs D have  said throughout that they cant lock their garden 
gate and the problem was actually  the contractors not having been  given  the code to access 
the keys by their employers. Mr and Mrs D provided photos of their gate and it doesnt 
Ref: DRN99949444appear that there is a bolt or locking mechanism on it. So their explanation for the 
contractors not being  able to access the keys seems  more likely.
Having considered everything  that happened, I dont think the £450 compensation is 
sufficient. Given the circumstances I intend  to require  RSA to pay Mr and Mrs D a total of 
£900 for the upset and inconvenience  they suffered because of mistakes and poor claim 
handling by RSA and its contractors.
This service has an inquisitorial jurisdiction.  What this means in practical terms is that if we 
identify an error or wrong-doing whilst investigating  a complaint, we can look further into the 
matter and include it in our findings.  In this case I note that Mr and Mrs D have said they 
were told by RSA that removing the tree(s) causing  the subsidence was not covered by their 
policy and they had to bear this cost. 
Whilst it is technically true that taking  action to stop the subsidence movement is not covered 
by a home insurance policy, it is normal industry  practice for an insurer  to do so. Subsidence 
can cause potentially serious structural problems and the insurer  is responsible for ensuring 
it completes a lasting  repair. Lasting is a relative term linked to the expected lifespan of the 
thing being repaired. In the case of a property,  that is usually a long time. As such, insurers  
need to be sure that the cause of the movement has been  stopped  and this has been 
accepted by the industry as doing whatever is needed to stop the movement  to ensure it is 
structurally stable. 
If an insurer doesnt do so, it wont be able to be confident the property has been properly 
stabilised and its repairs will be lasting.  Indeed,  in this case the report  from the 
arboroculturalist does include comment on it being ensured that the tree removal had 
involved the roots being killed to prevent regrowth. In addition, an insurer  wont  be able to 
issue a certificate of structural adequacy, which  a property owner will need if they wish to sell 
the property or change  insurers.   As such,  I dont consider RSA treated Mr and Mrs D fairly 
or appropriately when it required them to remove the offending vegetation. 
Mr and Mrs D have said they had a tree in their garden removed and another in the 
neighbours garden. The more recent arboroculturalist  report  appears details that the tree in 
the neighbours garden has only been  reduced, so it would be helpful  if Mr and Mrs D could 
provide some clarity  over the situation with the neighbours tree. 
I intend to require RSA to pay for the removals that were needed to stabilise the property. If 
the neighbours tree has not been completely removed, but that action is subsequently 
arranged, RSA will need to pay for both the reduction and the later removal.  Mr and Mrs D 
will need  to provide evidence of the costs and payment  in order to receive  this refund.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I am minded to uphold this complaint. If my conclusions  
remain the same following  any further comments from the parties, I will require Royal  & Sun 
Alliance Insurance  Plc to:
replace the window  boards/sills in the conservatory with boards that have been suitably 
acclimatised;
pay £900 compensation; and
Ref: DRN99949445refund  the costs  incurred in removing vegetation found responsible for the subsidence. 
Interest should  be added to this sum from the date the invoice was paid to the date of 
settlement.
RSA confirmed receipt of my provisional  decision and indicated  it might respond,  but didnt 
do so.
Mr and Mrs D responded  to my provisional  decision and explained that they didnt have an 
invoice or receipt  for the removal of the tree and would be unable  to get one as the gardener 
who did the works was no longer trading. They also asked that the stump of the tree in their 
garden be ground as it was inconvenient  when gardening. They  commented  on some issues 
regarding the scope of the repairs and an area of the claim settlement that had not been  
previously complained about,  but that they wanted considered as part of this complaint.  
We explained to Mr and Mrs D that at this stage of the complaint, we couldnt add in 
additional issues to the complaint which had not been raised with RSA in the first instance.  
In addition, we confirmed that an insurer wouldnt be expected to grind the stump  of a tree 
that had been removed  to stop subsidence.  It was also suggested  that Mr and Mrs D look for 
alternative evidence  of payment for the tree removal, such  as bank transfer details  or similar.
Mr and Mrs D responded  by saying that I should  proceed in line with the findings I had made  
in my provisional decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset to decide  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In the absence of any new 
evidence or comment about  the issues complained about  and covered in my provisional 
decision, I see no reason  to alter my conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of the complaint 
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
replace the window  boards/sills in the conservatory with boards that have been suitably 
acclimatised;
pay £900 compensation; and
refund  the costs  incurred in removing vegetation found responsible for the subsidence 
upon provision  of evidence of the costs, albeit that does not have  to be in the form of an 
invoice or receipt. Interest* should be added to this sum from the date or payment to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 October  2020.
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN99949446*If Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc considers  that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from any interest paid, it should tell Mr and Mrs D how much it has deducted. It should 
also give Mr and Mrs D a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN9994944