K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr D took two loans  from Satsuma. One in October  2015 and one in June 2018. Mr D 
borrowed £500 in October 2015  which was repaid in 13 weekly  instalments of £55.04 The 
second loan in June 2018 was for £2000 repayable  over 9 monthly instalments of £444.
Mr Ds complaint about the loans has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He sent a 
letter to both parties where he didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. He concluded that Satsuma 
didnt need to do any further  checks for either of the loans given the figures Mr D declared. 
Mr D didnt agree with that assessment  and in particular queried the income figure  of 
£7583.28 that Satsuma  said he declared in his application for the second  loan. Another 
adjudicator reviewed the complaint and concluded that given the high income figure 
disclosed, Satsuma  should have done  more checking about Mr Ds financial circumstances 
before giving him the second loan. But she concluded that the level of checking  would  not 
have revealed  that the loan was unaffordable  or that Mr D couldnt sustainably make  the 
repayments.
Mr D didnt accept that opinion. So, as the complaint  hasnt been resolved  informally,  it has 
been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
D could repay the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN95083532refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma did a number  of checks before it lent to Mr D. It asked him for details of his income 
and his normal expenditure. It gathered  data from credit  reference agencies. And it then 
used this information to calculate how much disposable income Mr D had left over each 
month. Satsuma also used the credit reference  agency checks  to gather  some more 
information about Mr Ds financial situation  at that time.
Mr D has told our service  that he was in difficulty when applying for the loans and that 
Satsuma should  have picked up on this. He has provided this service with information about 
his financial picture  at the time.
At the time of the first loan Mr D told Satsuma he was earning £3200 and his outgoings  were  
£850. I have seen results  from the credit checks that Satsuma carried  out at the time. These 
checks didnt show any information  that might have  suggested Mr D was having  problems 
managing his money. The checks  didnt show any concerning information  such  as a reliance 
on other short term loans,  or delinquent or defaulted active  accounts.
In saying that, I think it is important to note that, generally, the information  a consumer might 
see, when they request a copy  of their credit file, might be very different to that seen by a 
lender. A lender  might  only see a small portion of the credit  file, or some data might  be 
missing or anonymised,  or the data might not be up to date. So, this may explain why Mr D 
says that he was having problems managing  his money at the time the loan was granted  but 
this was not reflected in the credit search  information collated by Satsuma  at the time.
The repayments that Mr D had agreed  to make on his loan were relatively modest compared 
to the income  that hed declared  to Satsuma. And based on what he had told Satsuma and 
the credit  checks it carried out, the repayments appeared to be easily  affordable. So given 
these repayment  amounts,  what was apparent about Mr Ds circumstances  at the time, and 
his lack of recent borrowing history  with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Satsuma  to ask him for anything  further.
Mr D repaid the first loan without any apparent difficulty  and it was over 2 years before he 
asked for a further  loan from Satsuma. The information I have seen from Satsuma  shows  it 
recorded Mr Ds income  figure  as £7583.28.  This is a significant  increase and I agree with 
the adjudicator  when  she says further checking of Mr Ds income and outgoings figure  would 
have been proportionate  here. Mr Ds declared disposable income  would suggest  he didnt 
need the credit. I have looked  at Mr Ds bank statements for this period and I can see that he 
was earning around  £3800. If Satsuma had discovered this I dont think  it would have 
changed the decision to lend. The loan appeared  affordable and there  were  no other 
difficulties that were apparent. So I dont think Satsuma was wrong  to give this loan to Mr D.
I appreciate that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr D and I sympathise with 
his circumstances.  I dont  doubt that Mr D was in difficulty. If the borrowing had continued I 
would have expected further checks which would include looking at bank  statements.  But Mr 
Ds loan history on the information I have seen isnt enough for me to say Satsuma should 
have known he was in difficulty or made  further checks  that would have revealed this before 
lending either  loan. 
Ref: DRN95083533my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9508353