K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC allowed unauthorised direct debits to be taken 
from the account for their partnership.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out an insurance policy with a business I will refer to as Firm A. They  
signed a direct debit  mandate  to allow payments  to be taken from their business  account. 
The insurance moved to a different  business  I will call Firm B, so these payments started 
going to them instead. Mr and Mrs B say this started in 2007 and continued  until 2013. They 
say Lloyds had not got their permission to make payments to Firm B and think  the money  
paid to Firm B should  be refunded.  
Lloyds said any change  in the insurance  payments  should have been notified by Firm A. 
They said as the payments were not taken  because of a bank error, they wouldnt be 
refunding the money. However they told Mr and Mrs B they may be able to request a refund  
under a Direct Debit Indemnity,  and gave information about  how to do this.
Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy with this response. They responded by asking  the bank for 
proof they had authorisation  for Firm B to take the money. Lloyds explained  they only keep  
documents for six years.  As the payments started going to Firm B in 2007,  they would no 
longer have the form. Mr and Mrs B were still unhappy with the banks response and raised 
a complaint with us.
Our investigator explained we are only able to consider payments taken in 2012 and 2013  
due to rules about  time limits for making  complaints.  She thought  Lloyds had acted fairly in 
not refunding  the money. She also said the bank were right to direct Mr and Mrs B to raise a 
Direct Debit Indemnity.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our investigators  view and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
After our investigator sent her view it came to light that there was a disagreement between  
Mr and Mrs B and Lloyds about  when the account was closed. Lloyds  said the account was 
closed in September 2018 and handed  to recoveries as there was money owed. However 
Mr and Mrs B say it should have been closed in 2013. The issue  of the account closure 
(and connected overdraft) will be dealt with as a separate complaint if Mr and Mrs B choose  
to raise one. A separate complaint would  also cover the issue of whether Lloyds were right 
to suggest the Direct Debit Indemnity, as this  was  suggested after Mr and Mrs B think the 
account should have closed. My decision here,  therefore, covers the issue of whether or not 
Lloyds were right to let the payments go to Firm B, regardless of any separate issues  about  
the account closure, Direct Debit Indemnity (and overdraft).
After Mr and Mrs B asked for an ombudsmans decision, I contacted them  to ask what  they 
would have done if they had been asked about the change to Firm B. They explained they 
would have refused  the insurance as they had a particularly bad experience with Firm B in 
the past.
Ref: DRN94555732my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds were wrong  to make payments  to Firm B without their permission.  
Lloyds are unable  to confirm if they did ask for their permission and we dont know  if Firm A 
told them  about  the change. This makes  it difficult to know  exactly  what happened. However 
we dont just look at if a business has done something wrong, but also whether their 
customer has lost out. So this is what I have looked  at when coming to a decision.
Mr and Mrs B say they would have  refused  the payments to Firm B because of their past 
experience with them. They say they would rather have had no insurance cover than have 
insurance with Firm B. Based on this I think it is likely Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have agreed. 
They would then either have not had insurance cover,  or looked for insurance with a different 
company. 
Looking at the first of these options, Mr and Mrs B say they would rather have had no 
insurance cover than cover with Firm B. However  by making the payments to Firm B for the 
six years  after the change, they did have the benefit  of the cover. This includes the peace of 
mind insurance cover  brings  and any possible claims in that time. 
I also think it is likely that had they not agreed  to the change to Firm B, they would have  
looked for similar insurance with a different  company.  I think this because  they originally 
agreed to make regular  payments for the insurance with Firm A. They then continued to pay 
for it for a number of years thinking  it was still with Firm A. I therefore think  it is likely they 
wanted the cover and were happy to pay for the agreed price for it. The only problem was 
the company it moved to. So it is likely they would  have looked for insurance at a similar  
price and level with a different company in order to get a similar product. This would have 
put them in the same position but with a different company.
I understand the reason  for Mr and Mrs Bs strong feelings about Firm B. However they did 
receive cover for the period of time after the change, at a price  they had previously agreed to 
pay. I therefore dont  think  they lost out by Lloyds continuing the payments. Based on this I 
have decided I dont  think it is fair to ask Lloyds to refund the payments to Mr and Mrs B.
my final decision
For reasons I have given,  my final decision is that I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9455573