K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that when  he made a claim on his legal  expenses insurance policy,  LAMP  
Insurance Company Limited  wouldnt  pay all the disbursements incurred by his solicitors 
during the legal claim.
background
Mr P took out an After  the Event (ATE) insurance  policy to provide  cover for his legal fees for 
a claim he wanted to bring against  a third party. The claim was concluded  and his solicitors 
asked LAMP to pay the fees covered by the policy. LAMP paid some of the fees requested 
but didnt agree to pay for Mr Ps medical  fees without a full breakdown  of the fees.
The solicitors had used  a medical agency to obtain  the expert medical reports needed as 
part of the claim. The solicitor  provided invoices from the medical  agency  for charges 
amounting to around £3,300. 
As LAMP didnt  agree  to pay any of the fees, Mr P asked  our service to investigate his 
complaint. His solicitors raised a number of points  on his behalf, including:
The breakdown  already provided  is more than reasonable.
The only question is whether the medical agency  fees were reasonably and properly 
incurred. Due to the nature of the claim a medical report would be needed.  The policy 
also confirms the need for a medical report. So the medical report  was reasonable. 
And as a report was provided, its reasonable to pay for it.
The invoices provided are in line with other medical agencies, and other underwriters 
have accepted similar invoices. LAMP  has been  invited to provide evidence to 
dispute that the costs were reasonable.
A medical agency was required to help with arranging  the medical report close  to the 
clients location. They also allow a deferred payment arrangement which  wouldnt be 
possible if the experts were instructed directly.  
Our investigator didnt  dispute that it was reasonable to get medical  evidence.  But she said 
LAMP was entitled  to request evidence of the actual costs incurred and without a breakdown 
of those costs, it wasnt possible to say if they were reasonable. So if Mr Ps solicitors  could 
provide a more  detailed  breakdown shed expect  LAMP to consider it. But on the basis of the 
information provided she thought it was reasonable for LAMP not to pay the fees.
Mr P also requested £300 for a costs draftsmans report. Our investigator didnt think that 
would be considered as a disbursement so she didnt ask LAMP to pay this.
Mr Ps solicitors  didnt agree and requested an ombudsmans decision. They  have made 
some further  comments. Ive summarised some  of these as follows:
The policy term doesnt  set a limit on what can be claimed for disbursements or say 
they have to be approved in advance.
The disbursements were reasonably and properly incurred, and they are in line with 
industry standard, as shown by independent  evidence they have provided.
Despite supplying so much information  they have been pushed  to obtain further 
information, which is unreasonable  and in some cases  impossible to obtain. 
Due to data protection rules, this expert invoice is no longer available.  
For the admin fee, the invoice supplied  justifies  every single unit against  the work  
carried out. 
Ref: DRN98584342my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms say LAMP will pay disbursements  that are reasonably  and properly 
incurred in pursuing  the claim.  Theres no dispute  that it was reasonable to obtain medical 
evidence  Mr P needed  it to pursue  his legal case. And its reasonable to expect there  will 
be some  fees for this. The issue is not whether its reasonable to pay for medical evidence.   
That doesnt  mean an insurer should have  to pay whatever is charged,  however much  it is. 
LAMP is entitled to check how the fees have been incurred, to decide whether the amount 
being claimed is reasonable. 
Although Mr Ps solicitors  have provided some  details about the charges, these dont provide 
a detailed breakdown. For example, they dont say how much time has been spent, how 
many letters sent or how many phone calls made.  
Mr Ps solicitors  have said they cant get a further  breakdown without further cost. I dont 
think this means the information shouldnt be provided. They  would have been aware of the 
risk of the insurer scrutinising the costs claimed for when deciding  to use a medical agency. 
So its reasonable to expect them to obtain details if they want LAMP to consider these 
costs.
I appreciate the solicitors  have said the fees are comparable with other  medical agencies  
and other  underwriters have accepted those levels of fees.  But I have to look at this 
particular case.  The amount of work  needed  may be different in each case.  So whats  
charged in another case doesnt necessarily  help decide what  was reasonable in this case. 
Ive considered evidence they have provided  from another insurer.  Although they say they 
wouldnt tend to question  fees like this, that doesnt necessarily mean they would never 
question them. 
In any event, the fact that another insurer might not seek such a detailed breakdown doesnt 
mean LAMP cant do so. Where someone is asking their insurer to pay large sums of money 
for disbursements,  I think its reasonable to provide evidence of how those disbursements 
have been calculated. In these circumstances  I agree that its reasonable for LAMP  to 
request a breakdown. If thats provided, Id expect  LAMP to consider it. But as it stands, my 
view is that LAMPs decision  not to pay the disbursements is reasonable 
With regard to the fees for a costs  draftsmans report, these costs were  for work done in 
negotiating with the client. This wouldnt be considered a disbursement  and so I agree it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect LAMP to pay this amount.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9858434