K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc (BoS) mis-sold  him a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr G applied for a credit  card with BoS in 2004. He was sold the PPI in connection with this 
credit card during a postal application.
The PPI cost 78p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. It wouldve paid 10% of the 
monthly outstanding  balance  for up to 12 months  if Mr G was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld.
Mr G didnt agree with our adjudicator and the complaint has now come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint.
Ive started by looking at whether or not Mr G was eligible for the policy  at the time of the 
sale. Based  on Mr Gs age and circumstances at the time of the sale,  Im satisfied he was 
eligible.
BoS had to make it clear  to Mr G that the PPI was optional and needed his consent  before it 
could be applied to the account. Mr G says that the PPI was added  without his knowledge or 
consent.
I cant know for sure what took place  during  the sale. So Ive thought about what BoS and 
Mr G have told us and considered the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide 
what is more likely  to have happened.
In particular, Ive seen a copy of the application  form.  This shows that Mr G would have been 
given a choice  about whether or not to take PPI. If Mr G wanted  PPI he would  have needed 
to tick a box. I can see that the box to take PPI has been ticked.  From what I can see, if the 
box for PPI hadnt been ticked then PPI wouldnt have been  added to the account.
However, Mr G says that he didnt tick this box. He says that the tick is different from the 
other ticks on the application  form and he thinks this tick was added  by a representative  of 
BoS after the application had been sent back to them without a tick.
I appreciate what Mr G has told us and I can see that the tick does look a bit different to the 
other ticks on the form but I just dont have enough  evidence to conclude  that BoS ticked  the 
application form after Mr G had completed and signed the form and sent it back to them. So I 
Ref: DRN97238472cant say its more likely that Mr G wasnt made aware the policy was optional  or that he 
didnt choose  to take it out.
Given how the policy was sold, it doesnt  look like BoS advised Mr G to take PPI. This 
means BoS didnt  have  to check if the policy was suitable for Mr G. So for example, they 
didnt need to take into account Mr Gs existing repayment provisions when they sold the PPI 
to him.
But BoS did have  to give Mr G clear information about the policy  at the time of the sale  in 
particular, about  the costs,  benefits  and main  exclusions/restrictions  in the policy  - so that he 
could make an informed  decision  about whether or not to take the PPI out. 
I dont think BoS gave Mr G all the information as they shouldve. This in itself doesnt mean 
that the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better information 
about the policy would have put Mr G off taking it out. 
And I dont  think better information about  the policy would have put Mr G off taking it out. I 
say this because:
-Mr G says he wouldve received sick pay from his employer if he was off work sick. 
But the policy  wouldve paid out in addition to this and for a longer period of time.  It 
would also have paid out if he lost his job in addition to any redundancy pay he may 
have been entitled  to. 
-Mr G didnt appear to have been affected  by the more restrictive terms in the policy 
which wouldve made it more difficult for him to make a successful  claim under  the 
policy.
-I havent seen  evidence which suggests  the policy wasnt affordable for Mr G at the 
time it was taken out.
-Mr G wouldnt  have lost out financially if he wanted to cancel the policy early.
It follows that I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr G this PPI policy.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr G about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr G, that was unfair.  
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this by 
Ref: DRN97238473paying the compensation to Mr Gs IVA practitioner,  so I dont award any further 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9723847