K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out the PPI at the same  time as arranging their mortgage  in September 
2000 (with the policy and mortgage going live in January 2001).
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  and Ill explain why.
In response to the adjudicators view,  Mr and Mrs H said that they had no idea PPI had been  
added to the mortgage account. They say they didnt  know they were paying £48.73 a month 
for it and that they couldnt recall  any costs being  discussed or signing for the policy.
After our adjudicator sent them some documents from the point of sale,  showing that they 
had actually signed specifically for the PPI in two different places, Mr and Mrs H say that 
they must  have been made  to have it as a compulsory  part of the mortgage  lending.
It seems  clear  from this that Mr and Mrs H have no clear recollection of the meeting with 
BoS. This isnt surprising  given how long ago it took place.
The mortgage application form has a section headed Accident, Sickness and 
Unemployment Insurance. It says We recommend  that you consider our Mortgage 
Repayment Insurance Scheme... Mr and Mrs H have  both signed  in this section to request 
the policy.
Mr and Mrs H then completed a separate PPI application form. This form details the monthly 
cost of the policy and the amount of benefit  that has been applied for. Again, Mr and Mrs H 
have both signed this form.
From what  we know of BoSs sales processes at the time, the PPI would have been 
presented as optional. I have no evidence  to suggest that the adviser deviated from the 
normal sales process in this instance. And from the wording and layout of the forms, I think 
Mr and Mrs H would  have understood that they had a choice about taking out the policy.  
Overall, based on the available  evidence,  I think that Mr and Mrs H decided to buy the PPI, 
knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing  so.
BoS advised Mr and Mrs H to take out the policy. So, in recommending the PPI to them, it 
needed to ensure that it met their needs.  And from what I know of their circumstances at the 
time, the PPI was suitable.
Ref: DRN93851122The PPI was a joint policy set up with a 50/50  benefit split. This seems  reasonable as Mr 
and Mrs H had very similar salaries at the time.  Mr and Mrs H would  both have received sick 
pay from their jobs, but the policy would have paid out in addition  to this and potentially  for 
longer than they would  have received full pay for. Mr and Mrs H had a reasonable amount of 
savings. But having  the policy would have allowed them  to retain  these or use them to cover 
other outgoings at what would  have  been  a difficult time.  Mr H has said that his parents 
would have helped.  But presumably asking  family  to pay your mortgage for you would be a 
last resort, and other people cant always  be relied upon as their circumstances can change. 
Mr H has also said that they had a lot of equity in the house and so hes sure the bank would 
have given them some  grace on payments. But having the policy would have taken away 
any stress and doubt about having  to rely on the goodwill of the lender.
The couple  also seem  to have found the policy affordable. Mr H has said he didnt realise the 
premiums would be added to the debt and attract interest. But I can confirm  to Mr and Mrs H 
that this was a monthly paid policy with no interest  being paid on the premiums.
Overall I think  that Mr and Mrs H had a need for the policy and could  have benefitted from it. 
So it wasnt  unreasonable of BoS to recommend it  to them.
I dont know what was discussed at the meeting, so its possible that BoS didnt provide  as 
much information about the PPI as it should  have, particularly about  the things that it didnt 
cover. But Mr and Mrs H werent affected by any of these things. As I think  they had an 
interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that further  information  would have  
caused them  to change their minds.  So they are no worse off as a result of anything  BoS 
may have  done  wrong, so theres nothing BoS needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9385112