K821x#15Complaint
Mrs R is being represented  by solicitors. Shes complaining about Best Practice IFA Group 
Limited (Best Practice) because she says she was given unsuitable advice to switch pension 
benefits into a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP) and place the money  in unregulated 
investments.
Mr R received similar advice around  the same  time.  Ive issued a separate decision on his 
case, but Ive referred to some  of the evidence on our file for his complaint in responding to 
Mrs Rs.
Background 
Mrs R says she met Mr H, the adviser who she says dealt with her pension and investments, 
after she was introduced to him at the end of 2011 by a member of her family who hed 
previously advised.  According to her representative, Mrs R contacted Mr H because she 
wanted general financial advice, including pension advice. She wanted to consolidate her 
private pensions  into one place with a view to increasing her pension  pot. 
Mrs Rs representative says Mr H held himself  out as a regulated adviser  and agent  for 
Future Financial IFA Group  Ltd (Future Financial). It says he recommended Mrs R switch 
pension benefits  to a SIPP and invest in alternative investments. The documentation from 
the time also refers  to somebody called Mr G, who was an agent  of Future Financial. As 
Future Financial was an appointed representative  (AR) of Best Practice, Mrs R believes Best 
Practice is responsible  for her losses.
Following discussions with Mr H, Mrs R says she was advised to switch  the benefits in 
personal pensions  with Standard Life and Scottish Widows to a SIPP  with The Lifetime SIPP  
Company (Lifetime), administered by Hartley-SAS (Hartley). According to the SIPP
transaction history, it was established on 5 March 2012 and a sum totalling nearly £50,000 
was received from her personal pensions shortly afterwards. During  March  and April 2012, 
most of this money was then placed in a selection of unregulated investment schemes,  
including Plantation Capital Ltd, SCS Farmland,  Ukrainian  Income  Developments  Ltd, 
Venture Oil Investments  Ltd, and Squire Hotels Ltd. 
Mrs R did receive  some  income payments from the investments, but they havent  generated 
the ongoing returns she was expecting or repaid her capital in full. According to her 
representative, the risks of the investments werent properly explained and she wouldnt 
have proceeded  if they had been.
Best Practice didnt accept Mrs Rs complaint. In its defence it has said:
Mr H was never authorised as its representative  and it considers any alleged advice 
provided while he purported to be associated with Future  Financial or Best Practice 
to be a fraudulent  act.
While  he wasnt  a representative  of Future  Financial, the Financial Services Register  
shows Mr H did represent other businesses listed at the same address.
It has no record of Mrs R as one of its clients.
Ref: DRN96378792It hasnt been  proven  Mr G gave  advice. But it didnt authorise him to advise on 
investments and pensions, including pension  transfers, so it cant be held responsible 
for his alleged actions  in any event.  
Future Financial ceased to be its appointed  representative in June 2012 and it cant 
be held responsible for anything done after that.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought we could consider this 
complaint and it should be upheld.  An extract  is attached and forms part of this decision.
Best Practice contacted  us to say that it remained disappointed with my conclusions but 
doesnt feel theres anything it can meaningfully add. But, for the sake of completeness, it 
said it has previously spoken to Mr G about  this complaint and he denied  advising Mrs R. It 
also said it understands the fact find was dated while Mr and Mrs R were out of the country, 
but notes it was unsigned and that it isnt one of the standard documents used by its firms at 
the time.
Mrs R accepted the outcome set out in my provisional decision, but her representative made  
some comments about how the redress is to be paid.  It said that, based on its experience,  it 
may be difficult to close the SIPP if Best Practice is unwilling  to take assignment of the 
illiquid investments  and the SIPP provider is unwilling to close the SIPP  while they remain  
within it. It notes Ive allowed for this by awarding a sum to cover future SIPP  fees. But 
nevertheless, it says Mrs R no longer wants anything to do with the SIPP and would  prefer  
the compensation amount  is paid directly to her (via her representative)  as a lump sum.
In addition, Mrs Rs representative has noted shes been advised by an independent 
financial adviser (IFA) that payment of compensation  into the SIPP  would be classed as an 
unauthorised payment.  Its also pointed out that Mrs R has agreed to pay a percentage of 
the compensation to her representative to cover its fees and she doesnt have ready access  
to another lump  sum to cover this. The IFA has also said any subsequent payment out of the 
pension to pay the fees would conflict with her existing protection.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
the responses to my provisional decision,  my conclusions havent changed.
I note Best Practice says Mr G denies having  advised Mrs R. But in the absence of further  
comments from him or any other supporting evidence, it remains  my view that he did advise 
her for the reasons  Ive set out in my provisional decision. With regard to the fact find, this 
does seem to include  Mr and Mrs Rs signatures on the date Ive referred to so its not clear 
why Best Practice has said it wasnt signed. And while  it might  not have  been  the standard 
document used  by its ARs at the time, I dont think thats sufficient to outweigh the other  
evidence Ive referred to that I think shows Mr G did advise  Mrs R and was acting  as Best 
Practices AR when he did so.
When awarding compensation,  my principal aim is to return  Mrs R (as close  as possible) to 
the position shed now be in but for the inappropriate advice she received. It remains my 
view the money she has lost would otherwise have been in her pension and thats where it 
should be paid if this can be done.  I understand the potential issue  with closing the SIPP  
Ref: DRN96378793while it contains illiquid investments, but I think the solution Ive proposed  which includes 
Best Practice paying SIPP fees for the next five years  adequately takes account of this.
This notwithstanding, it may be the case that its not possible to pay the compensation into 
Mrs Rs pension and this shouldnt happen  if it would conflict  with any existing protection or 
allowance. I previously set out how compensation can be paid direct to Mrs R in such  a 
situation.
 
The issue  of how Mrs R pays her representative is a matter between them that they 
presumably discussed before it began to act for her. Its not something that has an impact on 
what Best Practice needs to do to return her to the correct financial position.   
My Final  Decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Mrs R accepts my decision, Best Practice IFA Group Limited must pay compensation 
calculated using the method set out in my provisional decision. It should provide her with 
details of its calculations  in a clear and understandable format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 February  2021.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN96378794Extracts from provisional decision:
Background
. . . .
Once the complaint  was referred  to us, I considered whether it fell within our jurisdiction to investigate, 
particularly whether  Best Practice could  be held responsible for the actions of its AR. I concluded  that 
we could consider the complaint.
Our investigator then considered the merits of the complaint and concluded it should be upheld.  He 
felt Mrs R received  unsuitable advice  to switch her pension benefits to a SIPP  to fund unregulated 
investments and recommended compensation  be paid to return her (as close as possible)  to the 
position shed now be in but for that advice.
Mrs Rs representative contacted us to say she accepted the investigators findings  but would prefer  
the proposed  compensation was paid to her directly rather than into her pension.
Best Practice  didnt accept the investigators  assessment and its legal representative sent a response 
covering both Mr and Mrs Rs complaints. It strongly disagrees with my decision that the complaint  
falls within our jurisdiction.  It also maintains that Mrs Rs representatives should  be required to answer  
a series of questions  it proposed asking in February 2020. And in response to my earlier decision and 
the investigators assessment it made the following key points  in respect of the merits of the 
complaint:
The Investigator's position on causation in both cases relies on inferences and statements  
from Mr and Mrs Rs solicitors, without input or submissions  from Best Practice. The purpose 
of the questions  it proposed asking in February was:
to seek  evidence  to support or refute the statements made in their letter of complaint 
relating to causation;
to assist Best Practice make submissions  on the alleged losses suffered;
to clarify  the position  around  Future Financial's  alleged acts that are said to have 
caused those losses;
to clarify  the financial sophistication of Mr and Mrs R at the time they entered  into the 
SIPP and investments;
to understand whether it was their intention  to enter into the investments in any event; 
and
to understand any steps taken by Mr and Mrs R to mitigate their losses.
Requiring Mr and Mrs R to answer the questions proposed is necessary and proportionate for 
the fair and reasonable determination of their complaints. It also accords with the principles of 
procedural fairness and natural  justice.  Best Practice is being denied the opportunity to 
challenge unproven assertions made by Mr and Mrs R in relation  to their alleged losses.  
The relevance of some  of the key questions is as follows:
Questions 1 to 5 - Mr and Mrs Rs representative  has referred to a number of 
'brochures' for their investments,  which the investigator also referred  to in his 
assessment. The comments in their complaint  letter indicate these brochures  may 
have suggested the investments were  especially  high-risk, speculative and/or UCIS. 
In view of their occupations, its arguable  that Mr and Mrs R had a higher than 
average degree of financial  sophistication. Further,  its arguable  they would have  
known that financial  products are normally accompanied  by formal documentation, 
and it is unclear if they were given any, and if not, whether they accepted this as a 
reasonable position.
Ref: DRN96378795Question 7 - This is intended to explore whether, at any time before they made  their 
investments, Mr and Mrs R could have fallen  into any of the categories listed in The 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 4.12. This is particularly relevant in view of 
Mrs Rs occupation.
Questions 8 and 11 - Mr and Mrs R seem to suggest that both the fact find and 
suitability report state the incorrect attitude to risk. But its unclear why they didnt 
challenge this at the time and signed the fact find if this wasnt correct. Further,  if they 
think Mr H deliberately  attempted to mis-state their attitude to risk in the fact find, this 
supports Best Practice's  concern that he may have impersonated Mr G and/or Future  
Financial. Alternatively, if Mr and Mrs R say they didnt see these  documents, the 
question arises as to how they could be said to have caused  their loss.
Question 18 - Its unclear what (if any) steps Mr and Mrs R took to mitigate their loss 
when they first had concerns with the performance of their investments.
Best Practice  hasnt seen the investment  brochures referred to above and should have the 
opportunity to comment on them before a decision is reached.
It was inappropriate  for the investigator to rely on documentation in another unrelated 
complaint. Each case  must be looked at on its own merits.
After this letter was received, I asked our investigator to send Best Practice copies of the various 
investment brochures Mr and Mrs R have said were given by Mr H before their pension benefits were 
switched to a SIPP. I also asked him to contact  Mr and Mrs R with a series  of questions  to obtain 
further information on issues I believed  required  clarification. Many of the questions  I asked related  to 
issues raised by Best Practices representative in its letter of February 2020. Ive asked the 
investigator to send  a copy of their response, including evidence of Mrs Rs travel arrangements in 
February 2012, to Best Practice.
My Provisional Findings
Both parties and their representatives have made extensive submissions and Ive read and 
considered these carefully. But I havent tried to address every single issue raised and Ive instead 
concentrated on those that I believe are central to the outcome of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
It remains my view that this complaint is one we can consider for the reasons  set out in detail in my 
jurisdiction decision dated 19 February 2020. These can be summarised  as follows:
The complaint is essentially about Future Financials alleged role in advising on and arranging 
Mrs Rs SIPP and unregulated  investments and their suitability for her circumstances and 
needs.
The evidence  shows the regulated activities of advising on and arranging Mrs Rs SIPP and 
pension switches were  carried out by Mr G of Future Financial. It doesnt support Best 
Practices view that Mr H impersonated him without his knowledge.
These activities were among those Future Financial  was authorised to carry out by Best 
Practice under  the terms of their AR agreement. Restrictions covering how Future Financial 
should have carried out the activities  it was authorised  for, including  the status of the 
individual involved  and the requirement to notify the principal of business  within 30 days, 
arent sufficient for Best Practice to avoid responsibility. So Best Practice is responsible for 
Future Financials acts as if they were  its own.
Ref: DRN96378796While Best Practices representative has said it strongly disagrees with my jurisdiction decision,  it 
hasnt provided any further evidence or arguments for me to consider and its response to the 
investigators assessment is focussed on the merits of the complaint.
Merits
Mrs Rs complaint essentially centres on her view that the investments  within her SIPP werent  
suitable for her circumstances and needs.  But switching  her pension benefits  to the SIPP  was a 
necessary precursor to being able to incorporate  the unregulated investments into her pension 
planning. So, I think its clear that any advice on the pension and the investments was closely linked.
What was Mr Hs role and who was he representing?
From the evidence  Ive seen, it appears to me that any advice on Mrs Rs investments within the SIPP 
was given  by Mr H rather than Mr G. In my view, the email  correspondence provided  from the 
beginning of 2012 also shows Mr H was involved in promoting Mrs Rs investments,  including 
providing her with various brochures, and then making the necessary arrangements with the 
investment providers.  He was assisted in these activities by his colleague, Mr J, who described  
himself in an email  dated 26 March 2012 as Mr Hs little  sidekick.
Mr Hs status is not entirely clear. According to the Financial Services Register,  he was never  
authorised through  and didnt  hold a regulated role with Future  Financial  or any other AR of Best 
Practice. And I note Mr and Mrs Rs representative has told us he didnt provide a business card or 
similar indicating he was its employee.
But its been  suggested Mr H may have worked for Future Financial in a different capacity that wasnt 
regulated and I think theres evidence to support  this. For example, he sent an undated letter on 
Future Financial  headed  paper to Mr and Mrs R after their initial meeting  at the end of 2011. This 
described Mr Hs initial brief as to identify savings that can be made to your family budget  and 
initially referred  to various insurance  policies. Later on it said:
The pensions  you both have should be looked at more  thoroughly
and suggested:
Self-Invested Personal Pensions (SIPPs) might make sense for either  one or both of you.
It then went  on to explain some of the potential benefits of a SIPP in general terms.
While this appears to show Mr H acting for Future Financial at the time he first met Mr and Mrs R, I 
think its relevant  to note that this particular  letter didnt offer specific advice on pensions  and 
investments or promote particular investments  to them.
The promotion of particular investments and any associated advice appears to have started  at the 
beginning of 2012 and is evidenced by a number of emails from the time in which Mr H provided  Mrs 
R with details  of various investment offerings and discussed her views on them.  But in terms of who 
Mr H was representing at this time, I note that he used  either  his personal  email address or an 
address that appears to relate to a different firm, charterhouseam, which doesnt  appear to have 
been authorised by the regulator.  Mr J, who didnt hold a regulated role with Future Financial either, 
also used his personal email  address for correspondence.  So its not clear  they were acting for Future 
Financial at the time.
On balance, I think  its most likely that Mr H wasnt representing Future Financial (or Best Practice) 
when carrying out the regulated activities  of advising on and arranging Mrs Rs investments,  or the 
ancillary activity  of promoting them. I think he was instead acting essentially  as an unlicensed 
introducer. On that basis, Best Practice cant be held responsible for his actions. 
Ref: DRN96378797What was Mr Gs role and who was he representing?
As I discussed in my jurisdiction decision, I think theres considerable evidence  Mr G gave advice on 
Mrs Rs SIPP and pension switches.  In particular,  the file of papers for Mr Rs case  included a 
suitability letter that appears to have been issued by Mr G and referred to:
Having conducted  a thorough Personal Financial  Questionnaire and Needs Analysis . . .
It also said:
We discussed all aspects of your financial situation  and from the information I gathered in the 
Financial Questionnaire we have identified the only area which you all wish to address at this 
moment in time relates to your retirement planning only. 
It then discussed the merits of SIPPs  as an alternative for the money  held in Mr Rs personal pension 
and said:
A number of other SIPP providers were identified  as being suitable. We carried out market 
research as to which we felt would be most suitable for your needs. Given  your risk profile 
and the types of investment you had expressed a desire in making, we felt only a SIPP 
offering genuinely  alternative investments would meet your objectives. Either a Low Cost 
SIPP permitting one or two alternative investments  or a Full SIPP would  meet your needs. 
Most likely, given the modest level of funds available  here, a low cost SIPP would  be most 
appropriate as you would only be able to make one or two investments.
Under the heading Recommendations, the letter then said:
Taking into your account  your objectives, attitude  to risk and affordability,  I would recommend 
The Lifetime SIPP Co Cash Plus Two Investments Self Invested Personal Pension.  We have 
agreed that you will initially be transferring in your Standard Life FSAVC. We believe this lo be 
the most suitable product  to meet your needs.
Then, under  the heading  Recommended Provider, the letter said:
We have identified  that certain  features of a Self Invested Personal Pension are essential  for 
your current needs. This information has been used to provide a shortlist of companies, which 
meet your requirements. We have  provided  you with a list of these SIPP  providers. The 
purpose of this research is to show you which  of the SIPP providers we are able to offer to 
you together with a clear approach to their charges.  As previously mentioned, it was felt and 
agreed that an established strong  SIPP provider with competitive charges  and good 
administration was essential and therefore  The Lifetime SIPP  co was recommended  and 
agreed.
Finally, the closing Confirmation section of the letter said:
I would like to thank you for seeking advice  from Future Financial.
We have identified  your objectives  and I hope you will agree that the recommendations  that I 
have made  coincide with your current needs and future requirements.
Weve also been provided with a copy of a fact find completed  for Mr and Mrs R, and this is 
presumably the financial  questionnaire mentioned in the suitability letter.  I think these  documents  
provide compelling evidence Mr G gave  advice  on Mr and Mrs Rs SIPPs and that he was acting for 
Future Financial  when  he did so. The suitability letter clearly  states a "recommendation was being  
made and thanks Mr R for seeking advice from Future  Financial. If Mr R was advised  in this way, I 
think its likely Mrs R was too. Particularly  in view of the August  2012 email  correspondence between 
Lifetime and Mr H and Mr J that shows it needed advice documentation to accompany Mr Rs 
Ref: DRN96378798application. If it needed this documentation for her husband,  it would presumably  have needed it for 
Mrs R as well. 
There is other evidence that also indicates Future Financials involvement in advising on Mrs Rs 
SIPP. This includes Lifetimes  New  SIPP Checklist  for her application  dated 1 March 2012, which  
records Future Financial  (with its correct reference number) as the independent  financial  adviser (IFA) 
involved. I also note that Hartley sent an email to Mrs R dated  24 September  2015,  which began:  
As confirmed  on when  we've spoken earlier,  your original IFA details were:
Future Financial
IFA Registration Number - 542647
The Lifetime  group or Hartley  SAS no longer do any business with Future  Financial as they 
are no longer a regulated  IFA. This was the case for both of yourself and your husband.
I note Best Practice has suggested Mr H somehow impersonated Mr G without his knowledge  and 
that he was actually unaware of what took place. But no evidence has been provided to support that 
view. It did previously suggest it would  obtain comments from Mr G on this point but nothing  has been 
forthcoming so far. 
Im aware Mr and Mrs R say they didnt meet Mr G in person, but I think the documentation shows he 
actively considered  their circumstances and offered advice. Whether hed met them or was advising 
from a distance, he still had a responsibility  to make  sure that advice was suitable in line with the 
relevant regulatory requirements.
As Ive said,  I think Mr H was acting as an unlicensed introducer  when advising  on and arranging  Mrs 
Rs investments.  But that created a problem as the investments being used could only be established 
if she switched her pension benefits to a SIPP.  The correspondence between  Lifetime and Mr H and 
Mr J in August 2012  appears to show it would  only accept  applications from a regulated firm, which 
meant it was necessary for a regulated firm to advise  on and arrange  the SIPP and pension switches.  
I think  thats where Mr G became involved and I believe  the evidence shows he was representing 
Future Financial  when  advising on Mrs Rs pension  arrangements.
Was Mr G of Future Financial responsible  for ensuring the investments within Mrs Rs SIPP were  
suitable?
The background  Ive described  is one where Mr H gave advice on and arranged  Mrs Rs investments 
and Mr Gs involvement in the process (acting for Future Financial) was limited to advising on her 
SIPP and pension switches. But even  if his advice was limited  to Mrs Rs pension arrangements,  that 
doesnt mean  he wasnt also responsible  for ensuring  her investments were suitable.
In January 2013, the regulator (at that time, the Financial Services Authority  (FSA)) issued an Alert 
on pension transfers with a view to investing into unregulated products through SIPPs. Although  the 
alert was issued after the actions in this case  took place,  it commented on how the rules should have  
been complied with at the time.
The alert included the following:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advise rs are giving 
advice  to custom ers on pension transfers or pension switche s without assessing the 
advantages and disadva ntage s of investme nts propose d to be held within the new 
pension. In particula r, we have seen financial adviser s moving custom ers retirement  
savings to self-invest ed persona l pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high  
risk,  often  highly  illiquid  unregulate d  investme nts  (some   which  may  be  in Unregulated   
Collective   Investment   Schemes) . Examples   of   these   unregulated investme nts are  
Ref: DRN96378799overseas property developm ents, store  pods,  forestry and film schemes, among other non-
mainstream propositions.
The cases we have seen tend to operate under a similar advice model The financial 
adviser does not give advice on the unreg ulated investme nt, and says it is only providing 
advice on a SIPP capable of holdi ng the unreg ulated investme nt (e.g. an overseas 
property development). When customers express an interest in the unregulated investment, 
the customer is introduced to a regulated financial adviser to provide advice on a SIPP 
capable of holding the unregulated investment. The financial adviser does not give advice on 
the unregulated investment, and says it is only providing advice on a SIPP capable of 
holding the unregulated investment. Sometimes the regulated financial  adviser also assists 
the customer  to unlock monies  held in other investments  (e.g. other pension arrangements) 
so that the customer  is able to invest in the unregulated investment.
. . . .
Financ ial advisers using this advice  model are under the mistake n impression that this 
process means they do not have to conside r the unregulate d investme nt as part of their 
advice  to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to conside r the suitability of the SIPP 
in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The  FSAs  view  is  that  the  provision  of  suitable  advice   generally requires 
consid eration of the other investm ents held by the custom er or, when advice is given on a 
product which is a vehicle for investm ent in other produc ts (such as SIPPs), 
consid eration of the suitability of the overall propositi on, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected unde rlying investme nts in unregulated schemes. It should be particula rly clear to 
financial adviser s that, where a custom er seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
impleme nting a wider investment strategy the pension  transfer must take account of the 
overall investme nt strategy the custom er is contemplatin g.
For  example,  where  a  financial  adviser  recommends  a  SIPP  knowi ng  that  the 
customer will transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an 
overseas property investment unde r a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property 
investme nt must form part of the advice about whether the customer should  transfer into 
the SIPP. If, takin g into account the individual  circumst ances of the custom er, the 
original pension produc t, including its unde rlying holdi ngs, is more suitable for the 
customer, then the SIPP is not suitable .
This is because if you give regulate d advice and the recomm endation will enable 
investme nt in unreg ulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from 
the regulated eleme nts.
There are clear requirements unde r the FSA Principles and Conduc t of Business  rules and 
also in established case law for any adviser, in the giving of advice, to first take time to 
familiarise themse lves with the wider investment and financial circumst ances. Unless the 
adviser has done so, they will not be in a positi on to make recomm endations on new 
produc ts.
I think  the guidance  is clear  that Mr G shouldnt have been making arrangements to switch  Mrs Rs 
pension benefits  to the SIPP without first considering the type of investments shed go on to use and 
whether these were  suitable  for her.
Ref: DRN963787910Weve been provided with a copy of a fact find and a suitability letter covering the advice  Mr G gave to 
Mr R on his pension. This information clearly  shows he was aware Mr R planned to use the money 
transferred to his SIPP to fund unregulated  investments. While  we dont have  a suitability letter in 
connection with Mrs Rs pension switches, Ive explained  previously why I think its reasonable to 
believe the same process would have been followed. If hed asked the right questions, Ive no reason 
to think  Mr G wouldnt  have been aware Mrs R was also planning to use her SIPP for unregulated 
investments. 
Taking everything into account, I think its clear that I now need to consider whether  Mrs Rs 
investments were suitable  for her needs. And if not, whether its appropriate to require  Best Practice  
to put things  right.
Were the investments suitable for Mrs R?
For him to conclude  the advice to switch her pension benefits to the SIPP was suitable  for Mrs R, 
knowing the type of investments that would  then be used,  Mr G needed to be broadly satisfied that:
the type of investment planned met her investment  objectives  and attitude  to risk;
this type of investment fitted her financial  position and she could reasonably  afford to take the 
risks involved; and
she understood and was prepared to accept those risks.
In considering these issues now, its important that I dont base my decision on hindsight.  Mr G 
wouldnt have known at the time that the investments would perform as they did and their nature 
doesnt mean  they were  automatically destined to fail.
Mrs R used a selection of investments within her SIPP,  all of which  had different features and 
associated risks. But its important to recognise they werent mainstream investments. They  were  
specialised investments  that posed a complex  series of risks. They mainly invested in a single type of 
asset, which  increased  the chances of future liquidity  problems and/or the failure of the investment. 
They were also mainly based overseas,  meaning  they were subject to laws in other countries  and 
potential currency fluctuations. Further, they were unregulated, meaning Mrs R couldnt fall back on 
the protection offered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS)  if things went  wrong.  
All of this means the investments would  reasonably be seen as involving a high degree of risk and 
thats why the regulator  has consistently said they arent suitable  for and shouldnt be marketed to 
most retail investors.
When advising Mrs R, Mr G should have treated her as a normal retail client and Ive seen nothing  to 
indicate a valid assessment was completed that meant she could reasonably have been treated in 
any other way. Best Practices representative  has referred to her occupation  before her career break  
and I accept this meant she should have  had an understanding of company  finance.  But she wasnt a 
qualified financial adviser and her background didnt make her an expert in investments, particularly 
non-mainstream, specialised investments like those she ended up using. It certainly seems that she 
felt she required advice otherwise she presumably wouldnt have needed to contact Mr H in the first 
place. 
Mrs R was provided with a considerable amount of promotional literature relating to the investments 
being considered and her email correspondence  with Mr H in the early part of 2012 appears to show 
she read and considered this. For example, in an email  dated 13 January 2012, she said:
Thanks for all of this [referring to the various investment brochures Mr H had provided] . . . 
Ive got plenty  to think about! I dont think I could get finances together quickly enough  for the 
solar one as it is a minimum investment of £10,000 so it would have to be a SIPP,  but I will 
look at all the others over the weekend  and early next week.
In another email dated 23 January 2012, she said:
Ref: DRN963787911Ive been slowly  wading through them [again referring  to the various investment brochures  Mr 
H had provided] and have some which  I prefer over others.
And in a later email dated 27 February 2012, Mrs R said:
I have been going through all the prospectuses etc that you left with me and have a couple of 
questions. I am trying to evaluate  predicted returns in 10 years time for all the investments to 
allow some  sort of crude comparison, but the Ukrainian  one just says "at the end of the 
investment period the company intends to redeem all bonds" do you know long this period will 
be or is there no fixed time? 
Also do you have any performance information on the Vintage Cars fund? Either past or 
predicted would do, I just want to get an indication  of potential returns.
I am probably not going to do the Chateau  scheme as I'm uncertain about  the future
occupancy levels of luxury  hotels, but haven't  discarded it completely yet.
But the fact Mrs R read this information doesnt mean she didnt  need advice on whether the 
investments were suitable.  Its important  to remember  that any analysis of the investments she carried 
out would have been based on the content of the promotional literature and Ive considered whether 
this explained nature and risks of the investments clearly and in a way that would have allowed her to 
make a fully informed  decision.
By way of example, Ill refer to the content of the promotional literature for the Venture Oil investment, 
the cover of which says it was targeted to produce returns  of 20% to 30% per year.  It then begins with 
a Notice to Recipients that says:
This information is not produced or intended  for members  of the public or general circulation. 
Only authorised and regulated advisors  are able to provide investment advice to their clients 
whom they know to be certified sophisticated investors.
This document details an alternative investment  through the purchase of shares in an 
unquoted company.
 
The following pages then provide an overview  and summary of the investment, including its structure 
and tax position.  Towards  the end, it has a section entitled Risk Factors, which says (in full):
Potential investors should carefully consider the following risk factors in relation to the 
investment, which individually  or in aggregate could have a material  effect on the investment  
return, and should consult their financial adviser before investing. Investors  should  be aware 
that the value of this investment is linked intrinsically to the oil prices  and in the event that oil 
prices dramatically  reduced this would  significantly  reduce the investment  returns.
Valuation of the Royalties  and Oil producing Wells
The sales comparison approach in valuing  such an investment as this has some limited use in 
providing a range of values.  Differences in location, procedures,  facilities and property rights 
transferred and many  other  variables make  a precise  comparison between the comparable 
sales and this particular project difficult. Subjective adjustments used to lessen these 
difficulties are highly speculative. Moreover, there is no accurate way of determining whether  
the sales  prices actually  paid represent market values, because it is difficult  to determine the 
exact motivations  of the buyers and sellers, or what special conditions  may have influenced 
the sale.
Operational risk
Ref: DRN963787912This risk represents the possibility  that the operator is responsible for the extraction of the oil 
will under-perform and will therefore experience period of financial distress. However, given 
the relative experience of the operator appointed to extract the oil and maintain the level of oil 
production, the level of operational risk is not considered high.
Market risk 
Volatility in economic, growth rates, oil prices, investment values and exchange rates may 
affect returns as a result  of their impact on the performance of the investment.
Currency
The deposit  into the investment is made from Sterling  into US Dollars. Returns are paid into 
the Syndicate Company  in US Dollars.  There are inherent risks in any exchange rate 
dependent investment. Should  the UK Pound against  the US Dollar be stronger the return  will 
be greater.  Should the UK Pound against the US Dollar be weaker the return  will be less. 
(This assumes that all other  variables are constant).
Investors should consider  the current risk associated  with this investment over the lifetime  of 
the investment  as well as the political considerations associated with these jurisdictions and 
how they might affect these  interacting  exchange rates.
Sale
Whilst the shares in the Syndicate  can be sold at any time following purchase  (subject to the 
majority vote of its shareholders) the price that will be attained when  shares are sold will be 
heavily dependent on a number  of factors, most of which are detailed  within this report.  The 
better the performance of the income  revenue at the time of sale, the higher the sale price  will 
be. The sale of shares will be dependent  on a number  of factors including market  liquidity and 
economic conditions  at the time.
Liquidity
Though this investment is structured through the purchase of shares  in a company, the asset 
behind the investment is oil which is of a less liquid  nature than some  other asset classes.  
The investment period  id for the fixed term of 7 years  (84 months).
If an investor wishes to sell their shares prior to the end of the investment term,  then 
additional costs may have  to be met by that investor, such as share  valuation and 
administration costs.
Shares if sold prior to the end of the investment term will be offered for 30 days to remaining  
syndicate shareholders, before they can be offered  for sale elsewhere.
The section on risk factors  is followed by a Risk Statement,  which  says:
Investing in Oil and Gas Ventures has low to medium  level risks,  any person  who is 
considering this type of investment who is in any doubt about  the investment  to which  this 
Investment Analysis Document relates should  consult  an authorised person specialising in 
investments of this kind.
While this document certainly  set out some  of the factors that could affect how the investment 
performed, I dont think it was in any way comprehensive. For example, theres nothing I can see in 
the brochure that refers  to the prospect  of losing  a significant part, or maybe even all, of the money 
invested. Theres also no mention of the investment  being unregulated and that this meant investors 
would have no recourse  to the FSCS.
Ref: DRN963787913I think  its also fair to say that the risks of the investment are downplayed  in way that undermines the 
warnings that are given. For example, it says the level of operational risk is not considered high. But 
most notably, I think this occurs in the final risk statement  that claims this type of investment  involved 
low to medium level risks . Even where it talks about the consequences of a dramatic fall in oil prices, 
the comment  is framed in terms  of how that would affect returns.  It doesnt say investors could lose 
money. In view of the very high targeted returns, I think this could  still give the impression  that a 
positive return was expected.  
On balance, I dont think any analysis  Mrs R was able to carry  out of this investment based on the 
information she was given would have led her to the conclusion that, by investing, shed actually be 
exposing her capital to a high degree of risk. And after reviewing  the rest of the promotional  literature 
provided, I think the same  can reasonably  be said about the other investments  she made.
I think  this is relevant because it shows that it wouldnt  have been good enough  for Mr G to have 
assumed Mrs R knew what she was getting into simply  because  shed received  and read the 
promotional literature.  He needed to actively consider whether the type of investments she was 
planning to use were suitable for her circumstances and needs and, if they werent,  to explain this and 
offer suitable  alternative advice before he arranged  the SIPP and switches of her pension  benefits.
Based on the fact find and Mr Rs suitability letter, along with the recent submissions  from Mr and Mrs 
R, my understanding of their circumstances  at the time is as follows:
They  were in their 40s and had dependent  children;
Mr R was a partner  in a business and earned around £160,000 per year;
Mrs R was on a career break  and earned around £18,500 per year in rental income;
they owned their own home,  which was worth  approximately £700,000 and had an 
outstanding mortgage of £100,000;
Mr R owned a 50% share of his business premises  valued at around £500,000;
Mrs R owned two rental properties, valued at around £90,000 each with no outstanding 
mortgages;
Mrs R owned a 3/8th share in another property worth £200,000 with an outstanding mortgage 
of £80,000;
Mr R had accrued  benefits  in an occupational  pension scheme, into which he was still 
contributing, and also paid into an Additional  Voluntary  Contribution (AVC);
he also had a Free Standing Additional  Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) with Standard Life, 
which was switched into his SIPP ;
Mrs R had no pension benefits other than the personal pensions that were  switched into her 
SIPP; and
they had some savings in the bank (the fact find says this was approximately £19,000 but 
they say it was less than this), around £20,000 in listed shares and £65,000 in savings plans. 
Their representative says this was the extent of their investment experience.
Mrs Rs representative says she doesnt recall being asked about her attitude to investment risk, but 
in her view this was moderate and she wasnt  willing to expose her pension to high-risk investments. 
It says she had some  experience of mainstream investments but not in high risk, speculative or 
unregulated investments  and that she would by no means consider herself  to be a sophisticated  
investor.
Her representative also says Mrs R understood there was some risk attached to what was being  
proposed, but Mr H told her some investments were riskier than others and the ones  he was 
recommending were  safe for a pension and suitable to be held in a SIPP. While she understood the 
investments might go up and down, the chances of losing  everything were extremely slim . She used 
the analogy of a stock market, where  she says investment values might fluctuate but are expected to 
broadly increase over time.
In contrast, the fact find from the time of sale, which  Mr and Mrs R appear to have signed, records her 
attitude to investment risk was high on the following  scale:
Ref: DRN963787914Low Low/Medium Medium Medium/High High
 
Unfortunately, the description  of each level of risk cant  be read on the copy of the document  provided  
to me. Also, its not clear from the fact find what questions were asked of Mrs R and how this 
assessment of her attitude  to risk was reached. Without this information, I cant be sure she would 
have understood the assessment and the possible implications or that its reliable.  I think  its also 
relevant to note that Mr and Mrs Rs representative says they have no recollection  of the fact find and 
has provided  evidence that appears  to show Mrs R was out of the country on the date it was meant  to 
have been signed.
With these  points in mind, Im not inclined to accept the attitude to risk assessment in the fact find 
without question  and I think its necessary to consider Mrs Rs broader  circumstances to determine 
what this was likely to have been.
I think  its clear Mrs R was prepared  to accept a degree of risk with her pension savings in exchange  
for a potentially higher  return and her use of the stock market analogy suggests she understood and 
accepted there was a possibility she could  lose some money.  But I dont think a consideration of her 
circumstances supports  the view that she understood that she was exposing  her money to the 
additional risks associated with high-risk unregulated  investments like those  she used or that she was 
willing to do so. Theres  no record of her having used high-risk, non-mainstream investments 
previously and the money Mrs R invested accounted  for almost all of her pension savings and a 
significant proportion  of her and her husbands overall savings.  
On balance, I think  the type of investments she was planning to use within her SIPP involved  a 
greater degree of risk than Mrs R was prepared  to accept and for this reason they were unsuitable. If 
Mr G had carried out a proper suitability  assessment as he should  have, I believe  he should have 
reached the same  conclusion. Before arranging Mrs Rs SIPP or the switching  of her pension 
benefits, he should therefore have explained to Mrs R that the type of investments shed been 
discussing with Mr H werent suitable. He should have explained the reasons for this view and offered 
suitable alternative options.  Its because he didnt  do this that Im currently proposing to uphold  Mrs 
Rs complaint.
the consequences of this failing
Im satisfied the decision  to use unregulated  investments came from Mrs Rs discussions  with Mr H, 
but theres no suggestion  she came  up with this idea.  As Mr H appears to have been operating as an 
unlicensed introducer promoting unregulated  investments, I think  its most likely  he suggested this 
option. 
Either way, Mr G was a qualified adviser and if hed explained  to Mrs R that the investments she was 
planning to use werent suitable, explained the reasons for his view,  and offered appropriate 
alternatives, I dont think its likely shed  have  proceeded.  I dont think  the evidence shows she was 
particularly attached to the use of unregulated  investments or that she would  have proceeded anyway 
if shed been advised  against it.
Im aware Mr G of Future Financial wasnt the only person involved in the events being  complained 
about. But, for the reasons  Ive explained, I believe Mrs R would now be in a different position if hed 
acted as he should have.  Ive already  explained  why I think Mr G was acting for Future  Financial (and 
as an AR of Best Practice)  when advising  her and that this was something Future Financial  was 
permitted to do under the terms of the AR agreement. Im therefore  satisfied its appropriate for me to 
require Best Practice to put things right.
conclusions
Im satisfied Mr G advised  Mrs R on her pension arrangements,  that he was acting for Future 
Financial when he did so, and that Best Practice is responsible  for his actions. When  giving advice on 
Ref: DRN963787915Mrs Rs pension arrangements, he also had a responsibility to consider whether the investments she 
was planning to use were suitable. Because the investments were unsuitable and Mr G didnt explain 
this or offer suitable alternatives as he should have, I think Mrs R is in a different position  to that which  
she should be and that its appropriate for me to require  Best Practice to put things right.
I note Mrs Rs representative says she also made a smaller unregulated investment with Mr H outside 
her SIPP. If that was the case, on the basis that I think Mr H wasnt acting for Future Financial when 
advising on and arranging investments, Best Practice wouldnt  be responsible for any losses on that 
investment and Im not intending to make an award covering any losses it incurred. 
Putting Things Right
My aim is that Mrs R should be put as closely as possible  into the position  she would probably now be 
in if shed  been given  suitable advice. On the basis that she contacted Mr H because she wanted to 
improve the returns  she was receiving, I think its likely  she would have done something else rather  
than carry  on investing in the same  funds  in her Standard Life and Scottish  Widows personal  
pensions. But with suitable advice, I dont think she would have used a selection  of unregulated 
investments in a SIPP. Its not possible to say precisely what she would have done, but Im satisfied 
that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given her circumstances and objectives  at the time.
Best Practices representative appears to be questioning  what steps Mrs R took to mitigate her loss, 
but I dont think theres any failing on her part in this area that should affect any compensation shes 
now due. Mrs R raised a complaint with Best Practice within the timeframe set out in our rules and, 
given the nature  of her investments and whats happened to them,  its difficult to see what  else she 
could reasonably have been expected to do to mitigate her loss.
What should Best Practice do?
To compensate Mrs R fairly, Best Practice should  compare  the performance of her SIPP with that of 
the benchmark shown. If the fair value  is greater than the actual value, theres  a loss and 
compensation is payable. Best Practice should also add interest as set out below. If the actual value  
is greater  than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If theres a loss, Best Practice should pay into Mrs R's pension plan to increase its value  by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief.  I note Mrs Rs representative says shed  rather compensation wasnt paid 
into her pension, but Im trying to return her to the position shed now be in but for the unsuitable 
advice she received.  If Mr G had offered appropriate advice, I think  her money would  be in a pension 
plan and that this is therefore how compensation should be paid. That said, compensation shouldnt 
be paid into the pension plan if it would  conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Best Practice is unable to pay the compensation  into Mrs R's pension plan,  it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable  
income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mrs R's actual or expected marginal  rate of tax at 
her selected  retirement  age. For example, if shes likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, the reduction would equal the current  basic rate of tax. However,  if Mrs R would have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest. If Best Practice deducts income tax from the interest,  it 
should tell Mrs R how much has been taken off. Best Practice should  give Mrs R a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN963787916investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK Private 
Investors  Income 
Total Return 
Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified  
of acceptance)
Actual value
This is the actual value  of the SIPP at the end date.
 
It may be difficult to find the actual value  of the SIPP. This is complicated  where some  of the 
investments it contains are illiquid  (meaning  they cant be readily sold on the open market) as appears 
to be the case here. So, the actual value  of any illiquid investments should be assumed to be nil to 
calculate fair compensation. Best Practice should take ownership of illiquid investments by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension  provider. This amount should  be deducted from the 
compensation and the balance  paid as set out above.
If Best Practice is unable to purchase any of the investments, the actual value should  be assumed  to 
be nil for the purpose  of calculation. Best Practice may require Mrs R to provide an undertaking to pay 
it any amount she may receive  from those investments in the future. That undertaking must  allow for 
any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing  the receipt  from the pension plan.  Best 
Practice will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the SIPP would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return  using the 
benchmark. Any additional sum Mrs R paid into the SIPP  should be added  to the fair value calculation 
at the point  it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP should 
be deducted from the fair value  calculation at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Best Practice totals all those  payments and deducts that figure  at the 
end instead of deducting periodically.
 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs R wanted growth and was willing  to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called  income index,  the mix and diversification provided within  the index is close 
enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable  measure  of comparison  given Mrs R's 
circumstances and attitude  to risk. 
additional compensation
Ref: DRN963787917The SIPP only exists  because  of the unregulated  investments used.  In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further fees to be prevented, any illiquid investments need to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set 
out above  how this might be achieved by Best Practice taking over the investments,  or this is 
something Mrs R can discuss with the SIPP  provider  directly. But I dont know how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power  to tell them  what  to do. To provide certainty to 
all parties, I think its fair that Best Practice pay Mrs R an upfront lump  sum equivalent to five years 
worth of SIPP fees (calculated using  the previous years fees). This should  provide a reasonable 
period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
I think  the problems Mrs R has experienced  with her pension arrangements as a result of the actions 
of Mr G of Future Financial have caused her considerable unnecessary  trouble and upset over a 
prolonged period and that she should be compensated for that. The precise impact of this situation on 
Mrs R, and therefore the amount to award, is difficult to assess. But in the circumstances,  I think  a 
substantial payment of £500 is fair and reasonable. Best Practice would need  to pay this amount 
direct to Mrs R (not into her pension) in addition to any compensation calculated using the method 
outlined above.
My Provisional Decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint. I currently think Best Practice  IFA 
Group Limited should pay Mrs R compensation calculated using the method set out above, including  
the additional compensation covering future SIPP fees and for her trouble  and upset.
Ref: DRN9637879