K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Sesame Limited misled  him during  the application process and 
therefore mis-sold an insurance policy to him.
background
Mr C sourced an income protection policy from Sesame in October 2016. This was an 
advised sale. Sesame  recommended  a policy which it said was suitable for Mr Cs needs, 
based on the information he gave  it. 
Mr C made  a claim on his policy in early 2017. However, his claim was declined  by the 
insurer because it said Mr C hadnt  disclosed the full extent of his medical history. Mr C said 
that he shared  all this information with Sesame and so could not understand why this wasnt 
passed on. This forms the basis of his complaint.  Mr C would like Sesame to accept its 
mistake and effectively pay his claim. 
Sesame said the policy was suitable  to Mr Cs needs because it would have provided him 
with a regular  income  had he brought  a successful claim. It found no evidence  to suggest 
Mr C was misled  during the advised  sales process  and it shared everything Mr C told it in the 
health questionnaire with the insurer.  
Our investigator considered Mr Cs medical  history  against what  was documented in the 
health questionnaire he completed with Sesame.  He acknowledged there were some 
differences with the information that was shared. Although he didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint 
because he noted  Mr C recognised some  information was missing  and followed this up with 
the insurer directly. He said that overall there wasnt enough evidence to persuade  him that 
Sesame had mis-sold the policy. 
Mr C disagreed. He did so for several  reasons. Ive summarised the key arguments below:
Sesame, during a phone  call with Mr C, said he didnt need to tell the insurer  about 
any long-term health problems provided  hed not taken any extended  period  of 
absence from work;  
Mr C took time to make  sure all the information  hed provided Sesame, and the 
insurer, was accurate. Mr C said he first noticed  the inaccuracies  in November 2016 
and followed this up with Sesame to put things right;
Mr C was told that his medical  records would be fully verified  and so was given a 
false sense of reassurance by Sesame and;
Mr C already told Sesame about  his medical  background with depression  and that 
this was shared  with the insurer through his initial application.
And so, its for me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding 
Mr Cs complaint. 
Ref: DRN99481342There are a few reasons  why Ive taken this decision which  Ill go on to explain in detail 
below. But I thought it also worth explaining  that Ive considered  Mr Cs other complaint 
about the insurers decision to decline his claim separately to this one. Some of Mr Cs 
arguments flex between the two complaints and so I wanted  to reassure him that Ive 
considered both in their entirety and will now address his concerns about the sales process 
and the broker.
In October  2016, Mr C decided to reach  out to Sesame for help choosing  the right policy  for 
him. Having  carefully  considered the information  collected by Sesame about Mr Cs 
circumstances, Im satisfied it attempted to gather as much relevant information about  him in 
order to recommend the most suitable products. I note the initial  recommendation made by 
Sesame was declined  by Mr C due to the overall  cost of that policy.  And so, he was 
recommended this policy which was more suitable to his budget  at the time. 
Mr C wanted a policy that would provide cover in the event he was unable to work  due to 
illness. Having considered the policy he was sold Im satisfied  this is what  he got. The 
deferred period  was three months, which was also suitable because Mr C told Sesame that 
in addition to receiving one months  sick pay from his employer at the time,  he had money 
saved that would sustain him for an additional two months, in the event he was unable to 
work.
Mr C referred  to a phone conversation he had with his broker about the information he 
needed to share about his health.  In summary,  Mr C said he was told that he didnt need to 
worry about sharing  details  about  any major illnesses that may have previously prevented  
him from working. Sesame refuted these  comments and theres no record of this 
conversation having  taken  place.  
There is evidence that it asked Mr C questions about his health in its questionnaire and that 
he took the time to answer them.  I also note Mr C declared some of his previous medical 
history, including having suffered with depression  and asthma. And so, on balance,  Im 
persuaded Mr C had a good understanding of the information he was expected to share with 
Sesame during the application process. This is further supported by his testimony for when 
he received the key facts summary  the following month in November.
Mr C said he noticed Sesame had not recorded  some material information about his lifestyle  
and skydiving hobby. This prompted  him to get back in touch with Sesame, which  in turn 
prompted Sesame  to get back in touch with the insurer to update it. But the insurer decided,  
based on sensitivities  around Mr Cs application,  itd rather speak with him directly. 
Ive listened to the conversations  between Mr C and the insurer  and addressed these 
arguments in my other decision and so wont go in to them here.  But I should highlight  that 
from this point, Mr C effectively  took over his application for a policy  and it was Mr C that 
provided inaccurate information  to the insurer and not Sesame. He updated it about his 
skydiving hobby   for which  the insurer said it would likely add an exclusion.  But Mr C also 
told it hed not suffered  with depression or poor mental health for more  than ten years, 
despite documenting in his initial application  with Sesame  that he had done within three  
years. In any event,  this alone wasnt the only reason affecting Mr Cs claim. 
Mr C hadnt disclosed his problems with his shoulder joint,  arm and hand pain, despite being 
asked a clear question in Sesames health  questionnaire. Mr C had been involved in a road 
Ref: DRN99481343traffic accident a few months before taking the policy. He sought  medical  advice about  the 
injuries he sustained, and this too, was absent  from his application. 
Its for these reasons  I find that Sesame  hasnt mis-sold Mr Cs policy.  Nor have I found  any 
persuasive evidence  that it misled  him during the application  process.  Mr C said he was told 
all his medical records would be checked  prior to taking out a policy. But theres no evidence  
that this was discussed. Ive seen evidence from the application summary which says;
you should  not assume that well write to your doctor for a report, although we may do so. 
Please ensure that you answer all the questions truthfully and accurately
I wasnt present at the time of sale and so Im unable to say for certain what  was said.  But 
the evidence Ive seen successfully challenges Mr C on this point and so I dont find in his 
favour here either. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9948134