K822xcomplaint
Mr V complains about the difficulties he faced when he attempted to port his mortgage 
product with Virgin Money plc. Mr V wants Virgin Money to loan him £120,000 in total to 
replace the savings he was forced  to use.
background 
Mr V and his wife had a joint mortgage  with Virgin Money but were separating and Mr V was 
moving to a new property.  They originally took the mortgage out on a repayment basis in 
May 2010 to buy a property for £357,000 borrowing £237,000. The mortgage was a tracker 
product at 0.34% above base rate with no early repayment charges. The mortgage  term was 
14 years.  They  could port the mortgage subject to conditions. Mr and Mrs V also made  
overpayments during the term of the mortgage.  In January 2019 when Mr V applied for a 
new mortgage with Virgin Money, the balance on their existing mortgage  was about £70,000.  
Mr V contacted Virgin Money  in the latter part of 2018  to explore what options  were available 
to allow  him to port the mortgage. Mr V received positive responses to a number of queries 
including whether they could port; whether  they could increase the borrowing; whether Mr V 
could port in his sole name; whether they could port to another property if they transferred 
their existing property to a buy to let; whether they could borrow back  the overpayments  
theyd previously made. Mr V says that he wasnt told that if Mrs V was removed from the 
mortgage that any new application would  be subject to an affordability assessment.
In October  Mr V looked  to buy a new property for £360,000 in his sole name but was told 
that he could only borrow £124,000 on an advisers rough calculation  based on Mr Vs 
income. Mr V then looked at another option  of raising a £100,000 mortgage  on his existing 
property and letting  it out pending a sale. Mr V wanted to increase  the borrowing for what 
might be a short period,  but Virgin Money said that this was against its policy.
Mr V made an offer on a new property but in December 2018 was told that the maximum 
amount he could borrow was £86,866 although he wanted to borrow £120,000.
Virgin Money agreed to port the mortgage  into Mr Vs sole name but then only for £79,000. 
So, Mr V had to take money from his ISA which he hadnt wanted to do until he retired. 
Virgin Money offered  £150 compensation for what it called the poor customer  journey that 
Mr V had. Mr V found this all very stressful including what  he feels was a delay in Virgin 
Money processing his application and requiring excessive documentation to prove  his 
income. 
Our investigators view was that Virgin Money didnt give considered advice to Mr V in 
August and had failed  to manage  his expectations  about what  could be done for him and so 
recommended that the level of compensation should be increased to £300.  But she felt that 
Virgin Money was entitled  to do an affordability  assessment which  unfortunately resulted in 
the reduction in the amount of money that Mr V was able to borrow.  So, our investigator 
didnt recommend that Virgin  Money should increase the amount that Mr V was able to 
borrow.
Mr V disagreed saying  in summary that he was more than capable of paying the higher 
mortgage that he wanted and had been making  overpayments on his existing mortgage 
displaying his ability to do so. 
Ref: DRN94137642my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V makes  several  complaints about how Virgin Money handled his porting application.  I 
believe that some of these are service issues where Mr V says that Virgin Moneys  service  
fell below standard both in the information he was provided with and in the general  
administration of his application. The other main issue is that Mr V was denied the mortgage 
that he expected to get from Virgin Money. Mr V eventually was able to port his mortgage 
product, but he got a lower mortgage than he feels should have been offered to him.
Mr V and his wife were  separating, and Mr V was moving house and wanted  to port his 
mortgage to the property  he was buying.  Mr V discussed the issue  with Virgin Money  in 
August. My view of that phone call is that the Virgin adviser made a crucial  error in delivering  
his advice in that he failed  to comprehend the significance that the impending  separation 
would have on Mr Vs plans. Crucially, given that Mr Vs wife was being removed from the 
mortgage, the adviser didnt highlight that this would be a major alteration to the mortgage  
conditions and that Virgin would need  to reassess the affordability of the mortgage if it were 
now in Mr Vs sole name. 
Mr V had another discussion with an adviser in October when Mr V got a more realistic 
assessment of his options and that an affordability  assessment would be made on his sole 
income. At that stage the adviser, on a rough assessment of Mr Vs income was talking of a 
mortgage of £124,000.  In  that call Mr V enquired about a buy to let mortgage  as a money 
raiser on the existing  property to partially  bridge the gap between the purchase price  and 
what Mr V could  raise. I noted that the adviser thought that would be possible.
In December Virgin Money told Mr V that the type of buy to let mortgage that Mr V wanted  - 
one that was potentially short term - wasnt available  from them  and the adviser suggested  
Mr V look elsewhere. Also, In December Virgin Money after it assessed Mr Vs income 
decided that the most  it could lend was £86,866, although when Mr V made his application  in 
December, the loan offer was reduced  to £79,848. 
Ive looked at why Virgin Money  wasnt able to give Mr V the mortgage  that he wanted. In 
recent years, after what was known as the Mortgage Market Review,  lenders have brought 
in stricter rules as to the affordability criteria that a borrower must  meet  in order  to take out a 
mortgage.
Although Mr V was porting his mortgage  product, he was taking out a new mortgage on a 
new property and would usually have to go through an affordability assessment like any 
other borrower. There are, however, certain  circumstances that could prevent Virgin  Money 
refusing Mr V a mortgage on affordability  grounds. One of those circumstances would  apply 
if Mr Vs application didnt involve a change  to the mortgage contract  that was material  to 
affordability. As the new mortgage was going into Mr Vs retirement and involved a change  
of borrower from Mr and Mrs V to Mr V solely that in my view was clearly a change  material  
to affordability so that doesnt help Mr V. 
Alternatively, Virgin Money should look at whether the proposed transaction was in Mr Vs 
best interests and in those circumstances, it would be justified in foregoing an affordability 
Ref: DRN94137643assessment. As Mr and Mrs V were separating its likely to be in their best interests to live in 
separate properties. But the question is whether buying a property at £360,000  was in Mr Vs 
best interests. I consider that in this instance to determine whether the transaction  - the 
purchase of the new house at £360,000 - would be in Mr Vs best interests  that it would be 
necessary to know whether Mr V could  afford  it. 
In addition, I note that in order  to pay the substantial deposit  on this property, Mr V had to 
use his savings, part of his inheritance, increase  the borrowing on his existing property as 
well as extend the term of his mortgage  into retirement.  Although  Mr V may have wanted to 
buy a house at this price,  as it effectively tied up all his money in it, I cant  say that its 
objectively in his best interests that he should have done so. Because of that, I dont think  it 
was unfair  of Virgin  to  conduct an affordability  assessment  to see what he could afford to 
pay on his mortgage.
Mr V in his email to us of the 18 May 2020  says that he was able to pay £1,091.90  per 
month to Virgin Money on what was then a £68,000  mortgage balance before taking out the 
new mortgage and was often making  overpayments.  Mr V now pays  £480.62 per month and 
feels that he would be well capable of paying  £740  per month which  he believes to be what 
he would  be paying  on a £120,000 mortgage.
But Mr V is not comparing  like for like here.  Mr and Mrs V were originally paying down a 
mortgage of £237,000 which was to end in 2024  when Mr V would be 65. In this complaint, 
Mr V was applying for a new mortgage. What Mr and Mrs V were required to pay on their 
existing mortgage  was based on an affordability assessment of what Mr and Mrs V were  
thought capable of paying over the next 14 years from 2010.  This, they managed quite 
successfully and with over payments brought their contractual monthly  payments  down  to 
the figure referred to above. But, Mr V on his own, was now applying  for a new mortgage 
with Virgin  Money in a tighter regulatory  environment as regards affordability than in 2010.  
Virgin Money had to assess what Mr V could  afford  to pay solely  from his own resources 
over the next several years when  he would be going into retirement. So, it wasnt only what 
Mr V could afford to pay now that it had to consider.  
I have access to the notes  relevant to the assessment. From  the notes I can see that Virgin  
Money looked at this from the point of view of what Mr V could  afford to pay from his income. 
Firstly, it considered what he could pay from his employment but as this wouldnt allow  Mr V 
to pay off the mortgage within the period of his employment, it looked at what  he could afford 
to pay using his retirement income.  I see that there was some coming and going with the 
underwriter to confirm that the assessment was done correctly and the figures  changed as a 
result. This is not unusual.  Mr V suspects that Virgin Money wanted to delay or deny him a 
mortgage because  of the favourable interest rate he was on, but I found no evidence of that. 
Although Mr V may disagree with what Virgin Money says that he can afford, in my view it 
handled the assessment fairly.  
There are a number of other issues. Mr V feels that there was some delay in the application 
process. But the mortgage application was completed on 18 December 2018 and the loan 
offer issued on 31 January 2019 which seems  to be a reasonable period. Although Virgin  
Money may have indicated that it could facilitate  a buy to let mortgage  on Mr Vs existing 
property, because the length  of term was uncertain and was outside its policy, I believe that 
it reasonably informed Mr V that it couldnt  do it and suggested an alternative to him. Mr V 
also feels that Virgin Money asked for unnecessary information about his pension. Virgin 
Money wanted it in a certain format which, as the lender,  it could reasonably ask for. But it 
Ref: DRN94137644seems to have accepted  the information from the pension provider in a different format 
which assisted Mr V. So, I dont fault Virgin Money  for the way it handled these issues.
I see that when  Mr V moved  to a new house that he suffered  a serious illness.  I am truly 
sorry to hear that. I can understand  that a marital separation and moving house and the 
financial issues arising from it are a source  of great stress. These issues  are complicated  
and not simple. Im sorry that Mr Vs original  discussion with Virgin  Money gave him the 
impression that the process would be straightforward. For that error I intend to uphold  Mr Vs 
complaint. Mr V deserves compensation and I agree with our investigators suggestion of 
£300. But as regards the main issue, I believe that Virgin Money acted reasonably  in 
assessing what mortgage Mr V could afford  to pay and I dont uphold that part of the 
complaint.         
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct  Virgin  Money plc to pay Mr V 
£300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9413764