K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains that CashEuroNet  UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid, lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Ms M took out eight loans with QuickQuid between February 2013  and June 2016.  She took 
additional borrowing  and extended the repayment  period for loans one and two. Ms M also 
further extended the repayment period for loan two and extended the repayment  period for 
loans three,  six, seven and eight.  A summary  of Ms Ms borrowing from QuickQuid is set out 
below: 
date £ amount
borrowedno. of
repayments
at outsetdate repaid
112 February 2013
a.14 March  2013100
1002
refinanced 29 April 2013
212 May 2013
a.17 May 2013
b.25 June 2013200
501
refinanced
extended 29 July 2013
317 August 2013
a.25 September 2013
b.24 October 2013
c.27 November 2013
d.20 December 2013250 2 
extended 
extended
extended
extended 30 January 2014
419 February 2014 650 2 28 March 2014
57 August 2014 150 2 30 September 2014
621 October 2014
a.26 November 201450 2
extended 31 December 2014
712 February 2015
a.27 April 2015400 3
extended 29 May 2015
84 June 2016
a.26 July 2016150 2
extended 31 August 2016
One of our adjudicators assessed  Ms Ms complaint. He thought that QuickQuid shouldnt 
have given Ms M the extension on loan three in September 2013  - loan 3a. above - or the 
loans and extensions  that followed up to and including loan seven. The adjudicator set out 
what QuickQuid should do to put matters  right. 
QuickQuid didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. As the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been  passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last 
stage in our process.  If Ms M accepts my decision, its legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN92460342QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Ms M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Ms M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending guidance  and later 
the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  sustainable as being  without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint.
Where Ms M has either refinanced a loan or extended its term, Ive looked  at that as another  
loan. I think that there are two periods of lending here: loans one to seven and then loan 
eight. Thats because there was a gap of just over a year between loans seven and eight. 
Ref: DRN92460343Given Ms Ms loan amounts, what was apparent about her circumstances at the time and 
her history  with QuickQuid, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for QuickQuid to ask 
Ms M for the amount of information needed to show that loan one, its refinance,  the initial  
advance for loan two or loan eight were  unsustainable. There  wasnt anything  in the 
information Ms M provided or the information  QuickQuid shouldve  been aware of, which  
meant it wouldve  been proportionate for QuickQuid  to look further into her financial position. 
So I dont  think that QuickQuid was wrong  to give Ms M loan one or its refinance, the initial 
advance for loan two or loan eight. 
I think the position changed  from the additional amount borrowed in loan two on 17 May 
2013  loan 2a. above. Given the amount Ms M had to repay  at that stage as against her 
stated income and bearing  in mind the pattern of borrowing, proportionate checks are likely 
to have established a much  fuller picture of her financial position. I think  proportionate 
checks here wouldve  meant that QuickQuid carried out a full review of Ms Ms financial 
situation. It didnt  do that. So, I dont think QuickQuid  carried out proportionate  checks  from 
the additional borrowing and refinancing of loan two on 17 May 2013  loan 2a. above - to 
loan seven. 
Thats not the end of the matter, as I need to establish whether proportionate checks made 
any difference here. Ms M hasnt  provided  us with her bank statements or similar  
documentation that shows what her financial position was like during the relevant period. 
Shes provided her recollection of her expenditure but I dont think  I can rely on her 
recollection of her expenditure some  years ago without anything  to support what she says.  
Based on what Ive seen,  I cant say that proportionate checks from the additional borrowing 
on loan two would have shown that Ms M was having problems managing her money. 
But Ive also looked  at the overall  pattern of Ms Ms lending history with QuickQuid, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which QuickQuid should reasonably have seen that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so QuickQuid should have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Ms case, I think that this point was reached by the 
first extension to loan three  shown as 3a. above. I say this because by that point, Ms M 
had been borrowing from QuickQuid with very little gap for over seven months. And Ms M 
wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed QuickQuid. While the amounts 
Ms M borrowed  fluctuated, loan seven was taken out exactly  two years after Ms Ms first 
loan with QuickQuid  and it was for a much larger amount. Ms M had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service an intermittent debt to QuickQuid over an extended period.
I think that Ms M lost out because QuickQuid  continued to provide borrowing  from loan 3a. 
onwards because the loans and extensions had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ms 
indebtedness by allowing  her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an 
extended period  of time. And the sheer number of loans and extensions was likely  to have 
had negative implications  on Ms Ms ability to access mainstream  credit  and potentially kept 
her in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So, I dont think that QuickQuid should have  given Ms M the first extension to loan three  
shown as loans  3a. above - to loan seven and QuickQuid should put things right.
Ref: DRN92460344putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms M paid on loans 3a. to 7 above;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan 3a. onwards  means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 3a. to 7 should be removed from 
Ms Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid 
must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Ms Ms complaint  in part. CashEuroNet  UK LLC, 
trading as QuickQuid  should put matters  right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9246034