K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that MBNA Limited unfairly  recorded a default  on his credit  file in regard to 
his credit card account.
background
Mr F entered  into a debt management plan (DMP) in February 2016. He says he was told 
not to deal with his creditors  and that this would be done by his DMP provider. He says that 
MBNA didnt  accept the budget and expenditure proposal sent by his DMP provider but 
didnt tell it. He says this resulted in his account  going into arrears  and eventually  a default  
being recorded. 
Mr F says that MBNA didnt contact his DMP provider to say that a default would be applied  
and that at the time he was travelling  for work and living  in accommodation were post wasnt 
secure. He says he didnt  receive any notification of what  was happening on his account and 
that had he been aware  a default  was to be applied he would have worked  with his DMP 
provider to adjust  his payments to ensure this was avoided. 
Mr F says that his situation has changed  significantly  since the default was applied  and that 
the default is preventing him from getting a mortgage. He wants the default  to be removed.
MBNA says that it received income and expenditure information from Mr Fs DMP provider in 
March 2016 and based on this it was determined he could afford a monthly repayment of 
£128. It says this was below  his minimum required repayment and that based on the 
information provided Mr F couldnt be put on a repayment plan as he didnt meet its 
requirement of the debt being able to be repaid  within five years. It says it sent a letter to 
Mr F explaining this and that the offered payment wasnt enough  to stop a default on his 
account. It says that fees were waived on his account and his interest  rate was set to zero. 
MBNA says that Mr F was unable to meet his contractual repayment  and that in line with its 
process when he reached seven  payments  in arrears his account  was defaulted. It says a 
notice of default was sent to Mr F in October  and November 2016  and his account was 
defaulted in December 2016.  It says it provided Mr F with the information  he needed to be 
aware of the status of his account and that it was required to send this to his DMP provider.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that as Mr F was unable  to make the 
minimum required payments it wasnt unreasonable that his account was defaulted.
Mr F didnt  accept our adjudicators view. He said that had he been aware he was heading 
towards a default  he would  have taken action to find the money to make the required 
payments and stop the default  being applied. He said MBNA didnt tell his debt manager 
about the default and so he was denied an opportunity to correct  the situation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has explained  that he entered into a DMP in February 2016  and understood that he 
would no longer deal with his creditors and instead his DMP provider would do this. I cannot 
Ref: DRN99667082say what information  Mr F was provided at that time but my role is to decide whether MBNA 
acted fairly  in regard  to Mr F and whether the default was correctly  applied.
I have looked  at the information MBNA received  in March  2016 from Mr Fs DMP provider. 
This showed he had a monthly disposable  income  of £256. At the time the minimum monthly 
repayment amount  was around £320. It was agreed that Mr F could pay £128  towards  his 
debt. As this was below the minimum payment amount arrears built up on his account.
I note the conflicting evidence  regarding  the payment proposal at this time.  The DMP 
provider has said that it sent its proposal  on 1 March 2016 and had no notes to suggest it 
received either an acceptance or rejection from MBNA. MBNA said that it accepted the offer 
to pay £128 but that a formal plan couldnt  be put in place. 
I can see why Mr F has raised concerns about  the contact between MBNA  and his DMP 
provider but based on what I have seen  it appears the payment was accepted and that this 
wasnt challenged any further  after this date.
MBNA has said that it sent Mr F a letter in March 2016 explaining the situation regarding 
arrears and the reporting of a default. I have looked  through the system notes provided and 
can see that letters were  sent to Mr F about  the arrears on his account  during the period  
from when he entered  into the DMP and when the default was applied.  MBNA has also 
stated that notices of default were sent to Mr F. 
MBNA has confirmed the address the letters were sent to. Mr F has explained that he was 
using other  addresses  during the period and that he told his DMP provider about these. 
However, based on what I have seen I have no evidence  to show that MBNA was provided 
with any different addresses and as the address  it sent the letters  to is the address it had on 
file and Mr Fs current address I find it acted  reasonably by sending letters to this address. I 
note Mr Fs concerns about  the security  of his post but I still find by sending the letters to 
him, MBNA did what was required of it to inform Mr F of the status of his account.
I appreciate the comments Mr F has made about  taking  action had he known he might  have 
a default applied. However as his disposable  income at the time was less than the amount of 
his minimum required  payments even if the payment amount had been adjusted  this would 
still have meant arrears would have  accrued.  I understand his other comments about  finding 
additional work or money from elsewhere however based on what I have seen I find it was 
reasonable that MBNA acted in the way it did.
I say this because  based on the information it received Mr F wasnt  able to meet his 
minimum payment requirement  and wouldnt be able to repay his debt within  its required  
timeframe. It then waived  fees on the account  and adjusted his interest rate to zero to 
prevent the debt increasing. I find this showed it acted positively towards him. While I note 
the comments about communication, I accept that MBNA did send Mr F information about 
the situation on his account and notice of what would happen  if certain payments werent 
made. Because of this I do not find that I can say the default was unfairly  applied.
Ref: DRN99667083my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9966708