K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out at the same 
time as taking a credit  card in 2008. Mr R says National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) 
mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Rs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr R says he was told he needed  to take the PPI. NatWest says it would  have been  made  
clear it was optional  and it has provided a copy of Mr Rs application  form. 
Looking at the form, I can see it asks applicants to tick a box if they want the policy and then 
sign separately. And there  isnt anything to suggest that the PPI was compulsory. On Mr Rs 
form, the box has been ticked and hes signed to buy the PPI. 
Ive noted NatWest completed the form on Mr Rs behalf. This is likely to have been as a 
result of a discussion between Mr R and NatWests representative. And Mr R wouldve  had 
the opportunity  to review and query anything on the application he wasnt  sure about  before 
he signed it. So I think NatWest made  it clear  he didnt  have to have the policy and he chose 
to take it.
NatWest says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R. If it didnt recommend the policy, it didnt 
have to check if it was suitable  for him. But it did have to make sure Mr R got the information 
he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  NatWest gave Mr R about  
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen  of his 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. And the PPI wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay Mr R was 
entitled to, as well as helping him cover his repayments if he lost his job. So I think  it would 
have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put Mr R off taking out the 
cover. This all means  NatWest doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But NatWest  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
When the policy was sold,  NatWest expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr R about that. 
Because NatWest  didnt  tell Mr R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ref: DRN93339892Ive thought carefully about everything Mr R has said - including  what hes said about having 
existing medical conditions but the policy didnt exclude pre-existing medical conditions. So 
this point doesnt change my decision. 
what the business needs  to do
NatWest has to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. NatWest should also pay back  to Mr R any extra interest  Mr R paid 
because of that.
NatWest should  re-work  the credit  card account  and pay back  to Mr R the difference 
between what Mr R owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. NatWest  should also pay Mr R 8%* simple 
interest if Mr R paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr R can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mr R any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9333989