K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains about how China Taiping Insurance  (UK) Co Ltd (CTI)  dealt with her over 
the telephone and handled a claim she made under her home  insurance policy for water  
damage. 
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 26 March  2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought CTI had acted reasonably  and fairly. 
And I outlined the reasons why I wasnt minded to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint.
I invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make. CTI 
responded to confirm  it accepted my provisional  decision  so it nothing  further  to add. But 
Mrs W responded to say she didnt accept  the provisional decision. 
Mrs W said she wasnt able to understand my provisional decision because  two investigators 
had felt her call to CTI was handled badly and that she had received poor customer  service.  
She stated  that CTI had no interest in helping her during  that call. And she felt it was only fair 
that she receive the £100 compensation that our investigators had recommended CTI pay as 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  she had been caused.
Mrs W also said she felt my reference to CTI in my provisional decision was factually 
incorrect because she had taken  her insurance out with another company. So she hadnt  
heard of CTI until she complained to our service. And she was upset by my comments 
regarding her excess, which she felt suggested,  I thought she was trying  to pull a fast one 
and get out of a £500 excess.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded by 
what Mrs W has said and I think it might be helpful  if I make  the following observations.
As I mentioned in my provisional decision Mrs W accepted our investigators  view that CTI 
acted correctly in declining to pay half the invoice she presented  to it. So the only point I 
needed to consider was whether CTI had acted fairly  and reasonably in how it dealt with Mrs 
W over the telephone when she called to request emergency assistance following an escape 
of water at her property.  
I can appreciate why Mrs W is disappointed that Ive departed from what two investigators 
have said about  her complaint. But my role is to assess  whether I think  CTI made a mistake,  
or treated Mrs W unfairly, such  that it needs  to now put things right. And in my provisional 
decision I explained why I hadnt  seen enough evidence  to support a finding  that Mrs W 
experienced poor customer service. I also explained why I couldnt fairly  tell CTI to pay 
compensation in those  circumstances.
Ive listened again to the call Mrs W had with CTI and I remain persuaded that the call 
handler Mrs W spoke  with behaved  professionally and courteously throughout. I also think 
Ref: DRN96899012they explained clearly to Mr W why they couldnt connect her with her home emergency 
cover provider. 
As I mentioned in my provisional decision the call handler directed Mrs W to her policy 
documents for further assistance and also sought  an opinion from a senior  colleague to 
clarify whether CTI might  have been  able to offer Mrs W any additional help. They  offered to 
arrange a call back so Mrs W could discuss raising a claim during business  hours.  Overall,  I 
remain persuaded that CTI was trying  its best to help Mrs W at a time when she was clearly 
in distress.
I appreciate that this was an escape of water is a time sensitive problem But, as I mentioned  
in my provisional decision,  CTI advised Mrs W that it was happy for her to instruct  an 
emergency plumber  and submit an invoice for reimbursement if she wasnt able to contact 
her emergency cover  provider. I remain persuaded that, in giving this advice, CTI was being 
helpful and fair. It was also giving Mrs W clear  authority to instruct an emergency plumber as 
needed to mitigate  her loss and make good the damage caused by the escape  of water.
I remain persuaded that, before Mrs W terminated her call with CTI, it had tried its best to 
assist her during  what was a very difficult and stressful time. I dont think CTI could  have 
reasonably done anymore  to help Mrs W. And I cant  agree  with Mrs W that it did anything  
wrong here.
Mrs W also said she felt my reference to CTI in my provisional decision was factually 
incorrect because she had taken  out her insurance  with another company. So, she hadnt  
heard of CTI until she complained to our service. I appreciate  that her insurance policy  may 
have been branded as being  provided  by a different company. But, its underwritten by CTI. I 
can see this is stated  clearly on page  4 of Mrs Ws policy schedule. So, I cant  agree with 
Mrs W that Ive made factual errors in referring to CTI in my provisional decision. 
As I outlined  in my provisional decision there  was some discrepancy  at the outset of Mrs Ws 
claim regarding  the excess  due under her policy. I understand that she was upset by the 
comments I made about this, which she felt suggested, I thought she was trying  to pull a 
fast one and get out of a £500 excess. I can assure her that I do not think this at all. 
As I mentioned in my provisional decision,  CTI initially told Mrs W that the excess  due would 
be £500. But it later reduced this to £400. I explained that the excess  applicable  for an 
escape of water was higher on the policy schedule CTI provided  our service compared  to the 
one that was given to Mrs W. Ive seen  that Mrs Ws policy  schedule  confirms her excess  
was £400  so I havent  doubted  what she told our service about the applicable  excess. I 
havent seen any evidence to show why the amounts quoted on both policy schedules differ. 
And, overall,  I remain persuaded that CTI acted fairly  in agreeing  to honour the lower excess  
amount. This is what Id have told it to do if it hadnt  already done so.
Im grateful  to Mrs W for her comments.  But I see no reason to depart from the conclusions 
set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Ref: DRN96899013Julie Robertson
ombudsman
copy provisional decision 26 March 2020
complaint
Mrs W complains  about  how China Taiping  Insurance (UK) Co Ltd dealt  with her over the telephone 
and handled a claim  she made  under  her home insurance policy for water damage.  
background
In early March 2019  Mrs W telephoned China  Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd, referred to as CTI 
hereafter, as she had become  aware water was leaking from her bathroom into her neighbours 
bathroom. 
Ref: DRN96899014Mrs W contacted CTI via its out of hours number.  This was the number endorsed on her policy  
documents and she said her home emergency cover provider had also given  her the same number. 
But the number she called was for CTIs out of hours home insurance claims  line not her home 
emergency cover provider,  who she had wanted to reach.
During her call with CTI Mrs W explained that her bathroom was flooded and asked it to send  an 
emergency plumber  to her property. But CTI told her it wasnt able to do so because it wasnt her 
home emergency cover  provider. It informed Mrs W that the number she had called was for the out of 
hours home insurance claims department.
Due to the urgency of the situation, Mrs W instructed a plumber  at her own cost and went ahead  with 
the remedial work, which was required due to the escape of water. The cost Mrs W incurred  in doing  
so came to just over £804.  Under the terms of Mrs Ws home insurance  policy with CTI costs  incurred 
in fixing the plumbing issue were excluded. These costs stood at 50% of the invoice Mrs W had paid 
her plumber. So, she asked  CTI to reimburse  her for the remaining invoice balance.
But CTI declined to reimburse  any monies Mrs W had paid because it said half of the invoice came  to 
just over £402. As the excess applicable to Mrs Ws claim  was £400, CTI told her it had no financial  
liability in respect of an escape of water claim.  
Mrs W wasnt happy with how CTI had dealt with her claim for water damage or the service  shed 
experienced over the telephone. So she complained to our service. Our investigator looked into what 
had happened and upheld Mrs Ws complaint in part. They didnt think CTI had acted  unfairly in 
declining to make a payment  in respect of Mrs Ws claim. But they thought  shed been the subject of 
poor customer service during her initial  telephone call with CTI. So they recommended CTI 
compensate her £100 for the distress and inconvenience this had caused. Mrs W agreed with our 
investigators view. But CTI didnt and asked for this complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im departing  from what our investigator has said.  Ill 
explain why.
Im aware that Ive summarised  the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy  by this - it 
just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. 
I can assure Mrs W and CTI that Ive read everything thats  been sent. So if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because I havent considered it. Its just that I dont think I need to comment  on it in 
order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Mrs W accepted our investigators view that CTI acted correctly in declining to pay half the invoice she 
presented to it. So the only point in dispute here is whether CTI acted fairly and reasonably  in how it 
dealt with Mrs W over the telephone when she called  to request emergency  assistance following  an 
escape of water at her property. 
I understand Mrs W made a complaint  to her home emergency cover provider,  which has been 
resolved. But this complaint only relates to what CTI did. So Ill focus on, and limit my findings, to 
whether CTI acted fairly and reasonably here.
Its clear that when Mrs W contacted CTI she believed  she was calling her home emergency cover 
provider. This provider  was not CTI, which  explains why it wasnt able to dispatch an emergency 
plumber to Mrs Ws property.  
Having listened  to the call recording CTI provided our service Ive thought about what information it 
gave Mrs W and whether  any further  assistance  could have been offered.  I recognise  that Mrs W was, 
understandably, distressed  and upset by the damage the escape of water was causing  her and her 
Ref: DRN96899015neighbours property. But I think the call handler Mrs W spoke with behaved  professionally and 
courteously throughout the call in question. 
Whilst this call became  quite  heated the call handler explained on a number of occasions that Mrs W 
hadnt called the home emergency service. I dont think this could have been made clearer.
The call handler informed Mrs W she was unable to connect her with her home  emergency cover 
provider and directed her back to her policy  documents for further assistance.  She sought an opinion 
from a senior colleague in efforts to clarify whether CTI might have been able to offer Mrs W any 
additional assistance. And she offered to arrange  a call back  for Mrs W to discuss raising  a claim 
during business hours. I think  this all demonstrates that CTI was trying to help Mrs W at a time when 
she was clearly in distress.
Significantly, CTI advised  Mrs W that if she wasnt able to locate the contact number for her home  
emergency cover provider  she could instruct her own plumber  and submit an invoice for 
reimbursement. I think this advice was both helpful  and fair. And, in giving this guidance, Im satisfied  
CTI was giving Mrs W clear  authority to instruct  an emergency  plumber as needed to mitigate  her loss 
and make good the damage caused by the escape of water.
Overall, before Mrs W terminated her call with CTI I think that the call handler tried their best to assist 
her during what was a very difficult and stressful  time.  Im satisfied it was made  clear to Mrs W that 
the number she had called  was not her home emergency cover provider. Im also persuaded that 
authority was given to Mrs W to enable  her to secure the services of an emergency plumber in the 
event she was unable to contact her emergency  cover provider. It follows that I cant  fairly conclude  
CTI made an error here. And I havent  seen  enough  evidence to support a finding that Mrs W 
experienced poor customer service. In these  circumstances it would be unfair to tell CTI to pay 
compensation.
Finally, I understand  that there was some discrepancy  at the outset of Mrs Ws claim about the 
excess due under the policy.  This wasnt addressed  by our investigator in their view so Ill comment 
on it here for the sake of completeness.
CTI initially told Mrs W that the excess due would be £500. However,  it later reduced this to £400.  
Based on the evidence Ive seen its clear  that, on the issue of the excess  for an escape of water  
damage claim, the policy schedule  CTI provided  our service differs  from the one given  to Mrs W. This 
explains why there was confusion as to the excess amount due. Overall,  I think CTI acted fairly in 
agreeing to honour the lower excess amount. 
I understand that Mrs W and CTI both feel very strongly about  the issues raised in this complaint and 
Ive carefully considered everything  theyve  said.  But based on what  Ive seen I think CTI acted fairly  
and reasonably in how it dealt with Mrs W. 
So for the reasons  set out above, my provisional decision is that Im not minded to uphold  this 
complaint.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Im not minded to uphold this complaint. 
Mrs W and China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd have until 21 April 2020 to send me anything further 
theyd like me to consider before I make my final decision.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9689901