K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Financial Administration  Services Limited, trading as Fidelity, didnt act 
on his instructions to transfer funds from his late wifes ISA.
He brings his complaint in both a personal  capacity and as executor of his late wifes estate.
background
The late Mrs H held funds in an ISA with Fidelity. She passed away  in October 2017 and 
Mr H was appointed  executor  of her estate. He was also the beneficiary. Once hed received 
the grant of probate he wanted to instruct Fidelity to transfer his late wifes investments into 
his ISA. He asked Fidelity  for the forms to do this and he returned them with a covering  
letter.
Fidelity sold Mrs Hs investments, transferred the proceeds to Mr Hs ISA, and then re-
purchased the investments. 
Mr H complained saying  that he wanted  an in specie transfer and that this is what hed 
clearly asked for. He said he was assured  he wouldnt be charged  but, because  of the 
movement in price between the sale and purchase  transactions, hes lost around £2,000.
Fidelity said it wasnt  able to transfer  ISA holdings in specie and that Mr H hadnt  been 
charged for the transactions.  It apologised for the delay in responding to his complaint and 
sent him £50 of shopping vouchers.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He concluded that 
Fidelity had acted in accordance with Mr Hs signed  sale instruction form, that no charges 
were incurred and that the time taken  to sell and repurchase the investments wasnt 
unreasonable. He said that Fidelity didnt have  an alternative transfer option. He noted  that 
Fidelity had made an administration error, but that this had been corrected.
Mr H didnt agree with our adjudicators conclusion saying, in summary that:
He wanted the investments in his late wifes ISA transferred to his ISA without any 
changes or any buying and selling.
Theres no reason  why the funds  couldnt have been transferred in specie because  the 
value had gone  down since his wife died.
Fidelitys guide for executors says that investments can be transferred to another  
person. And it warns  about the risks of being out of the market,  but he was exposed  to 
that risk for eight  days. He was mis-led  and deceived  by the guide.
Other  businesses have been  able to transfer  his late wifes ISA funds into an ISA in his 
name. The Additional Permitted Subscription (APS)  rules have allowed this for three  
years.
He was forced to sign the sale instruction  form and was reassured that this process was 
the same as a transfer.
The caveats in his instruction letter were ignored.
Ref: DRN91959092my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The APS rules allowed Mr H to inherit his wifes ISA allowance. She held five funds within 
her ISA.
Its clear that Mr H wanted to transfer his late wifes funds into his ISA. This is known as an 
in specie  transfer. But Fidelity didnt offer this service. And I dont find there was any 
obligation on it to do so.
I understand Mr Hs strength of feeling  on this matter,  but Id like to clarify that this service  is 
not a regulator. Our role is to resolve individual disputes between businesses and 
consumers. I dont  have  the power to tell a business  how it should treat all customers  or how 
it develops its internal policies. Thats a matter  for the regulator, the Financial  Conduct  
Authority (FCA).
What I need to decide is whether Fidelity  mis-led  Mr H; whether  it acted  reasonably on 
receipt of his instructions; and  if it did do anything  wrong  whether Mr H has incurred a 
financial loss as a result.
Fidelity sent Mr H its guide for executors called, Making difficult  times a little easier. In that 
guide it says investments  can be kept or sold. It says:
It is possible to transfer an investment into another persons name,  The way we do this will 
depend on the type of product  it is.
The guide  doesnt give any further details. But I dont find it is misleading in that it didnt 
suggest an ISA in specie  transfer was possible.
When Mr H received the grant of probate, he asked Fidelity to send  him the forms needed to 
transfer his late wifes funds. Unfortunately he didnt  receive the requested forms and he had 
to phone a couple of times, but Fidelitys records do show that the forms were sent. 
On receipt of the forms, Mr H phoned  Fidelity. He said he wanted  to transfer the 
investments, not sell them, but that hed been sent a sale instruction form. During the call, Mr 
H made it clear he wanted an in specie transfer. But the member  of staff told him that 
Fidelitys process was different and that the funds  would  be sold and bought  again. He 
reassured Mr H that he wouldnt be charged for the transactions.
Its unfortunate that, following  this call, Mr H remained under the mis-understanding that 
Fidelity could transfer the investments into his name  without the need to sell them.  But I think  
the call had made it reasonably clear that this wasnt the case.
Mr H completed  the sale instruction form  albeit reluctantly  and Fidelity acted on his 
instructions.
Ref: DRN91959093Ive considered carefully the covering letter that Mr H sent with the forms. But, unfortunately, 
I dont think this letter shouldve reasonably  stopped Fidelity from acting on the sale 
instructions. Mr H said, I have no interest in selling any funds and then reinvesting the 
money in different funds. Fidelity hadnt  received an instruction to reinvest in different 
funds, it had received  an instruction to reinvest  in the same  funds. In his letter Mr H also 
said hed been  told that, Fidelitys process was to sell the funds, buy back the funds and, 
moreover, no charges  would be incurred. If that is correct, please proceed. Fidelity  followed 
these instructions. And I dont find that any transaction charges were incurred.
I do understand Mr Hs frustration. Fidelitys processes  meant he couldnt transfer his late 
wifes holdings into his name. And in selling and buying back, Mr H received fewer units than 
his wife had held because of the movement in price.  But, as noted earlier,  I dont find Fidelity 
was obliged to provide  an in specie transfer  service. It had warned Mr H that it would take 
between five and ten days to buy the funds in his name and that during  this period hed be 
exposed to market  movements. I find that the transactions took place within this timescale.
Fidelity did make an administration error   it invested more money than it should have in one 
fund. But it corrected this mistake and Mr H didnt incur any financial loss.
I sympathise with Mr H. This has been a difficult time for him and he hasnt found Fidelitys 
process to be as clear  and straightforward  as he wouldve  liked it to be. But, overall, I dont 
find that Fidelity has treated him unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9195909