K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that when she came to the end of her TSB Bank  plc loan it told her there  
was a further payment to make  that she didnt know about.
background
Mrs H took out a loan for 68 months in September 2012. TSB agreed with her that the first 
payment should  be made on 12 October  2012.  When she came to the end of the term it told 
her there was one further payment she had to make. 
TSB said the first payment was due within one month of the loan agreement.  Mrs H was 
outside that time period  so it added additional interest to the balance. So at the end of the 
term there was a mop up payment due.
The adjudicator didnt think TSB had acted fairly. She didnt think  itd made Mrs H 
reasonably aware  of the implications of agreeing  a repayment date more than one month 
after the loan agreement.  So she thought it should refund the final additional payment of 
£120.92. And pay her £75 compensation for any distress and inconvenience.
TSB said it hadnt done anything wrong.  It said the additional payment was because Mrs Hs 
first payment  was made outside the 30 day timeframe. So there wasnt a bank error.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for very similar reasons.
I can see why the bank calculated this last payment. But as the adjudicator  said, this 
complaint isnt about the calculation of the last payment.  Its about  the transparency  of it.
On 5 September 2012 TSB sent Mrs H a letter saying well collect  your first repayment  on 
the 12 October 2012 and it confirmed her direct debit details. Mrs H made her first 
repayment on that date and continued with the required payment each month.  
TSB hasnt  been able to provide any evidence that it warned Mrs H that by agreeing to a 
repayment date more than one month after the loan agreement  she would have to make  an 
extra payment at the end. I accept that the timescale  is in the terms and conditions but I 
cant see theres any evidence that it warned her about the implications of agreeing that 
date. 
So Ive come to the conclusion  Mrs H was entitled to think  that TSB had agreed that her loan 
for 68 months could  start on 12 October 2012  and that it would end on 12 May 2018 with a 
nil balance.  In those  circumstances  I think TSB should refund the final payment of £120.92 
and pay her £75 compensation.
Ref: DRN95108342my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint.
To put matters right TSB Bank plc should refund the final payment  of £120.92 and pay 
compensation of £75.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9510834