K820x#14complaint
Mr Is unhappy about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC has dealt with him after it wrongly 
credited money  to his account.
background
Barclays said in its final response that it made an error by crediting £7,000  to Mr Is account  
on 10 July 2018.  It contacted him and advised  him of this error. And later it said itd debited 
£2,720.31 from another  of his accounts.  Mr I said he believed  the money was his from a loan 
hed applied  for. Itd also now debited the balance of £4279.69 from Mr Is current  account. 
Mr I says this has caused  him financial difficulty. Barclays  apologised for the error  and 
offered him £200 compensation.
Mr I is unhappy about the error and how Barclays has handled things. Particularly  that it 
wouldnt agree  to a repayment plan for the amount owed. He wants  it to accept £50 a month 
to repay  the remaining  debt and for his credit file not to be affected.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
Barclays had made  an error  paying £7,000 into Mr Is account. He says he thought 
this money was from a loan hed applied for. Barclays  had contacted  him about  the 
error as soon as it became aware  of it. It was fair for Barclays  to debit  some  money  
from his savings account and hed agreed  to the balance owed being debited  from 
his current account leaving it overdrawn.  He wanted to reach a separate agreement 
to repay  the debt each month.
Barclays had told Mr I he would need to set up an arrangement to repay the debt. 
And an income and expenditure form had been completed. This showed Mr I had a 
negative monthly disposable income  and as a result  Barclays  wasnt  able to arrange 
an agreed repayment arrangement. 
Even so Barclays told Mr I he could pay money  into the account if he wanted  to. It 
said he would still have access to his salary and credits paid into his account.  It also 
suggested he could  open another basic account  so his salary  and credits would be 
easier to access.  It also said he should  contact it again by January 2019. And if by 
then his circumstances hadnt  changed a default notice would be issued and the 
account may proceed to closure.  The default  notice would  be recorded on his credit 
file.
Barclays hasnt acted  unfairly or unreasonably  rejecting  Mr Is repayment offer given 
his negative monthly disposable  income. Its offer of £200 compensation is also fair 
and reasonable.  She wont be asking Barclays to do any more.
Mr I disagrees  and has asked for an ombudsman  review.  He says he applied for a £7,000  
loan and thought the money in his account came  from the loan company. Barclays  shouldve  
given him the chance to pay the money  back. Its caused him stress and his credit score  will 
be ruined. He didnt  accept  the offer of £200  compensation.
Ref: DRN98264112my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its agreed that Barclays made an error  by paying  £7,000 into Mr Is account.  But Im 
satisfied it contacted him about this as soon as it realised a mistake  had been  made.
Mr I says he thought the money was his from a loan application hed made. He appears  to 
have spent some of the money and the rest was put into a savings account he opened. 
Mr I received money that isnt rightfully his and its fair and reasonable for him to pay it back. 
I dont think Barclays did anything wrong  taking back the money  in this savings account even 
though it didnt have Mr Is consent  to do so.
It wouldve  been reasonable  for Mr I to have contacted Barclays a bit sooner than he did. But 
when he did it was agreed the remaining outstanding  amount  would  be taken from his 
current account. That was reasonable. 
Mr I asked Barclays to accept repayment  of the debt by monthly payments of £50. I think it 
acted appropriately  asking him to complete an income and expenditure assessment. 
Unfortunately that showed Mr I had a negative disposable income.  And clearly he couldnt 
afford to enter into a formal repayment  arrangement. So, I think Barclays  acted correctly  by 
declining his offer of monthly payments.
But it also reasonably  offered  him more assistance.  It said he could  make  payments into the 
account if he was able. And it suggested  setting up a new basic  account  for his salary and 
credits. It also fairly said that it would review  matters in a few months and if Mr Is 
circumstances hadnt changed it would default the account which may lead to its closure. It 
also pointed out that any default would show on his credit file. Barclays has also given Mr I 
details of debt management charities  who might be able to assist  him. 
Overall I think  Barclays has responded to Mr I about the outstanding debt and his repayment 
options appropriately and in a positive and sympathetic way.
Even so its clear Mr I has been caused some distress and inconvenience by Barclays error. 
I agree  that this warrants an award of some  compensation. Taking  everything into account, 
including the level of awards we make, I agree  with the adjudicator  that Barclays offer of 
£200 for this is fair.   
Overall although  I recognise  Mr Is frustration, I cant reasonably ask Barclays to pay or do 
anything more, including agreeing at the moment to a repayment plan as he would like. And 
I dont see a compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
I simply leave  it to Mr I to decide if he wishes to accept Barclays offer of paying him £200 
compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Ref: DRN98264113Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9826411