K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the way CIS General Insurance Limited  (CIS)  handled his claim for 
an issue with his septic tank.
background
In May 2018, Mr H reported  a claim to his home insurance provider, CIS. He said that his 
septic tank didnt  appear to be discharging  excess water. CIS sent a third-party company 
(A) to Mr Hs property  to investigate the issue. A excavated Mr Hs garden,  making a one 
meter deep hole. It identified that the issue was with a soak away  that had reached the end 
of its life and so was not covered under  the policy.
Mr H remained  unhappy with this as he says hed had a new soak  away installed around 10 
years before. So he arranged for his own contractors to investigate. Mr H says his 
contractors found  a damaged pipe leading from the septic  tank.  CIS has agreed that it 
initially declined the claim prematurely and offered a total of £150 for this issue  and for 
another administrative error. And at the end of August 2018, A visited Mr Hs property again  
to investigate. But during  that visit it says it found an unsafe  excavation,  much  deeper than 
theyd dug in May 2018 and filled with foul waste.
A arranged  to revisit Mr Hs property  during  September 2019 with a tanker to remove the 
waste and shore up the new excavation so the broken  pipe could be investigated. But the 
contractor appointed to complete the shoring  didnt  arrive.  Nevertheless, A entered the 
excavation to attempt  to conduct  the survey and found  that there was a broken pipe present. 
But it later reviewed the situation  and said it couldnt  complete any further work on the site  
and shouldnt have  agreed to carry out any further works when it visited in August 2018. It 
asked Mr H to arrange  for the excavated site to be back-filled and said that it would carry out 
its own excavation to make sure the area was safe.  It said it wouldnt take responsibility for 
an excavation that was carried out by a third party and commented that in this instance, the 
excavation didnt meet its health and safety  standards.
Mr H didnt agree with the recommendation that he back-fill the existing excavation only for A 
to excavate again. And he said that A had caused  damage to a pipe, causing further issues. 
So CIS appointed another  contractor  (B) to carry out an independent investigation. This 
took place at the end of December 2018.
This investigation didnt find any damage it believed to have been caused by A. It said there 
were issues  with perforated pipework  but that was the result  of inappropriate materials  being  
used for the drainage  not of any investigative works. At this point  CIS declined the claim as 
it said the damage appeared to have  been caused by incorrect  materials being used for the 
pipework, which  isnt covered under this policy. So in January 2018 Mr H appointed his own 
contractors to fix the issues with his septic  tank and paid privately to have this done.
Mr H later raised a further claim  in relation to his septic  tank. But as Mr H was unable  to 
prove there had been an insured event and had already had the issue fixed, the claim  was 
declined. Mr H remains unhappy  about  this.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. In short, he said, that the claim 
was initially declined incorrectly but that the compensation offered was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. The investigator said he hadnt  seen  any evidence  that the first 
Ref: DRN99325712excavation wasnt backfilled as it should  have been or that A had caused damage to his 
pipes. And he didnt think Mr Hs second  claim had been declined unfairly.
Mr H didnt agree so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator and for the same reasons. Ill explain why.
the first claim
CIS has acknowledged that it incorrectly  declined  the claim early  on after A visited Mr Hs 
property. A believed the fault was due to a soak away which had reached  the end of its life. 
But on review it seems  that there wasnt a soak away at the site of the excavation,  so the 
claim was declined incorrectly.
CIS offered Mr H £125  compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused  by this and 
arranged for further  investigations to be carried out to establish whether this issue  was 
covered under the insurance policy. So while CIS did make  an error in declining  the claim 
initially, I can see it attempted to correct  this and has compensated Mr H appropriately. So I 
dont think CIS needs to do anything further in relation to this issue. I note that CIS did 
incorrectly send Mr H a cheque for £100  rather than £125  but appears to have  later 
corrected this and paid additional compensation for its mistake.
It is Mr Hs responsibility  to show that an insured event has taken place. The last survey 
carried out at the property  concluded that there was a blockage  in the pipework which  was 
caused by perforated pipework. It said that perforated pipework, was an inappropriate 
material to use as underground drainage. So based  on the reports  provided by CISs 
experts, B, it seems  the blockage was caused by incorrect materials  being  used when  the 
pipe was installed.
Mr Hs policy  states that he does have cover  for accidental damage to pipes, but that CIS will 
not cover  damage  caused byfaulty workmanship, defective design or the use of defective 
materials. So I havent  seen anything to suggest CIS made a mistake  in declining  the claim 
on the second occasion.
the unsafe excavation
Mr H says A didnt fill in the hole they made when they visited his property in May 2018.  But 
A wrote a report shortly  after visiting the property stating that the hole had been filled in 
before the contractor  left the property.  The report also stated that the issues with the septic  
tank were caused  by an uninsured issue so the contractor wouldnt be returning. So based 
on the evidence  Ive seen from that visit, I think its likely that the hole was filled before the 
contractor left as he didnt believe he would be returning to the site.
But in any case,  I dont think this would have  made  a difference to the eventual  outcome of 
this case. I say that because when CIS sent a further contractor,  B, to the site to review  the 
opinion that had been reached, Mr H had employed  his own contractors who had dug out 
significantly more of the site than A. So even if the site wasnt filled in, Mr Hs contractors  
Ref: DRN99325713used that excavation for their own investigation. So I dont think CIS needs to do anything 
further in relation to this issue.
Mr H remains  unhappy that CIS refused to backfill the hole that was made  by his 
contractors. But CIS has said it wouldnt do this because it would be taking responsibility  for 
any issues that arose with that excavation, which it believed was unsafe. It did however say 
that it would  continue with its investigation if Mr H arranged for his contractors to backfill the 
hole. I can understand  that this must have been frustrating for Mr H knowing  that CIS 
intended to excavate again.  But CIS made this decision  as it didnt believe the excavation 
was safe and I wouldnt have expected it to send its employees to work  on an unsafe site. 
So I dont  think CIS was being unreasonable with its request that Mr Hs contractor backfill 
the hole they made.
Mr H has also raised concerns that CIS arranged for a digger to be on sit that was never 
used. CIS has acknowledged this was an error  on its part and that it never should have 
arranged to have  the digger on site and it shouldnt have  agreed to carry out further works 
after Mr Hs contractors excavated a large area. Although I note this never actually 
happened as one of the third-party contractors  didnt turn up on the day the works were 
booked in. 
damage to the pipe
Mr H says A damaged his pipe and that this caused  further issues.  I can see that when this 
was raised, CIS instructed  an independent  report to investigate what had happened   as I 
would have expected it to. That report stated  that there was an issue with perforated 
pipework but that this was the result  of inappropriate materials  being used rather than the 
result of accidental damage  or investigative work. The report  didnt identify any damage  to 
the pipework caused by A. Mr H says he has evidence that A caused damage to the pipe 
and both CIS and this service has invited Mr H to provide that evidence  but he hasnt. So 
based on the information I have,  I havent seen any evidence to say that A caused  any 
damage to the pipes.
new claim
Mr H has raised  a new claim  in relation to his septic tank since this complaint has been with 
our service.  Mr H had this issue remedied before CIS could arrange  for anyone to inspect 
the damage. While  that doesnt  prevent Mr H claiming against his insurance,  it does mean 
that it is more difficult for the insurer to find out the cause of the damage  in order to establish 
whether the issue  is covered under Mr Hs policy.
In this case, CIS reviewed the report  Mr Hs own contractor had prepared to see if it could 
evidence that there  had been accidental damage   unfortunately they werent  able to from 
the information provided in that report. So as its Mr Hs responsibility to prove that an insured 
event has taken place  before  a claim is accepted by CIS  and he hasnt  been  able to do 
that here  I cant say CIS were  wrong to decline  this claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Ref: DRN99325714Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9932571