K820x#14complaint
The representatives of the estate of Mrs H complain  that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to advise  
her of the benefits  of placing an investment bond in trust,  leading  to an increased inheritance 
tax (IHT) liability.
background
Mrs H received advice from HSBC on several occasions between  2002 and 2006. As part of 
the initial advice,  which considered some  money  shed received as an inheritance, she was 
advised to place £10,000 into an investment bond  and two further tranches of £10,000 into 
OEICs. As noted, its the investment bond  thats  the subject of the complaint. 
The representatives feel that Mrs H shouldve been advised to put the bond into trust so it 
would eventually fall outside her estate.  As this wasnt done, by the time of her death  in 
March 2018 the bond was worth just over £20,000, so increasing the estates IHT liability by 
around £8,000.
HSBC didnt uphold  the complaint. It felt that the documentation produced  alongside each 
set of recommendations over the period in question had noted that the potential  for an IHT 
liability had been  brought to Mrs Hs attention,  but shed opted  not to discuss  the matter, 
preferring to look only at savings  and investments. 
The complaint was referred  to this service where  our investigator reached a similar  
conclusion to HSBC.  He felt the evidence showed  that the issue of IHT had been  raised  with 
Mrs H but shed not wanted  to look into it further.
The investigator noted the representatives  additional concerns about  the accuracy of some  
of the information recorded in the various  fact finds.  But he didnt feel that this influenced the 
overall outcome.  He said Mrs Hs objectives  had been clearly recorded, as was the fact that 
shed not wanted to discuss estate  planning  during the meetings.
The representatives didnt  accept the investigators view. They felt that despite what  had 
been noted it was clear  HSBC had not provided  Mrs H with the option to put the bond  in trust 
and that if it had she wouldve done  so, as would anyone if given the opportunity to take 
steps to reduce an IHT liability. They felt the matter should also have been followed up in 
subsequent communications to her. And, moreover, they highlighted that the issue of IHT 
and how it had been dealt with had been raised  in a 2004 compliance audit of the advice.
However, the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view.  He noted that the adviser 
had responded  to the compliance queries  at the time in such a way as to confirm that 
consideration had been  given to the IHT situation, as supported  by the fact find documents.  
As no agreement could be reached  the matters been referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN98956932I accept that the documentation produced  alongside the advice given to Mrs H didnt  
specifically detail a recommendation being  made that she place the bond in trust. But I dont 
think thats unreasonable given that it was documented  that the general issue of IHT and 
estate planning  was raised with her  along with the other areas of financial planning 
commonly considered  at a review   but not discussed in detail because she wished  to focus 
on investment of the various tranches of money  she received over the period in question.   
Clearly, had it been the case  that Mrs H had indicated at that time a particular desire to 
discuss and receive  advice on IHT planning I wouldve expected the potential benefits of 
using trusts  to be explained,  along with other alternatives ways  of potentially reducing  her 
IHT liability.  But Mrs H didnt express such a desire  and I dont  think  thats particularly 
surprising given her financial circumstances in 2002.  
I can see that as time went on the issue may have  become more pertinent and its clear  that 
by the time of Mrs Hs passing in 2018 a significant IHT liability  was generated. But I dont 
think this means that the advice given to her as far back  as 2002 was wrong.  It may well 
have been the case that even had the issue of trusts been discussed with Mrs H she might 
have discounted  it at that time, for the reasons indicated by the adviser in his response to 
the compliance audit  queries  that she wished, for the time being at least, to retain 
complete control  of the monies.  
In summary,  I appreciate  that in reviewing the estates IHT position it will have  become  
apparent that there may have been  opportunities for the liability to have been reduced  that, 
for whatever reason,  werent taken. But in all the circumstances, I dont  think it would be 
reasonable to hold HSBC responsible for any decision to not place the bond into trust
As an aside,  I note the offer of compensation made  by HSBC  in respect of its service relating 
to the requirement  for a grant of probate. For clarity, Ive not considered  this issue  as part of 
this complaint and in the event that it remains an outstanding matter  it will need  to be 
addressed separately.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the 
representatives of Mrs Hs estate  to accept or reject my decision before 7 February  2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9895693