K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains about end of contract charges when she terminated  her agreement with 
PSA Finance UK Limited.
background
Miss R was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement with PSA.
Following termination  of the agreement the car was inspected. PSA asked Miss R to pay 
damage charges.
Miss R disputes the charges. She says shes been  charged for damage which was present 
at the point of supply.  Shes happy to pay £195  for damage to the wheels but she disputes a 
charge of £152 for dents  to the left front door.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said there was no evidence to show  that the 
car had pre-existing  damage.
Miss R didnt agree. She said the dealership  should  have  retained records  of the pre-existing 
damage to the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the conditional sale agreement say that Miss R must return  the 
car in good  condition and that any damage  which exceeds fair wear and tear is the 
customers responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these are accepted  as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage  exceeds fair wear and tear.
Miss R accepts the charges for the damage  to the wheels.  So Ive focussed on the damage 
to the left front door which Miss R says she shouldnt have to pay for because  it was present 
at the point of supply.
Miss R says the damage was present when she purchased the car and that she asked the 
dealership to repair it. She says the condition  the door is in now is how the dealership left it.
Despite enquiries  Miss R hasnt been able to obtain  any information from the dealership to 
show that the damage was pre-existing.
It isnt clear whether  the dealership actually carried out any repairs  to the door. However, Im 
satisfied that Miss R was aware of the damage when she purchased the car and she 
shouldnt have accepted the car and entered into the agreement  if the repairs hadnt been  
carried out to a professional standard. 
I have sympathy for Miss R but unfortunately theres no evidence  on which I can safely  
conclude that the damage  to the door was pre-existing. Im satisfied that the damage to the 
wheels and the door exceeds fair wear and tear.
Ref: DRN98801202Because of this I dont think PSA has acted unfairly in charging Miss R for the damage. The 
amount of £347  is payable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9880120