K820x#14Complaint
Mrs W has complained about the way that overdraft charges  were  applied on her The Royal  
Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) bank  account.  In essence, shes said RBS continued applying  
these charges and didnt  help her when it was apparent that she was living in her overdraft 
and unable to pay this off. 
Shes also unhappy because of payment processing difficulties she had when her current  
account was closed and her direct debit and standing order  mandates  were  transferred to 
her replacement foundation account. 
Background 
Mrs W complained  to RBS in May 2019.  RBS didnt  think it had done anything  wrong  
because. RBS also said Mrs W might  benefit from a relaxed 20 minute  chat with one of our 
highly qualified Senior  Personal Bankers in the branch and suggested that she made 
contact. Mrs W remained  dissatisfied at this and referred her complaint to our service.
Mrs Ws complaint  was reviewed by two of our investigators.  As this decision is based on the 
second investigators assessment not being  accepted, I dont propose to cover the first 
assessment here. And all reference made to the investigator and assessment from herein is 
made with reference  to the second  investigator and the second assessment.
Our investigator issued  an assessment to RBS in May 2020. In her assessment, our 
investigator:
referred to the key relevant rules, regulations, law and good industry practice 
applicable at the time;
found that RBS ought reasonably to have realised that Mrs Ws overdraft wasnt 
being used as intended by December 2013 at the latest, as Mrs W was using her 
overdraft to meet her day-to-day  living rather than for emergency  borrowing and had 
been doing so for some time. So RBS should have  stepped  in, offered assistance 
and reviewed Mrs Ws overdraft at this stage; 
found that if RBS had proactively contacted Mrs W at this stage, it would have seen  
she was struggling  to make ends  meet  and was in no financial position  to repay her 
overdraft within a reasonable period of time.  So RBS shouldnt  have allowed her to 
continue using her overdraft in the same way from December 2013 and adding  
interest and charges  from this date. As she found that this would more likely than not 
have led to a default at this stage she thought the default applied  in 2019 should be 
backdated;
found that RBS hadnt done anything wrong when transferring the direct debits and 
standing order mandates from Mrs Ws account old account to her new foundation 
account.   
RBS didnt accept  our investigators  assessment.  It said that our investigator  was 
retrospectively applying  the regulators new overdraft rules which only came  into force more 
recently. As RBS didnt  agree  with our investigators assessment and proved unwilling or 
unable to resolve matters  informally  the case was passed to an ombudsman  as per our 
usual process.            
Ref: DRN95167572As RBS clearly hasnt  accepted the basis of our investigators assessment and has 
questioned her use of and referral to certain  rules and regulations,  I think  that it would be 
useful for me to start by setting out the regulatory standards in place  during  the period Im 
looking at.
The regulatory framework
Regulation by the Office  of Fair Trading (up to 31 March 2014)
When RBS initially provided  Mrs W with her overdraft, it held a standard  licence from the 
Office of Fair Trading (OFT), which permitted it to carry  out consumer credit activities.
Section 25(2) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  set out the factors the OFT had to consider 
when deciding whether to grant a consumer  credit licence to a lender. It said:
(1)In determining whether an applicant for a licence  is a fit person for the purposes 
of this section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be 
relevant including (amongst other things)
(a)the applicant's  skills, knowledge and experience in relation to consumer 
credit businesses,  consumer hire businesses or ancillary credit  
businesses;
(b)such skills, knowledge and experience  of other  persons who the applicant  
proposes will participate in any business  that would be carried on by him 
under the licence;
(c)practices and procedures that the applicant proposes to implement in 
connection with any such business;
(d)evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence  is evidence tending to show that the applicant,  or any of the 
applicant's employees, agents or associates  (whether past or present) or, 
where the applicant is a body  corporate,  any person appearing to the OFT to 
be a controller of the body corporate or an associate of any such  person, has
(a)committed any offence  involving fraud or other  dishonesty or violence;
(b)contravened any provision made by or under
(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  so far as it 
relates to the consumer  credit jurisdiction under that Part;
(iii) any other  enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or 
other transactions with individuals;
(c)contravened any provision in force  in an EEA State  which  corresponds  to 
a provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph  (b);
Ref: DRN95167573(d)practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or 
national origins  in, or in connection with, the carrying on of any business; 
or
(e)engaged in business practices appearing to the OFT to be deceitful  
or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether  unlawful or 
not) [my emphasis] .
Section 25(2B)  set out a direct example of the type of practice referred  to in Section 
25(2A(e)) and said:
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which  the OFT may consider 
to be deceitful  or oppressive or otherwise  unfair or improper include practices in the carrying  
on of a consumer  credit business  that appear  to the OFT to involve irresponsible  lending  [my 
emphasis].
In March 2010, the OFT sought to produce  clear  guidance  on the test for irresponsible  
lending for the purposes of section 25(2B)  of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. And so it issued 
its guidance on irresponsible  lending (ILG).
So I consider the ILG to be of central  importance in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
on Mrs Ws complaint.
The foreword to the guidance  set out its purpose  and it said:
The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businesses 
and consumer representatives as to the business  practices that the Office  of Fair Trading 
(OFT) considers may constitute irresponsible lending practices for the purposes  of section 
25(2B) of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.  It indicates  types  of deceitful or oppressive or 
otherwise unfair or improper  business practices  which, if engaged in by a consumer credit  
business, could  call into consideration its fitness  to hold a consumer credit licence.
Whilst this guidance  represents the OFT's view on irresponsible lending,  it is not meant to 
represent an exhaustive  list of behaviours and practices which  might  constitute irresponsible  
lending.
Section two of the guidance  sets out the general  principles of fair business practice. 
Section 2.1 says:
In the OFT's  view there are a number of overarching principles of consumer  protection and 
fair business practice which  apply to all consumer credit lending.
Section 2.2 of the guidance  says:
In general terms, creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when advertising,  selling, or seeking 
to enforce a credit  agreement
Ref: DRN95167574make  a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford  to meet  
repayments in a sustainable manner
explain the key features  of the credit  agreement to enable  the borrower  to make 
an informed choice
monitor the borrower's  repayment  record during the course  of the agreement,  
offering assistance  where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty  and treat 
borrowers fairly and with forbearance if they experience difficulties
Section 2.3 lists other expectations  of lenders. Amongst  other  things, it says:
In addition to the above  there should be:
fair treatment of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted  with credit products 
that are clearly unsuitable for them, subjected to high pressure  selling, 
aggressive or oppressive behaviour or inappropriate coercion, or conduct which  
is deceitful, oppressive, unfair or improper, whether unlawful or not
Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable  by virtue of their current indebtedness,  poor 
credit history,  or by reason of age or health, or disability, or for any other reason, should, in 
particular, not be targeted  or exploited.
Section 4 of the guidance is concerned with the assessment of affordability  that lenders  were 
required to carry out before  granting  credit. I mention this for reference because as Im not 
looking at RBS decisions to provide  an overdraft  in the first place  or increase Mrs Ws 
overdraft limit, Im not considering any lending decisions in this case.
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific irresponsible lending  practices  relating to lender 
behaviour once credit has been  provided. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory 
practice where a business is:
Failing to monitor a borrowers  repayment record
Section 6.2 goes  on to say:
The OFT considers  that creditors should take appropriate action, including  notifying the 
borrower of the potential  risk of an escalating debt,  and signposting the borrower  to not-for-
profit providers of free independent debt advice, when/if there  are signs of apparent/possible  
repayment difficulties   for example,  a borrower failing to make minimum required payments  
or making  a number  of consecutive small/minimum repayments or a borrower seeking to
make repayments on a credit card account  using another credit card. This is particularly 
important in the case of borrowers who it is known - or it is reasonably believed - may lack 
the mental capacity  to make financial decisions about repayments  at the time the 
repayments are due, especially under circumstances  in which  the borrower or his 
representatives have  specifically requested that this should be done.
A symptom of some conditions such as bipolar disorder is that the borrower
may engage in unusual  spending patterns.
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from  1 April 2014)
Ref: DRN95167575RBS continued  to provide Mrs W with her overdraft after regulation of consumer credit 
activities had transferred from the OFT to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 
2014. RBS was already authorised by the FCA at this time so it was subject to the FCAs 
rules in respect of credit related regulated  activities from 1 April 2014.
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principles here 
are PRIN 2.1.1 R (2) which says: 
A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
And PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:  
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  which apply to firms  specifically when carrying  out credit related 
regulated activities. CONC also replaced the requirements set out in Section 55B. Bearing in 
mind the complaint before me, I think the most  relevant sections of CONC here are CONC 1 
which sets out guidance  in relation to financial  difficulties; CONC 5 which  sets out a firms  
obligations in relation  to responsible lending; and CONC  6 which  sets out a firms obligations  
after a consumer has entered into a regulated  agreement.
CONC 1.3G provides  guidance on financial difficulty. It says:
In CONC (unless otherwise stated in or in relation to a rule), the following  matters, among 
others, of which a firm is aware  or ought  reasonably  to be aware, may indicate that 
a customer is in financial difficulties:
(1)consecutively failing  to meet minimum repayments in relation to a credit card or store  
card;
(2)adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute;
(3)outstanding  county court judgments for non-payment of debt;
(4)inability to meet repayments out of disposable income or at all, for example, where 
there is evidence of non-payment  of essential bills (such as, utility bills), the customer 
having to borrow  further to repay existing debts,  or the customer  only being able to 
meet repayments of debts by the disposal of assets  or security;
(5)consecutively failing  to meet repayments  when due;
Ref: DRN95167576(6)agreement to a debt management plan or other debt solution ;
(7)evidence of discussions with a firm (including  a not-for-profit debt advice  body) with a 
view to entering into a debt management  plan or other  debt solution or to 
seeking debt counselling
CONC 5 sets out the rules and guidance in relation to responsible lending, CONC 6 sets 
out the rules and guidance in relation to Post contractual  requirements;  and finally CONC 7 
sets out the rules and guidance in relation  to Arrears, default and recovery (including 
repossessions).  
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the OFTs Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance and the rules set out in CONC 5, CONC 6 and CONC 7. As is evident from the 
following extracts, the FCAs  CONC rules  specifically  note and refer back to sections  of the 
OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance  on many occasions. For the same reasons that I 
didnt set out the relevant  passages of section 4 of the ILG, I dont propose to set out the 
sections in CONC 5 which relate  to responsible  lending. Instead  Ill focus  on what I consider 
to be the relevant sections of CONC 6 and CONC 7.  
CONC 6.7.2 R states:
A firm must monitor a customer's  repayment  record and take appropriate action  where there 
are signs  of actual or possible  repayment  difficulties.
[Note: paragraph 6.2 of ILG]
CONC 6.7.3 G states:
The action referred to in CONC 6.7.2 R should generally include:
(1) notifying the customer of the risk of escalating  debt, additional interest or charges and 
of potential financial difficulties; and
[Note: paragraph 6.16 of ILG]
(2) providing contact details for not-for-profit debt advice bodies.
[Note: paragraph 6.2 (box) of ILG]
CONC also provides guidance  to lenders about how to deal with consumers in arrears, this 
time making  reference  to the Office  of Fair Trading's Debt Collection Guidance (DCG).
CONC 7.3.2G states: 
When dealing with customers in default  or in arrears difficulties a firm should  pay due regard 
to its obligations  under Principle 6 (Customers interests)  to treat its customers  fairly.
[Note: paragraphs 7.12 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG]
CONC 7.3.4R states  that: 
Ref: DRN95167577A firm must treat customers in default  or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration.
[Note: paragraphs 7.3 and 7.4 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG]
   
CONC 7.3.5G lists some  examples of forbearance  and due consideration and states:
Examples of treating  a customer with forbearance  would include the firm doing one or more 
of the following,  as may be relevant  in the circumstances:
(1)considering suspending,  reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest  or 
charges (for example,  when a customer provides evidence of financial difficulties and 
is unable to meet repayments as they fall due or is only able to make 
token repayments , where in either  case the level of debt would continue to rise if 
interest and charges  continue to be applied);
[Note: paragraph 7.4 (box) of ILG]
(2)allowing deferment  of payment of arrears:
(a)where immediate payment of arrears may increase the customer's repayments to 
an unsustainable level; or
(b)provided that doing so does not make the term for the repayments unreasonably  
excessive;
(3)accepting token  payments for a reasonable period of time in order  to allow  a customer  
to recover from an unexpected income  shock, from a customer  who demonstrates 
that meeting the customer's  existing  debts would mean not being  able to meet  
the customer's priority debts or other  essential  living expenses  (such as in relation to 
a mortgage, rent, council tax, food bills and utility  bills).
Other relevant publications
The ILG and CONC set out the regulatory framework that firms carrying out consumer credit 
activities have to adhere to. But they represent a minimum standard  for firms.  Im also 
required to take into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice,  and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice.
RBS was a subscriber to the Lending Standards Boards Lending Code (the code) and is 
a current subscriber to the Standards of Lending  Practice (the standards), which replaced 
the code in 2016.
Section 9 of the code relates to Financial difficulties.  It starts by saying:
137. Subscribers should be sympathetic and positive when considering a customers  
financial difficulties. Although there is an onus on customers  to try to help themselves, the 
first step, when a subscriber becomes  aware  of a customers financial difficulties, should be 
to try to contact the customer  to discuss the matter.  This applies to both personal and micro-
enterprise customers.
Ref: DRN95167578138.  Personal  customers should be considered to be in financial difficulty  when income  is 
insufficient to cover  reasonable living expenses and meet  financial commitments  as they 
become due. This may result from a change in lifestyle, often accompanied by a fall in 
disposable income and/or increased expenditure, such as:
loss of employment;
disability;
serious illness;
relationship breakdown;
death of a partner;
starting a lower paid job;
parental/carer leave;
starting full-time education; and
imprisonment
139.  Financial difficulties  may become evident to a subscriber from one or more of the 
following events:
Items repeatedly being returned unpaid due to lack of available funds;
Failing to meet loan repayments or other commitments;
Discontinuation of regular credits;
Notification of some form of insolvency or court proceedings;
Regular requests for increased borrowing or repeated rescheduling of 
debts;
Making frequent cash withdrawals on a credit card at a non-promotional 
rate of interest; and
Repeatedly exceeding a credit card or overdraft limit without agreement.
 
It then goes on to talk about Proactive contact and says:
141. If, during the course of a customers account  operation, a subscriber becomes aware  
via their existing systems  that the customer  may be heading towards financial difficulties, the 
subscriber should  contact the customer to outline their approach to financial difficulties and 
to encourage  the customer to contact the subscriber if the customer  is worried about their 
position. Subscribers  should also provide signposts  to sources of free, independent money 
advice. 
In relation to the Standards, there  is a section on Money Management and paragraph 3 of 
this section says:
3. Firms should monitor customers credit card and overdraft limits to ensure that the 
customer is not exhibiting  signs of financial stress  and where  relevant, offer appropriate 
support.
Ref: DRN95167579There is also a section  on Financial  Difficulty. And it says:
1. Firms should have  triggers  and processes  in place  to identify customers who may be in 
financial difficulty and should  act promptly and efficiently to address the situation with the 
customer. [CONC 7] 
2. Customers identified  as being in financial difficulty should be provided with clear  
information setting  out the support available to them and should not be subject to 
harassment or undue  pressure  when  discussing their problems. [CONC 7] 
3. Firms should demonstrate an empathetic approach to the customers situation; listening to 
and acting upon information  provided  by the customer with a view to developing an 
affordable and appropriate  solution.  
4. If an offer of repayment is made via the common financial  statement/standard  financial 
statement, this should be used as the basis for pro-rata distribution amongst creditors  
covered by the plan. [CONC 7] 
5. Firms should have appropriate policies  and procedures in place to identify  and support 
vulnerable customers  where this impacts on their ability to pay. [See also consumer 
vulnerability] 
6. Customers who are in financial difficulty will, where appropriate, be signposted  to free, 
impartial debt advice.  [CONC  7] 
7. Firms should apply an appropriate  level of forbearance, where, after having made contact 
with the customer,  it is clear that this would  be appropriate for their situation. [CONC 7] 
8. Where a customer remains engaged  with the Firm and maintains their repayment plan, 
they will not be subject  to unnecessary contact. 
9. Firms should consider  freezing  or reducing  interest and charges when a customer  is in 
financial difficulty. [CONC 7]
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive started by looking as Mrs Ws concerns about  her overdraft and the charges RBS 
applied.
Bearing in mind Mrs Ws complaint and RBS response to our investigators  assessment, I 
think that theres one main question that I need  to consider in order to fairly and reasonably 
determine Mrs Ws complaint about her overdraft. And depending on the answer to that 
question, there may be a series  of sub-questions for me to consider too.
This main question is:
1.Did RBS have an obligation  to review Mrs Ws use of her overdraft facility?  
Ref: DRN951675710Should the answer to this question be yes, Id then need to consider a series of potential 
sub-questions. These would be:
 
oWhen should any review or reviews  have taken place?
oWas Mrs W experiencing financial  difficulty?  
oDoes any and/or all of this mean that RBS should refund any interest  and 
charges added?  
If I determine that RBS didnt act fairly  and reasonably towards Mrs W and that she has lost 
out as a result, I will go on to consider  what is fair compensation.
Ive started by considering the main  question.  
Did RBS have an obligation  to review Mrs Ws use of her overdraft facility?
RBS believes that it didnt have an obligation to review Mrs Ws use of her overdraft facility.  
It says the FCAs current rules arent to be applied retrospectively. It added  that its handling 
of the situation  should  be judged by the rules in place at the time and not those in force now.
Ive thought about what RBS has said. While  it told our investigator she retrospectively 
applied rules, it has repeatedly refused to inform  her which specific FCA rule it considered 
she applied  erroneously. But given the dispute before me, Im assuming that RBS is referring 
to the regulators  rules regarding Overdraft  repeat use set out in section 5D of CONC and 
which have been  in force since 18 December 2019.
I am aware  of these  rules and what they say. But like our investigator, I dont think  that these  
rules only coming into force in December 2019 mean RBS didnt have any obligations  in 
relation to reviewing  Mrs Ws facility prior to this. I say this because as I set out the in 
regulatory framework section of this decision  Section  6.2 of the ILG and CONC 6.7.2R 
require a lender  to monitor and take account of a borrowers repayment record and offer 
assistance in the event  it appears they may be experiencing financial difficulty.
So Im satisfied that while the regulators  rules  at the time may not have referred  to overdraft 
repeat use specifically, as Mrs Ws overdraft facility was a consumer credit agreement, RBS 
was, in any event,  required to monitor her repayment record for any apparent  signs  of 
financial difficulty. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that RBS ought to have been monitoring and 
reviewing Mrs Ws use of her overdraft  in the way that our investigator explained in her 
assessment.
When should RBS  reviews have taken place?  
As Ive mentioned  in the previous section,  CONC 6.7.2 R requires a lender  such as RBS 
here  to monitor a customers repayment record. So I think  its perfectly  fair and reasonable 
to expect RBS to have  monitored Mrs Ws repayment of her overdraft on an ongoing basis.  
And also offer assistance where  it may have been apparent Mrs W may have been 
experiencing difficulty. 
RBS has said that it normally agrees overdrafts on an evergreen basis without  a review 
date, so a borrower  can use their facility without having to worry. It says that this was in line 
with many of its competitors at the time. RBS might not have had review  dates for its 
Ref: DRN951675711overdraft customers. But I dont agree that this is line with its competitors at the time as 
many of them at least committed to reviewing and/or renewing overdraft facilities on an 
annual basis. 
Equally, I dont quite  understand why having  a review date would cause a borrower to worry 
about using their overdraft. But, in any event,  RBS overdraft terms and conditions say that 
any overdraft is repayable on demand. So it seems to me that RBS is required  to have kept 
in mind that a borrower could be expected to repay their overdraft on demand  at any stage. 
Im also mindful that it has generally  been accepted across the industry that overdrafts are 
high-interest products which were designed to cover short-term borrowing needs.  This is a 
view shared by the FCA in Consultation  Paper 18/42  High-Cost  Credit  Review:  Overdrafts 
consultation paper and policy statement (CP18/42). 
I accept that this was published sometime after the period Im looking at. But I do think that it 
offers some insight on the current regulators perspective on how overdrafts should have 
been used. So I do consider it to be of some relevance in this case. 
Paragraph 3.35 of CP 18/42  states:
Overdrafts are intended  for short-term  or emergency borrowing, but some  consumers use 
them repeatedly over a long period  of time.  This repeat overdraft use can harm consumers 
because it can be an expensive way to borrow, and they can build up problem debt over 
time.  
So while RBS may have agreed an evergreen  overdraft  without  a review date, I consider it 
fair and reasonable for it to have periodically  checked that Mrs W could still repay it on 
demand and that it was meeting its regulatory  obligations to Mrs W. Although for reasons Ill 
go on to explain,  in the next section, I dont think this is too important in this case.  
Was Mrs W experiencing financial  difficulty?  
As RBS had access to them, I consider it perfectly  fair and reasonable to use Mrs Ws bank 
statements to form my view on whether RBS treated Mrs W fairly and reasonably.  I have 
therefore done so and set out what I think Mrs Ws statements ought reasonably to have 
demonstrated to RBS. 
Having reviewed Mrs Ws statements, I can see she that by 2013 she was using her 
overdraft heavily and regularly. RBS says that at this time Mrs W was operating  the account 
within the terms and conditions with minimal over-limit activity. So it would have been unfair 
to have taken  any action. 
But Mrs Ws income was wholly made up of benefits. I agree with RBS when it says that   
Mrs W being on benefits doesnt, on its own, mean  that RBS shouldnt  have provided her 
with an overdraft facility,  as this would arguably have been discriminatory. But I do think  that 
RBS ought to have been  on notice Mrs W was on a fixed income  with limited scope for 
increases. And, in these circumstances, I think that RBS ought to have been particularly 
mindful that Mrs W could ill afford  to develop a dependency on her overdraft  or any other 
high-cost credit when  deciding whether  to continue offering the facility  to her and if so on 
what terms.
Ref: DRN951675712Mrs W received  an average amount of approximately £1,500.00 a month. And I can that this 
was never  enough  to take Mrs W into a credit balance at any stage in 2013. Mrs Ws 
statements also appear to show that she was only making minimum payments to her other 
creditors. RBS says it used external bureau  data to perform an automated  pre-delinquency 
review. I dont know what these bureau  checks showed as RBS hasnt provided the output of 
them. But given Mrs Ws minimum payments  and her accounts  eventually being defaulted, I 
think the checks are unlikely to have shown the balances being  well maintained  or being 
sustainably repaid.
What is most concerning  of all is that Mrs Ws account was in a similar position in December 
2018. Mrs W is unhappy that RBS chose to take corrective action in relation to the overdraft 
at this stage. But Im satisfied that the overdraft  balance  on Mrs Ws account  was showing 
clear signs  of being unsustainable for her. 
However, the overdrawn balance being maintained  on the account was roughly the same  as 
it had been throughout 2013  (arguably there were periods in 2018 where it was actually 
better) and the credits  being made werent  much  better either. I cant  understand why it was 
that RBS didnt take corrective  action in relation to the overdraft in December 2013, when 
the same  signs of financial difficulty were apparent some five years earlier.    
So notwithstanding whether RBS ought  to have carried  any reviews and didnt do so, by 
December 2013,  at the absolute latest,  RBS ought to have got in contact with Mrs W to offer 
assistance. 
What would more  likely  than not have happened  had RBS got in contact with Mrs W in 
December 2013?
I accept that even if RBS had got in contact  with Mrs W in December 2013, its possible she 
might well have said she wanted  to continue using her overdraft  I know  this is what 
happened when  discussions  between RBS and Mrs W did belatedly take place in December 
2018. 
But bearing in mind Mrs Ws apparent  inability  to sustainably repay her overdraft and her 
long-term health conditions meaning  it was unlikely her employment  and therefore  financial 
circumstances would  improve  going  forward, I think that RBS should have stepped in and 
taken action notwithstanding any potential objections. 
However, instead of realising this and taking steps to help Mrs W, as per its regulatory  
obligation to provide a customer in financial difficulty with assistance,  RBS unfairly and 
unreasonably instead continued added a significant amount of interest,  fees charges to her 
balance for a further five years. This meant Mrs W paid RBS high amounts of interest and 
charges for the privilege  of allowing  her to continue to hold what,  in my view, had clearly 
become a demonstrably  unsustainable debt. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable for a bank to continue  adding charges to an overdraft in 
circumstances where  it ought to realise a customer clearly cant afford  it, as theyre  
experiencing difficulty, simply  because that consumer may wish to continue  having access  to 
unsustainable credit  they cant afford. In my view, there comes a point where  a lender has to 
recognise its not in the customers best interests to continue and step in.  
Taking all of this into account,  I find that RBS didnt act fairly and reasonably towards Mrs W. 
It continued to provide  and charge Mrs W for her overdraft facility when her account  usage 
Ref: DRN951675713ought reasonably  to have shown she was having difficulty  meeting her commitments and her 
debt had become  unsustainable in circumstances where she was experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
So I find that RBS didnt treat Mrs W fairly and reasonably in relation to her overdraft from 
December 2013  onwards.  As Im satisfied that RBS should have taken action in relation to 
Mrs Ws account in December 2013, it follows that it taking action despite Mrs W being 
against this, December 2018, wasnt in itself unfair.  
Did Mrs W lose out because RBS didnt act fairly  and reasonably  towards her?
RBS added high amounts  of interest, which it shouldnt have done, to a debt which was 
unsustainable when  it ought reasonably to have realised that Mrs W was in financial difficulty 
by December 2013 at the latest. So Mrs W had to pay, and shes still being expected  to pay 
interest and charges that shouldnt have  been added to her balance.
In these circumstances, I find that Mrs W lost out because RBS didnt treat her fairly and 
reasonably.
Mrs Ws concerns  regarding  the direct debit  standing order  mandates  on her foundation 
account
I now turn to Mrs Ws concerns about the difficulties she had with direct  debit and standing 
order payments on her foundation account.
In January 2019, Mrs Ws existing account was closed as a result of the corrective  action 
RBS took in relation to her overdraft.  Mrs W was provided with a foundation account (which 
she wasnt able to have  credit on) to use for her day to day banking needs. Mrs W is 
unhappy about the difficulties she faced transferring direct debit and standing  order  
mandates from her old account to her new foundation account.
RBS has provided its records of the discussions  it had with Mrs W about  the opening and 
setting up of the new account.  RBS  records show that Mrs W first got in contact  about  this 
matter at the beginning of February 2019.  At this point, Mrs W was told her direct debits 
were being  transferred but that some of these  instructions were still showing on her old 
account, which she was no longer  able to use. It looks funds were transferred to the 
foundation account to ensure all of the direct debits were paid.
Mrs W appears to have  monitored her account  and called RBS a few more  times about this. 
On each occasion, RBS made sure funds were  in the correct  account to pay the direct  
debits. By April 2019 Mrs W had started  received letters confirming her direct debits had 
been cancelled.  Mrs W got in contact again and RBS confirmed this was correct as the direct 
debits on her old account had been  cancelled as they were  now active  on her foundation  
accounts and there  were  sufficient funds in the account for the payments to be taken and her 
service providers should have been  able to obtain payment.
The information Ive seen does show that the direct debit mandates  from Mrs Ws old 
account were transferred  to her new foundation account in January 2019. So Im satisfied 
that RBS did do what it said it would. And I dont think that it acted unfairly  in relation to    
Mrs Ws direct debits.
Ref: DRN951675714I understand Mrs W also had problems with a standing  order  set up to pay a utility  bill. As far 
as I can see the payments themselves  were  made.  But these payments werent applied to 
Mrs Ws account by her utility provider because an incorrect account/reference number.
Ive carefully looked at whats been  provided  and have  seen  that the reference number for 
the standing order  was amended in May 2019.  Based its unclear whether standing order  on 
Mrs Ws new foundation account matched  that on her old account,  when  it was initially set 
up. Bearing this in mind, there  isnt enough here for me to be able to say that Mrs Ws 
difficulty making payments to her utility provider was as a result  of RBS acting unfairly.  As 
this is the case,  Im not upholding this part of Mrs Ws complaint.
Conclusions 
Having carefully considered everything, I find that:
RBS did have an obligation to monitor Mrs Ws use of her overdraft facility;
Any fair and reasonable monitoring of Mrs Ws overdraft facility  would  have resulted 
in RBS being aware Mrs W was in financial  difficulty (and was having  difficulty  
managing her money and existing commitments) by December 2013 at the absolute  
latest. So RBS ought to have exercised forbearance from this point onwards.
RBS didnt act unfairly when  transferring  the direct debits and standing  order  
mandates from Mrs Ws account, which was closed in January 2019, to her 
foundation account.
This means  that overall I find RBS didnt act fairly and reasonably  towards Mrs W in relation  
to her overdraft. Ive already explained why I think that Mrs W lost out because of this. So 
now Ill explain what RBS should  do to put things  right.
Fair compensation  what  RBS  needs to do to put things right  for Mrs W.
Having carefully considered everything, I find that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ws complaint for RBS to put things right in the following way:
rework Mrs Ws current overdraft balance  so that all the interest, fees and any other 
charges applied to it from December 2013 onwards are removed; 
AND
if an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made RBS should contact Mrs W to arrange  a suitable  repayment plan for this. 
It should also backdate the negative information it has recorded  on Mrs Ws credit  file 
to December 2013; 
OR (if the effect of removing all interest  fees and charges results in there  no longer 
being an outstanding balance)
any extra  should be treated as overpayments  and returned to Mrs W. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, RBS should  
remove all adverse  information from Mrs Ws credit file.
Ref: DRN951675715pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any overpayments  from the date they were made 
(if they were) to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires RBS to take off tax from this interest.  RBS must give 
Mrs W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mrs Ws complaint. The Royal  Bank of 
Scotland Plc should put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9516757