K820x#14complaint
Mr J complained that MYJAR Limited (Myjar) acted irresponsibly when it gave him 
unaffordable loans.  Hes also unhappy  about Myjar taking a one off payment  to clear his 
outstanding loan balance after hed agreed a repayment plan.
background
Mr J took out 2 Myjar loans - heres a table showing more  information:
LoanDate
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment 
Amount
1 21/09/2017 27/03/2018 12 £900.00 £136.97
2 07/04/2018 Outstanding 12 £1,300.00 £196.57
Mr J repaid the first loan  but he hasnt  yet (so far as I am aware) repaid  loan 2. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr J and Myjar told us about these loans. 
Overall, he thought that given the loan amounts,  what was apparent  about  Mr Js 
circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for Myjar 
to ask Mr J for the amount  of information needed to show the lending  was unsustainable. 
And our adjudicator  didnt think that the number of loans Mr J had taken out, the amounts 
hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from Myjar shouldve alerted Myjar 
to think he was having money  problems. So he didnt  uphold Mr Js complaint.  
Our adjudicator also said that Myjar had taken payment  for Mr Js outstanding loan balance  
in line with what had been agreed as part of a repayment plan.
Mr J disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman  to look at his 
complaint. 
Mr J mainly said that he was already in hardship when he took out these loans  and Myjar 
didnt properly take into account  his other  payday  loans.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach  to help me decide this complaint.
Myjar provided Mr J with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So Myjar needed to 
make sure that it didnt  provide them irresponsibly. 
Ref: DRN99549792Myjar was required to carry out proportionate  checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mr J before providing  it. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when  deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers  and what  it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed  to do more  if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount  lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship  goes  on, the greater  the risk of it becoming  
unsustainable and the borrower  experiencing financial  difficulty.  So wed expect  a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Js 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Myjar says it agreed to Mr Js applications  after carrying  out eligibility, creditworthiness and 
affordability checks. And it relied  on information Mr J provided about his monthly  income and 
expenditure as well as information obtained from credit reference  agencies. It says the 
information Mr J provided showed  that repaying  the balances  wouldnt become difficult  for 
him - and in these  circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr J and Myjar have said.  
loan 1
I dont think Myjar was wrong to lend Mr J loan 1. This was his first loan with Myjar  and so 
I think Myjar was entitled to rely on the information Mr J provided. Myjar included making 
allowance for other creditor repayments Mr J was making when he asked Myjar for this loan. 
And Mr J didnt  say anything to Myjar suggesting that he was in financial hardship. The 
information hed declared and the checks Myjar did all suggested that he was well able to 
afford this borrowing. 
At this early stage, Mr J didnt  have  any track  record with the lender  that shouldve  alerted 
Myjar to any underlying money problems, and I cant see that there  was anything in the 
information Mr J provided or the information  Myjar had, which meant  that Myjar shouldve  
taken steps to verify the information Mr J had declared. So I dont uphold  Mr Js complaint 
about loan 1.
loan 2
I can see that Mr J took out the second loan around ten days  or so after paying  loan 1  and 
he borrowed  more money.  Myjar could also see that his other  lending  had gone up. But 
I dont think these things  alone were enough  to make Myjar think that it shouldnt  have kept 
lending to Mr J. 
Myjar asked Mr J to update the information  he provided about  his finances each time he 
applied for a new loan and the loan repayments still looked to be affordable for Mr J. There  
was no material change  in his financial circumstances  as far as I can see. It looked like Mr J 
had managed the monthly repayments on loan 1 without any evident  difficulty   in fact hed 
repaid that loan early. 
Ref: DRN99549793So I dont  think there was anything to make  Myjar think that Mr J would find it hard to 
manage the loan repayments on loan 2. And I dont feel Ive seen enough to be able to 
uphold Mr Js complaint  about loan 2.
Looked at overall, thinking about the amount  of the total monthly  repayments  he had to 
make for each of his loans, the questions  Myjar asked Mr J and keeping in mind  that these 
were Mr Js first two loans, I dont think it was unreasonable  for Myjar to rely on the level of 
information Mr J was providing. And Ive seen nothing in the information it collected  that 
shouldve made  Myjar think  these loans werent sustainably  affordable  for Mr J. 
Im sorry  that Mr J found repaying  these loans difficult. And I accept that in reality Mr Js 
financial situation possibly  wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the 
other information Myjar obtained. 
Mr J has mentioned sending us other evidence, including bank statements, to show what his 
actual circumstances  were. But its reasonable to expect that Myjar couldve only decided  
Mr Js lending applications based on the information  it had available at the time. And, at this 
stage of the lending relationship, I dont think proportionate checks  wouldve required Myjar 
to ask Mr J to prove what he was declaring or check  other  information  sources  to verify what 
he had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial  circumstances. So I dont think  Myjar 
did anything wrong  when it made its lending decision  without asking  to check  Mr Js bank 
statements  and seeing his bank statements now wouldnt affect the outcome of this 
complaint.
In order to uphold  this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something  wrong.  And, 
in this case, I dont  think that Myjar did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr J. 
And I cant fairly say that Myjar acted unfairly when it took a one off payment to clear the 
outstanding loan balance. Myjar understood Mr J was happy  with this arrangement as it was 
what had previously been agreed. Myjar refunded the money to Mr J as soon as it became 
clear he was unhappy about  this  which I think was the fairest thing to do in all the 
circumstances. So Im not upholding this part of Mr Js complaint either. 
I appreciate that my decision is going  to disappoint  Mr J and Im sorry. I can understand that 
dealing with his money problems has been  a very difficult experience.  But I hope that setting 
out the reasons as Ive done will help explain  how Ive reached my decision.
I take this opportunity to remind Myjar (or any third party if the debt is sold on) that it should 
discuss payment options with Mr J and treat him fairly and sympathetically if he needs  
further time to pay what he still owes.
And just to remind Mr J, if he would like help to manage his finances theres more 
information about how to get free debt advice on our website  or we can re-send him details 
if he gives us a call. 
Ref: DRN99549794my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9954979