K820x#14complaint
Mr K says that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a regular premium 
Payment Protection  Insurance  (PPI) policy when he took out a credit  card.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2004.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ks credit  card account when he took out a credit card with NatWest.
The cost of the PPI policy  was £0.78  per £100 of the outstanding monthly balance. If Mr K 
couldnt work due to accident or sickness or if he lost his job a successful claim wouldve 
paid10% of the outstanding monthly  balance on Mr Ks credit  card for up to 12 months  per 
claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She thought the policy wouldve 
been presented  as optional and provided a useful benefit.
Mr K disagrees. So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ks complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
NatWest had to make  it clear the PPI was optional and make sure Mr K agreed  to take it. Mr 
K says this wasnt done. Mr K hasnt given us much detail about what  made  him think this. 
But I think thats understandable  as the PPI was sold a while ago. And NatWest  havent 
been able to provide us with any of the documents from the sale or confirm how the policy 
was sold. So I dont  know exactly  what was discussed  about PPI or how it was presented. 
But from what I know about all the different  ways  NatWest  sold PPI during the period Mr K 
was sold the policy, I think its likely  that it wouldve made Mr K aware that PPI was optional  
and I think Mr K wouldve  had PPI added to his account because he chose to take it. 
I also understand Mr K knew he had PPI and I think he wouldve  seen the charges on his 
credit card statement.  I think if he hadnt chosen to take PPI he wouldve queried why it was 
showing up on his statements.
From what  I know about how NatWest sold PPI I dont think the sale was advised. What this 
means is that NatWest  didnt recommend  PPI to Mr K, it just gave him information about 
PPI. This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so 
he could make an informed choice about  buying  PPI. 
Its possible NatWest didnt do things  properly when making sure the information  provided on 
the policy was good enough.  But that being said even  if NatWest did give all the information 
Mr K needed  to make an informed choice on taking out the policy,  I think  he wouldve still 
taken the policy because at the time of the sale:
Ref: DRN92447182Mr K was eligible  for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr K has told us he had no other means  of making  his credit 
card payments if he couldnt work.  A successful claim on the policy  wouldve covered 
his credit card payments for up to 12 months  if he couldnt work due to accident or 
sickness or lost his job. So I think the policy  wouldve  provided  a useful benefit for 
him. 
There is nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr K and if he no longer 
wanted the policy he was able to cancel it - as was outlined  in the policy  booklet 
NatWest say wouldve  been sent to Mr K after the sale. 
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr K on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it suited his needs and was of 
value to him.
Which means NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But NatWest  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because:
When the policy was sold,  NatWest expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr K about  
that. Because NatWest didnt tell Mr K, that was unfair.
To put that right, NatWest has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
what NatWest  needs to do
NatWest has to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit share it got that was more
than 50% of the PPI premium. NatWest  should also pay back to Mr K any extra interest
he paid because of that.
NatWest should  re-work  the credit  card account  and pay back  to Mr K the difference  
between what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. NatWest should also pay Mr K 8%* simple
interest (15% before April 1993) if Mr K paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr K can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster  Bank Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
Ref: DRN92447183But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mr K any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept
or reject my decision before 4 October  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9244718