K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains Sainsburys Bank Plc will not refund some disputed  transactions.
background
In May 2018, seven  transactions were carried out on Mr Ns account which he says he did 
not make. All seven were  ATM transactions carried out at an ATM which  Mr N had not 
previously used and were made on consecutive days.
Mr N complained to Sainsburys about these transactions.   He said he had last used the 
account at the end of April and had decided not to use the account  for withdrawals from that 
date on  instead using it as a savings account.
Sainsburys looked into his complaint.   It told Mr N that his original card and PIN had been 
used to make the withdrawals.  As  there was no point of compromise, it concluded Mr N had 
made or authorised the transactions.
Mr N then came to this service where  our investigator looked into matters for him. Our 
investigator concluded that he couldnt  ask Sainsburys to do anymore either.   He explained 
to Mr N that as his chip had been registered  and the correct PIN had been  used, he couldnt 
ask Sainsburys to consider a refund.
But Mr N insisted that he be shown  evidence that his original card had been  used   because 
he said he always held the card on him.  He also told the adjudicator  that he knew of 
instances where cards had been  successfully cloned - and that was what  had happened in 
his case.
He then asked  for an ombudsman  to consider his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I have to tell Mr N that I 
cant fairly ask Sainsburys to refund his money.
As the investigator  has explained to Mr N, if the evidence  suggests that its more likely than 
not that Mr N authorised  these payments, Sainsburys  is entitled to hold him liable.  Its 
essentially a two stage  test  Sainsburys has to show the original  card and PIN were used 
(known as authentication) and that Mr N consented  to the payments being made.
authentication
I know Mr N insists that there have been cases of the chip in cards being cloned  but this 
service has never seen a successful attempt.  And  we consider a lot of cases.
He has asked for documentary evidence in this case to prove his card was used.  
Unfortunately, Sainsburys has not been able to provide  that evidence  because it was only 
kept for one year after the transactions  and by the time this service considered Mr Ns 
complaint, it was some time after a year had passed.  Thats not Mr Ns or Sainsburys fault.
Ref: DRN92929632However, in the absence  of that evidence,  I still think it is more  likely than not that Mr Ns 
original card and PIN were used for the same  reason as I have already mentioned  this 
service is yet to see a successful case of a chip being cloned.
consent
As I am satisfied that the transactions were authenticated, I now need  to decide on the issue  
of consent.  This is slightly  more  difficult because the evidence  form Mr N is that his card was 
never out of his possession, he has never  shared his PIN with anyone, he lives alone, had no 
one visiting at the time of the transactions  and has never before used that particular ATM.
So, this isnt a case where Mr N is saying that someone else may have had access to his 
card and PIN and carried out these transactions without Mr Ns consent.   He is adamant in 
his evidence to this service that this was not a possibility.
In those circumstances, I have to find on balance, that Mr N must have himself  made  or 
authorised these transactions.  Either way, I wont be asking Sainsburys to issue  a refund. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9292963