K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold him a 
packaged bank  account, called the Ultimate  Reward Current  Account (URCA) in 2011. He 
paid a monthly fee for the account and received several potential benefits in return.  He 
thinks that Bank of Scotland should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Fs complaint and didnt think that Bank 
of Scotland had mis-sold  the URCA to him. 
Mr F didnt  agree with adjudicators findings  and asked for an ombudsman  to review his 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about Mr Fs complaint. Ive 
looked into everything that Mr F and Bank  of Scotland  have  told us or sent us about the case  
and Ive decided  not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr F had banked  with Bank  of Scotland for quite  a long time before it sold him the URCA. I 
understand that he opened one of its fee-free accounts in 2003 and switched to the URCA in 
2011.
Its now over eight  years since Bank  of Scotland sold the URCA to Mr F and not surprisingly  
neither party  has been able to send us fully detailed  records from the time, so I cant  tell for 
sure exactly  what  happened. Instead, I have used the evidence that I do have available to 
determine what is most likely to have occurred. 
Both parties  have agreed that Bank  of Scotland  sold the URCA to Mr F during a meeting or 
discussion at one of its branches. Mr F has told us that Bank  of Scotland  recommended the 
URCA to him. Bank of Scotland has disagreed, it has said that it sold the URCA to Mr F on 
an information only basis; and that this was its normal practice. 
If Bank of Scotland did recommend the URCA to Mr F, it would  have had to check  that the 
URCA was right for his financial  situation  and tell him about its features fairly  and clearly  so 
he could decide  if he wanted it. 
Although I cant be certain what happened, during the course of our investigation,  Mr F has 
said consistently that Bank of Scotland advised  him to take the URCA,  and Im satisfied that 
at the time he believed  Bank of Scotland  was recommending  it to him, not just informing him 
about it. So in fairness to Mr F, I have assessed this particular complaint on this basis.
I will return to the question as to whether it was reasonable for Bank of Scotland  to make this 
recommendation later.
Ref: DRN98345342The crux of Mr Fs complaint concerns the overdraft that the URCA offered compared to 
what was available  with his free-free account and whether changing accounts would improve 
his credit score. Hes told us that Bank of Scotland said the URCA would  be required if (he) 
wanted to take out or increase an overdraft  and that it advised him that buying  the URCA 
would improve his credit  score.  Hes also said that Bank of Scotland  pressured him into 
taking the URCA for these  reasons. 
I have seen some of Mr Fs bank statements from before and after he bought  the URCA. I 
can see from these that from time-to-time Mr F overdrew his fee-free account quite 
considerably. So it seems unlikely to me that Bank  of Scotland would have told Mr F that he 
couldnt have  a significant overdraft  with his fee-free account.  This would have contradicted  
his own practical experience. I fully accept that Bank  of Scotland  may have discussed Mr Fs 
overdraft with him during the meeting, and that the conversation may have covered the 
different terms under  which  Mr F could obtain  an overdraft with his fee-free account  or an 
URCA. But I think its unlikely that Bank of Scotland told Mr F that he had to buy the URCA 
to get (or increase) an overdraft. 
In general, the type of bank account  a person holds is unlikely to affect his or her credit 
score, although the score  may be affected  by the way someone uses  that account.  As with 
Mr Fs overdraft, I accept  that this may have been  discussed during the meeting, but Im not 
convinced that Bank  of Scotland  misled Mr F about  this. 
Similarly, I think its likely that Bank of Scotland told Mr F that he would have to pay for the 
URCA. If he took the account, the fees would appear on his statements and I dont think 
Bank of Scotland tried to hide them from him. I also think it would have told him about  the 
main potential benefits he could get in return.  After  all, Bank of Scotland was trying to sell 
the URCA to Mr F, and it would  have  been  in its own interests to tell him what he could gain 
if he bought it. 
Returning now to the question  as to whether Bank  of Scotland  behaved  reasonably in 
recommending the URCA to Mr F. 
It seems  to me that this question is linked to Mr Fs concern that Bank of Scotland pressured  
him to buy the URCA. I fully accept  that Bank of Scotland  may have encouraged Mr F to 
change accounts,  but this isnt the same  as applying undue pressure. As Mr F already held 
the fee-free account,  and I havent seen anything to make me think  that Bank of Scotland 
planned to withdraw that account from him, I think its likely that Bank of Scotland  gave Mr F 
the choice to keep his fee-free account  or switch to the URCA. Im not convinced that Bank 
of Scotland pressured Mr F. 
One of the potential benefits of the URCA was that it offered customers lower  interest  rates 
on overdrafts than Bank of Scotlands  fee-free account. Given  the extent to which Mr F used 
his overdraft, I think this may have  been  potentially useful for him. Some of the other  
potential benefits  of the URCA  included travel insurance, car breakdown cover  and mobile  
phone insurance.  I understand that Mr F travelled  abroad from time-to-time and also drove a 
car. And I can see from his account  record that he also registered several mobile  phones  for 
the insurance cover. So it seems to me that Mr F had a potential  need for some  of the 
benefits the URCA offered and I think it was reasonable for Bank of Scotland to recommend 
it to him.
In summary,  I cant tell if Bank of Scotland got everything right when it sold the URCA to Mr 
F. But Im satisfied that it did tell him about the fees he would have to pay and the potential  
Ref: DRN98345343benefits he could  gain, and gave him a choice to switch  or to keep his fee-free account. I 
dont think it misled him about the availability of overdrafts on the two types of account or 
about the likely lack of impact  of changing  accounts  on his credit score.  I also think it was 
reasonable for Bank  of Scotland  to recommend the URCA to Mr F. So I dont think Bank  of 
Scotland mis-sold the URCA  to him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Fs complaint about  Bank  of 
Scotland plc. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9834534