K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1996 
alongside a mortgage. Mr H says Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr H met with a third party to arrange his mortgage  and Ive seen a copy of the mortgage 
application form which was completed and signed at the time. In this there is a tick in the box 
to indicate that Mr H wanted  more information from YBS about  PPI  but at this point he 
hadnt agreed to take it out  only to find out more  about it. 
Upon receiving the completed  mortgage application YBS says it wouldve sent Mr H a 
separate PPI application form to complete, sign and send back. Ive seen a copy  of a sample 
of the type of PPI application  YBS says wouldve been used  at the time  and Ive seen no 
reason to think that Mr Hs form wouldve been  any different to this. This shows that Mr H 
wouldve had to select the type of cover he wanted and sign to confirm his choice to take out 
PPI. But theres nothing on this form to suggest  Mr H had to take out this type of cover. YBS 
says the PPI wouldnt have been  added to Mr Hs account without a signed and completed 
application form. The policy was included in Mr Hs mortgage offer which states You  have 
elected to take out Mortgage  Payment  Insurance...  - so its likely Mr H did complete and 
return the PPI application  form. Having looked  at all the evidence available,  I think  its likely 
YBS made it clear that Mr H didnt have  to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  
although I can understand why he cant remember this.
YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check  if the policy was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr H got the information  he needed to decide if the PPI 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But YBS will 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because : 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  YBS didnt  tell Mr H, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has offered  to pay back the amount  of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN93625832Ive thought about everything Mr H has said - including  what hes said about the advice he 
received from the third party  he met with to arrange  the mortgage. But this third party  was 
not acting as an agent for YBS  so I cant hold YBS responsible for any advice or 
information this party provided. Ive seen  that Mr H also complained  directly  to the third party  
but hasnt received a response. Unfortunately, because  of when the PPI was taken out, we 
wouldnt be able to look at a complaint about  the third party.  
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  YBS should also pay back to Mr H any extra  interest he paid because  of 
that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr H the extra he paid each month because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should also pay Mr H 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr H any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9362583