K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the charges  that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited applied 
to his account in relation to damage to its car and excess mileage. He also complains about 
VWFSs response when he complained to it.
background
Mr K hired a car from VWFS. When he returned  it, VWFS let him know that there was 
damage to the car which it intended to charge  him for. It also told him it wanted to charge  
him for the extra miles hed driven in the car. Mr K objected to this and told VWFS so. He 
expected a response from it. But instead, he told us he heard nothing further from it until he 
got a letter  from a debt collector  acting on behalf  of VWFS.
Mr K wanted  VWFS to waive the charges as he believed it has no proper basis to ask him to 
pay. Further, he suggested VWFS acted  unfairly when it continued to chase him for the debt 
even after it knew he intended to complain to this service.  And he was unhappy that as far 
as he was aware, he didnt receive a response  to his complaint.
VWFS told us this, at first, by mistake, it thought that the complaint had been resolved  to 
Mr Ks satisfaction. As a result it closed Mr Ks complaint thinking it had dealt with it. But it 
said it did respond to tell Mr K this. Then,  when  Mr K brought  his complaint to us, it took 
another look at it. 
VWFS said under  the terms of its agreement with Mr K it could charge him for damage  that 
went beyond wear  and tear. It had prepared a report with photos to show the damage it 
wanted to charge for. On reflection, it thought that some of the damage was not shown 
clearly in the photos. On that basis it agreed  it would not charge Mr K for this and it reduced  
the bill by £159.
However, it thought  the rest of the damage  was clearly shown in the photos  and went 
beyond wear and tear. So it didnt agree to waive these charges.
Further, VWFS pointed  out that Mr K had agreed to keep to an annual  mileage limit but hed 
gone well over this. VWFS didnt understand on what basis Mr K was saying he should not 
have to pay for the extra miles he drove  in the car. 
VWFS said Mr K could have done the repairs himself, if he had wanted to, before he 
returned the car. But it was too late now.
For all of these reasons VWFS said it wanted to continue to charge Mr K for the remaining 
damage and for the excess mileage.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint. He didnt recommend upholding it. In 
summary, he said he thought the report VWFS had provided showed the damage it wanted 
to charge for. Further,  he concluded this damage went beyond wear and tear, so VWFS 
could fairly  charge for this.
Moreover, our investigator concluded that Mr K should pay for the excess mileage. He said 
this because he looked at the contract  to see what had been agreed. He could see that Mr K 
had driven the car more than hed agreed to when  he made  the contract.
Ref: DRN90332702Further, our investigator pointed out that VWFS had emailed  Mr K to let him know its stance 
on his complaint. It had done this before the debt collector contacted  Mr K. So he didnt 
agree VWFS hadnt  dealt with Mr Ks complaint  before  chasing  him for the debt.
VWFS accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr K did not. In short, he agreed  to pay 
the excess mileage charge. But he said he didnt  agree he should have to pay for the 
remaining damage as it was wear and tear.
Later on, Mr K added that at the time the car was handed back  his wife refused to sign the 
damage assessment  report because  she did not agree with it. He pointed out the car was 
collected a few days after the inspection.  He suggested that the person from VWFS who 
collected the car didnt agree with the conclusions  of the report rather  he (the collection 
agent) said the car was in immaculate condition.
In addition, later still, Mr K said he had taken  photos of the car at the time and they didnt 
show the damage that is shown in VWFSs  report. He suggested that the photos in the 
VWFS report might  be of a different car. He told us unless VWFS made the car available  for 
him to inspect he intended  going to court. Mr K told us that earlier in the contract there  had 
been some  problems with VWFS  and these had inconvenienced him. VWFS had made a 
payment to him for this. He suggested  what was happening  now was that VWFS was trying  
to claw back some of this money by pursuing  him for damage that he was not responsible for 
repairing.
Mr K asked that an ombudsman review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive finished my review  of Mr Ks complaint. Ive concluded Ive no fair and reasonable basis 
to ask VWFS to take any further action. Please  let me explain why Ive come  to this 
conclusion.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
the damage
Mr K and VWFS both agree that their agreement says VWFS can charge Mr K for damage 
that goes beyond fair wear and tear.
Ref: DRN90332703Mr K says his photos show  the damage  was only wear  and tear. Plus he tells us that VWFS 
has either deliberately  or carelessly  put photos  of a different car into its report in an attempt 
to claim money from him that it is not entitled to. He also points out that his stance has been  
consistent from the get-go. He adds that even VWFSs own collection representative said 
the car had no damage.
VWFS says all it is doing is charging for the damage that Mr K agreed  to pay for. And it has 
demonstrated the damage  was there  by providing  the report  that was done by third party  on 
its behalf.
Ill start by looking at whether I think VWFS has sent us inaccurate information. I think  this is 
a logical place  to start because if the photos are not of the car then really  VWFs  would have 
no basis to apply the charges.
VWFS provided us with an initial report without  any photos. I think is the report that Mr Ks 
wife refused to sign. Then it sent us a more detailed report which  included  photos.
It would be a very serious matter if VWFS sent Mr K and us inaccurate information to justify  
applying charges that were not owed.  Not only would VWFS have to be involved in this, the 
third party who produced the report  would have to be colluding with it. The third party  would 
also be compromised  by providing incorrect information. 
Mr K says the motivation for this is that VWFS  is trying to recoup money that it paid him. It is 
not clear what Mr K thinks would motivate  the third party to go along with this. However, 
VWFS most likely makes payments to its customers all the while. It seems its payment to 
Mr K was a goodwill gesture. That is a payment it decided to make  although it did not have 
to. Why then it would want to get back a payment it freely made is not clear  either.  Even if 
this was not the case and VWFS was ordered to make the payment  to Mr K, I am not 
persuaded this would make VWFS and the third party risk their reputations by providing 
incorrect data. It follows  I think the photos  VWFS  has sent us are most likely photos  of the 
car. On that basis I am entitled to rely on them.
Mr K also suggests that the damage  was not there when he handed over the car. I note Mr K 
sent in his own photos to support what he says. But he is not an expert neither is he is 
impartial. The third party is. So I think it is fair and reasonable to place more  weight on its 
report than on Mr Ks photos which are not as detailed and specific.  Further,  the first report  
which detailed the damage to the car was done while  the car was in Mr Ks possession. In all 
of the circumstances, I am more persuaded by its report than by Mr Ks photos.  It follows I 
find, on balance,  the damage  was present and that it happened when he had the car.
The next thing  Ive looked at is whether  I think  the damage goes beyond wear and tear. Both 
Mr K and VWFS have been consistent in their respective positions. I do take that on board. 
But Im not merely assessing Mr Ks view that the damage is wear  and tear, against VWFSs 
view that it is not wear and tear. I have a yardstick against which to measure the damage to 
assess whether it is more than wear  and tear. That yardstick is the industry guidance from 
the BVRLA.  I am satisfied in these  circumstances I can rely on this guidance. When I look at 
the damage against the guidance it is clear it goes beyond the relevant threshold.
I recognise Mr Ks wife did not sign the initial report. But that just shows she didnt accept the 
findings not that the findings were inaccurate. I note Mr K says the person from VWFS who 
collected the car said its condition was immaculate. Why he said this about a car, that even 
Ref: DRN90332704Mr K tells us had wear  and tear, is hard to understand.  But I dont give this comment,  
seemingly made in passing by the collection agent  the same  weight I give to the experts 
report. The collection agents role was to collect the car not examine it. Whereas the expert 
had one function and that was to look at the state  of the car and report on it.
For all of these reasons I find that on balance the damage to the car goes beyond wear and 
tear. That being  so, it follows that I also find it is fair and reasonable for VWFS to charge 
Mr K for this damage.
Mr K now tells us that unless VWFS produces  the car for him to inspect then he is going to 
court. That is his choice  to make.  However, that does  not impact  on my decision. My role as 
an ombudsman is to consider the individual complaint and decide whether something has 
gone wrong. But a court may take a different  view of the situation. Should  Mr K not accept 
my final decision, then any rights he may have to take action in the courts against VWFS are 
unaffected and he will be free to pursue his arguments in any court action that may arise, if 
he so wishes.
excess mileage
Mr K has told us he accepts the excess mileage  charge so I no longer need to look at this 
complaint point.
debt recovery
A business does  not have to stop trying to recover  a debt from its customer just because  that 
customer has come to us. So I dont agree that VWFS acted incorrectly  in continuing to ask 
Mr K to pay his debt and instructing a collection agent to contact him.
That said,  I would expect  a business  to respond to a complaint when made.  VWFS is obliged  
to do this. However, it seems that Mr K now accepts  that VWFS did respond to him.
If however, I am mistaken about this I can see that VWFSs records show  it did send a 
correctly addressed email  to Mr K a month before the debt recovery letter  was sent.  Ive no 
reason to doubt these records. Nothing  I have  seen suggests the email bounced back. On 
this basis I cant fairly  say VWFS  is responsible  if Mr K didnt see this email.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9033270