K821x#15complaint
Miss M is unhappy with problems she had with her TSB Bank plc bank account.
background
In April 2018 TSB began  having problems with its IT system. These issues were widespread 
and also had an impact  on its automated telephone  system. As a result of these issues TSB 
experienced far higher  call volumes than normal, leading to long waiting times for customers. 
Miss M has an account with TSB. Shes said she uses telephone banking to monitor  her 
account on a daily basis. Due to serious health issues, Miss M isnt able to travel to branch.  
And she does not have  any internet  banking  facility. She also wasnt  receiving her account 
statements.
As a result of this, Miss M wasnt able to monitor her account. And so was left not knowing 
how much  money was in there. Together  with publicised information about  some TSB bank 
accounts showing incorrect balances,  etc. Miss M was made  very anxious  by this inability to 
monitor her account. She was unsure  whether  regular payments, including  direct debits, 
would be made.
Miss M spent many hours on the phone  trying to contact TSB directly to speak to advisors. 
Although she was ultimately able to do this a few times, the issues she experienced lasted 
for several  months and this didnt  provide  her with the information  or reassurance she 
needed.
Miss M has said the impact  on her was further  heightened by the circumstances of her 
health. Her medical history has left her susceptible to stress,  anxiety and a number of other 
serious issues. Miss M has said, for example, that the issues  with TSBs  automated  
telephone system caused her to blackout  due to an overload of information, which left her 
feeling like shed been water-boarded.  
Miss M did try to mitigate the impact of the uncertainty  over her account  by paying off 
several items she had on finance via an alternative account. And by obtaining a transfer  of 
funds from a friend. 
Miss M referred  her complaint to this service. Our adjudicator agreed that Miss M had 
suffered substantial trouble and upset as a result of the issues  shed experienced due to the 
problems shed had with her TSB account. He recommended  that TSB pay her £500 in 
compensation to recognise this impact. 
TSB agreed  with this recommendation. But Miss M felt that she should be compensated a 
higher amount; either  a four or five figure sum. She felt that her health  had been  significantly 
affected as a consequence  of TSBs  problems.  Her complaint has therefore been passed to 
me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our adjudicator. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN93544902I was sorry to hear of the health issues Miss M has experienced in her life, and that these 
have been worsened by her experiences through the several months  she had problems with 
her account.  I can appreciate that she was very worried about the balance of her account, 
and whether she would have enough to meet her payment  obligations. I can also understand 
that this, and the other issues she experienced, exacerbated  the health problems she has.
I was though glad to know that Miss Ms account  itself wasnt  directly  affected; her balance  
was correct and she didnt miss any payments to creditors. Regardless,  it is clear that this 
whole situation  has had a significant impact on Miss M.
However, whilst  there has been  a substantial impact,  we would consider £500 to be a 
substantial level of compensation.  I appreciate  Miss M feels  that a significantly larger award  
is appropriate. But the level of compensation recommended  by the adjudicator  is in line with 
what we recommend on complaints involving similar levels of impact. 
It is clear that Miss M was in a situation where she had limited  options. And it is also clear 
that her personal circumstances made,  what would already  be a difficult  situation, far worse.  
But, having  taken  all of the circumstances of this particular case into account,  I consider 
£500 to be a fair and reasonable level of compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint. To reflect  the impact caused  to Miss M, TSB 
Bank plc should  pay Miss M £500 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February  2019.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9354490