K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains about the interest thats been applied  to her account  with Shop Direct
Finance Company Limited trading as Very.
background
In February 2018,  Mrs Ds account went into arrears and a higher rate of 47.9% started to be
charged. Mrs D felt shed  been overcharged  in interest.  Shop  Direct explained that the
standard interest rate on the account had increased  from 39.7% to 47.9% in 2015. They said
they sent a notice to Mrs D in March 2015   but Mrs D says she didnt receive this. Shop
Direct didnt  uphold Mrs Ds complaint and as she was unhappy so she brought  her 
complaint
to our service.
Mrs D has raised  a number of points which Ive briefly summarised  here:
Shes unhappy she didnt receive  any notice about the level of interest increasing
Shes unhappy the interest is no longer showing on the front page  of her statements
She asked Shop  Direct to change the payment date, but they wouldnt do so
Shes unhappy with the interest  that would be applied during the repayment plan she
discussed with Shop Direct.
It took a long time for Shop Direct to issue a final response  letter
She thinks interest shouldve been  suspended  during her complaint
Based on evidence provided by Shop Direct,  our investigator said the promotional rate was
19.9% and the higher  rate was 39.7%  when  the account was opened, which  increased  to
47.9% in March  2015. Hed seen a screenshot confirming a notice  of variation had been sent
in March 2015 and had also seen  a sample  copy of the letter.  So he thought it was more
likely than not that Shop Direct  had notified Mrs D about the interest  rate change.
He looked at Shop Directs payment terms and concluded he couldnt  ask them to change
their payment cycle.  He said Shop Direct  didnt need to give advance notice of the change
between the standard and promotional interest  rate as this was on Mrs Ds statements, even
if it wasnt on the front page. He didnt think the terms of the repayment plan were  unfair  and
didnt think Shop Direct needed to suspend  interest or amend Mrs Ds credit file.
Our investigator acknowledged  Mrs D wanted  a response from Shop Direct sooner.  But he
noted their letter of 13 November said she could refer her complaint to our service.  Shop
Direct offered £50 for this delay which was then increased to £75.
Mrs D submitted historic statements contradicting the interest rate when the account
opened. She felt because  Shop Direct got this wrong, they wouldnt have sent a notice of
variation. Our investigator explained  some  of the issues Mrs D raised werent  referred to our
service within  time so we couldnt consider these points. He said we could look at what had
happened from 2012 onwards, Mrs D accepted this. However, she felt Shop Direct had lied
to our service and wanted this to be taken into consideration.
On 13 October 2020 I issued a provisional  decision,  an extract  of which Ive included below.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As the investigator explained some of Mrs
Ref: DRN93486182Ds points fall outside our jurisdiction, so I have not addressed these issues here.
Repayment plan
Having listened  to the call in August 2018 where the repayment plan is discussed, Mrs D
confirms she can pay approximately £350  per month. So the advisor proposes a plan of 20
instalments and says the interest rate would  remain  at 47.9%. Mrs D says she isnt prepared
to accept that.
Having looked  at Mrs Ds account statements, these show  she was using her account
regularly. Most months she made payments towards her account, but these were sometimes
lower than the minimum repayment. Following the call in August 2018,  Mrs D stopped
making repayments towards  her account.  Because  of this, her account remained in arrears
and Shop Direct applied interest  of 47.9%. I think Mrs D couldve mitigated her situation  at
this stage  shed run up a relatively  high balance on her account and in the phone call said
she could afford £350 per month but didnt make a payment until May 2019.
Although I think Shop  Direct were  entitled to apply  this interest,  I also think they couldve
provided assistance. They have an obligation to treat their customers  positively and
sympathetically if they are in financial difficulties. When Shop Direct spoke to Mrs D in
August 2018 it was clear she was struggling  her statements showed she was in arrears
and shed explained she was falling behind with her payments because she gets paid
monthly but Shop Direct operate on a four weekly payment cycle.  But Shop Direct, knowing
she was struggling, didnt do enough  to understand the issue  by asking for more  information.
If it had I think  on balance  it would  have concluded that Mrs D was in financial difficulties and
would have started treating her positively and sympathetically from that point.
Although Shop Direct  suggested a repayment  plan,  I dont think  this went  far enough  in
assisting her. I say this because she wouldnt have been able to clear the balance within this
period, given the level of interest  being  applied. So I think they couldve offered to suspend
interest in order to help her get back on track.
I do acknowledge there have been  a number of months where  Shop Direct  hasnt  applied
any interest but their internal system notes show there are occasions where interest (at
either 19.9% or 47.9%)  has been  applied. For the reasons Ive explained above I think  its
fair Shop Direct refund the interest applied since August 2018, and any admin  fees that have
been charged since this time.
I wont be asking Shop Direct to amend Mrs Ds credit  file. This is because  Mrs D wasnt
making any payments  to her account. Her credit file should be an accurate  reflection  of the
account activity, so I dont  think its unfair her credit  file reflects the non-payments.
the interest rate and Notice  of variation
Based on Shop Directs internal records I can see the standard interest rate increased from
39.7% to 47.9% in March  2015. Having looked  at the internal records provided  by Shop
Direct, this suggests a notice of variation was sent to Mrs D on 7 March  2015.
I know Mrs D feels strongly that a Notice of Variation  wasnt  sent to her and shes called into
question the above screenshot. But it needs  to be remembered  that shes saying this some
years after the letter  is said to have been sent. Shes also called into question the
screenshot based on Shop Directs failings  elsewhere. But the notice of variation was done
Ref: DRN93486183not just for Mrs D-and  was part of a large scale mailing that was largely automated. And the
screenshot shows a record of sending the letter at the time. So I prefer  this evidence from
the time over Mrs Ds recollections given some years later.  Taking everything into account I
think its likely Shop Direct did sent a Notice of Variation to Mrs D in March 2015.
Mrs D has said she doesnt have a copy of this letter which supports her argument  one
wasnt sent. But given  the time thats  passed  I dont think its surprising she doesnt  have it 
although I do appreciate shes provided  us with statements  dating  back  to 2003. And
although Mrs D doesnt have a copy of the Notice of Variation, it doesnt mean one wasnt
sent. For the reasons Ive explained  above, I think its likely  Shop Direct did send Mrs D a
Notice of Variation.
Having looked  at the sample copy of the Notice of Variation this gives  advance warning of
the interest rate change. It also gives the account  holder the opportunity to close  the account
and repay  the balance.  I think its likely  that Mrs D was told in advance that her interest rate
would be increasing.  So I wont  be asking Shop Direct to refund any further interest.
statements
Shop Direct have  provided Mrs Ds online account  statement  from December 2017  until
December 2018.  Based on these I can see that the change  between the standard  and
promotional interest  rates  is included so I dont think Shop Direct needed to give advance
warning to Mrs D about whether shed incur the promotional  or standard  interest rate.
Ive also looked  at the statements Mrs D provided to us (dated January 2018 and March
2018) which were sent to her in the post. I appreciate Mrs D is unhappy the interest rate is
not on the front page, but the interest rate is visible on her statements. So I dont think Shop
Direct have  done  anything  wrong.
Payment date
I understand Mrs D wanted the payment cycle altered. Because Shop Direct operate  a 
fourweekly cycle, they require payments 13 times  a year, but Mrs D gets paid 12 times a 
year. Whilst I do understand why altering this wouldve been beneficial,  Shop Direct 
explained they require payments within 28 days from the date goods are purchased. This is 
within their terms  and conditions, so I wont be asking them to do anything here.
Service provided to Mrs D.
Mrs D is unhappy that Shop  Direct  said the plan was interest free when this was not the
case. Whilst I acknowledge  this mustve been  frustrating,  I dont think Shop Direct need to do
anything as Mrs D knew at the time the plan was discussed that it wasnt interest  free.
Mrs D is also unhappy she was initially told it was a mistake that shed been charged 19.9%.
Mrs D provided  a copy of an email from Shop direct (dated  9 November 2018) supporting
this. Having looked at the email, I can see Shop Direct said the interest rate could have been
a mistake. Shop Direct told Mrs D theyd  look into this.
Mrs D raised her complaint in August and I can see Shop Direct sent a letter on
13 November explaining  she could contact our service as they hadnt  finished their
investigation. Mrs D is unhappy it took them until 28 November to provide a full response.
Shop Direct have  acknowledged this delay  and offered £50 which  theyve since increased to
Ref: DRN93486184£75. Whilst I appreciate the delay was frustrating, I dont think  there  has been such  a delay
that Shop Direct need to provide further  compensation.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I plan to partly uphold Mrs Ds complaint and require  Shop
Direct Finance Company  Limited trading as Very to:
Refund any interest and charges applied to the account since August 2018. Any such 
refund should  be applied to reduce Mrs Ds account balance  
Pay Mrs D compensation of £75, this should be paid directly  to her.
Mrs D responded to my provisional decision to say she stopped making payments to her 
account to get the attention of Shop Direct.  She maintained the interest on her statements is 
not clear and that Shop Direct tried to mislead  our service by providing  incorrect information. 
She said from 2012-2015  she was charged  39.7% but shes sent evidence she shouldve  
been charged 28.8%. She said Shop Direct didnt send her a Notice  of Variation  that it 
changed to 39.7% because they claim it has always been at this level.  Mrs D asked whether 
her interest award will include interest  of 8% per annum,  if the default notice be removed 
from her credit file and if Shop Direct are obliged to take the account back  from the party that 
has her debt.
Shop Direct responded to my provisional  decision to say they discussed Mrs Ds income and 
expenditure with her but she declined to agree  a repayment plan until the interest  was 
changed. Shop Direct said they told Mrs D she could call back  but she didnt do so. They  
said, in my provisional decision I explained their actions werent enough  on the basis  that the 
plan wouldnt have  cleared the balance. However, they said the arrangement  was to clear 
the arrears, not the balance and that Mrs D had called to say the minimum payment  was too 
high. They also said if an arrangement had been  set, interest would have been suspended.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ds response
Mrs D said the statements from January and March 2018 showed the different interest  rate 
but these both say an annual  standard interest rate, so she thinks  its not very clear.  She 
said nothing is mentioned about promotional  rates,  only the rate for that month is shown. 
Although I know the interest on Mrs Ds statements isnt as clear  as shed like, and I can see 
the interest has been described as the annual standard  interest rate, the interest rate is 
visible on her statements so I do think it was clear what level of interest was being applied.  I 
also note that the interest was shown in pounds and pence, therefore making clear the real 
cost to Mrs D. So I dont  think  Shop Direct have done anything wrong here. 
Mrs D is unhappy as she thinks Shop Direct tried to mislead  our service by providing 
inaccurate information. Our service has told Mrs D parts of her complaint are outside  
jurisdiction and our investigator  specifically  referred to the interest rate going  back to March  
1999 as being something we couldnt consider. 
Ref: DRN93486185Mrs D has sent in evidence from 2007 which she believes shows shes  been charged  the 
wrong level of interest and she thinks a Notice of Variation wouldnt have been sent prior to 
the one in March 2015, but as explained  this relates  to events outside the jurisdiction of this 
case. 
I know Mrs D was frustrated with Shop Direct and I can understand why she felt like they 
werent helping  her. Whilst  I appreciate  why Mrs D stopped making payments, this meant 
that her account remained in arrears. As I mentioned previously, I think Mrs D couldve 
mitigated her situation as she said she could have made some payments towards her 
balance but then chose not to do so. Her credit file should be an accurate reflection of the 
account activity. So for this reason  I wont be asking  Shop Direct to remove the default 
notice. However, I have asked Shop Direct to amend Mrs Ds credit file. This is because I 
think the balance  showing on her credit file should  reflect what was owed had Shop Direct 
not applied any interest or charges. So they need to rectify this.
Mrs D has asked whether Shop Direct  are obliged to take the account back from the party 
that owns her debt. Shop Direct are entitled  to sell Mrs Ds debt on to a collection agency so 
I wont be asking them to take the debt back. 
Mrs D has also asked whether the interest Ive asked Shop Direct  to pay will include interest 
of 8% per annum. I should  explain that we will usually award this if someone has been 
deprived of funds. But the payment  Im asking Shop Direct to make is a refund of interest 
that shouldnt  have been applied to her account.  And Mrs D wasnt making regular payments 
towards her account so I cant conclude shes been  deprived of money. For this reason, I 
wont be asking Shop Direct to pay an additional  8% 
Shop Directs response
Although Shop Direct  ultimately responded to say they accepted my provisional  decision, 
they did previously  raise objections which Ive addressed  below for the sake  of 
completeness. 
Shop Direct said they discussed Mrs Ds income and expenditure with her but she declined 
to proceed with a repayment plan until the interest  was changed. They  said Mrs D could call 
back but she didnt  do so. The call does show this but Shop Direct were aware that Mrs D 
was struggling, they shouldve  treated her positively and sympathetically and they still 
couldve offered other options to assist her such as suspending interest and charges, 
regardless of whether or not a repayment plan was agreed. 
Shop Direct have  said the arrangement was to clear the arrears, not the balance and that 
Mrs D had called to say the minimum payment was too high. Whilst this is the case, I would 
have expected Shop Direct  to take a look at her account overall  and provide assistance  to 
help her to get back on track but the continuation of the interest she was being charged 
would not have allowed her to do this. 
Shop Direct added if an arrangement had been set, interest would have been suspended but 
Mrs D declined to engage. Whilst Shop  Direct may have  ultimately  agreed to this, based on 
the phone  call it seemed that the interest  would continue to be applied which is why Mrs D 
was understandably unhappy and why a repayment  plan was not agreed. And even though  
Mrs D didnt engage with Shop Direct, they still had a duty to treat her positively and 
sympathetically given  that she was in financial difficulty. 
Ref: DRN93486186Taking everything into consideration and having  listened to what  both Mrs D and Shop Direct 
have said, my final decision is along the same  lines as my provisional decision in addition  to 
my request  for Shop  Direct to amend  Mrs Ds credit  file. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited trading  as Very to:
Refund any interest and charges applied to the account since August 2018. Any such 
refund should  be applied to reduce Mrs Ds account balance  
Update Mrs Ds credit file with the balance that would have been due each month  
had Shop Direct not applied any interest  or charges.
Pay Mrs D compensation of £75, this should be paid directly  to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 January 2021.
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9348618