K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Ageas  Insurance Limited has declined  a claim on his car 
insurance.
background
Mr S has told us that he was involved in an accident in which he drove into the back  of 
another car. And the other driver drove off without stopping.
Mr S contacted Ageas to make a claim as his car was damaged.  However, Ageas declined  
his claim,  it said the damage on his car wasnt consistent with his description of the accident.
Mr S had said hed hit the car from behind. But when the car was inspected by an engineer,  
they reported that much of the front bumper and the support behind  were undamaged. And 
had the accident happened as Mr S had explained, these parts  wouldve  been damaged  in 
the accident. 
Ageas also said that they were aware  that Mr Ss vehicle had been involved in a previous 
accident. And they werent confident that the damage Mr S was claiming for now was 
caused as recently  as Mr S is claiming.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss case and agreed  with what  the engineer had found. He 
said the pictures of the damage  werent consistent  with the accident  Mr S had detailed.  So 
our investigator didnt feel that Ageas  had done anything wrong in declining  Mr Ss claim as 
there was reason to believe that the accident  hadnt  happened as Mr S had said.
Mr S was unhappy with this and questioned  the engineers report. Our investigator explained 
the engineer was independent and not an Ageas employee. But that Mr S could instruct  an 
engineer of his choice  to look at the car but he may have to pay for this. 
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review the case  as he remained unhappy  with the 
conclusions reached.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as our investigator  and broadly  for the 
same reasons. I know Mr S will be disappointed with this but Ill explain why Ive reached this 
decision.
The crux of this complaint is deciding whether Ageas is justified in declining Mr Ss claim for 
his vehicle. Ageas has given  its reasons  following the engineers  report. Its worth noting  the 
engineer is independent  of Ageas and Im satisfied that his report  can be relied upon.
In the engineers report, they state that the damage  incurred  on the car is inconsistent with 
what Mr S says happened. It was explained  that the front bumper and bumper support did 
not show damage consistent  with the accident Mr S said had occurred. It also provided 
photos, which our investigator  considered and he agreed with the engineer  that if the 
accident had occurred as Mr S had said, there  wouldve  been  damage to this area of the car.
Ref: DRN97433732Mr Ss vehicle  did present  heavy  damage, but not to the areas expected. And Ageas was 
aware that the vehicle had previously been involved in an accident, before the one that Mr S 
has told us about.  In the accident Mr S has told us about, the other driver drove off, so 
Ageas had nothing to support Mr Ss description of events.
So taking this all into account,  I dont think Ageas has been unfair or unreasonable in 
declining Mr Ss claim. I know that Mr S is unhappy  with this but I dont think  Ageas has done 
anything wrong.
I know that Mr S has been in touch with Ageas and our investigator in regards to the salvage  
of Mr S vehicle. But Ive not considered  this as part of this complaint, as it wasnt raised 
originally. This decision only relates  to the claim that Mr S had declined.
So for the reasons explained,  I wont be saying that Ageas should pay Mr S claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold Mr S complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9743373