K820x#14complaint
Mrs S and her son, Mr S, complain that Alliance & Leicester which is now part of Santander 
UK Plc (Santander)  mis sold them a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy  in 1994 when they applied for a joint mortgage.
background
Mrs S and Mr S said they did not know the PPI was optional and said they bought  it because  
they were offered a discount. Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mrs 
S and Mr S disagreed with our adjudicators  view and asked for the matter to be looked at 
again. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss and Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think Santander made it clear that Mrs S and Mr S didnt  have to take out the PPI and 
that they chose  to take it out to cover Mr S only  although  I can understand why they 
may not remember all the details of the sale.
 Santander recommended  the PPI to Mrs S and Mr S so it had to check that the PPI 
was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time of 
the sale, I think that it was. For example they were not affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits  on the PPI cover and they seem to have  had a need for the cover  especially 
for Mr Ss higher income.  
 Its possible the information Santander gave  Mrs S and Mr S about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable  immediately at the time of the sale.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have  put them off from taking out the cover.  
 Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S 
and Mr S. 
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S and Mr S because : 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs S and Mr S about that. Because Santander didnt 
tell Mrs S and Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ref: DRN94980192Ive thought about everything Mrs S and Mr S has said about the PPI - including what 
theyve said about  the wrong details being  added  to the application form, being offered a 
discount and the policy not being  shown as an optional  product. But these points dont 
change my decision. Even if Mrs S and Mr S were offered a discount  to buy the PPI, they 
still could have refused  the PPI and the discount, so that means PPI most likely was shown 
to be an optional product.  Ive noted  Mrs S said she didnt complete all the details on the 
application form, but as the PPI was sold during a branch  meeting, its likely  that most   if 
not all  of the form would have been  completed  by the adviser.  
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mrs S and Mr S any commission  and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Santander should also pay back  to Mrs S and Mr S 
any extra  interest  they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mrs S and Mr S the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mrs S and Mr S 8%* simple interest on each payment  (15% on payments before 
April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs S and Mr S can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs S and Mr S.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs S and Mr S any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 November  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9498019