K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank  PLC (trading as Cheltenham  & Gloucester at the time) mis-
sold them  two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr and Mrs B applied  for the first PPI policy in 2000 around the same time they took out a 
mortgage. If either of them was unable to work because  of accident, sickness or 
unemployment, this policy gave Mr B 70% of the monthly benefit and Mrs B 30% for up to 12 
months for each successful claim they made.
Mr and Mrs B applied  for a second  PPI policy in 2003 when they took out a further  borrowing 
on their mortgage. This policy gave  them  an equal joint benefit, again for up to 12 months  if 
they made a successful  accident, sickness or unemployment claim.
Mr and Mrs B initially told us they didnt remember much about the sales,  but they were  
young and nave and took a lot of advice  from the agent. More recently, theyve said they 
thought the PPI was compulsory and that it was unsuitable for Mr B since he was self-
employed. Most recently,  Mr and Mrs B have said they wouldnt have  taken out the PPI if 
theyd known there was a 60 day waiting period before they could claim.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Bs complaint didnt uphold it. Mr and Mrs B 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I know  this will 
disappoint them but I hope  the reasons Im about to give help them to understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think its likely either of the PPI policies was presented  
to Mr and Mrs B as compulsory. For the sale in 2000, I can see their signed mortgage  
application has a section about PPI which has clear yes and no options for applicants to 
tick depending  on whether or not they want PPI. And the yes option has been ticked. On 
the same  date they signed their mortgage  application, Mr and Mrs B also signed a separate  
PPI application  form. This included details of the amount of their mortgage  and details of the 
benefit split they wanted.  
In 2003, Mr and Mrs B signed very similar  documents.  In this case, though, the loan 
application was ticked to say no to PPI. But, around five days  later,  Mr and Mrs B signed a 
separate PPI application form which, again,  included details of their new borrowing and the 
PPI benefit split they wanted. I think its likely that, in the intervening days, having initially 
decided against  PPI, Mr and Mrs B changed their minds.
Taking all of this into account,  I think its likely Mr and Mrs B discussed  their insurance needs 
with Lloyds and, ultimately, agreed to both PPI policies  knowing they didnt have to.
Ref: DRN92338432Lloyds says it recommended both policies to Mr and Mrs B, so it needed  to make sure they 
were right for them.  I dont  know what steps Lloyds took to do this. But, looking at what      
Mr and Mrs B say of their circumstances  at the time and the policy details Ive been given 
(and I should mention that, in the case of the 2003 sale, the policy document  I have slightly  
post-dates Mr and Mrs Bs sale  but I think its terms are likely to be very similar to those  
that applied in the policy they actually bought) I think the PPI was right for them. I say this 
because, based on these  things:
It seems  Mr and Mrs B were eligible for the cover.  And I dont think there  was 
anything in their circumstances to stop them being able to make  a successful claim. 
Mr B was self-employed at the time he and Mrs B bought the policy.  But, unlike  some  
PPI policies, the one they bought  in 2000 didnt make it more difficult for a self-
employed person  to claim successfully for unemployment  and I think  its unlikely their 
2003 policy wouldve  done.
I think the PPI couldve given Mr and Mrs B a useful benefit. A mortgage is a 
significant and long-term financial commitment secured on your home, which  is at 
risk if you fall behind on your mortgage repayments. Mr B wouldnt have got any sick 
pay if he was off work sick and, although  Mrs B says she got sick pay, she cant  now 
remember for how long. And, as Ive already mentioned, Mr and Mrs B would  each 
have got a monthly benefit for up to 12 months for each successful accident, 
sickness or unemployment claim they made.
Mr and Mrs B have  said recently they wouldnt have bought PPI policies with a 60 
day waiting period. This period is set out in the policy summaries Lloyds says           
Mr and Mrs B wouldve been given (although I appreciate Mr and Mrs B say theyve 
only recently seen these summaries). It isnt unusual for policies of this type to have 
a waiting period  of 60 days  or sometimes longer. And it isnt something Id have  
expected Lloyds to bring  specifically to Mr and Mrs Bs attention. And, although       
Mr and Mrs B say now they wouldnt have bought policies with these waiting periods, 
I havent seen  anything from the time to suggest this was a concern for them. And I 
say this especially  bearing in mind  the long-term protection  the PPI potentially offered 
them and also that it seems Mrs B may have got some sick pay, which  couldve 
helped in the early  days  before they could make a claim.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr and Mrs B couldnt  afford  the cover.  And 
they couldve cancelled it without any extra cost if they no longer thought  it was right 
for them.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs B, Lloyds also had to give them 
enough clear information  about  the policies for them to be able to decide, in an informed 
way, if they wanted  them.  I dont know what steps  Lloyds took to do this, and its possible it 
didnt make some things as clear  as it shouldve. But, as Ive said, I think its likely               
Mr and Mrs B agreed to the cover knowing they had a choice about it. And, from what Ive 
seen (and although I know they disagree), I think it was right for them on both occasions. So 
I dont think clearer information, if it had been  needed, wouldve changed their decision to go 
ahead with the policies.
Ref: DRN92338433my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 November  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9233843