K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained American  Express Services Europe Limited has allowed a third party  
to charge two transactions  to his credit card that he didnt authorise.
background
After a trip overseas, Mr K noticed two transactions on his Amex credit card. He didnt 
recognise these. He told Amex hed not made or authorised  these. He also wondered as 
they were for the same amount (£101.13 each) and charged at the same time whether one 
was purely a duplicate of the other.
After investigation,  including  processing a dispute  with the original  merchant (a car hire 
business that Ill call H), Amex told Mr K these two transactions were  for parking fines whilst  
he was abroad.  Mr K didnt think this was likely as hed never  got any notification of him 
parking incorrectly. He refused to pay the amounts involved. Amex closed Mr Ks account 
and asked a third party debt collector  to ensure the money is paid.
Mr K was unhappy with this. He felt Amexs investigation had been  insufficient. He asked the 
ombudsman service to consider his complaint. After reviewing the evidence  including that 
submitted by H to Amex   our investigator didnt think Amex  had done anything wrong. She 
felt Mr K must have  parked his hire car incorrectly. The authorities  billed H. And as covered  
by Mr Ks contract  with H, they debited these charges  from his credit card.
Mr K disputed this outcome. Hes asked  an ombudsman  to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a similar 
conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr K has raised a number  of different aspects. As well as disputing  the transactions  
themselves, Mr K was concerned Amex  had shared his personal information to the overseas 
authorities. He was also unhappy at the service Amex had provided. I have considered all of 
these issues and will cover them below.
disputed transactions
When a customer disputes  transactions, all card issuers have a way of raising these 
disputes with the merchant who made the original transactions.  All card schemes, including 
Amex, have a set of processes to manage this. Theyre generally called chargeback 
schemes.
I can see after Mr K raised his dispute  with Amex in April 2018, they contacted H to dispute 
both transactions  and temporarily suspended these on Mr Ks card account. They  then 
received evidence from H. This evidence has been shared with us. Mr K has also told us he 
received evidence from Amex which he considered to be illegible and was obviously in 
Swedish, which  he didnt understand.
This evidence includes  the issuing of two parking tickets. One at 19:57 on 17 February 2018 
and the other at 13:49 on 19 February.  Theres no dispute that Mr K was in Sweden using a 
Ref: DRN94805542hire car at this time. He says he wasnt aware of receiving these parking fines. As the terms 
and conditions of Mr Ks hire agreement  with H allows them to charge him for unpaid  parking 
tickets, I can see why Amex felt they could do nothing more.  
Having reviewed this myself, I can see Hs terms and conditions  do allow them  to pass  on 
the charge (850 SEK per parking ticket) to their customer who rented their car. They can 
also add an administration fee (300 SEK per ticket)  which  is how Mr K was debited two 
charges of £101.13. The terms and conditions were provided to Mr K in both Swedish and 
English. I found  this to be legible along with the copy of the parking tickets.
It is not Amexs role to dispute whether Mr K should pay a parking fine or whether the tickets 
were issued properly.  That is an issue that hed have to take up with the relevant Swedish 
authorities if he felt he had a case.  But based  on the evidence Ive seen I dont think Amex 
did anything wrong  in rejecting Mr Ks dispute.
Amex service issues
Mr K was concerned that both Amex had misunderstood what his issue  was and theyd not 
provided him with the service he expected. Ive just confirmed  they raised a dispute  with H 
as Id have expected them to do. Theres no evidence from whats been shared with us that 
there were any undue delays to this process.   
Mr K believes Amex  shared his personal information with Swedish authorities. Theres no 
evidence, apart from Mr Ks suspicion, that this happened. As our investigator  pointed out, 
its most  likely H shared this. This scenario more fits with what happened.
Its quite clear Mr K didnt agree with the outcome in 2018 and was determined not to settle  
his account with Amex for the disputed  amounts.  From the statements Amex  has most 
recently shared  it does  seem oddly  as Mr K believed  that Amex credited one amount of 
£101.13 to his account. I dont understand why they did this. Its clear there were two 
separate parking fines which H originally collected  from Mr Ks Amex account.
I dont think this has any material  impact  on what happened. Mr K may be being chased for a 
slightly lower amount by the third party debt collector than he actually owed Amex. But as 
Mr K has taken  a stance to not pay regardless,  I dont believe the actual amount is what  is 
behind his decision.
I have decided overall that Amex has done nothing wrong here. Mr K has said he will pursue 
this issue through  the courts if necessary. That is, of course,  up to him but this final decision 
brings our involvement in his complaint to an end.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is not to uphold  Mr Ks complaint against  American  
Express Services Europe Limited.
Ref: DRN94805543Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9480554