K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them  a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy with a loan in September  1999.  They  paid £14.08 each 
month for the policy  and it provided  a monthly  benefit that would cover  their loan repayments 
in the event of a successful claim.  This wouldve covered Mr C for up to 12 months if he lost 
his job, or 24 months if he wasnt working because of sickness or an accident. The policy  
was cancelled when  the loan was repaid.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed so the complaint 
comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
This is not an easy complaint to decide;  the documentary evidence from the time of the sale 
is incomplete, but this isnt surprising given the fact that the sale took nearly 20 years ago 
and the loan and policy were closed  and cancelled more than 15 years  ago. So, I must 
carefully weigh  up the evidence  that is available to me and consider carefully what I think  is 
more likely to have  happened based  on the paperwork  Ive seen and the testimony  from both 
parties. And having  done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold.
The PPI was sold in September  1999 when Mr and Mrs C took out a secured loan to repay 
other debts.  I understand the loan and the policy were taken out on the telephone and then 
some paperwork  was given to Mr and Mrs C. Nationwide  hasnt  been  able to provide a copy 
of any call recording. So its very difficult for me to know what happened  when Mr and Mrs C 
took out the loan and the PPI policy and what was said in that telephone discussion.
I accept it is possible Nationwide didnt  give Mr and Mrs C a choice about taking PPI. I also 
accept it is possible Nationwide gave  them  the impression they had to take it out. But it 
seems equally likely  it gave Mr and Mrs C the opportunity to take out the policy or decline it 
as part of their loan application,  and that they chose to take it out, but have simply forgotten 
in the years that have now elapsed. I say this because Ive seen a copy of the personal  loan 
agreement that Mr and Mrs C signed  in 1999 and this refers  to the PPI as optional. So based 
on this, together  with what I know about Nationwides  sales  process, Im satisfied that the 
PPI was optional;  it wasnt a condition of the loan and Mr and Mrs C wouldve  had a choice 
about purchasing  it. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, so it didnt have to check if it was 
right or suitable for them. But it still had to give them enough information about  it so that they 
could decide themselves  whether or not they wanted it. 
Mr C says he was entitled to generous sick pay from his employer, and that his parents 
wouldve helped them if the need arose. And with this in mind I can see why, with hindsight, 
Ref: DRN95666182they might  feel that the policy wasnt good  value for them. But it doesnt look as though  they 
bought the PPI because  Nationwide  gave them the wrong information  about it. The personal 
loan agreement shows that Mr and Mrs C wouldve  known  the cost and the benefit  of the 
policy and what it covered. So in this instance  Im not persuaded that Nationwide doing  
something wrong led to Mr and Mrs C buying something without knowing what it was.
Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr C 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things  he told us he was employed 
and in good health. So I dont think better  information about it wouldve stopped Mr and 
Mrs C from buying it.
Ive thought carefully about everything else Mr and Mrs C have said.  But for the reasons Ive 
explained I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  17 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9566618