K821x#15complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that in 1989  he was advised  to opt out of his employers pension 
scheme by Philip  Griffin & Associates (referred to from now on as the business) and to then 
transfer the value of his accrued pension benefits  to a personal pension  plan. Mr M was 
also advised to start a regular premium pension plan.
Mr Ms representative has also complained about the advice Mr M received to:
 divert  pension contributions to a stocks  and shares ISA in 2003;
 purchase a unitised annuity in 2006;
 purchase a bond with the tax-free  cash lump sum received when Mr M took 
his pension benefits  in 2006.
background
The background to the complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated 21 December 
2018. A copy of this document is attached  to, and forms part of, this my final decision.
Mr M accepted the provisional decision.
The business did not accept the provisional decision and argued the following:
Procedural issues
1.The complaint  involves events some 30 years  ago which is too long to recall events 
accurately.
2.The complaint  was made some seven years ago and it has taken  a very long time for 
this service to deal with the complaint.
3.The business owner has been  unable  to deal with the complaint since 2016 due to 
problems with his health. The complaint has had to be dealt with by his business 
representative since then and they were  not involved with the sale of the policy.  The 
representative has never been  involved with the financial services  industry. 
4.The business asserted that it was being  disproportionately punished  for a favour that 
it did for an acquaintance in 1989 - now some 30 years ago.
5.It considered that the lack of any time constraints was unfair. The business owner, 
who is now aged over 80, considers  that there  has been a gross injustice in allowing 
the complaints  to have been  submitted. 
Our jurisdiction to consider the complaint
1.The decision on whether this service had jurisdiction to consider the complaint had 
been changed three times  and uncertainty remained  regarding this.
2.It was aware that a complaint from a former  colleague of Mr M who also opted  out of 
the employers  pension scheme at the same  time has been timebarred by this 
service.
3.Mr M should  have been aware  that he had cause  for complaint in 2006 when he 
started taking benefits from his personal  pension plan.
4.If Mr M had opted out of the company pension scheme in 1989 because  he was 
worried that the employer might  cease to trade, then the fact that he was still 
employed by the employer in 2006 should have prompted a reasonable person to 
Ref: DRN98840672query whether the decision to opt out of the company pension scheme was the best 
one he could have  taken.
5.In 2006 the business  told Mr M that annuities  were not performing well and that Mr M 
needed to take action.
6.Mr M would have  been in a position  to talk with other colleagues about their 
retirement benefits until he left the employer in 2011. Mr M must have been aware 
what other colleagues were receiving  as retirement pensions and this must have 
raised concerns,  as he was getting  much  less.
7.As a close friend and work colleague  has said that he knew in 2007 that his private 
pension was going nowhere, Mr M would or should have been aware that his 
arrangements were also going nowhere.
8.Its just as likely as not that Mr M did know about  the shortfall in his pension 
provision.
9.The letter that Mr M received in 2008 about  the company scheme should have made 
him aware that he was missing out on the 8% employer contributions and that 
therefore his benefits from his private pension plan were  bound to be lower than 
those from the company  pension  scheme.
10.It queried what evidence there was to support the statement that Mr M has made that 
each time he had raised the issue of the poor performance of his private pension 
arrangement the business had said It was the same for everyone. It queried why, if 
there had been frequent discussions  about  the poor performance of the personal  
pension plan, this had not given  Mr M cause for complaint. 
The suitability of the advice
1.The business then reiterated that Mr M was not unsuitably  advised to opt out of the 
company pension scheme, but rather that Mr M was provided with an alternative 
vehicle for providing for his retirement.
2.The business wasnt able to dissuade Mr M from opting  out of the company pension 
scheme  Mr Ms decision was his alone.  
3.The business denied  it had said that the personal pension  plan would provide greater 
benefits. It enquired  as to the evidence  to support the statements which  had been  
made by Mr M. The business  also noted that, when  asked why he hadnt  rejoined the 
company pension scheme when invited to do so, Mr M said that he sought  advice 
from the business. Mr M said that he was told by the business that it was very 
confident that the company pension scheme  could be bettered  by a private 
arrangement. But this was denied by the business.
4.It was argued that the level of proof it was required to provide was totally different to 
that of the complainant. It considered this was unfair.
5.There was no mention in the last provisional decision of the three other complaints 
that had been submitted by Mr M. The business  believed that all of these 
investments had made  a substantial amount of money and needed to be allowed for 
in the Final Decision.
In response to the last point above, I wrote to both parties setting out my view that the value 
and benefit derived of the annuity, the ISA and the investment  bond  should be taken into 
account in any redress calculation.
Mr M confirmed that he had no further  comments to make.
In a further letter to both parties dated 15 July 2019  I explained why the 15 year long stop in 
the Limitation  Act 1980 does not apply to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Ref: DRN98840673Indeed I set out that:
I am mindful also of the fact that in drafting the Financial Services Markets  
Act (FSMA), Parliament  did not require the rules  of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service to include a long-stop akin to the Limitation Act. It is 
clear that those  rules  were not intended  to replicate  the complex provisions  
of the Limitation  Act 1980, and this is in keeping with the statutory objectives 
of the scheme  as set out in section 225 of FSMA which  provides for a 
scheme under which certain disputes may be resolved  quickly and with 
minimum  formality by an independent  person.
Ultimately I consider it to be a matter of fairness. The position at law under 
the Limitation  Act is a factor to be weighed when balancing prejudice  to the 
parties in arriving at a fair and reasonable outcome. In my view, although  a 
written client file from the time of the advice is not available, I note that at the 
outset the business was able to provide his recollection of what was 
discussed with Mr M at that time. It follows  that although I do fully appreciate 
the additional distress that the delay  in this matter  has caused  the business , 
to my mind the prejudice that would  be caused to Mr M were  I to apply a
long-stop akin to that in the Limitation  Act outweighs any prejudice  that might  
be caused to the business  by not applying it.
I therefore concluded that the 15 year long stop in the Limitation Act 1980  should not apply.
I note that Mr M has accepted the findings set out in my earlier letter. His representative  has 
however provided  some  figures for the returns Mr M made on the investment bond, ISA and 
annuity. In particular he considered that the bond  had made a loss, and he doesnt consider 
that any income from the annuity after the adjudicators initial  findings  in April 2013 should  
be included  in the calculation.
The business representative has responded on behalf of the owner to stress again that the 
owner had not been able to assist  with dealing with the complaint due to his serious health 
issues.
The business representative  argued  again that this complaint should be timebarred as 
another individual had made a similar  complaint in the past about a similar transaction that 
had taken place  at the same time.  They considered that Mr M should have been aware that 
his pension provisions  after opting  out were going to be significantly lower than they would 
otherwise have been  The representative  considered that the answers  to why Mr M had not 
rejoined the employers scheme  were very flimsy. They  noted  that Mr M was alleging  that:
The business stated  that the company scheme could be bettered  by a private  
pension arrangement. There was no written  evidence in the file to support this 
statement which the business denied making.  
Mr M had complained to the firms owner  on several occasions about the fact that the 
personal pension  plan was underperforming and was told that it was the same  for 
everyone else. This was denied. (I note that there is no contemporaneous evidence 
of Mr M being told this).
The business representative stated that these arguments were  not backed  up by the 
information on the file from the time of advice or in any correspondence between  the parties.  
Ref: DRN98840674It strongly argued that the complaint should  be timebarred and that the evidence that this 
service was relying on is just not supported by independent notes from the time.
The business considered that the Financial Ombudsman Service had discounted the 
recollections of the business owner,  when  he was able to give them,  in favour  of the 
recollections of Mr M who had a vested  interest  in remembering things the way that he 
wanted to.
The business representative considered that it was grossly unfair  and unreasonable  for the 
business to be held liable for events that happened over 30 years ago when the owner  of the 
business was now incapable of assisting  with the investigation.
If the complaint is upheld  it will result in severe  financial hardship  for a frail 81 year old 
former business owner and his wife about an event some thirty years ago. The business 
representative asked  whether this was fair and reasonable?
Given the seriousness of the implications of the decision if it is upheld the owners  business  
representative asked  whether the case would be better dealt with by the courts.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  firstly,  whether  this is a 
complaint we can consider and, if we can consider it, whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Delays in resolving the complaint 
At the outset, I must sincerely  apologise  for the time its taken  to resolve this matter. And my 
apologies extend to both parties in that regard. Its extremely unfortunate that its taken the 
time it has, and I appreciate the distress this has caused. Im also grateful to the 
representative of the business for their cooperation in what  I understand  must  be a very 
difficult set of circumstances. Im confident that all parties are aware of the particular set of 
circumstances which have contributed to the delays  but Im nevertheless  sorry for these.  
I also accept that the events complained  of happened a considerable number of years ago. 
But I dont think this has prevented me from reaching rational conclusions as to the outcome 
of the case. Im satisfied that the available evidence is sufficient to enable  a fair and 
reasonable determination here.
Our jurisdiction to consider the complaint  - has it been made within  the time limits allowed?   
I considered in detail  the issue of whether the complaint  was one that this service could 
investigate in my jurisdiction decision dated 31 July 2017. In this, I concluded  that the 
complaint was one that this service could  investigate. 
I set out that it was apparent that Mr M had opted out of his employers  occupational  pension 
scheme in 1989  and that was more  than six years before he complained  to the business. I 
therefore had to consider whether the complaint had been  submitted within  the time limits 
set out in the Regulators handbook in DISP 2.8.2.  That rule says the following: 
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers  it to the Financial  
Ombudsman Service:
Ref: DRN98840675(1)more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant 
its final response , redress determination or summary resolution  communication1; or
(2) more than: 
(a)six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b)three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably  to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman  
within that period  and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the 
complaint having been  received

In the jurisdiction decision that I issued on 31 July 2017, I concentrated on 2.8.2 2(b). I 
stressed that the three year rule has two distinct aspects.  
The first is whether  the consumer was aware  that he had cause for complaint 
more than three years before  referring the complaint. 
The second is whether the consumer ought reasonably  to have been  aware  he 
had cause for complaint  more than three years before referring  the complaint.
I noted that the available evidence didnt support the position  that Mr M had actual  
awareness of a cause for complaint about  the opt-out before the referral of his complaint 
in 2012. On the basis of its comments relating to Mr M not having  raised  any concerns 
before 2012, this also seems to be acknowledged  by the business.  
I had noted that Mr M had taken benefits  from his PPP in 2006 when he was aged 54, rather  
than from the normal  retirement age of the pension  scheme of 65. I considered that it would 
not have been possible for Mr M to determine what benefits he would have received from the 
occupational pension scheme  (OPS) at that time. This was because  the accrued benefits  
would be reduced  to reflect the fact that the pension benefits were being paid 11 years early. 
I therefore concluded that Mr M would not have  realised  then that he had any cause for 
concern. 
I noted the fact that, by 2006,  the employer hadnt  ceased trading  which had been 
described as a contributing factor in the decision  to opt out in 1989.  But I also took into 
account Mr Ms assertions  that this hadnt been  a factor  in the decision making. And I said 
that, in any case,  the important question here was whether, taking  into account all the 
circumstances, a person  in Mr Ms position  ought  reasonably to have been aware, in 2006, 
that the benefits he was drawing at that time were less valuable  than those he might have 
received from the OPS.  My conclusion was that, for a reasonable man in Mr Ms position, it 
would have been very difficult to have taken the necessary steps  to determine that this was 
in fact the case. My view on this remains the same, and for the same reasons given in that 
decision on our jurisdiction to consider this matter. 
In that decision,  I also addressed the matter of the notice  given  by the business in 2006 that 
annuities were underperforming  and that Mr M needed  to take mitigating action. But Mr M 
had said that each time he had raised  the issue of the poor performance  of his personal  
Ref: DRN98840676pension, he was told that the situation  was the same for everybody. The business has 
contested that this statement was made,  and has requested evidence of it. This cant be 
provided in written form. But even in its absence,  my consideration extended beyond just 
that verbal assertion. Such mitigating  action  could have taken the form of Mr M rejoining  his 
OPS. But I noted  the fact that the business didnt at any time (whilst still acting as Mr Ms 
adviser) recommend that he rejoin  the OPS   an option which  remained open  to him whilst 
in the same employment. 
And I also noted that Mr M hadnt, of his own accord, rejoined that scheme.  I concluded that, 
had he known hed be better off doing so, he would have taken that course of action. The 
fact that this was not being recommended to him would, in my view, have significantly 
undermined the development of constructive awareness of cause  for concern, or complaint, 
in Mr Ms mind about having  opted out of the scheme.   
The business representative has also suggested  that Mr M must have been communicating 
with colleagues  who would have been in a similar position, and so this should have given 
him cause  for complaint.  But my conclusions on this are similar to those expressed  above. 
The available evidence doesnt  support the position that Mr M did have conversations.  But 
even if he did, Mr M started taking pension benefits  at age 54 - and so it would have been 
very difficult to compare the benefits he was receiving 11 years  early with those that his 
colleagues would have been receiving. Im unaware of any evidence that Mr M knew   and 
was having conversations  with  anyone whod retired at age 54 with similar company 
service and pensionable pay.
Whilst Im aware that the complaint from a colleague who also opted  out at the same  time 
has been deemed to be out of time, the circumstances in that case were  significantly 
different. In the other  case the complainant had admitted that he was aware many years  ago 
that there  were issues with his pension provision. In Mr Ms case, there was no such 
evidence.
To address the matter  of the letter sent to members and non-members of the company  
scheme in 2008,  as I said in my decision on jurisdiction, Mr M was informed in that letter  
that, as a non-member, he would be unaffected by the letters content. And my view was that 
he would  more likely than not have stopped reading  at that point.
But I also said that, even  if hed read on and seen the information about the employer 
contribution  and that hed therefore  been reminded of this absence in his personal pension  
arrangement  he wouldnt necessarily have concluded that the benefits offered within  the 
scheme would  be worth  more to him than the personal pension  benefits. And so I wasnt 
satisfied that this would have given  him cause for concern about the decision hed made to 
opt out some 19 years  earlier.
The business has also said that the frequent discussions about  the underperformance  of the 
pension plan ought to have given  Mr M cause for concern, but also challenged  that he was 
repeatedly told that it was the same  for everyone . But I dont think frequent discussions 
about a pension plans underperformance  would  necessarily have given Mr M cause for 
concern. And Id refer to my previous  point  on this  the mitigating action which  might have 
made it most  apparent to Mr M that he would have been better  off remaining in his 
employers scheme  rejoining that scheme   wasnt suggested  to him. And so my view is 
that he wouldnt have  formed  an awareness  of cause for complaint by virtue  of simply having 
conversations about the performance of a pension plan  with the additional (albeit disputed) 
commentary that this wasnt  a situation unique to him. 
Ref: DRN98840677The suitability of the advice to opt out and transfer the accrued OPS value
The business has argued that Mr M was provided  with an alternative to remaining in his 
employers scheme, but that the ultimate  decision was Mr Ms. But while  it may have been       
Mr Ms decision as to whether to opt out of his scheme, he was nevertheless reliant upon the 
information and advice provided  by the business.  Of the two parties  involved,  the business  
was the professional and ought to have highlighted the valuable benefits which Mr M would 
be relinquishing by opting out  and should have advised him not to do it.
Mr Ms concern as recorded in the fact find document  was that he wasnt satisfied with the 
scheme as the company might  close in the future. But there was no indication that the 
business had sought to dissuade Mr M from this course of action  or that he was acting 
contrary to its recommendation. And as I set out in the provisional decision,  even if the 
company had ceased trading and he therefore lost future employer contributions,  Mr Ms 
accrued benefits  would have been  secure insofar as the schemes funding position  in 
surplus  at that time.  I cant see that this important aspect was pointed out to Mr M at the 
time.
Mr M was also 37 years  old at the time and had accrued 11 years  pensionable service. 
Whilst he may have had concerns about the future of his employer, there were no plans set 
out for redundancies or definitive evidence that his job was in danger. As such, there  was no 
need for Mr M to make any decision at that time about relinquishing  his valuable employee 
benefits within the pension scheme.  And although the benefit of hindsight  plays  no part in 
this decision, its worth noting that Mr M remained with that employer  for many years to 
come.
I also set out in my provisional decision that the Securities and Investments Board (SIB) said 
in the pension review guidance issued in 1994 that it would be hard to justify  an individual 
opting out an employers defined benefit scheme and establishing  a personal pension  policy.  
And although there were circumstances under which it might have been deemed  suitable 
(such as where the employer would contribute to the new personal pension  policy), none of 
these applied to Mr M.
Ive also noted  the business assertion that Mr M wasnt told that the personal pension 
benefits would be better  than those from the company scheme  and that, in the event of 
him asking  about  rejoining his employers scheme,  he also wouldnt have been told this. Its 
of course impossible for me to know one way or another. But I dont  in any case think I need  
to make a finding on this. My view is that Mr M ought to have been informed of the valuable  
benefits he was relinquishing  and that if hed been in a fully informed position and been  
advised to not opt out and transfer  on the basis of what he was giving up, he wouldnt have 
done so.
As to the point  made  by the business about  the burden of proof, and the perceived 
unfairness of the different expectation of the business, I dont  agree that this is the case. 
There were certainly record keeping requirements  of regulated businesses at the time Mr M 
opted out of his scheme. And the business was able to record that Mr M was dissatisfied 
with his situation  albeit  a position which I think could have been remedied by assurances  in 
that regard, as set out above.  My view is that it would have been a fairly  straightforward 
matter to add to this comment that Mr M was insistent that he opt out of his scheme  and 
transfer his accrued benefits  against a recommendation  given by the business,  if this truly 
was the case.  Ideally  that comment would also need  to have been shown to and 
Ref: DRN98840678acknowledged by Mr M so that he understood the implications of acting against any advice 
he received.
The diversion of pension  contributions to a stocks and shares  ISA in 2003, the unitised 
annuity and the investment bond
In my letter dated 6 June  2019, I said the following:
Mr M stopped contributing to his pension policy and started contributions  to the ISA in June 
2003. For the reasons set out in my provisional  decision, my view is that the advice given to 
Mr M to opt out of his occupational pensions scheme (OPS) in 1989 in favour of paying  
contributions to new personal  pension plan was unsuitable. And that the redirecting of those 
contributions in 2003 to the ISA, at a point when  Mr M could still have  rejoined  the OPS,  was 
also unsuitable. 
Although the accrued value of an ISA would be payable free of tax, the initial contributions 
didnt attract tax relief.  Nor did they attract the associated benefits  (such as the employer 
contribution) which would  have been available in the OPS. 
Nevertheless, as noted by the business, the ISA will have accrued a value. As such, my view 
is that this must be allowed for in any calculation to determine whether Mr M has suffered a 
financial loss  in a similar way in which the value  of personal pension contributions would 
be taken into account.
Mr Ms unitized annuity began in May 2006, and although no recommendation letter exists 
for this advice, the first annuity payment  was made  on 31 May 2006 and the business  has 
confirmed that all aspects of the pension confirming all previous discussions and 
recommendation were  discussed on 18 March 2006. Mr M received  tax free cash at the 
same time.
My view is that this was a further instance of unsuitable advice. Mr M was still employed at 
this point and had no apparent need  for the additional income. Furthermore, he was still at 
this point able to rejoin his employers scheme. 
As this annuity has provided a benefit to Mr M, it must also be allowed for in any calculation  
to determine loss.
Finally, in June 2006, the business advised Mr and Mrs M to invest  in a Scottish  Widows  
Flexible Investment  Bond with the tax-free  cash received from the personal pension  plan. 
This investment also needs to be allowed for in the redress calculation. 
Ordinarily, the redress calculation wouldnt  take into account what  subsequently happened  
with that money.  But in this instance,  Mr M was advised to invest the tax free cash in the 
bond  and I therefore think  its reasonable to conclude that this formed a part of 
provisioning for Mr Ms retirement. And so my view is that the investment  return on this 
should also be factored into the loss calculation. I dont think  I need to specifically consider 
whether a different type of investment would have been more suitable for Mr M at that time. 
This is because the bonds performance will be allowed for in the calculation  of any redress  
due. If it has underperformed, this will serve to increase  any loss, and conversely, if it has 
performed well, this will reduce any final loss figure.
Ref: DRN98840679I continue to hold the opinion on this subsequent  advice which  I quoted above. For the 
avoidance of any doubt, I havent considered  alternative investments to the investment bond  
in 2006 because this bond  was funded from tax-free  cash which  Ive concluded Mr M had no 
need to draw out of his pension at that time. And had Mr M never opted out or transferred 
from the OPS in the first place, his tax-free cash entitlement would have been tied up in that 
scheme instead, until he later retired from that scheme.
Finally I note that the CMC has argued that the income that Mr M has received from the 
unitised annuity after he complained originally in 2013 should be excluded from the redress  
calculation. 
I disagree with this argument. I note that Mr M only took out the personal pension  plan after 
opting out of the company  pension scheme  and therefore  the benefits that he has received 
in the past from the unitised annuity and the benefits that he will receive in the future do 
need to be allowed for in the redress calculation. As this calculation is complex it will need to 
be carried out by technical experts.
summary
On a fair and reasonable assessment of the facts of this case, I dont consider that the 
advice given to Mr M to opt out of his OPS, and to transfer his valuable accrued benefits,  
was suitable advice. In 1989, the accrued  benefits in the company pension  scheme  were  
fully funded.  
Whilst Mr M may have been concerned about  the future of his employer,  there was no 
need for him to make a decision  about leaving that scheme  at that time. The available 
evidence also doesnt support the position  that the opt-out and transfer  were  carried out 
on an execution only basis, as I set out in my provisional decision of 21 December 
2018.
In my opinion, if Mr M had not been advised to opt out of the company pension  scheme,  
he would  have remained a member of the company pension  arrangements for as long as 
possible and Ive set out redress below to reflect this scenario.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint,  and that a fair and reasonable outcome 
would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, into the position he would now be 
in but for the unsuitable advice.
Philip Griffin  & Associates must undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review  guidance,  as updated  by the Financial Conduct Authority in 
October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision,  and using the 
most recent financial assumptions published (at the date of that decision).  In accordance  
with the regulators  expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate 
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
As set out above, the calculation should take into account, in terms of the actual benefits 
Mr M has accrued and received, the value of the ISA contributions when these  were  
diverted from the personal pension, that Mr M annuitized in 2006, and that he invested the 
Ref: DRN988406710tax free cash in a bond in 2006. 
Philip Griffin  & Associates may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions  
(DWP) to obtain  Mr Ms contribution history  to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in 
the calculation,  which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme 
on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress  calculation demonstrates  a loss, the compensation should if possible be 
paid into Mr Ms pension  plan. The payment  should allow for the effect  of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance  implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump  sum after making a notional  deduction  to allow 
for income  tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been  taxed according to his likely  income tax rate in retirement   
which I presumed in my provisional decision  to be 20%. So making a notional  deduction  of 
15% overall  from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I consider  that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that 
might exceed £150,000,  I may recommend that the business pays  the balance.
determination and money award:
I require Philip Griffin & Associates  to pay Mr M compensation as set out above, up to 
a maximum of £150,000.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid within 
90 days of the date Philip Griffin & Associates  receives notification  of his acceptance of my 
final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% 
per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Philip  Griffin  & Associates to pay Mr M this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation  is 
data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period  in which interest  wont apply.
recommendation :
If the amount produced  by the calculation of fair compensation  exceeds £150,000, I also 
recommend that Philip Griffin & Associates pays Mr M the balance. I further recommend 
interest to be added to this balance  at the rate of 8% per year simple  for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Philip  Griffin  & Associates to pay Mr M from the date it 
receives notification  of his acceptance  of the decision, as set out above.
If Mr M accepts  my determination,  the money  award  is binding  on Philip Griffin & 
Associates. My recommendation is not binding on Philip Griffin & Associates .
Further, its unlikely  that Mr M can accept my determination and go to court to ask for the 
balance of the compensation  owing  to him after the money award has been  paid. Mr M 
Ref: DRN988406711may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Adrian Hudson  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN988406712Provisional  Decision dated 21 December  2018
complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that in 1989 he was advised to opt out of his employers pension scheme by 
Philip Griffin & Associates (referred to from now on as Philip Griffin  or the business) and to then 
transfer the value of his accrued pension benefits to a personal pension plan.  Mr M was also advised 
to start a regular premium  pension plan.
Mr Ms representative has also complained about the advice Mr M received  to:
 divert pension  contributions to a stocks and shares ISA;
 purchase a unitised annuity in 2006;
 purchase a bond with the tax-free cash lump  sum received when  Mr M took his 
pension benefits  in 2006.
Background
In June 1978  Mr M, aged 26, joined his employers occupational pension scheme.
In May 1989 Mr M, then aged 37, met Philip Griffin and a Personal Financial Profile (more  
commonly known as a fact find) was completed. This recorded  that Mr M was employed and was a 
member of his employers  final salary  pension  scheme.
In the fact find under  the heading Advisers Report  it stated that the adviser had 
recommended a personal pension plan (PPP) as Mr M was:
not satisfied with company  pension scheme as company may cease in future
Mr M then opted out of the company pension  scheme and established a PPP. Mr M also 
transferred out the value  of his accrued  pension  benefits to that PPP.
On 18 February 2012  Mr M complained to the business  about the advice that he had received.
The complaint was not upheld and on 19 June 2012 the complaint was received  by this Service.
The business  then argued that the complaint to this Service had been made  outside the time limits 
allowed under our rules  and therefore was not a complaint that this Service could investigate.
On 13 February 2013,  the adjudicator wrote to the business to state that in his view the complaint  
had been made within the time limits allowed and was therefore one that this Service could 
investigate. This was not disputed by the business and it then argued that the transactions  were  
carried out on an execution  only basis and that no advice  was given to Mr M.
An adjudicator investigated  the complaint. He concluded  that, based on the available evidence,  he 
was not satisfied that the transaction had been carried out on an execution  only basis.
The adjudicator referred to the 1994 publication from the Securities and Investment Board (SIB) 
entitled Pension  Transfer and Opt Outs  Review of Past Business that was issued following  the 
widespread miss-selling of personal pension  plans between 1988 and 1994.  This publication set 
out that:
an execution-only  transaction is one where  the customer simply gives his order and does not rely 
on the firm to advise him or her or to express any judgment  on his or
her behalf about the merits of the transaction of its suitability for him or her.
Ref: DRN988406713The adjudicator noted that the regulator  had instructed  businesses that had given  advice to 
individuals to opt-out or to transfer  from an occupational pension scheme  to carry  out a review of 
such transactions: It specifically set out that:
Where records  indicate  that an opt-out  was arranged on an execution only basis or effected upon 
the investors insistence  despite advice to the contrary, the firm should seek  fresh corroboration of 
that point unless there is clear and creditable  evidence  on file such as a letter  in the investors own 
hand.
The adjudicator noted that it was the business that had recommended that Mr M start a PPP
with Life Association  of Scotland  (LAS). LAS later became  part of Britannia Life and was then 
renamed Alba Life. In 2006, Alba Life became part of Phoenix Life. The policies  that were set up 
with LAS were later transferred to Scottish Widows.
The adjudicator also didnt think that this was an insistent customer sale.  The evidence didnt support 
the position that Philip Griffin had told Mr M not to opt out of the pension scheme  and that Mr M had 
ignored that advice. The adjudicator believed  that Mr M would not have had the knowledge to initiate 
the pension transfer without advice. Moreover, recommending a particular  personal pension  provider 
in the Advisers Report was an exercise of judgment about the specific company and the potential 
benefits it may provide.
The adjudicator noted that at the time of advice there were rumours  that Mr Ms employer was at risk 
of closing.  However, his conclusion was nevertheless  that the business provided  advice to Mr M and 
that the advice given was unsuitable. The adjudicator  noted that investments in an OPS  were kept 
separate from an employer and were managed  by the trustees of the OPS. This meant that, in the 
event that the employer ceased trading, the money in the pension scheme would be unaffected.
The business  disagreed with the adjudicators findings  and has said the following:
Phillip Griffin has been trading for over 30 years and had only received  two complaints. 
Examination of its trading records demonstrates that it never advised on transfers/opt outs.
At no point was advice given to Mr M by the business  as Mr M maintains. Moreover, Mr M 
says that his pension  funds were transferred  on several occasions  for his own financial 
interest . But this wasnt the case  - the pension  was not transferred but rather  the pension 
providers were  merged or taken over. This is why the providers name changed. .
In 1989, there was no protection for employees  when  an occupational pension  
scheme wound up with a deficit or a company went into liquidation.
The fact find completed in 1989 recorded  that Mr M wished to leave his company 
pension scheme due to doubts about the employers  future;
The SIB publication  entitled Pension  Transfer  and Opt Outs  Review of Past Business was 
published in May 1994, some four years  and eleven  months after the transactions had 
taken place. The SIB review guidance  was therefore unavailable at the time of the transfer. 
Similarly, PIA Regulatory Update 33 was issued  in May 1997 and therefore could not have 
been used for guidance  purposes.
The business  also noted that the Financial  Intermediaries,  Manager  and Brokers Regulatory
Association (FIMBRA)  rules  at the time stated that an execution only client was:
A client with or for whom  a transaction is effected  in circumstances in which the member can 
reasonably assume  that he is not relying upon the member to advise him on or exercise  any 
judgement on his behalf  as to the merits of or the suitability for him of that transaction.
The business  considers that in providing  transactional  services  to Mr M where  he signed the fact find 
confirming that this was an execution-only transaction, it fulfilled the obligations  set out under the 
FIMBRA rules.
Ref: DRN988406714The business  noted that the adjudicator  had argued that although the Financial Ombudsman Service 
had previously rejected  complaints where the adviser had acted on their clients  instructions and 
merely selected the appropriate company, the pension transfer  was more complex. In the business 
view, the issue remains identical as the complainant requested a course of action,  having decided 
that the risk of losing his pension if the employer  went into receivership was too high.
The Advisers  Report,  signed by Mr M, also highlighted  his wish to leave his company pension 
scheme due to doubts  about the employers  future. If judged on the industry practices  of the time, 
the evidence provided in support of Mr Ms own intention is sufficient.
The business  considered the adjudicators arguments that opting-out and transferring  out of
a final salary scheme is normally considered unsuitable. The business conceded that view is widely 
held today but it did not have  the same traction back in 1989 when  opting out of SERPS and 
breaking the link with company  pension schemes were ideas widely promoted by the Government  
and numerous pension providers.
The business  concluded that much of the reasoning behind the adjudicators proposed 
upholding of the complaint was based on unfounded  and unsubstantiated  opinion.
Mr Ms employer  has supplied  information about  the pension schemes that it has offered in the 
past. It has said that:
 The final salary pension scheme was closed  to new entrants in April 2001,  changing to a 
career averaged revalued  earnings  plan in 2009;
 A defined contribution (or money purchase) plan was introduced in May 2001;
 The final salary pension scheme was overfunded at the time Mr M left the scheme in 1989
As agreement has not been reached,  the case was referred to me as an ombudsman to decide 
whether this was a case that this Service could investigate.
On 28 May 2015, I issued a provisional  jurisdiction decision stating that, in my opinion, the 
complaint was one that the Financial Ombudsman  Service  could investigate.
The business  disagreed and on 29 June  2015  it argued that the information on the complaint form 
signed by Mr M was inaccurate.
After considering the arguments, I issued a jurisdiction decision on 31 July 2017 in which I
set out the reasons why the complaint was one that this service could  consider.
Due to the length of time since my original provisional  decision was issued in March  2014 dealing  
with the merits  of the complaint, I have decided that a revised provisional decision should  be 
issued now to allow both parties the opportunity of making any final submissions  on the merits of 
the complaint that they wish to make.
my initial provisional findings
I considered  all the available evidence  and arguments in order  to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to Mr M moving his occupational pension  benefits to a personal pension arrangement, a fact 
find was completed  and signed. This noted the following:
Types of Policy  Recommended? <name  of pension  provider>future pension  account. (Main reason 
why) not satisfied  with company pension  scheme as company may
close in future.
Ref: DRN988406715If, as the business has suggested, Mr M was planning to opt out of the employers  pension scheme, 
my opinion was that, as the pension expert, the business should have  highlighted the benefits  that he 
would be giving up as a result and that this would automatically result in the loss of the valuable 
employer contributions  that would be paid into the company sponsored arrangement on his behalf.  
And if the business concluded that the transfer wasnt in Mr Ms best interests, it should have 
obtained a statement  in Mr Ms own handwriting  that, despite its advice to the contrary, he still 
wanted to opt out of his employers pension  scheme.
I do not deny  that there may well have  been  rumours in 1989 that Mr Ms employer was to close 
and that this would have had a major impact  on Mr Ms expected future level of pension benefits.  
However the benefits  accrued to date were secure in as much as the pension  scheme was fully 
funded at that time. Mr M did also approach the business for advice on what  to do with his pension 
benefits. It is important to note that Mr M was not a pension expert and he would  have been reliant 
on the business to give him appropriate advice. And it was the responsibility of the business to 
manage Mr Ms concerns  relating to the security of the scheme.
The business  should have informed Mr M that the companys pension scheme assets were  held 
under trust and were  separate from the company.  This would  mean  that at the time of advice, and 
that in the event that the company ceased trading, the accrued pension benefits would have been 
secure. And if the business had investigated the final salary scheme, it would  have found that the 
scheme was in surplus at that time.
Ive also considered Mr Ms wider circumstances  at the time noting that he was aged 37 and had 
accrued 11 years pensionable service with his employer. Whilst Mr M was concerned about the 
security of his future employment there were no plans  at the time that were going to lead to him 
being made redundant in the near future.  In those circumstances, and given the contributions  that 
were being  paid by the employer to the final salary  OPS,  Mr M should  have been strongly advised  to 
remain a member  of the OPS and not to opt-out to start a PPP.
If Mr M had not opted out of the OPS he would not have been able to transfer out the value of his 
past accrued benefits. All other things being equal it would be expected that the value of Mr Ms 
accrued benefits would increase in value  in line with his salary increases and also over time.  The 
transfer of the deferred  benefits would not have happened if Mr M had remained in the OPS  as he 
should have been advised  to do by the business.
I note that The Securities and Investments  Board (SIB) stated  in the pension  review 
guidance issued in 1994 that:
Experience suggests  that advising an individual to acquire a personal pension in 
circumstances involving an opt out is very hard to justify.
SIB did set out that an opt out might be suitable  where:
 The employer  was contributing to the PPP at an inadequate  rate;
 The employers  scheme  offered  poor benefits for a high employee contribution rate;
 An employee expected to have frequent job changes  and
 The employee was desperate to minimise their expenditure
But I note that none of the above reasons applied  to Mr M.
In my opinion if the adverse impact of the decision to opt out of the employers pension scheme  had 
been brought  to the attention of Mr M, as was required, then he would not have opted  out of the 
company pension  scheme.
Ive noted the assertion that this was an execution only transaction, with Mr M being the driving 
Ref: DRN988406716force behind  the transfer. But I dont  think  this is borne  out by the available  evidence.
It is apparent that Mr M was very concerned  about the future  security of his job and was worried 
that if he lost his job that his pension  benefits  would  be lost aswell.  Mr M had approached the 
business for advice as what to do with his pension benefits. It is important to note that at that time 
the accrued benefits in the pension scheme were secure as there were sufficient  assets in the 
scheme to meet the liabilities  that it would  have  to pay.
If Mr M had been told this and that the assets of the scheme were  held completely  separately from 
the employer I consider  that he would  not have opted out of the company scheme  and would  not 
have transferred out.
In my opinion, the business was the expert in the discussions that took place. This was not a simple 
decision and the business,  as the expert,  should  have  realised the significant
potential losses that could arise in opting out of a defined benefit occupational  pension arrangement. 
I consider that such losses should have been highlighted  to Mr M. Had they been drawn  to his 
attention, I think  its more  likely than not that he would  not have opted  out of the company pension 
scheme.
By recommending  a specific product provider, Mr M has relied on the business  exercise of 
judgment on his behalf. Consequently, I am satisfied that the business  did advise  Mr M in 1989 and 
that the sale cannot be considered as an execution only transaction.
I have noted that the business has referred to the fact that opting out of the State Earnings  Related 
Pension Scheme (SERPS)  was being encouraged  at the time by the Government. The business  
also referred to the fact that other adverts were being run which  promoted personal pensions at the 
time of advice. But in my opinion these would not have justified Mr M opting out of his employers 
pension scheme.
Indeed it was following the widespread mis-selling of personal pension plans  that the 
regulator at the time set up the industry-wide  pension review.
I note that the business  has also referred to the fact that the regulatory  guidance on how to carry  out 
the past business  review was issued  some-time after the opt-out transaction took place. But the 
regulators guidance on how to carry out the industry-wide pensions  review exercise did not change  
any of the requirements on businesses  involved  in selling personal pension  policies  it just 
highlighted the standards that businesses  were required to meet.
Finally I agree with the adjudicator that if the transfer to the personal pension  had not been advised, 
it is unlikely that Mr M would have been in a position to divert contributions from his personal pension 
to an ISA, or indeed  purchase an annuity or bond with his tax-free cash. I say this because  Mr M 
would have continued contributing to the occupational  pension scheme  by way of salary deductions 
and wouldnt have needed  to invest elsewhere  to make up those relinquished benefits.
summary of findings
So in summary I would note that:
 In 1989 the accrued benefits in the company  pension scheme  were fully funded.
 Mr M was concerned about the future of the company  where he worked.
 Mr M was inappropriately advised to opt out of the company pension  scheme and to start a 
PPP on the advice  of Philip  Griffin & Associates.
 Mr M was inappropriately advised to transfer out the value  of his accrued benefits  from 
the company scheme into a personal pension arrangement.
 There was no evidence to show that the sale was carried  out on an execution only basis.
Ref: DRN988406717my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold the complaint,  and that a fair and reasonable
outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, into the position  he would now be 
in but for the unsuitable advice.
Philip Griffin & Associates must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension  
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October  2017.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision,  and using  the most recent  
financial assumptions  published (at the date of that decision).  In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken  or submitted to an appropriate provider  promptly following  
receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
Philip Griffin & Associates may wish to contact  the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) to 
obtain Mr Ms contribution history to the State  Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details  should then be used to include  a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which  will 
take into account  the impact  of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress  calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should  if possible be paid into Mr 
Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
The compensation  shouldnt  be paid into the pension  plan if it would  conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should  be 
paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction  to allow for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would  be tax-free and m75% would have  been 
taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a 
notional deduction  of 15% overall  from the loss adequately reflects  this.
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed 
£150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
determination and money award:
I require Philip Griffin & Associates to pay Mr M compensation as set out above,  up to a 
maximum of £150,000.
The compensation  resulting  from the loss assessment must where  possible be paid to Mr M within 
90 days of the date Philip Griffin & Associates receives  notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 90 days, 
that it takes  Philip  Griffin  & Associates to pay Mr M this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean  that the actual time taken  to 
settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any period of time 
where the only outstanding item required to undertake  the calculation is data from DWP may be 
added to the 90 day period  in which interest wont apply.
recommendation :
If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I also 
recommend that Philip Griffin & Associates pays Mr M the balance. I further recommend interest to 
be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for any time, in excess  of 90 days, that it 
takes Philip Griffin & Associates to pay Mr M from the date it receives notification of his acceptance 
Ref: DRN988406718of the decision, as set out above.
If Mr M accepts  my determination, the money award is binding on Philip  Griffin  & Associates. My 
recommendation is not binding on Philip Griffin & Associates .
Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept  my determination and go to court to ask for the balance of 
the compensation owing to him after the money award  has been paid. Mr M may want  to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Adrian Hudson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9884067