K820x#14complaint
Mr F and his daughter  Miss F have complained that BUPA Insurance  Limited (BUPA) have 
declined a claim Mr F made on behalf  of Miss F. 
background
Mr F has a private medical  insurance policy that is underwritten  by BUPA. The policy 
provides cover for him and his family, including his daughter Miss F.
In August  2018  Mr F contacted BUPA  in order to make a claim for a gynaecological 
procedure Miss F needed to undergo.  He explained that Miss F had been to the GP as she 
was experiencing a lot of pain and discomfort  when  trying to use tampons. She was also 
concerned she would experience similar problems when she wanted to have sex. 
Miss F was referred to a specialist consultant who performed an examination and confirmed  
she had a vaginal septum. The specialist recommended  that Miss F undergo a procedure to 
have the septum  removed  as this would resolve  both the issues she was having with using 
tampons and address the pain she was experiencing. 
BUPA refused  to cover the cost of the procedure and said that the policy  Mr F had didnt 
provide cover for either sexual health  problems or the removal  of healthy tissue. It explained 
that while it understood Miss F was in pain, the consultants  letter  had stated that the main  
reason for meeting  with Miss F was because she couldnt use tampons and was worried 
about having sex. BUPA referred to the exclusions  set out in sections 5 and 10 of its policy  
and relied on these to decline  the claim.
Mr F arranged for Miss F to have the procedure and paid for it privately. After BUPA had 
refused the claim Miss Fs consultant wrote a second letter to explain that the procedure  had 
been necessary  as the septum would have made other gynaecological  examinations, such  
as smear tests, necessary. The consultant  also explained that Miss F had reported 
experiencing pain when  exercising and that the removal of the would mean  this would no 
longer be an issue.  
BUPA reviewed the letter and explained  that, while it didnt doubt Miss F had been  in pain 
and the procedure had alleviated that pain, the claim wasnt  covered under the terms of the 
policy. It explained that even if it reassessed the claim on the basis that Miss F had to have it 
done in order  to be able to have  smear tests; these sorts of tests  were also not covered and 
were excluded under section 25 of the policys terms and conditions. 
Mr F remained dissatisfied with BUPAs response  and so he brought  the complaint to us to 
consider. One of our investigators  looked into the complaint already. Initially he upheld  the 
complaint as he felt BUPA  had applied  the exclusions under sections 5 and 10 unfairly.  
However he later issued a second view not upholding the complaint on the basis that the 
problem Miss F experienced couldnt be defined  as an acute  condition  as so wasnt  covered 
under the policys  terms and conditions. 
Mr F disagreed with the investigators second  view and asked for an ombudsman  to review 
his complaint and so it has been  passed to me to consider. 
Ref: DRN93781162my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not going to uphold 
the complaint  and Id like to explain why.
BUPA initially declined the claim  under  sections  5 and 10 of the policys terms and 
conditions. Section 5 states that the policy doesnt provide cover for any issue relating  to 
sexual health,  including  for example, impotence. Section  10 says that BUPA wont pay for 
the removal of healthy  (i.e. not diseased) tissue. However,  after BUPA received the 
investigators initial view which questioned the application of these  specific  exclusions, it said 
the issue Miss F was experiencing would never  be covered  under  the policy as it couldnt be 
defined as an acute  condition.
The policy wording defines eligible  treatment  as:
treatment of an acute  condition
It then goes on to define  an acute condition  as:
As disease, illness or injury that is likely  to respond quickly  to treatment which  aims to return 
you to the state  of heath you were in immediately before suffering the disease, illness or 
injury, or which leads to your full recovery.
There is no doubt that Miss F was experiencing pain and discomfort  and that resulted in her 
seeking medical help. However,  what is in question here is whether or not the issue Miss F 
experienced falls under  definition of an acute condition. 
I dont think its possible to define the issue and symptoms  Miss F was experiencing as 
linked to a disease, illness or injury. I fully accept  that there was a problem and that the 
problem was causing her physical pain and required medical  intervention to be resolved; but 
private medical insurance policies, such as the one Mr F has with BUPA,  arent designed  to 
cover all medical procedures in all eventualities. And in this instance  I believe it was 
reasonable for BUPA to decline Miss Fs claim as it doesnt fall under the definition of eligible 
treatment. 
Mr F has mentioned the fact that the procedure Miss F had to resolve the problem was 
defined by their consultant as a BUPA procedure.  The consultant  even provided  Mr F and 
Miss F with the relevant  procedure code. However, its not the procedure  itself that is in 
question here but rather what was causing  Miss F to need  the procedure.  And, as Ive 
explained above, I dont think the cause was linked to disease, illness or injury and so, 
despite BUPA having a code for the procedure,  it doesnt automatically follow that the claim 
will be allowed. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr F and Miss F as this isnt the outcome they 
were hoping for. But having  reviewed everything very carefully I cant say that BUPA were 
wrong to deny the claim and so I cant ask it to do anymore  in relation to Mr Fs complaint. 
Ref: DRN93781163my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr F and Miss Fs complaint against  BUPA  
insurance limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F and Miss F  
to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2020.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9378116