K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) closed his five bank  accounts  
without giving him a reason. 
background
Mr B said he couldnt make any payments and had to borrow  money  from friends and was 
given incorrect information  about his accounts.  He said some  cheques were  dishonoured 
and he found  it difficult to get invoices  paid.
Halifax said it followed regulatory  procedures in reviewing Mr Bs account. It re-opened his 
accounts around a week  later and paid Mr B £95 compensation for misinformation at his 
branch and extended calls.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He said Halifax reviewed Mr Bs 
accounts and did this according  to the correct  procedures. He said banks dont have to give 
reasons for not carrying out transactions,  but Halifax quickly re-opened Mr Bs accounts. 
Mr B disagreed and said Halifax  failed  to tell him his accounts were re-opened. He said he 
wants an explanation  for the banks actions and compensation for his expenses  and stress 
caused. He requested an ombudsman review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely  at Halifaxs decisions and handling of Mr Bs accounts to see if it has 
treated him fairly.
Halifax decided to review  Mr Bs accounts  as it is entitled to do. I can see that it followed the 
correct regulatory  procedures in carrying this out. Halifax  re-opened  Mr Bs accounts one 
week later.  Mr B said he wasnt told this, which is unfortunate, but I can see that his 
payments were resumed.  
Banks are not obliged  to explain to customers the reasons they decide to review their 
accounts. I realise this is unwelcome to Mr B but I cant compel Halifax  to tell him why it 
acted as it did towards his account.
I was sorry to learn about the difficulties Mr B faced when his accounts  were blocked. He 
has sent us a copy of cheque  for £20 which says return  to drawer.  Im sorry to see that he 
had difficulty with this cheque but I think overall  Halifax has acted  in accordance  with the 
correct procedures and treated  him fairly in its compensation  for his trouble and upset.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Ref: DRN90733282Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9073328