K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained NewDay Limited, trading  as Aqua, is asking him to pay for cash 
machine transactions he didnt make.
background
Mr S held an Aqua account with NewDay. In October  2016  he paid off his existing balance. 
Aqua sent him a new card in December 2016 but this wasnt  activated.  Mr S moved house in 
April 2017. Throughout  2017 Mr S logged online to his Aqua  account seven times. Once in 
July 2017 just shortly  after Mr S logged onto his account, Aqua received a notice that the 
direct debit previously set up on the account  was cancelled.
Mr Ss card was activated using  Aquas  system  in December 2017. Three  cash  withdrawals 
of £300, £300 and £100 were taken out in the next two days. Letters and statements were 
then sent to Mr S telling him hed exceeded  his credit limit. Mr S told Aqua he hadnt made 
the transactions. Aqua believed as these transactions  were  made  using the genuine card 
and PIN, they could  continue to hold Mr S liable.
Mr S brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service.  Our investigator reviewed the 
detailed evidence Aqua  was able to provide along with Mr Ss testimony. Overall he felt that 
Mr S had authorised  these transactions.
Mr S disagreed with this outcome  and asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 29 October  2019. I believed there wasnt  enough 
evidence to show Mr S had received the card and authorised the transactions.
Following that PD I received no comments from either party.  I now have all I need to 
complete a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and received no further comments from either party, Im coming to the same 
conclusion as my provisional decision. Theres little need to amend what I previously wrote.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  but not 
specifically in this case where were  looking  at a credit card. So when we look at whether a 
bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we consider 
is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed  them  to be made. If 
they did, then we generally wouldnt  ask the bank to refund them.
Our investigator felt as he couldnt see who else had access to Mr Ss PIN, then Mr S 
authorised the disputed  transactions totalling  £700.  In fact its not my role to decide who else 
could have made the transactions,  rather if Im to uphold this complaint I need to be satisfied 
Mr S didnt make or authorise the transactions himself.
Ref: DRN90255632Mr Ss story is that he told Aqua  he wanted  to close the account in November 2016 just after 
he paid it off in full. Ive reviewed Aquas  detailed  notes and I can see no evidence they were 
told this. Ive also seen  Mr S logged onto his account every  now and then throughout 2017 
which would be odd if he had in fact closed the account. But its certainly true he wasnt 
using the account and all the evidence points to him cancelling the direct debit in July 2017. 
So I dont  think it would  be wrong to say he regarded the account  as dormant, if not 
specifically closed.
I can also see Aqua sent Mr S a replacement credit card in December 2016. This was sent 
to the address he was living at at the time. Mr S said he never received it. I think  its possible 
if he had received it  and wasnt  planning on using it  he may have  contacted Aqua then to 
cancel the agreement. That didnt  happen.  But theres also a possibility as Mr S thought  hed 
closed the account, he just didnt  really take any action at all when he got the card.  He may 
not even have opened the envelope. I dont  see any obvious reason to doubt  Mr S in his 
recollections here.
So Mr S may have had the card but wasnt aware  of it. He then moved house in April 2017.  
The card needed  activating before it could be used. This happened  in December 2017. Aqua 
has said that it would be unusual for a fraudster to hang onto a card for a year and then 
activate it. But its similarly unusual for a genuine cardholder to hang onto a card, find it, 
activate it, use it immediately  for cash withdrawals  which werent  their usual pattern  and 
then deny theyd  done it.
But we dont  really  know what happened  to the card. It could have got lost and then only 
found in December 2017 when it was activated.  Aqua  hasnt been  able to confirm exactly  
what personal information about  Mr S was used to activate  the card through Aquas 
automated service. So overall I think its just as easy for an unknown third party to have 
located Mr Ss card and activated it, as Mr S.
The actual transactions themselves happened  on 18, 19 and 20 December 2017.  The same 
cash machine, located about four miles away from Mr S, was used for all three  withdrawals. 
In the case of the two £300  cash withdrawals,  both were preceded by the wrong  PIN being 
entered and transactions  being declined. This unfortunately  doesnt provide me with 
convincing evidence one way or the other.  
After not using the card for a year, it wouldnt be surprising  if Mr S had forgotten his own 
PIN. But similarly if a third party  was using his card without  Mr Ss knowledge and had taken 
a guess at the PIN, then it wouldnt be surprising they got it wrong first time.  
However I would  have thought that if these  transactions had been done  by Mr S, hed have 
remembered the PIN the second time he used it to withdraw cash  on 19 December. This 
wasnt the case.
Mr S felt Aqua must have  sent a new PIN out at the same time the replacement  card was 
sent. But after reviewing  Aquas evidence,  theres absolutely nothing  to show  this was the 
case.
Its worth  pointing  out I dont need  to know how someone else found out Mr Ss PIN although 
this is a factor Ive considered in coming  to my conclusion. Actually there  are a number of 
potential scenarios. His PIN on the Aqua card could  have been the same as the one he used 
on other cards so this information may not have been too difficult to find out.
Ref: DRN90255633Taking everything into consideration and on balance, Ive seen  nothing  that has convinced  
me that Mr S has made or authorised these transactions. This means that Aqua cant expect 
him to pay what they feel he owes them. Any action theyve taken to default this account will 
also need to be reversed.
Im sure this has all caused Mr S quite a deal of stress over the last two years that this has 
been going on. Im sorry its taken so long for us to be able to deal with his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  NewDay  Limited, trading as Aqua, 
to:
Stop pursuing Mr S for the payment of this credit card account;
Close the account and remove any reference  after October 2016 from Mr Ss credit 
record.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019. 
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9025563