K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Tesco  Personal  Finance PLC charged them a cash  transaction  
fee when they used  their Tesco credit card to repay  a car loan.
background
In March 2019 Mr and Mrs G were upset to discover  that Tesco bank had charged  them  a 
transaction fee of some  £79 for using their Tesco credit card to repay  a car loan. And so they 
complained to the bank.
Tesco replied saying  that in April 2018 it had informed  customers of changes  it intended to 
make to its credit card terms  and conditions. These  changes included additions  to the list of 
transactions that would  in future be categorised  as cash transactions, and so attract  a cash 
transaction fee. From 31 May 2018 card payments that repaid borrowing would be classified 
as cash transactions.  And so when Mr and Mrs G repaid  their car loan in March  2019 using 
their Tesco credit card the bank  charged  them the relevant fee. 
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with the banks response to their complaint and so they 
referred it to us. Mr G said that although they had received email notification  from the bank in 
April 2018 of changes  to the card terms and conditions, the document  that should have been 
attached to that email describing  those  changes in detail, wasnt  attached. Mr G therefore 
maintained that he had been completely unaware  of the changes  and the bank had been at 
fault in not informing him.
Our investigator didnt  consider that Tesco bank had done  anything wrong. In summary her 
view was that the bank had given  its customers enough notice about the proposed  changes  
and that the information  it had provided  had been sufficient.
Mr G disagreed. He repeated his previous points and added  that whatever information the 
bank provided  had been sent only to his wife, and that he should also have  been  separately 
informed of the changes.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr and Mrs G were both users of their Tesco credit  card,  Mrs G was the primary 
card holder.  As such the banks credit agreement was with her, she was legally responsible  
for Mr Gs spending on the credit  card and all of the banks  communications were with her. 
Mr G has complained that Tesco bank should have written to him as well as to his wife, but 
Im afraid I cannot agree with him on this point  as the banks contract was with his wife.
Mrs G had opted for paperless statements and so received monthly  emails  from the bank 
telling her when  her statements were available to view online. Her April 2018  statement said 
that her account terms and conditions were being varied and that an explanatory booklet 
was attached. Mr G has said that that booklet  was neither attached  to the email 
accompanying the April statement nor was it sent to them. But the email itself set out the key 
changes to the credit card agreement.  It highlighted  the fact that the bank was changing  the 
types of transactions it intended  to classify as cash; and that it was increasing fees on some 
transactions (including cash) from 3.00% to 3.9%. The email also included a link to full 
details of the changes.  
Ref: DRN96693112And so although  I accept  that Mr and Mrs G appear not to have received the banks  booklet  
about the changes,  I nevertheless consider  that Tesco bank  provided  sufficient notification of 
its proposed changes in its email  to Mrs G. 
Im afraid therefore that having considered the full circumstances  of this complaint I cannot 
reasonably hold Tesco bank responsible for the fact that Mr and Mrs G remained unware of 
the notified changes that had been  made to the terms and conditions of their credit card.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 July 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9669311