K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs D says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 2003. It was sold in 
store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs D aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  Mrs D has told us that she was approached in store  to take the card, 
and that taking it would have allowed her to benefit  from a discount. I dont know for certain 
what was said at the time the policy was sold, but FICL has provided  a copy of 
Mrs Ds application form. The form had a separate section  for PPI which has been signed  by 
Mrs D in agreement with taking the policy. So overall I think  its likely FICL made it clear that 
Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs D so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs D got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Mrs D has told us she was entitled  to sick pay when she applied for the PPI. But the 
policy would have paid out in addition to Mrs Ds sick pay and for longer.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ds circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
 
Ive thought about everything Mrs D has said including that she was pressured into taking 
the policy, but  pressure can be subjective, so for me to uphold  this complaint for this reason 
I would need to see persuasive  evidence  that this is likely to have happened, which  I havent 
seen. So these points  dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN98437142my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9843714