K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  that was added  to her 
credit card account by Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds).
background
Miss A successfully applied for a credit  card with Lloyds in July 1998. 
When looking at the very limited information  (I have  not been able to see any sales 
documentation or read a detailed recollection  of how the PPI was sold), I cant be sure of 
when or how PPI was sold. Lloyds  has provided  records that go back to January 2000 and 
the PPI is on the account at this stage.  So I cannot be sure how or when  the PPI was sold to 
Miss A but I do know it was sold at some point  between  July 1998 (when the card was sold 
to her) and January 2000.
The PPI that was sold to Miss A was designed to protect her monthly card repayments  if she 
wasnt working because  of accident,  sickness, unemployment or redundancy.
Miss A says Lloyds mis-sold the policy. She says that if the cost,  benefit and optionality of 
the policy had been made clear to her, she would have declined it.
An adjudicator looked into Miss As complaint and didnt think it should  be upheld.  Miss A 
disagrees and so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss As case. 
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Miss As complaint for the following reasons:
As I have already  mentioned  neither  Miss A nor Lloyds can give me much  
information about the sale. This is not surprising given  the amount of time thats 
passed. Ive looked  at what Miss A has said about how the policy was sold  that the 
optionality of the MPPI  wasnt  made  clear.  But it has been  very difficult  for me to 
understand how this would  have  happened with so little information available  about 
this sale. And in the absence of relevant documentation, a more  detailed recollection 
from either party or further information  to support what  Miss A has said,  I cannot  fairly 
conclude on this occasion that the policy was sold as he suggests  it was. I would 
need to see more information to support what Miss A has said to conclude  otherwise. 
I cant be sure if Lloyds gave a recommendation to Miss A to have the policy  but 
even if it did recommend the PPI, I think it was suitable for her anyway. Any claim 
under the policy  more  likely could be paid for up to 12 months.  Miss A would have 
found the benefit from the cover provided  useful in an extended time of need (on top 
of her 6 months worth of sick pay that she received from her employer).  Miss A also 
wasnt adversely affected by any of the policys main  exclusions. The policy  also 
seemed affordable for Miss A.
Ref: DRN90498312I cant see that Lloyds  explained about  the policys main terms as clearly as it 
shouldve done. But for the same reasons as the policy  was suitable, I dont think this 
wouldve made a difference  to Miss As decision to buy the policy.
It has been very difficult for me to get an understanding as to what happened during  this sale 
due to the lack of information available. In conclusion, I dont think Miss A was mis-sold the 
PPI policy. This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the cover to Miss A. 
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of PPI to Miss A because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss A about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Miss A, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the 
cover to Miss A.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont award 
any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9049831