K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds  (UKI)  handling of a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
It was Mr Ks company,  rather than Mr K himself, that leased  the insured  car. But it was Mr K 
who insured the car personally, so for ease  Ill refer to Mr K as being the leaseholder.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
background
Mr K insured  a leased car with UKI. The car was stolen. While UKI was looking into Mr Ks 
claim for the theft of the car it noted that Mr K hadnt told it about  some penalty points he had 
on his license. So it charged him an additional premium of around £517, which Mr K paid.  
UKI settled  Mr Ks claim by paying  the lease company the outstanding finance on the car. 
And, after deducting Mr Ks excess of £600 it refunded him around £2,323 of the deposit of 
£3,119.88 hed put down  on the car.
Mr K complained about a number of aspects  of UKIs service. UKI acknowledged  that not all 
its service was as good as it would wish to provide. So it paid Mr K a total of £450 
compensation to address the impact of that. 
Mr K didnt think that went far enough  and brought his complaint to us. I issued a provisional 
decision on 18 February 2020. For ease I've copied my provisional findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill partly  uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Ks made a number of detailed  points.  I've considered 
everything hes said very carefully. But in this decision, I will focus on what I see as being the 
key outstanding issues.
settling Mr Ks claim for the theft of his car
Mr K says that hes out of pocket because of the manner in which UKI settled the claim.  So, 
I've looked  very carefully at how UKI did that.
As the insured car was leased Mr K didn't own it the lease company did. And under the 
terms of the lease he didn't have any entitlement to own the car even after the lease came  to 
an end. In fact, the lease  documents are explicit on that point as they say:
There is no option to own this vehicle during or at the end of contract.
And Mr Ks policy says that in those circumstances if the car was a total loss then UKI would 
settle any claim with the cars legal owner - the lease  company. The lease company told UKI 
it needed to pay £24,708 to pay off the outstanding finance, which  UKI did.
I've listened  to a call between Mr K and UKIs engineer in which they talked about how UKI 
would settle the claim.  I think its worth noting  that UKI initially told Mr K that it hadn't  
Ref: DRN92151562recorded that call because the engineer would have  made the call from his mobile  phone. 
That plainly wasn't the case and Mr K provided  UKI with a screen-shot  to show  that hed 
received the call from a landline number  and UKI then found the call. While it wasn't helpful 
that UKI misadvised Mr K initially I note that it did  eventually  send Mr K a copy  of that 
call, although  I understand he had problems accessing it.
In the call UKIs engineer said UKI would settle  the claim by paying  the lease company the 
outstanding sum on the finance agreement. He said that if that figure was less than the cars 
market value - which it put at £30,320  (based on a well-known industry trade guide) - then it 
might also be able to take into account  the fact that Mr K had paid a significant deposit. 
The engineer said that as Mr K had had the car for only 2 months from the 24 month term of 
his lease, UKI could  reimburse him a proportion  up to 22 months  worth  - of that deposit.
UKI later calculated the proportion of Mr Ks deposit  it was willing  to pay to him  based on a 
deposit of £3,111.18 as being - £2,851.  I've noted  that figure is wrong. The deposit  for the 
car was actually £3,119.88 not £3,111.18. So the accurate proportion of Mr Ks deposit  
(before deducting  his excess) should  have been £2,859.89. And had it used  that figure and 
deducted Mr Ks £600 excess  it would have  paid him £2,259.89. But UKI didn't actually base 
its settlement on that figure. Instead it said that as the settlement to the lease company was 
less than the cars market value, there was scope to settle a larger  proportion  of Mr Ks 
deposit. It calculated  that as follows:
Market value of the car £27,632.00
Less lease company settlement £24,708.33
Less excess £     600.00
Payment to Mr K £  2,323.67
So, it paid roughly £2,323  to Mr K, which was slightly higher than the figure UKI would have 
paid if it had calculated  its settlement based  on a proportion of unused  deposit. But I've 
noted that the figure UKI gave for the market value  of the car in the calculation above  is 
significantly less than its initial valuation based  on the trade  guides  value  of £30,320. And 
theres no explanation in the papers that I've seen for that. It might be that this was a figure it 
agreed with the lease  company. But if so, I don't  think that was fair because, as long as the 
amount UKI was going  to pay was above  the lease companys settlement figure, then the 
lease company would have no interest in negotiating a higher sum. So, I don't think it was 
fair that UKI used a lower  figure than that given by the trade guide. And if it had used  the 
trade guides valuation  that would have  allowed it to pay Mr K his full deposit of £3,119.88 
less his excess of £600,  which is £2,519.88. So thats the amount I think it should have 
based its settlement  on. And as its already paid Mr K £2,323.67, I think  it should pay Mr K 
the balance of £196.21. It should add simple interest  to that sum, at a rate of 8% a year from 
the date of Mr Ks claim to the date it makes payment.
Mr Ks said that when previous leasing agreements have come  to an end the lease company 
has given him the option to buy the car. So he thinks UKI should have paid him any 
difference between  the cars  full market value and the amount UKI settled the finance 
outstanding on the lease  for. But while Mr K might  have  been given the opportunity to buy 
other cars at the end of previous leases,  that wasn't  something his lease agreement  entitled 
him to do. Mr K didn't  ever own the car and he didnt  have any entitlement to own the car. 
That the lease  company  might have chosen  to offer him the opportunity  to buy the car was 
something that it might or might not have done  at its discretion. But it wasn't  an entitlement 
under the terms  of the lease. So, I think UKI acted reasonably in treating Mr K as having no 
Ref: DRN92151563ownership rights and settling his claim with the lease  company in line with the terms and 
conditions of his policy. 
Mr Ks said that the lease  company wrote  to him to say that the outstanding balance of the 
lease was actually  £27,266  rather than the £24,708 figure it gave to UKI. Its not clear why 
the lease company gave UKI and Mr K different figures in order  to settle the outstanding 
finance on his lease agreement. But as the higher figure was still less than the figure UKI 
valued the car for, if the lease company had asked for the higher sum its likely that UKI 
would have paid that amount to the lease company. However, that would have reduced the 
amount it paid to Mr K for his deposit. But in any event the lease company said that it was 
happy to waive any sum Mr K owed above the amount it had received  from UKI. So, it didnt 
ask Mr K to pay the difference between the amount it said was owed and the amount UKI 
settled the claim for and so Mr K isnt out of pocket.
Mr K seems  to think that UKI should pay him the amount the lease company said he didnt 
need to pay to it. But I can see no rationale for that. As I've said above Mr Ks policy says 
UKI will pay the legal owner for the total loss of his car. It paid what the legal owner - the 
lease company  asked  for. So, any amount that the lease company decided not to collect  
from UKI or Mr K, for whatever reason, was simply not a loss to Mr K. And there  was no 
reason for UKI to pay that sum to him.
charging an additional premium because of penalty points
Like all motor insurers Im aware of UKI will ask potential policyholders for them to tell it 
about any penalty points that they have on their licence, regardless of how they acquired 
those. Thats  because  most insurers will see drivers with penalty  points as being a higher 
risk than drivers  without  such  penalty  points. And theyll reflect  that increased risk in the 
premiums they charge.
Mr K didn't  tell UKI about the penalty  points he had on his licence from both 2015 and 2017. 
Mr K believes that UKI shouldnt have taken the 2015 points into account  because he says 
they became spent  in June 2018. But assuming that's correct then the points were on Mr Ks 
licence when the policy renewed  in March 2018.  So they werent  spent at the time that his 
policy started. And he should have told UKI about them.  But he didnt do so. And if he had 
told UKI about the points UKI would have charged him a higher premium  from the outset.
It might help if I explain that where  a policyholder makes a mistake  when giving  information  
to an insurer, and the mistake isn't deliberate or reckless, its known in the insurance 
industry as a careless misrepresentation. And theres legislation: The Consumer  Insurance  
(Disclosure and Misrepresentations) Act 2012  (CIDRA) that sets out what  insurers  may do 
when a policyholder has made a misrepresentation. CIDRA doesn't  allow an insurer to 
simply impose an additional premium. But where  as in Mr Ks case, theres been a claim on 
the policy, CIDRA allows an insurer to settle any claim  on a proportionate  basis. By that I 
mean it could work out what percentage of the correct premium  Mr K had actually paid and 
apply that percentage to any settlement amount for the claim. 
In this case, by my calculations, had Mr K insured  the lease  car for the full year,  the premium  
for his policy   before factoring in his penalty  points  was £1,561.69. After  adding the points 
Mr Ks premium  for the full year would  have been £1,919.39. In other words, Mr K initially 
paid about 81% of the full cost of the premium.  So had UKI followed the remedy allowed to it 
by CIDRA,  it could have  settled Mr Ks claim by only paying 81% of its total costs. Using my 
figures above where UKIs settlement figure (before an excess) is [3119.88 + 24,708.33]  
Ref: DRN92151564£27,828.21, then UKI could have settled  the entire claim for 81% of that sum, which  is 
£22,540.85. If that had happened  then not only would UKI not have refunded any of Mr Ks 
deposit but it would have  left the amount it paid to the lease company £2,167.48 short. Had 
that happened I think the lease company would have asked Mr K to make up the shortfall.  
So, while UKI didn't  act strictly in accordance with CIDRA, I think Mr K has benefitted from 
that, as charging  him the additional premium left him in a better  position  than a proportional 
settlement would have  done. So, I don't intend to instruct UKI to take any further  action on 
that point.
Mr Ks added that while UKI told him he needed  to pay an additional £517, it actually 
deducted £732 from his account.
Mr Ks provided a bank  statement showing a number of payments totalling £710.15 going to 
UKI between  5 July and 20 July 2018.  But not all of those payments were for the additional 
premium for this policy. For example three payments, for £41.61, £64,90 and £98.56  related 
to a second policy and a further £44 was from a third policy.  Also £213.44 was an adjusted 
monthly premium for this policy. And UKI also took £113  for an adjusted  premium for a 
different policy. Also,  UKIs told me that it didn't  collect all of the additional  premium  with 
one-off payments, but collected part of it by adding to Mr Ks monthly premium payments 
from July 2018  onwards.  So, I don't  think it did overcharge Mr K.
customer service
UKI has accepted  that it hasn't provided  Mr K with the level of service it would wish to offer.  
And its paid him £450 compensation for the impact of that. I think  thats reasonable in the 
circumstances so I don't intend to make a further  award.
developments
Neither Mr K nor UKI agreed with my provisional  decision. Amongst other things  Mr K said 
that he had other UKI policies including a home  insurance policy. He said he didn't claim on 
his home  policy  when the keys for his car were  stolen  from it.
Mr K added that Id said that UKIs engineer  had told him that its settlement would be based 
on the cars market  value.  And said Id sidestepped:
bringing  UKI to account on this when they exploited an opportunity at my cost 
because the settlement was far less and are spoon  feeding a value of £27,632,  thats 
£2,688 eroded  without  justification or accountability.
Further Mr K said that UKI lied to him about listening to his call with its engineer and asked 
why UKI are not being challenged  about this clear  deception? He commented that I didn't 
think UKI had anything  to answer for by using the lower market  value  for the car.
Also Mr Ks said that I noted that UKI could make a further compensatory  payment to me 
which almost covered my deposit. But said that UKI could have settled  his claim for 81% of 
its value and in those circumstances I thought it had settled his claim favourably. Mr K asked 
isn't this taking  sides. Mr Ks gone on to ask about  how long insurers  may continue to refer 
to penalty points for as he understood they were  only valid for three years.
Mr Ks continued to argue that UKI had no right to take any sums above  the £517  additional 
premium it had charged him and should return the balance.
Ref: DRN92151565Mr Ks also said that he had to work extremely hard before receiving the £450  compensation 
and asked how I equated this sum with the failures  Id highlighted.
In addition Mr Ks again referred to the lease companys goodwill gesture not to collect sums  
owing. It says that he was the intended  recipient of that goodwill gesture but that I didnt 
agree. And he's added:
UKI have not only eroded  thousands from the vehicle value but taken these 
discounts from me too, on the one hand  they managed to cover  my deposit  outlay 
but on the other Joe thinks  despite their original  assurances this would happen  
regardless, it was never  guaranteed so I should  be grateful.
Finally Mr K said that hes been out of pocket  for two years and thinks that the £196 I said 
UKI should pay to him is disgusting . 
UKI said that Mr Ks policy said that where  a car is leased it will settle any claim by paying 
the legal  owner.  So there  was no contractual basis to pay Mr K anything. But it added  that in 
order to treat Mr K fairly it was reasonable that it returned an unused  portion of his deposit,  
which it calculated as being £2,259.89 after deducting Mr Ks excess. It said that it was a 
mistake to pay a higher  sum. So it doesn't think it should have to pay anything  extra.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I don't intend  to amend 
my provisional decision.
Mr K said that he has other  UKI policies and didn't  bother to claim on his home insurance 
policy for the break-in  that led to the theft of his car. But I don't see how that's relevant to the 
manner in which UKI settled the claim on this policy. If Mr K chooses not to claim on another 
policy that's a decision  hes entitled  to make but its not something I think  UKI needs to factor 
in when deciding  how to settle  a claim against this policy.
Mr K said that Id commented  that UKIs engineer told him that the claim settlement would be 
based on the cars market value. But, as can be seen above, what I actually  said was: 
UKIs engineer said UKI would settle the claim by paying the lease company the 
outstanding sum on the finance agreement. He said that if that figure was less than 
the cars  market value  - which it put at £30,320  (based  on a well-known industry 
trade guide) - then it might also be able to take into account the fact that Mr K had 
paid a significant deposit. The engineer said that as Mr K had had the car for only 2 
months from the 24 month term of his lease, UKI could reimburse him a proportion  
up to 22 months worth  - of that deposit
In other  words, I said that the engineer told Mr K that if the settlement to the lease company 
was less than the market  value of the car, then there would be scope to reimburse him up to 
the unused portion of his deposit. Im not sure what it is that UKI did that Mr K believes I've 
sidestepped. In fact its plain  that I said that I didn't  think it was fair that UKI based its 
settlement on a market  value lower than that it had discussed with Mr K. And that was why I 
said it should increase the amount of its settlement, to reflect the original figure.  So I don't 
think I need to make  any further  award.
Ref: DRN92151566Mr Ks added that UKI had lied to him about  its recording  of the engineers call. And that I 
didn't think  it had anything to answer for. But as I said in my provisional decision, while it 
clearly wasn't helpful that UKI said that the call recording  wasn't available when  it was, it did 
eventually send this to him. It might help if I explain that most motor  insurers  employ 
in-house engineers. And its not unusual for it to be those engineers  who are responsible for 
assessing the market value of cars.  But often  those engineers will be required to go off-site. 
So it's quite common  for them to make their calls using mobile phones rather  than landlines 
at their desks. And its also quite common that calls from mobile phones aren't recorded. It 
seems in this case that when Mr K asked for the call recoding UKI made an assumption that 
the engineer would have  made the call from his mobile phone when that wasn't the case. 
That was wrong  and it should have  established  whether it had the call before telling Mr K 
that it didn't have  it.
Mr K seems  to think that I should be bringing  UKI to book for its mistakes. But were  not the 
insurance industry regulator, the FCA is. So its not our role to fine or punish a business for 
any mistakes  its made. Instead my role is to decide  if a business has dealt with a consumer 
fairly and reasonably and to decide if redress is required. Thats what I've done in this case.  
Mr K said that Id noted that UKI could make compensatory payments to him that almost  
covered his deposit. But I had also found that it could  have  settled his claim for 81% of its 
value. He said isn't  this taking sides?. I think Mr K is conflating  two issues.  I agreed that 
there was scope for UKI to settle  his claim for a higher  sum.  I then separately  considered  
whether or not it was fair for UKI to charge an additional premium because he hadn't told it 
about the points on his licence. I pointed out that while UKI didn't follow the remedies  that 
CIDRA sets out for it, if it had done  so then it could  have  reduced its total settlement by 
around £5,288.  And I think if UKI had offered Mr K the choice to either pay an additional  
premium of £517 of have  his claim payment reduced by £5,288 he'd have chosen the 
former. Im not sure whose side  Mr K thinks Im taking. But given that UKIs decision  not to 
make a proportionate  settlement was in his favour  I don't think  hes been treated unfairly.
Mr Ks raised some questions  about  how long insurers can continue to consider penalty 
points for. But I don't  think that's relevant to my decision. At the time that Mr K took out the 
policies the points were less than three  years  old and still on his licence. So I think  he should 
have told UKI about them.  But he didn't, and at what time the points would come off his 
licence wasn't relevant  to whether or not he took reasonable  care to tell UKI about the 
points.
Mr K repeated that he believes  UKI took too much  from his bank accounts for the additional 
premiums. But for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision I don't  believe  that's  the 
case. If Mr R remains unhappy then he might want to ask UKI to provide him with a full 
reconciliation of the amounts he's paid towards his various policies and from which accounts 
it took those sums. That should enable him to clearly see how much UKI charged  him and 
how much  he paid.  But I haven't seen evidence, beyond Mr Ks comments,  that UKI took too 
much from him.
Its clear that Mr K isn't happy  with UKIs handling of his concerns. And he said that hes had 
to work hard to pursue  those. I agree that's the case but I think the compensation of £450 
that UKIs  already paid to him is enough to address his distress and inconvenience  arising  
from its actions.  Mr K doesn't agree. But when considering whether to award  compensation -
and if so how much - I consider the level of inconvenience that a consumers been put to by 
a business errors and omissions. Its not a case that each  individual issue  will bring with it a 
Ref: DRN92151567tariff or default amount  of compensation. And not all errors will warrant  compensation. And In 
this case I'm satisfied that the sums  UKI has already paid is sufficient in the circumstances 
as its in line with awards  we make in cases of similar seriousness. 
Mr Ks again  referred to the lease companys goodwill gesture not to collect  sums owing. He 
thinks that I didn't  agree  that he was the intended  recipient of that goodwill gesture. Im not 
sure where Mr K believes  that I said that. I simply said that this wasn't a loss covered by his 
policy so UKI didn't  need to pay it. Mr K hasn't said anything that changes that view. Mr K 
says that UKI took these discounts from him. But I don't see how hes arrived  at that point. 
UKI paid what the lease  company asked  it to. That's  what his policy entitles him to. The 
policy doesn't say that he'd be entitled to any contribution  towards his deposit.  But I do agree 
that it's fair that insurers pay towards  the unused  portion of such a deposit. And I've re-read  
my provisional decision very carefully but I can't see anywhere in it where  I said or implied 
that Mr K should be grateful.
Mr Ks again  said that hes been out of pocket for two years.  But aside from the additional 
£196 I said UKI should pay, and his policy  excess,  I don't think Mr K is out of pocket. And for 
the reason I gave  in my provisional decision Im satisfied that the additional £196 is a fair 
outcome to Mr Ks complaint. While its plain that Mr K doesn't agree I didn't  think hes 
provided any credible rationale for his view.
Turning to UKIs comments. As I've said above  I agree that Mr K's policy doesn't 
automatically entitle  him to any payment.  But I do think it's fair that UKI should pay him for 
the unused portion of his deposit. And in this case,  at the time that UKI settled  Mr Ks claim, 
it said that the fair way to do so was to consider the settlement  value against  the market  
value and if there was scope between the two it could consider whether or not to reimburse  
any of Mr Ks deposit. UKIs since said the way it did so was a mistake.  But given it thought 
that was the fair way to settle the claim at the time, in the specific circumstances of this 
complaint, I don't think its reasonable that it should  now say that it should  apply  another  
approach because I've found the market value figure it used  to be unfair. It follows  that I 
think UKI should pay Mr K the balance of £196.21  it hadn't paid previously. It should add 
simple interest to that sum, at a rate of 8% a year from the date of Mr Ks claim to the date it 
makes payment.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and I require U K Insurance  Limited to 
pay Mr K the £196.21 shortfall from its claim settlement. It should add simple interest to that 
sum, at a rate of 8% a year from the date of Mr Ks claim  to the date it makes payment1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
1 If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr K a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9215156