K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide)  mis-sold  her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with a mortgage.
background
Mrs G took out a regulated mortgage  with Nationwide in February 2008. In February 2009, 
PPI was added to her mortgage account  following a phone call with the building  society. This 
was a monthly premium  PPI policy. It covered her for £600 per month for accident, sickness  
and unemployment  benefit. It was free for the first three months and then cost her around  
£25 per month after that. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs G didnt accept our adjudicators  view and 
so their complaint  has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence  is either 
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear that PPI was optional and Mrs G had to agree to take it. I 
cant know what was discussed on the phone with Nationwide.  But, looking at Nationwides  
call script  from the time of sale I think it likely  that Mrs G wouldve been told that PPI was 
optional. I can see that when she took out her mortgage in 2008 she didnt take out PPI and 
almost a year passed before it was added.  So, I think  she wouldve understood she didnt 
have to have PPI.
Taking into account the sales  script  and the documents Ive seen, I think  it likely that 
wouldve been asked  if she wanted PPI before it was added.  So I think  more  likely she 
decided to take out PPI, knowing she didnt have to. I can understand why she may not 
remember it that way now given how much time has passed.
From what  Ive seen, and what we know about Nationwides sales  processes, I dont think  
Nationwide recommended the policy to Mrs G, so it didnt  have  to check it was suitable for 
her needs.  But, Nationwide did need  to give her clear information about the PPI so she could 
decide whether  she wanted to buy it. After considering Mrs Gs circumstances  at the time of 
sale, I cant see that PPI was inappropriate for her. I say this because:
She was eligible for the PPI  that is, she qualified to be covered by the insurance;
She probably wasnt affected  by the main  limitations or exclusions in the policy,  so I dont 
think having better information about these things wouldve changed her decision to take 
out PPI because she couldve benefitted from everything the policy  offered;
Ref: DRN96935382She said she wouldve  both got 6 months  full and 6 months half sick pay from work. The 
policy wouldve paid out on top of this and possibly for longer, for up to 12 months per 
successful claim.  So, I still think it couldve provided  her with a useful benefit  in her 
circumstances. It wouldve allowed her to use her work benefits to meet other household 
expenses. 
I think its possible that Nationwide  couldve  made the costs  of the policy  clearer. But, 
given the costs and benefits of the policy,  and their circumstances, I think  it likely  she 
wouldve still ended up taking out the policy even with clearer  information. I think it likely  
that she wouldve  thought the cost was acceptable and affordable, particularly as it was 
free for the first three months.  It was a monthly paid policy so she couldve cancelled  it at 
any time after that without losing out financially.
Ive taken into account everything that Mrs G has said,  but this doesnt change my view.  I 
dont think she has lost out because of any problems with the sale of the policy. It follows  
that I dont  uphold her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9693538