K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) debited  £400 from her
credit card account and couldnt explain why.
background
Ms C has a credit card with Barclaycard  and a current account with a different bank that Ill 
refer to as Bank A. In February 2018  Ms C tried to make a payment  of £400 to her credit 
card from her current account using the Barclaycard banking  app. She realised the payment 
had mistakenly been made twice so she called  Barclaycard. They  agreed  to refund one of 
the payments  from her credit card back into her current  account.
In April 2018 Ms C called Barclaycard again as there was a £400 payment listed on her 
credit card statement that she didnt recognise. This increased  her outstanding balance and 
took her over her credit limit. Barclaycard were unable to explain why the payment had been 
taken. Over the course of two weeks Ms C made  a number  of calls to both Barclaycard and
Bank A, but wasnt  able to get to the bottom of the problem. Ms C complained  to Barclaycard 
saying theyd given  her confusing information.
In their final response Barclaycard said they agreed theyd given Ms C confusing 
information. In recognition  of this, they offered  Ms C £25 compensation for the poor service.
They also said theyd frozen interest on her account for the statement period and refunded 
the charge for being over her credit limit. However they said they were right to make the 
payment of £400.  They said Bank A had requested the money as theyd mistakenly paid it 
out of their internal account. So they were just responding to the request from Bank A.
Ms C was unhappy with Barclaycards response  as she felt she was still £400 out of pocket.
She also explained the impact the delay  and confusing information had on her. She 
complained to us.
Our investigator looked at all the issues and didnt  think Ms C had experienced a financial 
loss. However he did think Ms C had been  caused significant distress.  He therefore thought
Barclaycard should  pay Ms C £100 in compensation in total,  including the £25 theyd already 
paid.
Barclaycard didnt agree with our investigator.  They  said the £25 theyd already paid for 
giving confusing information was enough,  but didnt think theyd done anything else wrong. 
They also explained theyd  suspended interest  on the account for a month  which amounted  
to around £250  and refunded the £12 over limit fee. They  asked for an ombudsmans  
decision.
my provisional decision  
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ms C pays  her credit card bill using Barclaycards app. Her payments come  from her current
account with Bank  A.
In February 2019  Ms C says she had a problem  using the app. The app said her payment 
had been declined so she tried to pay a second  time.  Once shed completed the second 
attempt at the payment, she realised the payment  had been taken from her current account 
Ref: DRN90237972twice. So Ms C contacted  Barclaycard and Bank A. She was told by Bank A that two 
payments had gone through  but one of them was pending. Ms C explained she didnt want 
two payments to go through  she intended  to just pay £400 and was on a tight budget.
What happened  next confused Ms C, and made  her believe that shed  lost £400. I can 
understand why Ms C thought that shed lost £400 but she hasnt. Ill explain why.
Ms Cs credit  card statement showed that shed received two payments of £400  on 27 
February. These were  the two payments Ms C made by mistake as she thought the first 
payment had been declined. Her current account  statement,  however, shows that only one 
of these payments  had left her account. The second payment wasnt shown  on her current  
account statement  because it was only ever pending.
Ms Cs credit  card statement then shows a £400  payment on 28 February  which is described 
on her statement as a direct credit. This is the payment  Barclaycard returned  to her current  
account when  she mistakenly made two payments. After this direct  credit was applied  to
Ms Cs credit  card account  she had, in effect, paid the £400 towards her credit card bill that 
she wanted to. Thats because two payments were received and one was returned.
Next Ms Cs current  account statement shows a £400 payment coming into her account 
described as Barclaycard refund. This payment increased the balance in Ms Cs current  
account and meant that, in effect,  no money had left her current  account. So Ms C was £400 
up at this stage  because the balance  on her credit card had gone down by £400 but no 
money had left her current account.
On 12 April Ms Cs credit  card statement showed another  £400  payment described on her 
statement as dr adj purch. This payment increased the outstanding balance on her credit 
card and its this payment  that led Ms C to believe she was £400 down. In fact she wasnt.
This payment meant no money had left her current  account and shed made no payment to 
her credit card. In effect, it meant that Ms C was no longer  £400  up. In other words, Ms C 
hasnt experienced a financial  loss.
I also need to consider  whether Barclaycard have caused Ms C distress  while  handling her 
queries. Ms C had to make a number  of phone calls to both Barclaycard and Bank A in order  
to get a clear  answer about why the £400 was taken. This continued  over a couple of weeks  
and left Ms C feeling like she had lost £400,  but without an understanding of why. Ms C has 
explained she is a single  mum who has little left over each month.  So this would be a 
particularly worrying position  to be in and would have certainly  caused  Ms C distress.
I therefore agree Barclaycard have caused  Ms C distress by the delay in getting a clear 
answer. However I dont  agree it would be reasonable to ask Barclaycard  to pay additional 
compensation. Barclaycard has already paid Ms C £25 in recognition  of the confusing  
information theyve  provided. They also suspended interest on her account for the relevant 
statement month. Theyve explained  this would have amounted to around  £250 in interest 
that would  have been applied to her outstanding balance. Theyve also refunded  the £12 
over limit charge. I think these steps  that Barclaycard have already taken are fair and 
reasonable considering the impact  the events have  had on Ms C. I therefore  dont think it 
would be fair to tell Barclaycard to pay any additional compensation.
Ref: DRN90237973the response to my provisional  decision 
Ms C said that shed accept what Id proposed  as it didnt  look like shed get further. 
Barclaycard didnt have any further comments to add.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Barclaycard  nor Ms C have given  me any reasons to depart from my provisional 
decision. Having  considered everything again,  I remain of the view that I dont think  it would 
be fair to tell Barclaycard to pay any additional  compensation. 
my final decision
For reasons I have given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019. 
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9023797