K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about a car which was supplied to him through a hire purchase agreement 
with BMW Financial  Services  (GB)  Limited (BMWFS). In summary,  he says the car was 
supplied with a fault that caused damage to the wheels.
background
Mr B got the car from BMWFS in July 2017 through a hire purchase agreement. It was 
almost two years old and had covered about  17,000  miles.
Mr B complained to BMWFS that during the time he was using the car it needed three  
replacement tyres and a replacement  for a buckled alloy.  He feels the car is at fault for this. 
In summary,  he says the suspension is hard and sensitive when going  over bumps in the 
road, which causes damage  that wouldnt have occurred with other cars. He says he did not 
have problems like this with other  cars from the same brand. 
Mr B says he expected  the car to be more robust and had to sell it back  to the dealer in 
March 2018 and pay £3,690 to settle the finance. He says he is out of pocket and would like 
to be reimbursed.
BMWFS paid Mr B two monthly rentals (around  £650)  as a gesture of goodwill for what  
happened. But Mr B wants  more than this. He wants the balance of what it cost him to settle 
the finance.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. In summary, he felt the damage to the wheels 
wasnt due to an inherent fault with the car. He also noted some other minor issues  but 
didnt think these meant the car was inherently  faulty  either.
Mr B disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to decide things. In summary, he accepts 
the damage was likely caused by potholes but still maintains  the car is at fault.  He also says 
the comments on the job sheets are by a main dealer  so not independent. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time.
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement   so we can consider  
a complaint relating to it. BMWFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement, and responsible for a complaint  about their quality.
Ref: DRN95262502The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods  is 
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would  need  to meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description  of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.  So, it seems likely  that in a 
case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances  a court  would take into account might 
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration with having to change  damaged  wheels on the car. More  
recently he suggested that more tyres  and alloys went wrong than he initially mentioned.  
From my reading  of the job sheets provided  I see that: 
August 2017  the off side rear tyre was replaced  due to a bulge. A slight buckle on the off 
side front alloy was identified but it appears  the alloy was not changed.  The job sheet  says 
customer hit pothole  and the invoice says the wheel damage was caused  by impact.
February 2018 - two tyres  were  replaced on the near side front and rear with the reason 
given as damaged due to impact.
March 2018 - a buckle  was identified on the alloy on the near side front.  It appears the alloy 
was replaced.
Based on this evidence and what Mr B said when he initially complained, I think  (like the 
investigator) there were  issues with three  tyres and two alloy wheels in total. 
I note Mr B appears to accept the likely cause of the damage was going over potholes. And 
this is further reinforced  by his earlier submissions where he questions the cars ability to 
withstand bumps in the road.
The engineers evidence also supports the source  of the damage being road conditions. It 
refers to customer hit pothole and damaged due to impact as the reasons for the wheel 
damage identified  in August 2017  and February 2018 respectively. In February  there is a 
specific note to say that the condition of the steering and suspension appears OK.
From what  I can see from the timeline it appears there were two incidents with potholes / 
poor road conditions leading  to wheel damage   each affecting different sides  of the car and 
separated by several months and almost  6,000 miles. I do accept  that one of the damaged 
alloys wasnt identified until March 2018,  but I expect this was likely overlooked damage 
from a previous incident rather than fresh damage (and the job sheet reinforces this).
While a couple of encounters with particular road conditions (like potholes) causing  damage 
to a car in this timeframe would appear to be unlucky, it isnt something that immediately 
points to an underlying issue with the car when it was supplied.  I think  a reasonable person 
might expect damage to occur to tyres and alloys when driving over poor road conditions,  
especially if they are particularly severe  in a given area and/or approached at a certain 
speed / angle. 
Ref: DRN95262503Mr B alleges  the car is not sufficiently durable  and is unable to withstand  day to day driving 
conditions. However,  if this were the case it seems unlikely that he wouldve been able to 
drive it without issues for almost  6,000  miles and 8 months after the first problem occurred. I 
also note the diagnostics carried out on the car do not point to issues with the steering or 
suspension and cite external factors (rather than an inherent fault)  as the source of the 
damage. 
Although Mr B has questioned the independence of the engineers evidence in this case  
he has not provided anything which persuades me the car was abnormally prone to wheel  
damage due to some kind of underlying  fault. And while I have carefully considered  what he 
has said about not having a similar problem with other cars (such as his company car of the 
same type) I dont think this is sufficiently persuasive when considered  in light of the other 
evidence and circumstances.
All things  considered I think the evidence shows the problems  with the tyres and alloys  are 
unlikely to be a result of the car not being of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
I note that early on there were some minor problems with the car including  issues with door 
seals, an interior light and the radio.  These are not central to Mr Bs complaint which focuses 
on the wheels.  However,  for completeness, I am not persuaded these  mean the car was 
inherently faulty when  supplied  based  on the information I have (I think  a second-hand car 
like this one might reasonably have  some minor issues particularly with seals and 
lightbulbs). But even  if I were to accept  some of the issues found were  inherent faults it 
appears there was a successful attempt to repair them. And considering  the provisions of the 
CRA  an attempt at repair wasnt an unreasonable step at that point.
Overall, considering my reasoning above,  I dont think it would be fair to ask BMWFS to do 
anything more here.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Mark Lancod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9526250