K821x#15complaint
Miss P is unhappy that Skipton Building Society  sold her a lifetime ISA (LISA)  which, in her 
opinion, was unfit for purpose. 
background
Miss P applied online for a LISA  with Skipton around  June 2017.  Miss P was attracted to the 
product by the government bonus of 25% thats  payable on balances deposited within  the 
LISA. Miss P set her sights on using the LISA and its bonus to help her with the purchase of 
a new build property.  It eventually became obvious  that she wouldnt be able to use the 
bonus in the way shed  expected to. It became apparent that the presence of HMRCs 
90 day rule meant she couldnt use the LISA fund on the initial 5% deposit for the new build.  
As I understand the completion date for her new build kept being pushed back. And the 
homebuilder was asking for the deposit  for the property well in advance of the scheduled 
completion date.
Miss P doesnt think the LISA was fit for her purpose. She doesnt  think  Skipton did enough  
to explain this product  at the very outset. And she doesnt think they did enough to resolve 
her concerns  once  these  were raised with them.
Skipton didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. Overall they felt theyd acted fairly and met their 
obligations when  selling  a product like this.
An investigator has already looked  at this matter.  He didnt feel that Skipton gave Miss P the 
wrong impression  about  how the LISA worked.  And ultimately they werent  responsible for 
the disappointment  she eventually  suffered. But he did think Skipton couldve managed 
Miss Ps expectations better, once her concerns were raised with them. So he proposed 
£100 compensation to Miss P to reflect this. He recognised that shed  likely  be disappointed 
with this level of compensation.  But he explained  his role wasnt to punish Skipton but to 
decide if he thought theyd acted  fairly  overall. 
Skipton was prepared  to accept the investigators view. But Miss P wasnt. She remains very 
unhappy with the situation. She has told our service the award proposed doesnt come 
anywhere near to offering the compensation she believes shes  entitled to. She feels  their 
failings in handling things correctly have  had a substantial financial impact on her and her 
partner. Miss P feels  very strongly  about  one particular call with Skipton. She thinks this call 
is evidence that her partner and her were misled and given incorrect information. Another 
key concern Miss P has is Skiptons supposed hesitance in providing certain call recordings 
during this whole  process. 
In light of the above this case has now been  passed  to me to look at. It should  be noted that 
Miss Ps partner has also brought a complaint  to our service about the alleged mis-sale of 
his LISA. Both were  sold at the same time. Whilst these are near identical complaints, each 
complaint will be addressed under their respective case reference numbers. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN93990032A lot of evidence has been filed with our service.  And I fully appreciate  this is an incredibly 
sensitive and upsetting case for Miss P. Whilst I have carefully considered  everything  that 
has been submitted  to our service, my decision will focus upon  what I think  are the key 
points in dispute. 
The first thing to stress is that this was a non-advised  sale by Skipton.  This means  Skipton  
needed to provide clear information about the product available  to Miss P. But they didnt 
need to learn  about her intentions and recommend  the most suitable product  for her needs. 
Skiptons obligations to Miss P were in reality not overly extensive.  They  just needed  to give 
Miss P the key facts about  a LISA and to give her access to the full terms and conditions. As 
I understand they did do this. 
The crux of the issue is based around the 90 day rule. Miss P thinks  this rule was heavily  
buried into the terms and conditions. She says she opened a financial product without being  
given the full rules  and terms. I appreciate  there was no reference  to this on Skiptons 
homepage for the LISA  products and instead this information was in a key facts document.  
On the evidence Ive seen  Im satisfied that Skipton  made it clear that the LISA  is used for 
the deposit for the mortgage, regardless of whether its used for a new build or an older 
house. They  stressed its the deposit  for the actual mortgage. I dont  think Skipton ever gave 
Miss P the wrong idea about how the LISA  was meant to work. I realise the disappointment 
Miss P experienced in due course when she realised the LISA was meant to be used 
alongside the mortgage deposit upon  completion.  But I cant hold Skipton  at fault for this.
This type of product  probably wasnt suitable  for Miss Ps circumstances,  in which  she 
wanted the flexibility to use the LISA and the government bonus towards the initial  deposit 
for her new build. Given the specifics of the off-plan new build transaction  Miss P had 
entered into, she wasnt able to use the LISA  how shed wanted. 
A lot of emphasis has been given  to a particular call which took place between Miss Ps 
partner and Skipton.  I have listened to this recording. But I have  also listened to a recording 
of a call which took place just before Miss P and her partner each  paid £4000  into their 
accounts. During this call Im satisfied  Skipton  gave  correct  advice  and clearly  explained  
about the 90 day rule.
Miss P feels, given  the LISA was a new product, that she has been a guinea pig. And that 
staff at Skipton  didnt  know or understand the full terms  and conditions  of a LISA. This has 
clearly been an incredibly stressful situation for Miss P. And for that, Im truly sorry she had 
to go through  all of this. But my role is to decide  if Skipton has acted fairly in this whole 
matter. Overall I just dont think I can hold Skipton responsible for what  has happened here. 
They havent  breached any regulations or treated  Miss P unfairly.
Just like the investigator I think Skipton couldve handled things better, once Miss P raised  
her concerns  with them. And so I think hes right to propose a sum of £100  compensation to 
reflect this. The reason I dont think its appropriate  to increase this amount is because 
ultimately I dont think Skipton did anything wrong in the sale of this product. I simply think  
how matters were handled once Miss P raised  her concerns couldve been dealt with better. 
I realise how very disappointed  Miss P will be with this decision. But Im afraid my role is 
simply to consider if Skipton has acted fairly and reasonably towards  Miss P. And ultimately I 
feel they did. 
Ref: DRN93990033my final decision
My final decision is that Skipton Building  Society should pay Miss P £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9399003