K822xComplaint
Mr W complains that IPS Pensions Limited (James Hay) did not send him the invoices which  
detailed the Value Added Tax (VAT)  charged within his Self-Invested  Personal  Pension 
(SIPP). As a result, he felt that he had lost out financially.
Background
Mr W opened a SIPP with James  Hay in 2006  which contained a property. He was charged 
an annual property charge to which VAT was added. Mr W felt he should be able to reclaim 
the VAT charged  on the fees he paid to James  Hay. For a number of years  the business  
failed to send  him invoices. However, it rectified  this and Mr W managed to claim VAT for the 
previous four years. Due to HMRC rules,  he was unable  to claim VAT for earlier years.  
Therefore, Mr W complained stating had he been  receiving SIPP invoices from James Hay 
throughout the existence of the SIPP he would have reclaimed the VAT and been financially 
better off.
James Hay didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It explained that the fees which Mr W wanted to 
reclaim VAT on were  not related to the taxable  business activity, and they were the expense 
of the SIPP  and not his business. Therefore, they could  not be reclaimed. Mr W did not 
agree and referred the complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators investigated the matter and felt the VAT element of the complaint 
should not be upheld. He explained that the SIPP terms and conditions state that the 
contract is between James Hay and Mr W personally and not his VAT registered  business.
As the SIPP fees he had paid were not related to the running of his business they were not 
classed as a business expense and therefore  the VAT on them  wasnt reclaimable by his 
business. The adjudicator explained that this is a HMRC  rule and not a James Hay scheme  
rule. He added  that if Mr W had reclaimed VAT for the previous four years that was between 
him and HMRC and he would not make comments regarding that matter.
As Mr W had not received  the SIPP invoices, the adjudicator spoke to James Hay who 
agreed to pay Mr W £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by not sending  them.  
However, Mr W did not accept the offer as he insisted that he should  be able to reclaim  the 
VAT back.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked the business for a copy invoice for the property administration  fees and I see that it is 
made out to Mr W personally.  I also asked  Mr W for evidence  of his successful claims to 
HMRC for recovery of the VAT,  but I have received no response. 
The fees are a personal liability of Mr W and not of any business which is registered for VAT 
and so I am not persuaded that he is entitled  to reclaim any tax he has suffered personally. I 
have noted the comments of Mr Ws accountant who explains that he is unsure as to what 
has been happening. His subsequent comments  are accurate insofar as they relate to the 
ability of the SIPP to reclaim VAT,  but the issue is whether Mr W in a personal capacity can 
reclaim VAT and this wasnt addressed by the accountant. 
Ref: DRN94764132I recognise that James  Hay failed to let Mr W have invoices for the earlier period. I consider 
the adjudicators  recommendation  that he be paid £100 for any distress and inconvenience 
this may have caused is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct IPS Pensions Limited  (James  
Hay) to pay Mr W £100 for any distress  and inconvenience he has suffered. Under the rules  
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my 
decision before  24 February 2020.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9476413