K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that AXA Insurance  UK Plc has unfairly declined  part of a claim he made 
under his travel insurance policy. 
background
Mr L had a travel insurance policy underwritten by AXA. He was due to go abroad on the 
1 September 2018 but was taken ill with viral gastroenteritis and wasnt able to travel.  He 
made a claim to AXA for the cancelled trip.
AXA agreed to pay for the cost of his flights.  But said Mr L hadnt  provided sufficient 
evidence of the money hed spent on his accommodation. It said it needed to see a verifiable 
booking invoice and cancellation invoice for the accommodation, as well as proof  of 
payment. And that without this it wasnt  able to accept this part of his claim. 
Mr L complained that AXA should meet the costs of his accommodation  based  on the 
documents he had provided. But it reiterated that it hadnt seen sufficient evidence of these 
costs, in line with the requirements set out in the policy  wording. It said it had requested  
bank statements to show when funds were paid, or any exchange  slips confirming a 
currency transfer. But that as Mr L hadnt been  able to provide this it had no evidence hed 
suffered any financial  loss.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with this response  so he brought  his complaint to our service. He 
argues there is no wording in the policy which indicates he must book through  a travel agent  
or commercial accommodation  provider.  Or that says he must produce a bank statement, 
exchange slips or anything else of that nature to support his claim.
Our investigator thought the evidence  AXA had asked  for was reasonable. Mr L submitted 
further information to support his claim. But AXA didnt feel this was sufficient to show his 
financial loss either. And our investigator  felt its findings were fair. 
Mr L doesnt agree, so the case has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry  to hear Mr L wasnt  able to take his trip as planned on 1 September 2018.  I can see 
the need for cancellation isnt in dispute and AXA has already agreed to refund the cost of 
his flights in line with the terms of its policy.  What  I need to decide is if it would also be fair 
for AXA to reimburse  Mr L for the cost of his accommodation. 
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I know  Mr L will be 
disappointed by my decision, but I dont think AXA has acted unfairly when  its declined  this 
part of his claim. Ill explain why.
Section A of Mr Ls policy  deals with cancellation and curtailment charges. It advises that;
Ref: DRN91892132We will pay you up to the amount shown in the schedule of benefits for your proportion  
only of any irrecoverable  unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid 
charges which  you have paid or are contract ed to pay, together with your proportion  only of 
any reasonable additional travel  expenses incurred if 
a)cancellation of the trip is necessary  and unavoidable
b)
It goes on to detail  the evidence  required to support  a claim made  under this section; 
We will require  (at your own expense) the following evidence where relevant: 
A medical certificate  from the treating medical practitioner (or in the case  of stress, 
anxiety, depression or any other  mental  or nervous disorder, either  a registered 
mental health professional if you are under the care of a Community Mental Health 
Team or if not, a consultant specialising  in the relevant field) explaining why it was 
necessary for you to cancel or curtail the trip. 
In the case of death causing cancellation  or curtailment of the trip, the original 
death certificate. 
Booking confirmation together with a cancellation invoice from your  travel agent, tour 
operator or provider  of transport/accommodation.  
In the case of curtailment  claims, written  details from your travel  agent, tour 
operator or provider  of transport/accommodation  of the separate costs of transport, 
accommodation and other pre-paid costs or charges that made  up the total cost of 
the trip. 
Your unused travel tickets. 
Receipts or bills for any costs, charges or expenses claimed for. 

When Mr L made this claim he provided  AXA with two letters  from an individual Ill refer to as 
R. 
The first letter was dated 22 June 2018. It said This is to confirm that [Mr L] will rent the 
spare bedroom in the apartment  from [name and address] from 1 September for 
approximately three months at a rate of $1,050.00 per month. 
The second  letter was dated 10 October 2018.  It said that Mr L had arranged to rent out a 
room from the 1 September 2018 for an extended  period, at a monthly rate of £1,050. But 
that hed notified R he was unable  to travel on 1 September, and the room had remained 
vacant until Mr L eventually did occupy  it on 22 September  2018. As R hadnt been  able to 
secure another guest during that time, they said they werent able to refund Mr L the £770 
payment hed made for the room for the time he wasnt there.
AXA didnt consider this to be sufficient  evidence of the costs  Mr L was claiming. It asked  
him to provide  bank statements to show when funds  were  paid,  or, in the case of a cash  
payment, any exchange slips confirming a currency transfer. 
Ref: DRN91892133Its common practice for insurers to require  a claimant to provide proof  of financial loss 
before meeting a claim. And I can see the claims conditions  in AXAs  policy refer to the need  
to provide receipts or bills for any costs claimed.  The letters  Mr L provided  didnt  confirm  any 
exchange of money  had taken place. They also referred to different currencies, with the first 
letter making reference to a price  of $1,050 a month for approximately three months, and the 
second referring to a monthly rate of £1,050. So its not clear  to me from these letters exactly  
how much  Mr L paid,  or was due to pay, for the accommodation. Therefore I dont think 
AXAs request  for bank  statements or exchange  slips to further support his claim was 
unreasonable. 
Mr L has since provided some further  evidence  to support his claim which  our investigator  
passed on to AXA. Hes given details of two PayPal  transactions  he made to an individual  Ill 
refer to as J on 30 August  2018,  totalling  $1,050.  And a further letter from R headed  
invoice cancellation which states that rental  of the spare bedroom, previously occupied  by 
J, to Mr L from 1 September 2018 until (approximately) 1 December 2018 for $1,050  per 
month is now cancelled.  Unfortunately a refund is not possible at such  short notice. 
AXA hasnt accepted this as proof of Mr Ls financial loss either. Its told us it still isnt 
satisfied with the evidence its been  given. Its pointed out the letters and cancellation invoice 
are on plain paper, and feels the signature on the most recent  cancellation invoice differs 
from those on the previous letters  Mr L provided. Its also shown us that in an email  he sent 
to AXA on 6 November  2018 Mr L said he had paid for the accommodation  booking  in cash, 
not through PayPal. And its raised  the point that the PayPal  transaction was made to a 
different individual than is stated on the letters Mr L initially submitted.
The onus is on Mr L to prove that he has a valid claim for accommodation costs under the 
policy. I appreciate that an arrangement made with an individual (or individuals) on a more 
informal basis may not be accompanied by headed  communications in the same manner as 
one might expect from a hotel or established  travel  provider.  But there are clearly 
discrepancies between the content of the cancellation invoice and payment details Mr L has 
now provided, and the content of the earlier  letters  and account of events he gave to AXA.  
So I think its reasonable for AXA to conclude, on the basis of the information  its been 
provided to date, that he hasnt done enough  to evidence his claim. Therefore I havent 
upheld this complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9189213