K821x#15Complaint
Ms L complains CASH ON GO LIMITED (trading as Peachy) lent to her irresponsibly.
Background
Ms L took a single loan from Peachy on 4 April 2013, for £100. She was expected to repay 
£133 on 3 May 2013.
A day before she was due to make  her repayment, Ms L sent a text message  to request 
more time to repay her loan. Peachy did offer a loan extension/deferral  service and it agreed 
Ms L could  just pay the £33 interest  she owed  and then make  her repayment on 31 May 
2013. 
But Ms L didnt repay her loan on 31 May 2013, instead paying  it off three weeks later on 21 
June 2013. Peachy added £1 interest to the loan per day after Ms L missed  her repayment, 
and also added a £25 charge the day after she had been due to make the repayment, 
followed by four additional charges of £12 each, added on the 3rd, 7th, 14th and 21st days the 
account was overdue.  Peachy referred to these charges as penalties.
Ms L later complained  Peachy had been  irresponsible in lending  to her. Peachy  didnt  uphold  
her complaint, so she brought  it to this service for an independent assessment. One of our 
adjudicators looked into the complaint and concluded that although  Peachy hadnt  been 
wrong to lend to Ms L, it hadnt acted  fairly  in the way it had applied  penalty charges to the 
account. Peachy  disagreed and the case was passed to me to review.
Before writing this decision, I shared some preliminary findings with Peachy and Ms L, 
explaining that I didnt think Peachy should  have  given her the loan at all. Peachy said it 
didnt agree but that it would offer to refund  all of the penalties it had charged  Ms L. Ms L 
didnt want to accept  that offer, so it now falls to me to decide the case.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Peachy had to assess Ms Ls applications for borrowing to check  if she could afford to pay 
back the amounts  shed  borrowed  without  undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way 
which was proportionate to the circumstances. It then had to assess  whether, based on the 
information it had gathered from its proportionate checks   Ms L could afford to make her 
loan repayments  sustainably. The regulator  at the time Ms L applied for her loan had 
explained that repayments are sustainable if theyre  made from income or savings (and not 
from further borrowing), while maintaining  existing financial commitments.
Ref: DRN95146802Peachy has said that because it was Ms Ls first and only loan, it didnt think  it could have 
acted incorrectly in lending to her a small  amount  of credit. I would tend to agree that where 
a borrower is seeking a small  loan relative  to their income, and they have not shown a 
tendency to return repeatedly for loans  (which could indicate underlying  difficulties), that 
proportionate checks would not necessarily  need  to be very detailed.  But that doesnt mean 
that it will always be responsible to lend to someone in this situation. And if a lender decides 
to carry out checks of any kind, and receives  information relevant to a potential borrowers 
ability to repay a proposed loan, then it should  not simply ignore the information it receives. 
This is what  Peachy  appears to have  done  in Ms Ls case.
One of the checks  Peachy carried out before  agreeing  to give Ms L her loan, was to obtain  a 
credit report  on her from a well-known credit reference  agency. Ive seen this report  and in 
my view it contains information which should  have  caused a responsible  lender  seriously  to 
question whether it was responsible to lend to Ms L. The report  appeared to show  that Ms L 
had three  payday  loans  outstanding elsewhere, and two of these loans were either in arrears 
or Ms L had deferred her repayments on them. She was also over her credit  limits on her 
revolving credit accounts, and had opened nine accounts in the past six months. Taken  
together, these pieces  of information suggest Ms Ls financial situation  was already 
unsustainable. She had exhausted  her lines of mainstream credit and appeared to have 
become reliant  on payday loans, which she was having problems repaying. I dont think it 
was responsible of Peachy to lend to Ms L in light of this information.
As I dont think Peachy  should have given  Ms L the loan to begin with, I dont need  to make 
detailed findings  on whether it was fair to charge  her the amounts it did when she fell into 
arrears. I will say only that it does not appear  to have been a very sympathetic way for 
Peachy to deal with what it should  have identified (from the credit  report it had seen, and 
Ms Ls earlier request  for more time to repay) as a likely case of financial difficulties.
Putting things  right
Peachy was wrong to give Ms L her loan, so its not fair that she should have had to pay any 
interest, fees or charges  on it, or have it affect her credit file in a negative way. So to put 
things right I direct Peachy to:
A)Calculate a refund of all interest,  fees and charges  Ms L paid towards the loan.  
B)Add 8% simple interest*  to the amounts calculated in A, calculated from the date 
Ms L originally made the payments in question, to the date the complaint is settled.
C)Pay the total of A plus B to Ms L.
D)Remove any remaining adverse information  about the loan from Ms Ls credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Peachy to take tax off this interest. Peachy must give 
Ms L a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off, if Ms L asks for one.
Ref: DRN95146803My final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9514680