K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement supplied  by 
Startline Motor Finance  Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. He also complains that he 
wasnt told about damage to the vehicle. He wants to reject the vehicle and reclaim the 
payments hes made.
background
Mr R tells us that in April 2018 he acquired  the vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as Z. He 
says he complained to Z within  a few days of taking  it. Issues  included  the vehicle  
wobbling. And he says he later complained to Startline about  other  issues  with the vehicle 
which included damage to the passenger door; broken wing bracket; heated seats not being 
provided and cigarette  burns. Mr R states he took the vehicle to a garage Ill refer to as M. 
And that he wasnt able to use the vehicle for about  two weeks whilst it was awaiting repairs.  
But he says than when  he got the vehicle back the problems still werent resolved. He said 
hes since had more  work done by a firm Ill refer to as A, as well as M. And this has cost 
over £2,000. He says the problems still remain, so he wants  to reject the vehicle.
Startline told us that following Mr Rs complaint  it had issued a final response letter (FRL) in 
August 2018.  It says this had explained  that Z had paid £500 towards the repairs carried  out 
by M. It said that when  Mr R had said the car was still shaking - and that the vehicle had 
been diagnosed as needing tracking  to the rear of the vehicle - Z had offered to reimburse  
Mr R if he would provide  the relevant invoice. It said Mr R didnt provide the invoice but 
instead asked  for £1,000 to be paid to him directly  to cover the repairs. Subsequently, 
Startline told us that it considered the repairs carried out in September  2018  by M hadnt 
been authorised  by it or S. And that Mr R had only supplied the invoice after the work  had 
been carried out.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 January 2020.  I indicated I was minded  
to uphold the complaint. I said I proposed to require Startline to refund the cost of repairs to 
the driveshaft.  Since then both parties have replied. Mr R has said he agrees with my 
provisional decision. Startline said it had nothing  to add to its earlier  submissions. I thank 
both parties for their replies.
As theres  been  no new information provided  I see no reason to alter my provisional  decision 
which is largely repeated  in my final decision set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr R has experienced  problems with this vehicle and has incurred expense in 
trying to put things right. Unfortunately,  with older, used vehicles things are more likely to go 
wrong and thats  whats happened here.  When Mr R acquired the vehicle it was about seven 
years old and had covered around 56,000 miles.  It was supplied  with a six month warranty.
Ref: DRN94654712Mr Rs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. Startline supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act of 
2015 (CRA).
Ive been provided  with a large  amount of evidence  by the parties in this case.  And if I dont 
comment on an individual item, its not that I havent taken it on board. Its just that I dont 
think I need to refer to it separately in order to give the reasons for my decision. And where  
evidence is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I have to make my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. That is, I decide whats the most likely  explanation to account for 
whats happened.
Ill deal first with the alleged misrepresentation of the vehicle in terms of damage and the 
failure to supply heated seats.  A misrepresentation is a false  statement of fact which induces 
a customer to enter an agreement. Ive seen a copy of the relevant advertisement and I cant 
find any reference to heated seats. And the issues with the cigarette burn, damaged  door 
and broken wing bracket are matters Id normally  expect to be noticed upon inspection of the 
vehicle. I understand  Mr R didnt examine the vehicle prior to acquiring it because of the 
distance between  himself and Z. And whilst I understand this, I have to take into account  that 
this was a seven year old used vehicle. Its fair to say these  can reasonably be described as 
cosmetic issues  which  dont impact  directly on the performance of the vehicle. And I think  if a 
consumer acquires a vehicle  of this age, without prior inspection, they are tacitly  accepting a 
degree of risk. I cant see there was any specific statement in the advert  referring to the 
general condition  of the vehicle, so I dont think there was any misrepresentation.
I can see that Mr R complained to Z soon after he got the vehicle  and - as he lived a long 
distance away - it seems Z authorised  that the repairs  could be carried  out by a garage more 
local to Mr R. And it paid £500  of the £520  cost. Theres  a note which  suggests  the work  was 
not covered by the vehicle  warranty. But Im not sure why that was the case  - or whether  it 
was merely the fact that the work  was being carried out by a garage other than the dealer.
An invoice dated 24 April refers to offside and nearside front drive shafts being worn; a 
cracked inner wheel  arch and an uneven (out of shape)  tyre. Ive also seen  a letter  from M 
dated 4 May in which it said that the customer (Mr R) had supplied  both drive shaft parts.  
The letter stated the front offside drive shaft was new but the nearside drive shaft was a 
used one and that it had advised him that it wouldnt last.
Ive been provided  with other invoices for additional work which has also been carried out on 
the vehicle and for which Mr R has paid. It appears  that A replaced  shock absorbers and 
track ends  on 20 May 2018 at a cost of £440.
And in September 2018, M carried out further  repairs which cost £1,563.56. The invoice 
stated the work was to both the front drive shafts (excessive  play);  both front tyres out of 
shape; rear axle castor arm worn; both front wishbone arms having excessive movement; 
water pump leaking and a wheel  arch liner missing.
Ref: DRN94654713In April 2019 the vehicle was again inspected by M which reported that the vehicle was 
vibrating and both rear wheel bearings  were  rough  when rotated. As a result  of this, in June 
2019 the vehicle was inspected by an independent  company Ill call D. D issued two 
reports. The first report was a desktop  report  carried out on 4 June 2019. This report  does 
not involve an inspection of the vehicle itself. Its an examination based on information and 
documents relating to the previous  history of the vehicle and repairs. It concluded the issues  
raised in Ms diagnostic  report of April 2019  were not linked to the September  repairs.
Its second report following  a road test on 6 June 2019 stated:
The vehicle was road tested for 14 miles at speeds  up to 70mph over varying road surfaces 
and traffic  conditions. No abnormal vibration occurred under any of the above varied 
conditions. No steering  wheel  vibration or general  body vibration occurred.
Ive also looked  at the MOT history  of the vehicle.  In January 2018 the vehicle passed its 
MOT with the only advisory relating to a suspension  arm bush  deteriorating. But it was noted 
that this hadnt  resulted in excessive  movement. The mileage recorded is 56,311 miles. The 
vehicle also passed  a MOT in February 2019. The only advisories related to a worn tyre, 
worn brake pads and a deteriorating number plate. All of these are wear and tear issues. 
The mileage  at this time was recorded as 62,563 miles.
It seems  clear  there  were  faults when the vehicle was supplied  and that Z paid for the 
repairs to be carried out by M. Ive taken it that the £20 it didnt pay was an oversight about 
the actual price. As Mr R had accepted  that the vehicle  could be repaired then I dont think 
he shouldve  been able to reject it at that point.
The issues  which  were repaired by A, in May 2018,  were in my opinion, wear  and tear items 
and in keeping  with the normal  maintenance which might be expected  of a vehicle of this 
age. So I dont think Startline should be liable for these. And after it had issued  the FRL in 
August 2018 I cant see that Mr R sought any authorisation  from it or Z before going  ahead 
with the repairs  which M carried out in September 2018. 
Having viewed the invoice for these latter repairs, most of the costs relate to matters  which  
again Id describe as wear and tear issues. The mileage at this time was recorded as 
61,204, which means  the vehicle had travelled around 5,000 miles since supplied  to Mr R. 
This is around or even slightly above  average  mileage. The life span  of drive shafts varies 
with the use to which a vehicle is put and it wouldnt be unusual for a driveshaft to be 
requiring replacement after 60,000 miles or so.
Im aware that Startline  disputes theres sufficient evidence that the parts  used for the repairs  
in May 2018  were supplied by Z. It suggests that texts which appear to be between Mr R and 
Z - and seem to confirm Z supplied the parts - may not have come from Z. But as its not 
provided any information to back this up I consider this to be mere speculation. Ive read the 
sequence of texts and - taken as whole - I think its more likely than not that Z did supply the 
parts. Ms letter of 4 May also appears  to support this inference  and mentions  a delay in the 
parts arriving. I noted an apparent anomaly in that M seems  to have included a charge for 
parts in its invoice of 24 April. But thats  a matter to be resolved between Z and M neither of 
whom are parties to this complaint.
Ref: DRN94654714As I think  Z supplied the parts  for the May repair, Ive then to consider  if the subsequent 
failure which led to the drive shafts having to be replaced again  in September should  mean  
Mr R is entitled to reject the vehicle.  On balance I dont think  he should be able to do so and 
Ill explain  why Ive reached this view.
If goods dont  conform to contract  when supplied, the obligations on the supplier may include 
returning them to a condition so that they are of satisfactory quality. That doesnt mean - in 
the case of a used  vehicle  - that it has to be restored to the same condition as when it was 
new. It means it has to be to be put back to the condition that wouldve been satisfactory at 
the point of supply. So there would be nothing inherently wrong in using used parts provided 
they met that requirement.
Its clear that after the repairs completed by M, Mr R wasnt satisfied things had been put 
right. So he had further work done  to the tracking  and shock absorbers by A. I note Z, as a 
gesture of goodwill, had offered to pay for these repairs if it were provided with a receipt, 
even though they seem to be maintenance items. And this offer was confirmed  in Startlines 
FRL in August  2018.  Instead Mr R took the vehicle back to M where the drive  shafts  were  
replaced in September 2018.
Ive already stated  that drive shafts are items whose serviceable life can vary dependent  
upon use. So I think when they were replaced  in September 2018 and the vehicle had by 
then covered over 61,000 miles that wouldnt usually be viewed as a premature failure.
As Mr R has had different  garages undertake repairs without prior reference to Startline I 
dont think he should now be entitled  to reject  the vehicle. But I do think  its fair and 
reasonable that Startline meets the cost of the drive  shaft repairs  in September.
Following Mr Rs complaint that Ms repairs in May hadnt resolved  the problem, Zs gesture 
of goodwill  effectively agreed to pay for repairs that would do so. Although  at the time this 
seems to have referred to the work which had done  by A, the purpose of the offer was to pay 
for such work as was necessary to deal with the wobbling. As repairs  didnt achieve this 
but it seems - judging  by the vehicle passing  an MOT in February 2019 and Ds later report - 
that Ms replacement of the drive shafts in September did so. So I think  it would be fair and 
reasonable for those costs to be met. Ive previously  indicated I think  the remainder of the 
September invoice  relates to issues Id describe as wear and tear.
In summary,  I think that if Mr R wasnt satisfied with the initial  repairs  he shouldve  given 
Startline the chance to have the vehicle inspected  prior to any other work being undertaken. 
And if that inspection had shown the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality following Ms initial  
repairs hed have been entitled to reject it. As it was, the vehicle continued  to be used and 
was subjected to repairs by A before  Ms repairs seem to have resolved most of the 
problems. I think in view of Zs earlier offer, its fair and reasonable for Startline to refund the 
cost relating to the September drive shaft replacement only.  But I dont  think it should be 
required to accept rejection of the vehicle.
Ref: DRN94654715my final decision
For the reasons  given  my final decision is I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  I now require Startline Motor Finance Limited to take the following  
action:
1.Refund the sum of £346 + £69.20  VAT, together with £90 towards  labour costs.  A 
total of £505.20.  Simple  interest at the rate of 8% per year should be added from 
date of payment  to date of settlement.
2.Pay £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience  including  impaired use of the    
vehicle due to repairs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9465471