K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mr and Mrs L say Yorkshire Building Society (Yorkshire) mis-sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage started in 1987. The PPI started in 1996. In January 1996 they 
applied for an extra  mortgage loan. A loan offer was made in February 1996. Later that 
month Mr and Mrs L signed a PPI application form. The monthly  benefit applied  for was 
based on the monthly cost of the whole mortgage, plus other regular monthly and mortgage 
related outgoings.  
The PPI application  form was in both Mr and Mrs Ls names and was ticked  to select  cover  
that would  pay out for accident,  sickness and unemployment.  It was also ticked  for benefit 
payments to last twelve rather than nine months  and to start after a 30 day waiting period. 
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Based on what I have, I think Mr and Mrs L chose to apply for the cover  and on a joint 
basis to cover them in case  of accident,  sickness or unemployment. The PPI application  
form was separate  from the loan application, and signed after the loan had been  offered. So 
I think its likely Mr and Mrs L wouldve known the PPI cover  was something separate from 
the mortgage. And I havent seen anything  to suggest they had to take this cover.  So I think  
they chose to take the cover. It was cover  that they didnt have to take unless they wanted it, 
and I havent seen anything to make  me think Yorkshire didnt  make  that clear.
Yorkshire sold the PPI on a non-advised basis  I havent seen anything  that makes  me 
think Yorkshire gave a personalised recommendation for the PPI. So Yorkshire didnt have 
to check the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs L. But it did have to make sure Mrs and Mr L got 
the information they needed to decide if the PPI was right for them.
Mr and Mrs L say the PPI cover was never  fully explained  and they werent aware of what  
they were paying  for. I cant say exactly what information Yorkshire  gave Mr and Mrs L about 
the cover. So I cant say the information  Yorkshire  gave was as clear or as full as it shouldve 
been. But Mr and Mrs L applied for the cover. And the application  form they signed made it 
clear the cover was for accident, sickness and unemployment. So it looks  like Mr and Mrs L 
were made aware that this is what the cover was for, and wanted this sort of cover at the 
time. And from what  Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, Mr and Mrs L werent 
affected by any exclusions or limits  that applied to the cover   like exclusions for existing 
health issues. So they wouldve been  able to claim on the cover if the circumstances arose.
Also the cover helped  protect a mortgage  a significant liability  secured on Mr and Mrs Ls 
home. From what Mr and Mrs L have told us, it isnt likely their work sick pay wouldve lasted 
as long as the twelve  months  the PPI benefit could last. And theyve told us they didnt have 
savings or anything else to help pay the mortgage. So it looks like the benefit wouldve been 
Ref: DRN90493112useful for them  if either Mr or Mrs L suffered a loss of income due to sickness, accident or 
unemployment. Taking all this into account, I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put Mr and Mrs L off taking out the cover.
What Ive said above means Yorkshire doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs L. But Yorkshire will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L 
because: 
Yorkshire got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs L about that. Because Yorkshire didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs L, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Yorkshire has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Im grateful  to Mr and Mrs L for their further points and their patience  throughout. Ive taken 
into account all their points, including what theyve said about  Yorkshire  making mistakes in 
administering the mortgage, and Yorkshire stating in 2014  that a third party was involved in 
arranging the policy  a statement Yorkshire has since told us was an error. But although 
there were errors, I dont think this means  the PPI must have been mis-sold. And, having 
taken everything into account, for the reasons Ive given above Im not persuaded the PPI 
was mis-sold when Mr and Mrs L took it out.
what the business needs  to do
Yorkshire has to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission  and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Yorkshire  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs L any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Yorkshire should pay back to Mr and Mrs L the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Yorkshire should 
also pay Mr and Mrs L 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Yorkshire has to take basic rate tax off this interest.  Mr and Mrs L can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society doesnt  have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs L any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN90493113
Ref: DRN9049311