K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) incorrectly recorded  
adverse data on his credit  file.
background
Mr W had a current account  with NatWest, which is now closed. In 2019,  it came to his 
attention that his credit file showed  arrangement  markers on the account for the period from 
June 2013 to April 2017. This was incorrect, so Mr W complained  to NatWest.
They confirmed that there had never been  any payment arrangements in place on that 
account. So they agreed that they had recorded  incorrect information on Mr Ws credit file. 
NatWest credited Mr Ws existing account with £100  to apologise for their mistake.  They  
asked for his credit file to be updated. And they asked Mr W to send them  any evidence that 
he had been declined credit because of the incorrect information.  Mr W says his poor credit  
score is directly attributable to this. He says hes been  declined loans because of this and 
that, where he has been given credit, hes had to pay high interest rates.
Our investigator looked into it and thought the compensation  paid by NatWest was fair. But 
Mr W says the situation has seriously affected his financial  and personal  situation for several 
years. He wants compensation for that, and for the limited access  he says he hes had to 
credit. Because Mr W didnt agree with our investigators findings, the complaint has been 
passed to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest agree that they recorded incorrect information on Mr Ws credit file. Theyve 
apologised for that and paid compensation of £100. So what  Im looking at here is the impact 
that mistake has had.
Mr W says he has been declined credit  by several  banks  and that this is ultimately  down to 
the incorrect information on his credit file. Most  of the businesses  he approached have been  
unwilling to provide information in writing about the reason credit was declined.  So I cant 
conclude that the incorrect information  on the credit file was the reason. But Mr W has 
provided correspondence from two banks. One of those was NatWest. The other was a third 
party, which Ill call B. Ill deal with the letter from B first.
Mr W applied  to B for a credit card. Their letter declining his application says that Mr W didnt 
meet their internal credit scoring criteria. They say their decision was based on information 
about Mr Ws financial circumstances, including the details  on his application form, 
information held by credit reference agencies and any other details they think are relevant. 
So the information on Mr Ws credit  file was one of several factors  taken into account.  But 
the date of the letter means that the credit file could have been corrected by the time B 
looked at it, which would  mean  the error didnt affect  their decision.
Overall, I think its clear  that there were several  factors which B took into account. I dont 
think the information shows that, but for the incorrect entries, B would have given  Mr W the 
credit card.
Ref: DRN92337392Its relevant that Mr W had a payment arrangement in place for his mortgage in the period 
from 2013 to 2014,  which  was correctly  recorded  on his credit  file. So its likely that would 
have had an impact on any potential lenders decision whether or not to offer him credit. 
Turning to Mr Ws application  to NatWest, this was for a loan and was made in January 
2019. NatWest say that the situation  with Mr Ws mortgage would have  been  a factor in their 
decision not to lend. Theyve  explained  that the credit file was only one of several factors 
which they took into account. From  the information  Ive seen, Im satisfied thats  the case. So 
I cant conclude that NatWest would have granted  Mr W the loan even without the incorrect  
entries on the credit file.
Mr W says that, where he has been  given  credit,  its been at high interest rates. He has 
referred to two credit cards which he says are credit  rebuilder accounts. The other examples 
hes given are of loans. Mr W hasnt provided  details of the information  he gave to these 
businesses or the assessments  they carried out before  giving him credit.  So I havent seen 
anything which shows that the interest  rates were based on the incorrect  entries  on his credit 
file. Or, to put it another way, I havent  seen  anything  which  shows that Mr W would have  
been offered different rates but for NatWests  mistake.  And Im aware that there  can be 
many factors  which  influence the interest  rate offered to a customer.  So, while  its 
understandable that Mr W thinks hes paid more  interest on money hes borrowed than might 
otherwise have been the case,  its not possible for me to say thats  the case  based on the 
information available.
NatWest have confirmed  that they amended the information about Mr Ws account at the 
end of February 2019 and that they updated  all three of the main  credit reference agencies.  
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied thats  the case. As to the date the account is 
recorded as being closed,  Mr W says this should be 2013. But NatWest  say it was closed in 
2017. As there  isnt any adverse data recorded  about  the account  now, I dont think theres 
any detriment to Mr W, even if he doesnt  agree with the date the account  is recorded as 
being closed.  So Im not going to ask NatWest  to make any further changes to the records.
Finally, Mr W says the mistake on the credit  file has affected him for several years and hes 
looking for compensation to reflect the amount of time the records were wrong. The 
examples he has given of credit applications  affected by the mistake all date from May 2017  
onwards. So I find it unlikely that he was affected before that. And, as set out above, I 
havent seen anything which confirms that the information about the account was the reason 
the applications he did make had the outcomes they did. Its always  difficult to decide  the 
appropriate level of compensation  in a situation  like this. But, overall,  I think  the £100 which  
NatWest have already  paid is enough to reflect whats  happened  here.  So I dont think  they 
need to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint   in that I think  the £100 already paid by 
NatWest is enough  to compensate Mr W for their mistake.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN92337393
Ref: DRN9233739