K820x#14complaint
Miss F complained to us that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss F was sold the PPI when she took out an unsecured personal loan in June 2001. The 
loan included an amount to pay for the policy. 
Our adjudicator considered this complaint and didnt think  it should be upheld. Miss F 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been  passed to me 
to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Fs complaint and Ill explain the reasons for this.
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the policy. Looking at her 
circumstances, Miss F met these rules. So I think shed have been eligible to claim on the 
PPI if she needed  to. 
Miss F took out her loan over the phone and was given the loan agreement afterwards to 
sign. Nationwide hasnt  been able to send  us the recording of the phone  call, as its no 
longer available. Since the loan finished in 2003 this isnt surprising.  And clearly its possible,  
and indeed understandable, that Miss F might not be able to accurately remember  
everything that happened from that many years  ago. 
So in considering my decision, Ive taken into account how long ago this sale was. Weve  
been provided with a copy of Miss Fs loan agreement. Theres a column in a table which 
sets out figures  for the loan and PPI. The section about the policy is headed; 
Optional  Credit Insurance.  
Miss F signed the agreement,  and I dont think its likely that having  read it she would have 
thought that the policy was compulsory. I think its more likely shed have known that she 
could decline the PPI if she wanted to. Ive carefully considered what  Miss F has told us, but 
on balance Ive concluded its most  likely that Nationwide  gave  her a clear  choice.  
Next, Nationwide  didnt  recommend the policy to Miss F, so it wasnt  required to make  sure 
that it was suitable for her. But it was required to provide her with enough information about  
the policy so she could make the decision for herself about whether or not to take it out. 
Miss F told us that shes unhappy about the PPI because she doesnt think  she needed it. 
Ref: DRN96819022Ive considered the possibility that Nationwide didnt  point  out the main things the policy 
didnt cover. But given her circumstances Miss F doesnt appear to have  been  affected by 
any of those things.  And when she repaid  her loan early, she received a pro-rata refund. 
Miss F told us that her partner could have  helped with the repayments if she needed  
assistance. But this is the type of difficult financial pressure that PPI is designed  to avoid. 
The cost of the policy was shown on the loan agreement. This set out the premium, the 
interest payable on the premium, the total cost and the amount of the monthly payment. So I 
think its most likely  that Miss F would have understood how much  she was going to pay, 
and with this information she made her decision to take out the PPI. 
Finally, Ive considered  the possibility that Nationwide didnt give Miss F clear information  
about the monthly benefit payable under the policy. Miss F told us that if she was too ill to 
work or was made redundant, she would have  been entitled to full pay for six months  and 
half pay thereafter. But the PPI would have  paid out for the term of the loan if she was off 
work sick, a considerably  longer period than her work benefits. And the policy also would 
have covered the repayments for up to 12 months if she lost her job. I dont think  its likely 
that clearer information about this would have dissuaded her from taking out the policy.  So 
having considered all the available information  in this case  I dont require Nationwide  to put 
anything right. 
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss F, but for the reasons  set out above,  Im not upholding this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9681902