K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC was irresponsible in giving him two credit  
cards.
background
Mr K successfully applied  for a Tesco credit card in November 2017 with a £2,000 credit 
limit. He also successfully applied for a second Tesco  credit  card in February 2018 with a 
£900 credit  limit.
Mr K complained in 2019 that Tesco was irresponsible in lending to him. He said that it didnt 
do enough checks and shouldnt have accepted his applications. Mr K explained  that the 
credit cards added to his debt and put him in a worse  position than he was already in. He 
would like the interest and charges repaid.
Tesco explained that it had carried out standard checks when Mr K applied and that there 
was nothing to indicate these cards  would be unaffordable. It also explained that Mr K had a 
history of meeting  his credit card commitments. It said that it wouldnt refund interest  or 
charges as these  had been correctly applied.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He explained that Tesco carried out 
proportionate checks when deciding to lend to Mr K. He explained that it had considered the 
information Mr K had given on his application,  along with doing a credit check. The credit  
check showed no defaults and that he generally kept up with contractual repayments. So, he 
didnt think it was irresponsible for Tesco to provide the credit cards  to Mr K.
Mr K disagreed. He said that when he applied for his second  credit card, he had declared his 
income as being  higher than it was previously and he felt this shouldve alerted Tesco to 
believe this information  was incorrect. He also said hed taken out a large amount of credit in 
this short  period of time, and that his bank statements  would show  that he couldnt meet his 
commitments. He thinks Tesco shouldve been  aware of this. Mr K asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint, Ill explain  why.
When consumers apply  for credit, we expect businesses to do reasonable and  
proportionate checks when deciding whether to accept the application. In this case,  Tesco 
has shown us that it checked Mr Ks credit file and considered the information Mr K had put 
on his application.  Mr K said that it shouldve done  more checks than this  as he had a lot of 
outstanding credit and his stated income  increased  substantially between his applications. 
He felt that Tesco shouldve done  more with this information and should have known it may 
be incorrect. But Mr K was expected  to list his income accurately. And I dont  think that a pay 
increase over three  months was something  that wouldve alerted Tesco that something 
might be wrong. Mr K had a responsibility to accurately list his income  and outgoings, and 
Tesco was entitled  to rely on what he had said. Mr K didnt have his current account with 
Tesco, so it wouldnt have  been aware of his income  and expenditure other than what Mr K 
Ref: DRN92035402had told it. So, I dont  think  it shouldve  done anything more  at the point Mr K applied for the 
credit cards.
When Tesco  checked Mr Ks credit file, it showed he had outstanding  debt, but the amount 
he said he earned, and the credit limits Tesco agreed to, wouldnt have alerted Tesco  that 
something might be wrong, or that Mr K couldnt afford  to make the repayments to these 
cards. Particularly as Mr K had mainly  met his credit commitments in the past and had 
continued to do so. Mr K also didnt  have any defaults recorded against him. And I can see 
that Tesco gave  Mr K a lower credit limit on his second credit card, so I think  it took account  
of his additional borrowing at this time. So, based  on the information Tesco  was given at the 
time, and the credit  limits that Tesco agreed  to, I cant  say it was irresponsible  in accepting 
Mr Ks applications. There wasnt anything to suggest that Tesco needed to do more checks  
than it carried out, and I think the checks  that it did carry out were reasonable and 
proportionate to the credit being applied for.
Mr K has said that hes had other complaints  where  his statements were requested, and a 
different approach was taken. But we look at all complaints individually, and proportionate 
checks would differ depending on multiple  factors including how much credit  was being 
applied for, and what knowledge that business had of Mr Ks circumstances. In this case, as 
Ive explained  above, I think that Tesco carried out proportionate checks when considering 
both credit card applications.  So, I dont think  it has been irresponsible  in providing credit to 
Mr K.
I understand Mr K has continued to keep up repayments on his credit cards  but has 
explained that hes in a difficult  financial position.  Mr K should  speak to Tesco  directly  if he 
feels he cant make his repayments. And Ive noted that our investigator gave him details of 
organisations that may be able to help him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9203540