K820x#14complaint
Ms T is unhappy with the way National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) handled a rate 
switch on her buy- to- let (BTL) mortgage.
background
Ms T has a BTL mortgage with NatWest on a flat she owns.  She was on a fixed rate product 
which expired at the end of December 2017. If she didnt  select  a new fixed  rate product it 
would revert to NatWests standard variable (SVR) BTL rate.
In October  2017, Ms T began making enquiries  with NatWest to find out the best rate she 
could move to once her current  rate expired. After some phone discussions with NatWest,  
she made her choice and was told she could sign up for the new rate online. So on 
18 October 2017 she applied for a fee-free two-year fixed  rate product  at 3.23% with effect 
from January 2018. But she believed NatWests  advisor told her shed automatically be 
switched to a lower rate product should one become available.  
Ms T has since  found that in November 2017 NatWest  introduced  a five-year  fixed rate 
product at 2.44% with an arrangement fee of £995,  but she wasnt  automatically switched. 
She thinks NatWest should allow her to switch without penalty  to the lower rate, subject  to 
her paying  the £995 arrangement fee. Or compensate her for the additional  interest shell 
pay over five years.
NatWest refused as it didnt say a switch to a lower rate product  would happen 
automatically. It said it didnt advise her - Ms T selected  the deal she wanted, and she can 
only break the contract if she pays an early repayment charge of around £2,800. So Ms T 
complained to us. She said thered been email  correspondence  with NatWest where the 
automatic switch was discussed, but shes since deleted them, and NatWest said it has no 
such records. 
Our investigator didnt  think NatWest  had done  anything wrong.  So Ms T asked  an 
ombudsman to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Let me explain why.
Ms T selected the product  she wanted  online after making telephone enquiries. She asked 
about the rates she was eligible for, and what the monthly payments would  be for each so 
she could work out the best deal.  From what Ms T says she believed rates  were  likely to rise 
in the future so wanted to fix the rate before that happened.  But I can see she was told 
several times NatWest  cant give advice  or make  recommendations  for BTL mortgages.
After the first phone  call, Ms T went online and selected a two-year fixed rate product and 
signed electronically to accept the rate on 18 October 2017. The paperwork she was asked  
to read before signing the agreement makes  clear she was entering in to a formally binding  
contract. At the very top in bold capitals it reads This is an important documentaccept 
only if you want to be legally bound .  And Ms T was still happy with her choice after the 
Ref: DRN92259512second call. NatWest introduced the 2.44% five-year fixed rate product with a £995 fee 
about a month after Ms T had signed  for the two-year fixed product at 3.23%. 
Ms T says shes negotiated four mortgages  every two years for the last 20 years. So it would 
appear shes used  to working  out the best deal for her circumstances. She was disappointed  
the fee-free rates werent lower  than the product she was on. But I can see she selected the 
rate she wanted  from those which were available, not because  NatWest had advised her. 
Ive listened to two calls Ms T had with NatWest about her mortgage.  Having done  so Im 
satisfied Ms T wasnt led to believe shed automatically benefit from a lower rate if one 
became available.
initial call with advisor S  Monday16 October  2017 at16.49 (48 minutes)
Ms T called NatWest as her current fixed rate deal at 3.08% would shortly  be expiring and if 
she did nothing it would  revert to NatWests BTL SVR which was 4.5% at the time. Shed 
tried to switch online but had difficulty  logging on to the webpage. Ms T asked about rate 
changes and was told about ten days previously some mainly residential mortgage  rates  had 
changed in line with Bank of England base rate. Either  rising, or staying the same but none 
had fallen. Ms T confirmed if she chose  a product which incurred a fee, shed add it to the 
mortgage balance,  not pay it upfront. 
Ms T asked S to compare how much her monthly payments would be for the four products 
she was eligible to switch  to, with lower rates than she was currently  paying. These were a 
two-year fixed rate product at 1.99% with a fee of £1,995, a five-year fixed  rate product at 
2.54% with a fee of £995 and two tracker products. She decided  against the trackers. And 
after being  given quotes for the two fixed  rate products  Ms T considered the savings 
wouldnt outweigh the fee. She then mentioned a fee-free 2-year  fixed  rate at 3.23%, which 
was higher than her current product.  Ms T asked which one shed be better  off with, but S 
said she couldnt give advice, only information.  
The call was put on hold while Ms T discussed  the options with her husband, and decided on 
the fee-free two-year  fixed product at 3.23%. S said she couldnt  do the switch for her. Ms T 
could either  book it herself online or S could make her an appointment with a mortgage  
professional. Ms T asked if the appointment could  be with advisor  H who shed dealt with 
previously. S said H wouldnt be available as hed changed roles, but she could arrange  an 
appointment with another advisor on Wednesday, which Ms T accepted.
Ms T asked what would happen  if she booked the deal online and then changed her mind.  S 
explained shed  have 14 days to accept the new rate but even if shed done so she could still 
change her mind up to 31 December 2017.  But she couldnt accept two deals and then 
decide later.  S warned her until shed booked  a new deal the rates  theyd discussed were  
subject to change. Im satisfied Ms T wasnt told NatWest  would  monitor  the rates  on her 
behalf or switch  her to any better deals which came available. 
call with advisor H on Wednesday 18 October  at 12.31 (12 minutes)
Ms T was pleased H had called, as shed dealt with him previously. He explained he couldnt 
give advice on BTL mortgages but Ms T said shed already  booked  her new rate online. She 
just wanted to chat it through before making a firm decision as she was trying  to work out if 
shed be better off with a fixed  rate or a tracker.  She mentioned  media reports suggested  
interest rates were likely to rise, but H said he couldnt comment  on that. He could talk 
through the options but he only had access to exactly the same  information Ms T could see 
Ref: DRN92259513online. During the conversation Ms T said shed pretty much decided  against a tracker  rate, 
so was just trying to work out if it was worth paying  a fee (along the same lines as the 
previous call). Finally  Ms T said she was happy with the two-year  fixed  at 3.23% and H 
confirmed that was already set up on the system  to come into effect  on 1 January 2018.  So 
Ms T said she no longer  needed the appointment  with the mortgage professional later that 
day. Ms T didnt ask what  would happen if rates fell, and Im satisfied H didnt say Ms T 
would automatically  benefit if they did. 
Ms T says shes used to negotiating her mortgages  and knew  NatWest couldnt  advise  her. 
She thought  carefully about  her options and discussed these with her husband,  basing  her 
decision on her assumption rates would rise. Entering into a fixed rate contract means  
assessing how the market is likely to move which  is not an exact  science. If rates had risen 
as Ms T expected, it wouldnt have been fair for NatWest  to increase her rate, once shed 
signed up a fixed  rate product. So I dont  agree  it would be fair for Ms T to be able to switch  
to the new product with no penalty now. 
Ive seen no evidence  of email correspondence between  Ms T and NatWest, other than the 
rate switch  paperwork,  and an email confirmation of the advisor appointment. But based on 
the two phone calls I think its unlikely NatWest would have said shed be automatically be 
switched to a lower rate. It seems to me if NatWest  automatically transferred consumers to 
the cheapest possible  deal thered be no need  for the phone calls or for Ms T to book the 
rate on-line.  And Im not sure its possible  to automatically switch to a product which required 
the customer to either agree to pay a fee or add it to the mortgage balance.
I understand Ms T is annoyed  NatWest  introduced  a lower rate product so soon after shed 
booked her new deal,  particularly as she expected rates to rise. But the new product  which  
she says shed have  preferred was quite different from the one she chose. Its a five-year  
fixed term not two. And it incurred a £995 arrangement  fee, which shed previously  said she 
wanted to avoid. And given theres only a 0.10%  difference in the five year fixed  product she 
knew about (2.54%) and the one she now says shed have chosen (2.44%), I cant  be 
certain shed have done so, bearing  in mind her concern  that any saving may not outweigh 
the fee. Particularly as shed be paying additional interest on the fee once it was added to 
the mortgage balance. So taking everything into consideration  I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9225951