K820x#14complaint
Ms P says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
Ms P bought the policy  in 2001 at the same time as taking out a credit  card over the internet. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ps complaint because:
 Ms P had to select a yes or no option  to indicate if she wanted PPI before she could 
complete her credit card application online. So I think Canada  Square made her aware 
that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. 
 Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI to Ms P so it didnt have to check  if it was 
right for her. 
 Its possible the information Canada Square  gave  Ms P about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ms P doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the 
main things  the policy didnt cover   and based on what  I know  about her 
circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been useful to her. So I dont think  better 
information wouldve  stopped  her buying  it. 
Ive taken into account Ms Ps comments, including what shes  said about using the card to 
consolidate debt and wanting to minimise  her outgoings. But these points dont change my 
conclusion. The webpage where she selected  PPI showed that there  was a cost to the 
policy. So I think she decided she wanted  it despite  knowing it would  increase  her outgoings. 
I dont think that clearer  information on the cost wouldve led to her making a different 
decision. So I dont  think shes  lost out because  of this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9793848