K822xComplaint
Mrs L has complained  that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) unfairly continued  to applying 
charges to her overdraft  when she was in financial difficulty.
Background
I attach my provisional decision of 16 June  2021, which forms part of this final decision.  
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I was intending to uphold Mrs Ls complaint and 
invited both parties to make any final comments ahead of my final decision. 
Following this, Lloyds  confirmed that it accepted  my provisional decision and that it agreed to 
pay redress. Mrs L replied to confirm that she had to borrow  money  from her elderly  parents 
to pay back her overdraft. 
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties  for their comments and Im pleased to see that Lloyds has agreed  to pay 
redress to Mrs L. Ive seen what Mrs L has said about having to borrow from her parents to 
repay her overdraft. But Im satisfied  that refunding the interest fees and charges from when 
her overdraft became  unsustainable adequately  puts things right for this too.
So having  carefully considered the responses to my provisional decision, Ive not been 
persuaded to alter my conclusions. And I remain satisfied that Lloyds should put things right 
in the way I set out below. 
Fair compensation  what  Lloyds  needs to do to put things  right for Mrs L
Having thought about everything, I think that it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of Mrs Ls complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Ls current  overdraft balance  so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from November 2015 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Lloyds  should contact Mrs L to arrange  a suitable repayment  plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Ls credit  
file, it should backdate  this to November 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs L along with 8% simple interest  on the overpayments  from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information  from Mrs Ls credit file. 
Ref: DRN92449022 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mrs Ls complaint. Lloyds Bank  PLC should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN92449023COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mrs L has complained  that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) unfairly continued  to applying 
charges to her overdraft  when she was in financial difficulty.
Background
Mrs L complained to Lloyds in 2018.  She said that the interest, fees and charges  added to her 
overdraft caused  her financial difficulty.  Lloyds  refunded some of the fees Mrs L paid in March  
2018. But Mrs L didnt  think this went far enough and referred her complaint to our service.   
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Lloyds will be familiar  with all the rules, regulations and good  industry  practice we consider  when  
looking at whether a bank  treated  a customer fairly  and reasonably  when applying  overdraft 
charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this provisional decision.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  I think Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest  and associated fees after it renewed Mrs Ls overdraft 
in November 2015. 
I say this because  by this point  Mrs L hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance  for an 
extended period  of time. I cant see how Lloyds reasonably  concluded the credits going  into 
the account  predominantly made  up of benefits - were enough to enable  Mrs L to exit her 
£3,400.00 overdraft within a reasonable period of time, or that she was using the facility for 
unforeseen emergency borrowing rather than prolonged day-to-day expenditure as its own 
literature suggests  overdrafts are supposed to be used.
In my view, Lloyds should have realised that Mrs L was experiencing financial difficulty,  wasnt  
using her overdraft as intended  and shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms 
when it reviewed the facility in April 2013.  As Lloyds  didnt  react  to Mrs Ls overdraft  usage  and 
instead continued charging  in the same  way, I think it failed  to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mrs L ended  up paying additional interest,  fees and charges  on her overdraft at a time when 
she was already experiencing difficulty.  So Im intending to say that Mrs L lost out because  
of what Lloyds did wrong and that it should put things  right.
Fair compensation  what  Im intending to say Lloyds needs  to do to put things right  
for Mrs L
Having thought about everything, Im intending to issue  a final decision saying that it would 
be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of Mrs Ls complaint for Lloyds to put things 
right by:
Reworking Mrs Ls current  overdraft balance  so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from November 2015 onwards are removed.
Ref: DRN92449024AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Lloyds  should contact Mrs L to arrange  a suitable repayment  plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Ls credit  
file, it should backdate  this to November 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs L along with 8% simple interest  on the overpayments  from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information  from Mrs Ls credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to uphold Mrs Ls complaint and tell Lloyds 
Bank PLC to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence I get by 30 June 2021  changes my mind, thats what 
Ill tell Lloyds to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9244902