K820x#14complaint
Mrs S and Mr S have brought this complaint  on behalf of themselves  and the late Mr S. Im 
going to refer to the late Mr S as Mr S1. Ill refer to Mr S as Mr S2. I have to do this because  
our decisions  are published and we need to make  sure that the parties  cannot be identified. 
Im sorry  if this seems somewhat impersonal. 
The complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy that was sold by 
Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) alongside  a mortgage. 
background
I can see the PPI was sold in October 2000  and the cover started shortly afterwards in 2001. 
The PPI was set up to cover Mrs S and Mr S2 only. It looks  as though thats  because  Mr S1 
was quite unwell and unable to work at that time.  
After considering the complaint, our adjudicator didnt  think  it should be upheld. Mrs S and 
Mr S2 didnt  agree with that view.  So the matter has been passed to me to make  a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs S and Mr S2, but Ive decided  not to uphold this complaint. 
Ill explain  the reasons why below. 
I can see from the papers  that PPI was sold during a meeting between  the parties. I cant  
know what was said during that meeting.  So to help me decide whats  likely to have 
happened, Ive looked at what the parties  told us about it. And Ive also had the benefit of 
seeing the mortgage application form and other documents that are available  from the time. 
I can see theres been some discussion about  whether Mr S2 was a guarantor or a party  to 
the mortgage. Looking at the papers, I dont think he was a guarantor   although I appreciate  
he might  have been informally referred to in that way. It looks to me as though he was a joint 
applicant alongside  Mrs S and Mr S1. But in any event, I dont think  it would have made  a 
difference to my decision  even if he was a guarantor.  
The first thing Ive considered is whether  it would  have been made clear at the meeting  
between the parties  that the PPI was optional. I can see that in their correspondence, Mrs S 
and Mr S2 said that they felt bulldozed into taking PPI. They havent told us precisely  what 
Nationwide said or did to make them feel bulldozed. I appreciate that what  theyve told me 
is what they honestly remember about  this sale. But pressure  is a very subjective area. By 
that I mean that what one person feels is pressure, another person  might not. And in the 
absence of any specific evidence, I cant safely say that Nationwide  bulldozed  
Mrs S and Mr S2 into taking this policy out. 
Ref: DRN96020132Looking at the paperwork generally, it seems  fairly  clear that they had a choice about  buying 
the PPI policy. It follows that I think the person selling the cover would have also made that 
clear. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that Nationwide told Mrs S, Mr S1 and Mr S2 that this 
particular policy was right for their circumstances. But it still had to give them  enough 
information about the cover so they could decide whether it was a good fit for their needs.  
That information had to be clear, fair and not misleading. 
I accept it is possible that the information  Nationwide provided wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. So the question for me now is whether  Mrs S, Mr S1 and Mr S2 would have 
acted differently if Nationwide had given  them all of the right information.  To help me decide 
what they would have done,  Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive 
also thought about what they told us about their personal circumstances at the time.  
As I said above, the cover was set up to cover Mrs S and Mr S2. Thats  because  Mr S1 was 
unwell and he couldnt work.  So he wouldnt have been eligible for the cover. So if either
Mrs S and Mr S2 had to make a claim on the PPI, 50% of their mortgage repayments would 
have been covered for up to 12 months  if they were made redundant.
I think that with PPI, if Mrs S or Mr S2 were made redundant, they could have used any 
redundancy pay on their other essential  expenditure at what  would have no doubt  been a 
stressful time for them if they lost their jobs. Its important for me to make clear  that this 
mortgage was secured  on their home  and the consequences would have been significant  if 
theyd fallen behind  with their repayments. 
Looking at their employment  circumstances, I dont think  Mrs S or Mr S2 have been affected 
by any of the exclusions in respect of their employment circumstances. I can see that Mr S2 
did in fact make a claim that wasnt paid. Mrs S told us that she believed the claim was 
refused because Mr S2 had a redundancy payment. I cant  see anything in the terms and 
conditions that would  have allowed a claim to be refused for that reason. I do however note 
that Mr S was out of work for less than a month and there was a 30-day waiting period for 
this policy. 
Mrs S told us that she had some  significant  savings that were held in an account with 
another family member when she applied for the mortgage. I havent seen evidence  of those 
savings and its not clear  whether they would have been easily  accessible.  But if I accept 
that they were, it looks as though Mrs S may have  wanted to keep that money intact. I say 
this because it wasnt put towards  the property purchase.  
Taking everything into account,  I think that the PPI could have been helpful to 
Mrs S and Mr S2 if theyd  had to make a claim.  So I dont think more or better information 
about the cover would have put them off buying it. 
I am sorry  to disappoint Mrs S and Mr S2, but I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold. It 
follows that I havent upheld the complaint. 
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society  and I dont require it to take 
any further action.  
Ref: DRN96020133Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S2 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2019
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9602013