K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  cancelled a number of appointments to replace 
his windscreen after he made a claim on his car insurance policy.
background 
Aviva uses  a third party company to replace windscreens but as its ultimately responsible  
for this complaint,  Ill refer to it throughout. When I refer to Avivas actions, that also includes 
the actions of the third party company.
Mr M has a car insurance policy underwritten  by Aviva. Mr M experienced damage to his 
windscreen and claimed  on his policy.  Aviva  made  arrangements for the windscreen to be 
replaced. It cancelled  two appointments and eventually did replace the windscreen but this 
took two appointments on two separate days to complete  the job.
Mr M wasnt happy with this as hed had to rearrange his work shifts  a number of times. He 
also said that information from Aviva claimed that windscreen cracks affect a vehicles 
structural integrity. He therefore thought the replacement  should have been completed more  
quickly.
He complained to Aviva  and, unhappy  with its response, brought the complaint to this 
service. Our investigator recognised the inconvenience Aviva  had caused Mr M had said it 
should pay him £100  Aviva agreed. Mr M didnt  think this was enough and asked an 
ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons. Ill explain why.
In this case, theres no dispute about the circumstances of the case  Aviva accepts it let 
Mr M down  and as a consequence, caused him inconvenience. Whats  not been  agreed on 
is the level of compensation it should pay Mr M. So thats what  I need to decide here.
The windscreen on Mr Ms car needed  two engineers to replace it, each responsible for a 
different part of the work. Normally Aviva arranges  an appointment for both parts of the work 
to be completed at the same time. 
Aviva cancelled the first appointment  when  a second specialist engineer  wasnt available to 
complete their part of the job at the same time as the first. Ultimately though, the windscreen 
was repaired over two separate appointments and it seems to me this would have  been  an 
option available to Aviva  for the first appointment too. Based on this Im satisfied  it didnt 
need to cancel the original appointment. And if it hadnt, Mr M wouldnt  have  experienced the 
same inconvenience.
The next appointment was cancelled at the last minute due to an engineer being absent 
through sickness. I accept  this was out of Avivas control but it still meant Mr M experienced 
a second cancelled appointment and this caused  him further  inconvenience.
Ref: DRN94188152Mr M says that a message on Avivas phone  system  mentions the impact  of windscreen 
cracks on the structural integrity  of the car. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr M didnt  
feel he could use his car until the crack  was repaired so while I acknowledge what hes said, 
Im not persuaded it had a significant impact on him. 
Its not this services role to punish  businesses and in general we dont award  compensation 
for loss of earnings.  But what we will do is consider the impact of a businesss actions on a 
consumer. 
In this case, Im satisfied  Aviva caused Mr M some inconvenience as a result of its actions. 
Taking into account everything  Ive said above, I think  the £100 suggested by our 
investigator is a fair and reasonable  way for Aviva to recognise the impact of its failings  on 
Mr M.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  Aviva  Insurance  Limited to pay 
Mr M £100 for the reasons Ive explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9418815