K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  that Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited wont pay all their 
home insurance claim for accidental damage  to drainage pipes.
background
In June 2018 Mr and Mrs H made  a claim to Lloyds following their discovery of leaking 
underground pipes  on their property. They had had a claims company (C) carry out an 
inspection report.  From that report it was noted that there was a fracture, and a displaced 
joint in one part of the pipe. In other  parts there were tree roots  and another  displaced  joint.  
C assessed that the whole pipe run needed  replacing.
Lloyds agreed  that under  the accidental damage  cover it was liable for repair of the fracture  and 
offered either to carry out the repair or to pay Mr and Mrs H a cash settlement. Its contractor 
assessed that the displaced joints were the result of earth movement and that this and the tree 
roots were  a gradual cause. In both these cases it said the damage didnt come  within  the 
accidental damage  cover under the policy as it was not sudden or due to a one-off event.
On review by this service  our investigator  said that Lloyds had acted fairly  the damage to 
the pipe apart from the fracture which Lloyds  had agreed to repair  didnt come within the 
definition of accidental  damage in the policy.
C replied, stating that in previous cases this service had found  tree root blockage to be 
accidental damage  and further  that if the consumer didnt  know  the damage was happening  
it was unreasonable of the insurer to rely on gradual cause to not pay the claim.
The matter  has been referred to me for further considerations
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The damage claimed for in this case comes under the accidental damage  to services part of 
the policy. Accidental damage  is defined generally  in the policy as:
 An accident  that causes  physical damage, which is caused suddenly  by an outside force 
and is not expected and not deliberate.
Lloyds has accepted the fracture to the pipe as accidental damage, although hasnt  specified  
why. But generally,  a crack in a pipe is likely to happen suddenly. For the other  two causes 
of damage the tree roots  have caused  a blockage in the pipe but not physical damage as 
such. I note in any event that Lloyds agreed to pay the cost of clearing  the blockage  for the 
CCTV investigation to take place. But Lloyds  wont pay for the complete renewal of the pipe 
system in this area.  C has assessed,  and Lloyds  agreed,  that the displaced  joints are due to 
ground movement. I would agree that this, together with the tree roots isnt damage that was 
caused  suddenly.. So, under the terms of the policy Lloyds isnt liable  for the repairs to the 
rest of the pipe,  which I think are a maintenance issue.   
Ref: DRN97735002I note Cs point that we have  upheld  these sorts of cases before. In respect  of accidental 
damage, where there  is a definition of this in the policy, as here we do think it fair for insurers  
to apply that definition. As regards our view on gradual loss this applies to cases  where the 
insurer has sought to apply an exclusion in the policy for gradual loss or deterioration. The 
claim must be covered  first so if I was satisfied  that there was accidental damage  then I would 
consider whether it was fair for Lloyds to apply an exclusion for gradual loss. As I havent 
found that the tree roots and displaced joints come within the definition  of accidental loss in the 
policy, Im not satisfied that the loss was covered  under the policy in the first place.
So overall I think that Lloyds has acted fairly in this case. If Mr and Mrs H want  to accept the 
proposed settlement they should  get directly in touch with Lloyds.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9773500