K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that RAC  Financial  Services Ltd mis-sold a breakdown policy to her.
 
background
After Miss As vehicle  broke down on a motorway  she called RAC to join. She was charged 
£60.97 for a years membership, plus £89 for the call-out, which  RACs advisor told her was 
non-refundable. The advisor told Miss A that if her vehicle needed to be recovered, the first 
50 miles wouldnt be charged  for. Miss G says he told her anything over that would be 
charged at £1 a mile. When the vehicle couldnt be repaired at the roadside, Miss A found 
that the recovery charge would be £2 per mile, which wasnt acceptable  to her. 
RAC agreed  to refund Miss As member  ship fee, but it said shed been told the £89 charge 
wasnt refundable. It was unable  to find the sales call initially, but later did so. It said the 
advisor gave her the right details of the £89 charge, but not about  the mileage charge. 
One of our investigators  considered Miss As complaint.  He thought  shed been  given the 
wrong information about the mileage charge. But he didnt think there was anything  to show 
that Miss A wouldnt have  bought the policy had she known the facts. He didnt think  RAC 
should have to return the £89 fee, as Miss A had been told it was non-refundable.  
Miss A told the investigator that she knew the vehicle would have to be recovered, so it was 
important for her to know the correct mileage  cost. As she wasnt told the right amount, she 
entered the contract based on the wrong details, so the call-out charge should be refunded.  
Miss A asked for a review  of her complaint by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In particular, Ive listened  to the sales call 
and considered the circumstances in which it took place. The advisor made it very clear that 
the £89 was non-refundable.  And in my opinion, he told Miss A (5 minutes and 13 seconds  
into the call) that the mileage charge over 50 miles was £2 per mile. But it seems  that isnt 
what Miss A heard, and RAC has accepted  that a mistake was made.  
Miss A told the advisor that she wasnt in a safe place, as the vehicle had broken down on 
the side of a motorway. So theres no doubt  that it needed prompt  attention.  Miss A also 
says she knew the vehicle would have to be recovered 109 miles to her home  address. That 
may not have been necessary, but it turned out that it couldnt  be repaired at the roadside.  
As Miss A wanted a home recovery, the charge for the whole distance at £2 per mile would 
have been £218, as opposed to £109 at £1 per mile. 
During the call, Miss A didnt query  what the advisor  had said about the recovery  charge, or 
ask him to repeat it, or say anything at all to point  to it being particularly important to her. I 
dont think shes been able to show that had she realised what  the charge was going to be, 
she wouldnt  have bought the policy, especially given the circumstances she was in. 
Based on my hearing of the call, the policy wasnt mis-sold, as the correct  details  were  given 
to Miss A, and she was happy  that it suited her needs. But even accepting that one detail 
given to her was wrong, I think Miss A would still have bought the policy had it been correct. 
For that reason,  I cant uphold Miss As complaint.    
Ref: DRN90888552my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9088855