K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about the suitability of two life protection policies sold to him by 
Canada Life Limited.  Despite these policies already being subject to a final decision in 2015  
Mr H feels newly uncovered information  calls into question  the validity  of the previous 
investigation and thereby  the previous final decision.
background
The complaint concerns  two life protection policies. Policy ending  488 was taken out in 1985 
and but was then converted into whole of life policy from a term assurance  policy  in 1993  
(ending 374). Mrs H was the owner  of policy  488 with Mr H as the life assured. But when that 
policy was converted  in 1993 Mr H became the owner and life assured.
Both policies  have already been the subject of a final decision in 2015. This said there was a 
need for the life cover  and there wasnt enough evidence to confirm the policies had been  
mis-sold.
New evidence came  to light recently  from Canada Life about  the ownership  of policy 488 
and another ending 478. At the time of the original  decision it was thought that Mr H had 
owned them  but actually it was Mrs H. The new policy which had been  converted from 488 
then changed  ownership to Mr H.
Mr H raised fresh concerns about this and questioned whether it was right that the 
ownership changed and the legality of the new policy.
The complaint was investigated by one of our adjudicators who felt it couldnt  be upheld. He 
was of the view there was need for the life cover as already stated in the previous final 
decision. And that the change in the information about the ownership of the policies  didnt 
affect the suitability  assessment already carried out nor did it make a significant  difference.  
He felt that as both Mr and Mrs H had signed the fact find in 1993 its likely they were both 
aware of the proposed changes.
Mr H didnt agree with the assessment.  He remained of the view that in light of the new 
information about the ownership of the policies the advice was given  by the adviser  to the 
wrong party and therefore the contracts entered into in 1993 were  invalid.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
Its first important  to point out that given a final decision on the suitability of the advice given 
in 1985 and 1993 has already been  issued, three years  ago, the only way this subject can be 
re-visited by this Service is if new evidence  makes a material  and significant difference to the 
outcome of that previous  decision  and renders the investigation incomplete. So this is what 
I have considered in making my final determination.
I appreciate the fact that Canada Life found  new information after the final decision is 
frustrating. But I dont  think there is anything sinister  at play,  as Mr H has suggested  in the 
Ref: DRN99698912making of his complaint. He has speculated that he doesnt believe the information  was lost 
in 2015. I have to say I dont agree. All businesses are under a duty to provide all the 
information they can to this Service  when  we are involved  in investigating a matter and we 
must take it in good faith that this happens. Also its not unusual  that information  is mis-
placed or lost given  the length  of time that has passed since  the policies were sold.
Mr H has made lengthy submissions regarding his misgivings about  the previous  decision 
and also the sale of the policies and the actions  of the adviser from back in 1993. But 
fundamentally he is of the view that because of the confusion over the ownership  of the 
policies this proves the adviser gave poor advice and misrepresented  the facts  to him. As 
this was not known when  the final decision in 2015 was issued  the suitability of the policies 
in question should be reassessed.
The new information  is that it is now confirmed that Mrs H was the owner of the policy  488 
but Mr H says it was he who was given the advice to convert it and subsequently set him up 
as the owner of the new policy. He asserts in fact that Mrs H was not present at the 
meetings therefore  rendering  the contracts illegal.
Having looked  at the new information I can see an application for the new policy  (application 
for change  of for a new policy under an option ) was signed by Mrs H. The replacement  
policy questionnaire was also signed by Mrs H and the personal  financial review was signed  
by both Mr and Mrs H. I therefore am satisfied  that they both were fully aware  of the advice  
they were given in 1993 as well as who owned  which policies. And I am satisfied  that they 
were also fully aware of the changes to the policies and their ownership that was about to 
take place as a result  of the advice.
Because this all took place so long ago I cant  know  for certain exactly  what happened and 
neither party  can shed light on this either but given what I have said I dont think the validity  
of the contracts  taken  in 1993  can be questioned.
It is unfortunate this information wasnt available when the final decision in 2015 was issued 
but given everything  I have seen I dont think this would have made a difference  to the 
outcome back then nor does it now.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9969891