K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold a packaged  bank account  called an Ultimate Reward 
Current Account (URCA) by Bank of Scotland plc (Bank of Scotland) trading as Halifax.
background
Mr S took out an URCA in April 2009  which incurred a monthly fee. Mr S says he took it out 
because he was told it was the only account  available, and it was not suitable for him.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ss complaint and decided that Bank of Scotland  didnt 
mis-sell the URCA. Mr S disagrees so the complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S says the following: he was told the URCA was the only account available to him; he 
wasnt told there was an alternative fee free account; he was aware of the URCA benefits 
but when he went  to use them he felt they were of no value and he has hasnt used  them; 
the benefits werent explained to him, werent suitable for his needs and he had alternative 
provision; he was unclear what the fees were, they have increased substantially  and he 
hasnt been informed of the increases; he has tried to close the account several times but 
has not been allowed to due to the overdraft on the account.
I will firstly  consider whether or not Mr S was aware  the URCA was optional and whether he 
was given a clear choice in taking out the account.
Mr S had previously had a fee free account  with an overdraft of up to £1000  with Bank of 
Scotland. So I think its more likely than not that he knew  that fee free accounts  with 
overdrafts with various limits were  widely available with Bank of Scotland and other banks  
and financial  institutions. And Bank of Scotland has provided a copy  of the application form 
for his account which he has signed  and dated.
So I think Mr S was aware he had a choice and he chose to take out the URCA.
Bank of Scotland says it didnt  advise  Mr S to take out the policy. Mr S says it did. Ive not 
seen any evidence such as an assessment  of his needs or circumstances to show  that Bank 
of Scotland did advise  Mr S to take out the URCA. Im sure the substantial explanation of the 
accounts benefits felt to Mr S as though Bank of Scotland was saying the URCA was a good  
idea. But this is not the same as advising him or making a personal  recommendation. And 
based on this services knowledge  of Bank  of Scotlands sales  in this period, I think its more 
likely than not that Bank of Scotland sold the URCA  to Mr S on an information  only basis.
So, Bank of Scotland only needed  to provide  Mr S with sufficient information about the 
URCA to make an informed choice.
Ref: DRN97059082The URCA cost £10 a month in April 2009  and contained a range of benefits including  
worldwide family travel  insurance,  car breakdown cover, home emergency cover, card 
protection and mobile phone insurance.  And it offered  better overdraft facilities  including  a 
fee free overdraft  of up to £300.  
I dont know what Bank  of Scotland said or what information it gave Mr S about the URCA. 
But I think its likely Bank of Scotland wouldve  described the URCA to him at some length as 
it was trying to sell the account to him. Mr S was clearly aware of some  of the benefits as he 
contacted Bank of Scotland to investigate using them.  And the account fees appeared on his 
bank statements.
I think its more  likely than not that the URCA would have been of interest to Mr S. I say this 
because Bank of Scotland has provided  evidence that Mr S ran an overdraft at the time of 
the sale and he wouldve  immediately benefitted  from the better overdraft facility.
 
Mr S says he didnt use the other URCA benefits.  But I can see nothing  in his circumstances 
that would  have stopped  him using  them.  He was immediately covered  for any car journey, 
whether he was the owner or driver  of the car or not; for home emergency at his place of 
residence; and Bank of Scotland  has provided  evidence that he had a mobile phone. And, 
as this was an information  only sale, it was for him to decide what  he would use, and 
circumstances would  have determined if he needed  to make a claim or not.
So in my view I think  Mr S knew he had a choice whether  to take out the URCA or not and 
he chose to do so. I think  the URCA was of interest  to him and there  was no information  that 
Mr S didnt receive from Bank of Scotland that would likely have put him off taking it out. So I 
dont think Mr S lost out as a result of anything Bank  of Scotland may have done wrong 
when it sold him the URCA.
I note that Mr S has complained that Bank  of Scotland didnt allow  him to close  his URCA. 
But Bank of Scotland has provided records of its contacts  with Mr S and there  is no evidence 
that he asked  for his accounts to be closed.  Mr S has not been able to supply any detail of 
his requests. So I think its more likely than not that his memory is mistaken on this point.
Mr S has also complained about  not being  notified that the account  fees were  changing. But Bank 
of Scotland has provided evidence that it had Mr Ss correct  address, that it had communicated 
with him regularly and that it notified  all customers of account  changes.  So I think its more  likely 
than not that Mr S was notified about the account changes when they happened.
So, although  I know this will be disappointing for Mr S, I dont think  Bank of Scotland  did 
anything wrong  in its dealings with him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9705908