K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Acromas Insurance Company Limited declined a claim  made 
under their breakdown repair cover policy (the policy).
All references to Acromas  include its claims handlers. And although Mr and Mrs B have 
been represented by Mr L in this complaint, for simplicity, Ive referred  to any representations 
made by Mr L as being made by Mr and Mrs B. Afterall, its their complaint and they are the 
policyholders. 
background
At the start of November  2018, Mr and Mrs Bs car broke down. Mr B contacted a roadside  
assistance company  who sent one of its patrols  to assist him. Mr B was subsequently told 
that there  was a problem with the cars  alternator,  but the patrol did manage  to charge it. 
A few days  later, Mr B arranged for the car to be collected from his home address and taken 
to a garage whereby, he says, the alternator was replaced. 
He then made a claim on the policy to cover the costs of the work carried out  which  was 
declined by Acromas. It said the invoices provided  on behalf of Mr B pre-dated the date on 
which his car broke down.  It was also concerned about some  of the other information it had 
received  including receiving two invoices from two separate establishments  charging  for 
the work  that had been carried  out. 
Mr and Mrs B complained to our Service. As well as being unhappy that their claim was 
declined, Mr B was also concerned that hed been  subjected to race discrimination by some 
of the things that were said by Acromas representatives during certain phone calls that had 
taken place in relation  to his claim. Our investigator  didnt uphold  the complaint. 
In response to our investigators view, Mr and Mrs B have confirmed in an email dated 17 
December 2020  that they didnt want to pursue the complaint that Acromass representatives 
made racists remarks  about  Mr B. They did, however, remain,  unhappy that the claim had 
been declined.  Theyd like Acromas to reimburse them for the costs  incurred in connection 
with replacing the alternator on their car (in the sum of £382).
So, I need to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Acromas has an obligation to handle claims promptly  and fairly. And it mustnt  unreasonably 
decline a claim.
Subject to the remaining  terms of the policy, Acromas can pay up to £500 towards parts, 
labour and VAT for any repairs  (taking into account the £35 policy excess).
The policy does include some limitations and exclusions. Those relevant to this complaint 
include:
Ref: DRN93365632If We discover that You, anybody insured under this policy  or anyone acting for You
has knowingly:
-made a fraudulent or false  claim in full or in part or exaggerated  the amount  of 
the claim or provided false or invalid  documents in support of a claim;  or
-provided false or invalid documents in support of a claim
We may:
-Refuse to pay the whole of Your claim  if any way fraudulent, false or 
exaggerated and recover from You any costs that have been incurred.
In support of his and Mrs Bs claim, Mr and Mrs B initially provided Acromas with invoices 
dated the end of August  2018 for the work undertaken to replace the alternator 
approximately two months before the car had broken  down in early November 2018. 
So, notwithstanding any other concerns Acromas had about  the information  provided at the 
time of first declining  Mr and Mrs Bs claim  or the explanation provided about why there 
were two invoices - Im satisfied that it acted  fairly  and reasonably  by declining the claim at 
that stage. The invoices didnt support the claim  being made as they pre-dated the date on 
which the car had broken down. 
Mr and Mrs B then submitted two further  invoices dated 7 November 2018. The invoices 
reflect that it cost a total £382 to replace the failed alternator with a new one (including  
labour, parts  and VAT). Mr and Mrs B explained  that the invoices previously submitted had 
mistakenly contained the wrong dates. 
Neither party have  provided the invoices dated  25 August 2018, but other than the date, I 
understand that they are identical to the ones dated 7 November 2018.
The two invoices dated 7 November 2018  contain different headings and are from two 
separate establishments. Theres an invoice from a garage which  separates  the base costs  
from the amount  of VAT;  whereas the other  invoice contains the total cost with VAT already 
incorporated. 
Mr and Mrs B have  told us thats because  Mr B asked Mr L, who is a longstanding trusted 
associate of Mr B, to arrange for the car to be repaired by specialist garages. Mr and Mrs B 
say Mr L paid the garage (who was VAT registered) and Mr L then invoiced Mr B for the 
amount hed paid the garage on his behalf. Mr L isnt VAT registered and he says thats  why 
his invoice included  the total sums  the garage  charged, including VAT.
Mr and Mrs B also say that the staff at the garage  would be willing  to provide witness 
statements to confirm  that the work was carried out on their car and when.
Our investigator informed  Acromas of this explanation and asked whether it would now 
consider paying  the claim. Acromas  maintained its position  to decline the claim on the basis 
that:
-The invoices arent on headed  paper, are formatted on word,  there  is no mileage 
Ref: DRN93365633recorded or other markers  it would  expect to confirm its a valid document;
-it was doubtful that any staff at the garage who were willing  to provide witness 
statements would recall  the work done  on a non-descript car over two years ago;
-it must  ensure that all claims made  on the policy are valid and within the terms of the 
policy and equally, if there are questions about  the validity  of the claim, it reserves  
the right to decline;
-apart from the date of the invoices being  changed (which  Mr and Mrs B say was due 
to an administration  error) there were too many other concerns with the claim.
Ive considered the two invoices dated 7 November 2018 in light of the explanations given by 
Mr and Mrs B. Ive also considered Acromas  system notes which includes calls made on 12 
November 2018  which reflect that Mr L was vague  in relation to some  of the questions asked 
of him and provided answers that caused  Acromas  some concern. For example, when asked 
whether the garage was VAT registered, its reflected that he replied: we can be and when 
Acromas representatives  said that it wouldnt pay the claim until it was satisfied  that there 
was a trading  business to make payment to, Mr L became unhappy and hung up.
So, all in all, I dont  think Acromas has unfairly  and unreasonably  declined  Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim based on the concerns it has raised. 
When making this finding Ive considered  all the points  Mr and Mrs B have raised including:
-Acromas had pre-authorised the claim before the alternator was replaced  around
7 November 2018 and Mr B was specifically told to send the invoices to Acromas  
who would  reimburse  him. Mr B says this conversation  was overheard by Mr L.
-Mr L telephoned Acromas to ensure that the claim would be covered. Mr L was also 
told that the claim had been authorised and to send his invoice plus the repairer's 
VAT registered invoice  on completion. Acromas would then reimburse Mr B.
Given the amount  of time that has passed  since all this took place, Acromas says it doesnt 
have any recordings of the calls it had with Mr B or Mr L. Thats  not surprising. Nor does it 
routinely keep transcripts of calls,  which  I wouldnt  reasonably  expect it to do. 
However, it has provided us with its system  notes  and there are no entries  of any calls made 
by Mr B or Mr L before  7 November 2018; the date he says the alternator was repaired by 
the garage.
Its of course  possible that Mr B and / or Mr L did contact Acromas before 7 November 2018 
and a call note wasnt made. But Ive also seen a system note from Acromas  dated 
December 2018,  which reflects that as part of the Acromas investigation into Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint, a search was undertaken of all calls made to and from Mr Bs and Mr Ls phone 
numbers. And there was no record of any calls being made before 7 November 2018.
Further, in his email  to Mr and Mrs B dated  18 December 2020, our investigator did say that 
if they were able to provide phone records of the calls Mr B had with Acromas, wed be able 
to consider these  along with everything else. However, they havent provided  us with any 
phone records.
Ref: DRN93365634So, on the balance  of probabilities, Im not persuaded that Mr B (or Mr L) did contact  
Acromas before 7 November 2019. I think its likely that had they done so, a record  of the 
call wouldve been made. And had the repairs been  authorised in the way Mr and Mrs B 
says they were, I think its reasonable to expect  a pre-authorisation number (or equivalent)  
wouldve been provided in line with the policy terms - which  it wasnt.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 June  2021.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9336563