K820x#14complaint
Mrs F has complained about Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct)  not refunding 
payments to her catalogue shopping  account,  for items she says she returned.
background
Mrs F holds  a catalogue shopping  account  with Shop Direct, which she has held for a number of 
years. In July 2017, Mrs F used her account  with Shop Direct to order four items of clothing. All of 
these items  were ordered on a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) basis. This meant that full payment for 
the items  would be due in August 2018.
When Mrs F received her order, she says she was unhappy with three  of the items. So, she 
decided to keep  the one she was happy  with and return the remaining three. Mrs F says she called 
Shop Direct to arrange  the collection of the unwanted items, which  she says were collected  by a 
courier a few days later.
Mrs F later discovered that she hadnt  received a refund for these. Mrs F says she was reassured 
the items  would be refunded. But when this didnt happen, in April 2018 she complained  to Shop 
Direct.
Shop Direct said it didnt  have any record to show that a collection of the unwanted items  had been 
arranged. So, it wouldnt refund the payments to her account. It reminded Mrs F that payment was 
due under the terms and conditions of her account. Shop Direct did however offer Mrs F £25.00  
and £15 for some customer service  issues she experienced.
As Mrs F remained  unhappy, Mr F referred  the complaint  to our service on her behalf.  Mr F said 
his wife had contacted Shop Direct to arrange for a collection of the unwanted items and provided 
a copy of their phone bill to prove it. He also confirmed a courier  had collected the unwanted items. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt enough  evidence  to show that 
the unwanted items were returned  to Shop Direct.  Another investigator also considered the 
complaint and suggested Mrs F ask the courier service used by Shop Direct  whether it had any 
evidence of the items being collected. But the courier service told Mrs F its records  didnt go back  
that far. In the absence of this evidence the investigator also didnt think  the complaint should  be 
upheld. He thought it was possible Mrs F had given the items to the wrong courier, as Mrs F had 
initially said shed returned the items to a courier that Shop Direct didnt use.
Mr F didnt  agree with the investigators findings, so he asked for an ombudsman  to consider his 
wifes case. He said Mrs F followed  Shop Directs returns policy  and their phone bill showed his 
wife had contacted Shop Direct to arrange for the collection  of the unwanted items. Mr F added  
that Mrs Fs account that shed given the items  to a different courier  was a mistake. This was in 
part due to a stroke she had in 2014, which affects her ability to recall  events.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, Im not upholding  the complaint.
Ref: DRN99187432The first point I need to consider is whether Mrs F arranged for the collection of the unwanted 
items.
Shop Direct says that when  a consumer wants to return items theyve ordered to it, they can, 
amongst other methods,  arrange for the collection of the items by calling its customer  service line. 
The request  is then logged on the consumers account and collection of the items  is arranged to be 
picked up by the courier service that Shop Direct  uses.
Mrs F says she called Shop Direct on 4 August 2017 to arrange the collection of the unwanted 
items. She has provided  a phone bill which shows she called a Shop Direct  customer  service  
number on this date from her landline. Shop Direct argues that this call did not take place. It has 
provided a copy of its internal call search  history, which  shows that it didnt receive  any calls from 
Mrs Fs landline  on 4 August 2017.
When it comes  to complaints where its one word  against another,  I have to consider the evidence 
available to me. I then have to weigh the evidence against the balance  of probabilities, that is, 
whats more likely to have  happened  in the circumstances. Having done so here, Im satisfied that 
Mrs F did call Shop  Directs customer service line on 4 August 2017.  But Im not persuaded that a 
collection was arranged  for the unwanted  items during the call. Ill explain why.
Without any record of the call or a recording of it, I cant know with any certainty what was 
discussed. The call itself only lasted five minutes and nine seconds, which  can be seen from Mrs 
Fs phone bill. Its possible  that this was enough  time for Mrs F to wait for her call to be answered, 
provide her account  details and arrange  the collection. And Mr F has said that arranging a 
collection over the phone is a fairly quick process.  But its also possible this call was unrelated to 
the return of the items.
Shop Direct has said that if any collection was arranged, this would show as pending  in Mrs Fs 
account and instructions wouldve been  sent to its courier service. However, when Mrs F called  to 
ask about her refund on 21 and 29 August 2017 Shop Direct couldnt locate any details of a return. 
Its also shown us that it has searched its records and there  isnt any record  of a return  having 
been arranged.  If Mrs F had in fact arranged for the items to be collected, I think there wouldve 
been some  record of this. So, on balance, I dont  think  Mrs F arranged  the collection of her items 
during this call.
Mr F has said that theyve shown Shop Directs record keeping is poor  this is evidenced by the 
fact there is no record of Mrs Fs call on 4 August 2017 which the phone  bill shows  took place. He 
said there was also another call on 20 June 2018 that Shop Direct denied took place when there 
was clear evidence  that Mrs F had made  a payment  towards the account on that date. Shop Direct 
recognised its error and paid compensation for this.
I accept there is some  evidence of poor record keeping. But Im still not persuaded that the 
collection was arranged.  If a collection had been  arranged, Shop Direct wouldve needed to follow 
a process to raise the collection with the courier  following this process wouldve automatically 
created a record. This is different  to a phone call, where an agent would have to manually create a 
record of it. Overall, I still think  there  would be evidence of a collection having been  arranged in 
Shop Directs records had Mrs F done so.
As I dont think Mrs F arranged a collection with Shop Direct, I need  to consider what happened to 
the unwanted items.
Ref: DRN99187433Mrs F says that a couple of days after the call of 4 August 2017,  a courier attended her address 
and she gave him the unwanted items. She says the courier  arrived  in an unmarked van. On 21 
August 2017,  I can see Mrs F called  to inform Shop Direct that she was concerned she hadnt  
received a confirmation from it about the items  she says she returned  via courier. She told the 
agent she spoke  to that the courier had identified the company he was from, which Ill call H. Mrs 
F added, if you could  put that [name  of the courier] on the screen  that is definitely who picked it 
[the items]  up. The agent explained to Mrs F that it can take up to 7  14 working  days  to process 
a return, so she should call back on 25 August 2017, which Mrs F said she would do.
On 29 August 2017, Mrs F called to inform Shop Direct that she still hadnt received a refund  and 
she was very concerned  that it hadnt  received  the items. The agent asked Mrs F whether she had 
proof of the return. Mrs F said that she didnt have any proof and that the collection receipt that had 
been provided by the courier had been  misplaced  by her husband. Mrs F also again confirmed that 
the courier was from H. The call then ended abruptly.
Shop Direct says Mrs F called back on the same day but it hasnt provided the recording of this 
call. It said Mrs F told the agent shed  located the receipt the courier  had given  to her. Shop Direct  
says Mrs F provided the bar code and the agent searched the records  using this but it didnt match 
anything on its system. It says the agent  told Mrs F that if the receipt had been  given to her by H, 
she should contact  H as Shop Direct  didnt  use this courier.
Having carefully listened  to these phone calls, and the account given by Mr F, Im satisfied that Mrs 
F gave the unwanted  items to a courier. But, Im not persuaded  that they were  given to a courier  
used by Shop Direct.
I say this because  Shop Direct has confirmed that the courier  service it uses  is a different 
company, who Ill call Y. It has confirmed that it doesnt use H for any collections. According to Mr 
F, his wife also has an account  with another catalogue shopping provider, and the courier  service 
that they use is H. With this in mind, I think its more likely than not that Mrs F mistakenly gave  the 
unwanted items to the courier service used by her other catalogue shopping provider, H. Im also 
particularly persuaded by the fact that Shop Directs internal records show  no entries  for a 
collection arranged in August 2017.
Mr F has said that his wife had a stroke  in 2014.  He says the stroke  has affected his wifes ability  to 
recall events, which is why she initially thought  it was H that collected the unwanted items. But 
having listened to the calls in August 2017,  Mrs F seemed certain that shed given the items to H. 
And as this was only a couple of weeks after the event, on balance I think Mrs Fs recollection of 
giving the items to H is accurate. While  I dont think Mrs F intentionally gave the unwanted  items  to 
the wrong courier, I think this is the most  likely  explanation. For this reason,  I cant fairly ask Shop 
Direct to credit  the unwanted  items to Mrs Fs account.
Mr F has said that Shop Direct informed his wife on a number of occasions  not to worry and that 
everything had been  sorted out regarding  the unwanted items. Having listened to both of the calls 
between Mrs F and Shop Direct in August 2017,  I dont  think  the agents communicated this to Mrs 
F. In the first call, the agent told Mrs F that the items might not have been processed yet so they 
told her not to worry. I dont think that was unreasonable given that the 7  14 day processing 
window hadnt  expired  yet. During  the call of 29 August 2017, the agent made it clear that there 
wasnt anything she could  do without  proof  that the unwanted items had been collected. So, I dont 
think Mrs F had been left with the impression that things had been sorted out.
Looking at Shop Directs internal records, I can see that the next phone calls which took place 
between Mrs F and Shop Direct were on 18 September 2017, and two on 14 December 2017. 
Ref: DRN99187434Shop Direct says that during the September call Mrs F made a payment towards her account  but, 
made no mention  of the unwanted items.  During the two December calls, Shop  Direct says that 
Mrs F requested a BNPL order but, she was advised  that she was not eligible. Again, she made no 
mention of the unwanted items during these calls.
I can see that on 15 April 2018, a phone call took place between Shop Direct and Mrs F. During  
this call, Shop Direct says that Mrs F informed it that the courier she says collected  the unwanted 
items didnt  provide her with a collection  receipt. The Shop Direct agent informed Mrs F that she 
wouldnt be able to assist  her further  without a collection  receipt  and that she should  contact H 
about this matter.
Mrs F says she called Shop Direct on 20 June 2018.  During  this call, Mrs F says she made a 
payment and queried why the unwanted items  had not been credited to her account. Mrs F says 
the agent informed her that the unwanted  items had been credited to her account. Initially Shop 
Direct disagreed with this, as it was unable  to locate a record  of the call. But, as it could see from 
its records that Mrs F made a payment  on that day it offered her £25 and a further £15 for the 
trouble and upset  caused by this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint point.
I know that this has all been very upsetting  for Mrs F as it involves a significant amount of money. 
I dont doubt that Mrs F returned the items to a courier and I believe her when she says she 
thought the courier was sent by Shop Direct. But for the reasons Ive given  above,  on balance  I 
dont think the items  were  returned to Shop Direct. So, Shop Direct is entitled  to ask Mrs F for 
payment of these items.
my final decision
Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited has made  an offer to pay Mrs F £40.
I conclude that such an offer is fair in the circumstances. My decision is that Shop  Direct Finance 
Company Limited  should pay Mrs F £40.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or reject 
my decision  before 20 March 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9918743