K821x#15complaint
Mr L and Miss S complain  about how they were treated by AXA Insurance UK Plc during a 
claim on their home insurance for damage from an escape of water. Thy also complain  that 
AXA has refused  to pay all the costs thy incurred during the claim.
background
Mr L and Miss Ss home  was extensively damaged  by an escape of water  from their water 
tank in March 2017. Mr L and Miss S and family relocated to a hotel immediately  afterwards 
and AXA paid them  a disturbance allowance to help with additional costs. AXA sent them a 
payment for hotel  costs and alternative  accommodation about  a week later.  Mr L and Miss S 
then moved into rented  accommodation for the duration of their claim.
AXA appointed loss adjusters to handle the claim,  but Mr L called on several occasions to 
say progress was too slow and the preparation for the stripping out hadnt been completed. 
At the end of April 2017 Mr L said the loss adjusters  were unreliable  and not progressing the 
claim and he requested a cash settlement so he could organise the work himself. By mid-
June the loss adjusters costed the work  and AXA offered  Mr L and Miss S a cash settlement. 
Mr L said AXAs offer was too low to do the work and didnt  include  all the repairs. AXA 
invited him to get his own estimates. Mr L and Miss S then appointed a loss assessor to 
assist with their claim and the loss assessor appointed a surveyor  to review  the schedule  of 
works. The surveyor sent a revised estimate for the work, which  was agreed, and a much  
higher payment was made to Mr L and Miss S. 
Mr L and Miss S complained to AXA in 2017 about  its handling of their claim and it paid them  
£500 for delays  and poor service. Mr L and Miss Ss claim progressed  with their contractors 
and AXAs for parts  of the claim. Mr L and Miss S brought a second complaint  in 2018. They 
said they lost all confidence when calls werent  answered and appointments to return their 
contents werent met. They  said they were forced into organising the reinstatement  of their 
home as they didnt  want to be let down any further.  They said AXA offered a considerably  
lower cash sum than its lowest tender and they had to borrow  £15,000 on their mortgage to 
complete the work and were  advised  to employ  a loss assessor which cost a further £6,000.
AXA responded to Mr L and Miss Ss complaint saying they chose to employ  a loss assessor 
and the charges for this are their responsibility. AXA said the firm it used  to dry out their 
home should have  communicated  better,  but Mr L and Miss S had missed several dates for 
the return of their contents. AXA said it had then paid for van hire so their contents could be 
returned. AXA paid Mr L and Miss S £100 further  compensation for their inconvenience. 
Our investigator said we couldnt consider Mr L and Miss Ss complaint about the time it took 
to reach  an agreement over the cash settlement for the claim and the handling up until 
AXAs final response  of October 2017.  This was because  the complaint wasnt referred to us 
until over a year later and outside the time limit set out within  AXAs response.
The investigator recommended  the complaint about  recompense for the loss adjusters fees 
be upheld. He said Mr L used a loss assessor when AXA offered a cash settlement he was 
unhappy with and this led to a much increased offer from AXA.  He said AXA should meet the 
costs of the loss assessors fees,  with interest.  The investigator said that Mr L had agreed 
the settlement  for the repairs and so it wouldnt be fair to ask AXA to pay for his loan.
Ref: DRN94571292AXA disagreed, saying its initial offer hadnt  included contingencies and provisional sums, 
which werent known  and made up almost all the difference with the second offer. AXA said 
it offered to view the further damage  Mr L reported  but this was declined. AXA said it 
received some photos and allowed its loss adjuster to settle the claim. But said had it been 
allowed to see the damage it would have  reached an amicable agreement  without the need  
for Mr L and Miss S to employ an assessor.  AXA said that the amount of time the complaint 
had been with our service  meant  that the award of interest on top of compensation was 
wholly unreasonable. AXA requested an ombudsman review the complaint.
The investigator said the notes of the conversation between AXA and Mr L on 22 June 2017  
showed it was happy to consider the additional damage if photos were  provided. He said on 
16 August 2017  AXA confirmed it would  deal with the claim without a further visit. He said it 
increased the settlement by 60% following the assessors intervention  and so AXA hadnt 
calculated its first offer correctly. He said because of the technical nature of the issues  facing 
Mr L and Miss S they wouldnt have arrived at the revised settlement without the assessor.  
And so it wasnt fair for them to have  incurred fees to gain the correct  claim settlement. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr L and Miss S for the extensive  damage to their home from the escape 
of water.  This required  stripping  out of damaged fixtures  and fittings and drying of the whole 
house. Claims such as these take a long time to resolve and generally involve many  different 
parties. However, Mr L and Miss S said the poor handling of their claim by AXA caused them  
to take over the organisation of the repairs  and to employ a loss assessor. They said both 
these things have  cost them a lot of money  for which they would like compensation from 
AXA.
Ive looked carefully  at AXAs handling of the claim and in particular the record  of the 
communications between  the parties.  The handling  of the early part of the claim appears to 
have gone quite well, with alternative accommodation arranged and a loss adjuster 
appointed. Over the ensuing weeks Mr L appears to have become  increasingly frustrated 
with what he considered to be slow, or no progress and poor communications from AXAs  
loss adjusters and other agents.  At this point  Mr L said they would like to have their own 
contractors do the repairs.
I can see that Mr L and Miss S were concerned that AXAs offer of a cash settlement for the 
repairs was too low and didnt include all of the damage in their home. Mr L said that some 
damage had become  apparent after the initial assessment of the repairs.  Around  this time 
Mr L and Miss S employed a loss assessor.
The parties disagree about whether  a loss assessor  was necessary. AXA said had it been 
allowed access to review  additional damage  at Mr L and Miss Ss home,  it could have 
reached an amicable agreement without the need for a loss assessor. I have to say that from 
the record of communications theres no evidence  an amicable agreement could have been  
reached at that point.  Besides this, AXA could have insisted on seeing  the additional 
damage before paying for the repairs. But it appears to have been content  for its loss 
adjuster to reach an agreed settlement without further inspection of the damage. AXAs  
agent said at one point, if there is any way the claim can be progressed  without a site visit, 
Ref: DRN94571293we'll do it, but it may be that it's unavoidable. Another note from AXA records  that Mr L just 
wanted someone to come  and see what was going  on at his home.
From the records Ive seen I dont  think that access to the property was a particular issue  for 
AXA in its handling  of the claim. AXAs agent said that if they can validate  via e-mail, photos, 
phone calls, video,  then a further  site visit could be avoided. And from the record of contacts 
between the parties,  I dont think Mr L and Miss S declined  AXAs  agents the opportunity to 
visit and inspect the further  damage. 
AXA said the increased offer of settlement was due to the inclusion of contingencies and 
provisional sums. I dont  think these  entirely  account  for the difference  in the offers. From  its 
records it appears that AXAs loss adjusters reduced  the works  listed  for repairs from its own 
surveyor and the list of repairs was increased  after inclusion by Mr L and Miss Ss loss 
assessor.
Once AXA accepted the claim  and Mr L and Miss Ss wish for a cash settlement, we would 
expect it to make a reasonable settlement figure for their claim. It doesnt  appear from the 
information both parties  have  provided that AXAs  initial offer of settlement was reasonable 
as it wouldnt have  covered the costs of all of the repairs.  Assessing the requirement  for, and 
the cost of property  repairs is a technical  issue and not one we would expect to be within  the 
experience of most policyholders. 
Mr L and Miss S could  see that the schedule of works from AXAs  loss adjusters didnt 
include all of the repairs to their home that they thought would be required. And for this 
reason and the complexity of their claim I think it was reasonable for them to seek  expert  
advice from a loss assessor whose  surveyor  provided an alternative  schedule of work.  If 
AXA had originally offered the cash settlement figure it eventually  agreed, then Mr L and 
Miss S wouldnt have had to incur the costs of the loss assessor. In the circumstances I think 
its fair and reasonable for AXA to meet the cost of the loss assessor that Mr L and Miss S 
incurred. These costs were £5,986.59 and our investigator has sent AXA a copy of the 
invoice.
Mr L and Miss S have  been without the use of the money they paid to their loss assessor  
and this has unfairly disadvantaged them. And it follows that they should  be paid interest on 
this sum until the money is paid to them.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr L and Miss S for the cost of their loss assessor at 
£5,986.59. AXA Insurance UK Plc must also pay interest*  on this amount  at the simple rate 
of 8% per year from the date that Mr L and Miss S paid their loss assessor to the date it 
makes the payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN94571294*HM Revenue and Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must  give a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off it if Mr L and Miss S asks for one.
Ref: DRN9457129