K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) have unfairly declined a claim they 
made under their home insurance.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out their home  insurance policy with UKI in 2006 and renewed it each 
year. In February 2018  their home  was burgled  and they made a claim on their UKI policy. 
UKI considered the claim and wrote  to Mr and Mrs B in May 2018 to say their French doors  
didnt meet the requirements of an endorsement on their policy.  So it declined the overall 
claim for both buildings and contents.  Mr and Mrs B then cancelled their policy  shortly after.
Mr and Mrs B complained to UKI and then to our service. They said their doors  were  secure,  
and the policy had been accepted after theyd discussed their locks in detail with UKI when 
they took out the policy. UKI said it had applied a discount to the insurance on the basis  
Mr and Mrs Bs doors met these locking standards. And because  they hadnt,  it felt it was fair 
to decline the claim.  It also said while it didnt have  any call recordings from the sale,  it felt 
any discussion about additional locks or agreeing  to cover that varied from the endorsement  
wouldve been recorded on its system  notes  after being agreed with its underwriter.
One of our investigators  looked into things and didnt uphold  the complaint, saying the policy 
schedule had explained what the security  requirements were and Mr and Mrs Bs doors 
simply hadnt met these.  She said Mr and Mrs B should have told UKI when they first 
discovered the doors didnt meet the endorsement.  And she said the doors were the likely 
exit point of the burglary,  so felt they were material to the claim. The investigator  said taking 
into account UKI had provided a discount  on the policy,  she didnt feel she had enough to 
say Mr and Mrs B given UKI the full details of their doors from the start. So she felt UKI had 
acted fairly  by declining the claim.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed, and said they explained the locks in detail with UKI and so the 
complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. I issued a provisional decision 
on 23 May 2019 explaining why I intended  to uphold  the complaint. Ive summarised this 
decision below:
Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs Bs French doors didnt meet  the endorsement on 
their policy.  So I considered whether UKI acted fairly  when declining  their claim.
UKI provided a template schedule which indicated a premium discount was provided 
during the first year of insurance if the endorsement was met. This message was 
reiterated within UKIs final response  letter  to Mr and Mrs B.
UKI since  said the endorsement  was a mandatory security endorsement due to the 
level of contents  cover. And it provided  a section of its underwriting  guide that said if 
a customer could  not comply with this requirement; it should decline to offer cover.
This changed the nature of the endorsement  from an optional  condition that provided 
a premium discount, to a requirement, that if not met meant  UKI would refuse to 
provide a policy at all.
Where an insurer  can show it wouldnt have offered  a policy  on any terms  as UKI 
suggested  we might think its fair to avoid the policy. But wed take into account  
other matters (such  as relevant law and good industry practice).  And unless UKI 
found Mr and Mrs B to have breached their duty of utmost  good  faith,  wed likely say 
UKI should refund any premiums paid.
Ref: DRN96933102UKI didnt do either of these things and never said Mr and Mrs B made a 
misrepresentation about their doors.  And more recently UKI said it still felt it was on 
risk for the life of the policy  despite no claims being made  as it felt the failure to 
adhere to the endorsement may have  been  missed in the event of a claim.
As a result, I found UKI to have given  conflicting and contradictory information and 
overall was inconsistent about the impact and relevance of the locks on this claim. 
I thought about  the sale of the policy  in 2006  and said we had no notes  or recordings 
from the time. But it was clear  the policy was set up and agreed within  this initial  call 
with no follow up discussions. So I considered  whether  Mr and Mrs B took sufficient 
care when  describing their locks  to UKI.
Id spoken  to Mrs B at length, and she remembered vividly being asked to walk 
around her home and describe  her locks. She wasnt aware of the endorsement, but 
said she recalled the insurance had been agreed on the basis of what was described.
I found Mrs Bs testimony to be persuasive. Her account was detailed and in line with 
the evidence Id seen. I said this suggested the locks were  discussed  in the call. UKI 
said if its representative was told the property didnt  meet  the endorsement, clear 
notes wouldve been left on the file, and the absence of this suggested the call 
proceeded smoothly. I wasnt  satisfied that the absence of notes was enough  to say 
UKI explained the endorsement, and instead  could mean  UKI accepted the cover on 
the basis of Mrs Bs description.  Taking  everything into account, I was satisfied she 
did take sufficient  care and UKI accepted cover on this basis.
UKI argued that Mr and Mrs B shouldve read the policy schedule sent to them which  
included the endorsement. And it sent a copy of the most  recent  schedule  sent to 
them. I said given the significance of this endorsement, Id have expected this to be 
clearly highlighted  to Mr and Mrs B within the initial call as well as any follow up 
paperwork in a clear,  fair, and not mis-leading way.
In the circumstances I wasnt persuaded UKI presented the endorsement clearly in 
the phone  call. And while the follow up paperwork may reflect  the endorsement, in 
this case I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs B to be actively looking  for inconsistencies or 
conflicts within the policy  against  what theyd been told on the phone. So this didnt  
change my mind.
UKI also referred to conversations  between Mr B and UKI after the claim was made. I 
listened to these and I said Mr B not objecting to the endorsement wasnt  enough to 
persuade me he had an existing  knowledge  of the endorsement.
So I explained I was intending to uphold the complaint, and ask UKI to re-open the claim and 
pay it in full (subject to policy excesses,  sums  assured and policy  limits). And I explained I 
would consider any further evidence before issuing my final decision.
Mr and Mrs B accepted the decision. UKI responded to say it disagreed,  and said schedules 
including details of the endorsement were sent to Mr and Mrs B every year after the policy  
was taken out. And it said Mr and Mrs B were asked  to check  their policy,  but never called 
UKI to question the endorsement.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN96933103Ive considered UKIs most recent comments. But Ive been given nothing new to consider. 
And as Ive outlined previously, in this case I wouldnt have expected Mr and Mrs B to be 
looking for inconsistences against  what they were previously told. So I havent been  
persuaded to change  my mind from my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the above reasons Im upholding this complaint.  UK Insurance  Limited should do the 
following to put things right:
reopen and settle the disputed claim;
pay 8% simple interest on any sums given, calculated from the 1 May 2018 until the 
date of settlement.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires UKI to take off tax from this interest. UKI must give 
Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 July 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9693310