K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building  Society acted unfairly and unreasonably 
when dealing with their remortgage  application. They want their financial losses  paid.
background 
Mr and Mrs H wanted to remortgage their property.  They applied to Nationwide through a 
broker. Mr and Mrs H said there  were  delays when they changed the firm of solicitors  acting  
on their behalf - they said that they ended up paying £702.18 more interest as a result, 
particularly as the interest rates  for the new product  increased. Mr and Mrs H werent clear 
who was to blame as they felt that Nationwide and the broker were blaming each other.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to Nationwide. It said Mr and Mrs H applied  for a mortgage and 
gave details of the solicitors  acting on their behalf. A few weeks  later, Mr and Mrs H wanted 
to change solicitors and Nationwide said that they were told the original mortgage offer 
needed to be returned as confirmation that the first firm was no longer acting. When the 
original offer was returned by the old solicitors, Nationwide  said it told Mr and Mrs Hs broker 
a letter  from the new solicitors was needed  to confirm their involvement to allow the new 
mortgage offer to be sent. It wasnt until a month later that Nationwide received this letter 
and it said it issued the new offer the same  day. Nationwide  said if the new solicitors letter 
had been received earlier, the new offer wouldve been sent earlier, so it didnt  accept that it 
was at fault.
Nationwide accepted that when it spoke to the broker about what  was needed, he said he 
would fax the new solicitors letter but then left the call so the fax couldnt be verified.  
Nationwide said that the markings on the document demonstrated that the letter  it received  
wasnt faxed to it. But it felt it couldve dealt with the complaint better  and paid £50 
compensation for this failing.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to us, saying that the broker  was adamant  Nationwide had been  
faxed the new solicitors letter and didnt issue the new offer for a month.  Nationwide  denied 
this and pointed  out that even once the new solicitors  were in place, it was necessary  to 
change the mortgage offer again as the amount to be borrowed had to be increased as the 
broker didnt ask for enough to pay the original  mortgage, and this was done promptly.
The investigators view was that there was evidence the broker faxed something to 
Nationwide the day after he spoke to it about the change of solicitor and had told the new 
solicitors that this had been done. He thought  that this was persuasive  evidence that the 
broker had faxed the required letter to Nationwide, particularly as he chased up the matter a 
few weeks later. The investigator said that Nationwide hadnt explained why it didnt deal 
with the change of solicitor  earlier  and thought  that it had caused a month  of delay  due to 
misplacing the letter  and lost the chance  to deal with the problem with the amount applied for 
sooner. As Mr and Mrs H hadnt  shown any financial loss, he said that the fair and 
reasonable compensation was £150  for the trouble and upset caused  by Nationwides  delay.
Mr and Mrs H provided evidence  of the extra interest theyd paid due to Nationwides  delay.  
The investigator thought that Nationwide only caused 11 days worth  of extra interest  to be 
paid as it was fair to note some delay was caused by the need to amend the offer to borrow 
more to repay the original mortgage.  He said this loss was £429.11, and should be paid with 
interest.
Ref: DRN97738432Nationwide disagreed. It said that it didnt receive a fax from the broker and it didnt get the 
letter it needed to progress the application until the day it issued the second mortgage offer. 
Nationwide also pointed  out that it wasnt responsible for the amount Mr and Mrs H asked to 
borrow and to ensure  that it was enough  to repay  the original  mortgage.  It noted that there  
was a two week  period  between the receipt  of the second offer and the request to increase 
the amount to be lent, but this was the reason why Mr and Mrs H ended  up on the increased  
interest rate with the original lender.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
I note that Mr and Mrs H havent complained about  the handling of their complaint by 
Nationwide  and, in any event, thats not a matter  I can decide; I will focus on the core of 
their complaint, which is about the delays to their mortgage application.
Theres two periods of delay I have to bear in mind. The delay in sending out the second 
mortgage offer due to the change of solicitor might  be Nationwides fault. But the delay 
caused by Mr and Mrs H needing to borrow more than originally applied for in my view isnt 
Nationwides fault and I dont accept that any delays with the second offer are to blame  for 
this issue. Mr and Mrs H and the broker are responsible for ensuring  that money is available 
to repay  the original  mortgage. The amount needed  to be borrowed in the end was 
significantly more than the sum first sought,  and wasnt  due to the change in the interest rate 
in the original mortgage. And it isnt clear  why the problem wasnt  spotted earlier by the 
broker or Mr and Mrs H  Nationwide  had no involvement with this issue  and it couldve been  
raised much earlier.
As the investigator  points out, even  once the second  offer was issued, no action was taken 
to deal with the need  to increase the borrowing for about two weeks. Mr and Mrs H paid the 
extra interest for about 18 days. Im not persuaded that this happened due to the delay with 
the second offer on the basis  of the evidence available  to me.
Looking at the second mortgage offer and the change  of solicitors problem, it also isnt clear 
to me why the broker didnt check that the solicitors named  had been  instructed by 
Mr and Mrs H. Mr and Mrs H have  said that they never instructed those solicitors. But 
brokers know the name of the solicitors is vital for the mortgage offer, and can cause delay. 
Nationwide wasnt responsible for the naming of the original  solicitors.
Nationwide was clear  that a letter  from the new solicitors was required to progress the 
application. I accept  that the broker faxed something to Nationwide,  but theres no fax 
confirmation sheet  showing exactly what was faxed. The evidence I have shows something 
was faxed, and the transmission  was ok, but this isnt conclusive evidence of receipt by 
Nationwide. And the broker  told the new solicitor not to post the letter.
The evidence shows that Nationwide  didnt receive  the fax transmission. Faxes have largely  
been superseded by other methods of communication. If it had received the letter  when 
faxed, I think its more  likely than not that it wouldve  promptly dealt with it, as it did all the 
other changes. This doesnt mean the broker is at fault though.
Ref: DRN97738433I note that the broker didnt  chase the matter  for about three weeks.  Given the simple nature 
of the change, it would be reasonable to expect Nationwide to respond much  earlier  if it had 
received the letter. And I also note that once the broker  was told that the letter  hadnt been  
received, it took a week for the letter to be sent to Nationwide (who promptly  dealt with the 
change). This is delay for which  Nationwide isnt responsible.
I dont think it would  be fair or reasonable for me to find Nationwide  is responsible  for the 
extra interest paid by Mr and Mrs H, given the delays for which it wasnt  responsible. But I 
dont think Nationwide  has acted  fairly  and reasonably in one respect  it knew that the old 
solicitors were no longer  acting, and the application  wasnt being progressed,  but it didnt  
contact the broker  to find out why it hadnt  received the letter from the new solicitors. If it had 
done so, the application  wouldve  progressed (until the point where  Mr and Mrs H wouldve  
asked to borrow more  money).  I dont think this failure by Nationwide caused financial loss 
for the reasons I give above, but it did cause some  of the trouble and upset they suffered.
Money never  truly compensates for trouble and upset, and Ive found  that Nationwide  wasnt 
responsible for much  of the delay. Taking all the evidence, my findings and the 
circumstances into account,  I think £150  is fair and reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  the parties  said that they accepted  my view.  In light 
of this, I see no reason  to change my provisional  decision  and will confirm  it as my final 
decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Nationwide  Building Society should pay 
Mr and Mrs H £150 compensation for their trouble and upset. Under  the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my 
decision before  21 May 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9773843