K821x#15complaint
Mr I complains that a car he has on finance  through Black Horse  Limited  (Black  Horse) was 
faulty when he took receipt  of it.
background
Mr I took receipt of a used  car on 11 April 2018.  The car was first registered in 2014 and had 
completed 28,500  miles at the point of supply. Mr I financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with Black Horse.  
On 24 May 2018 Mr I noticed some problems with the car. He took it to the dealership and a 
report identified a noise  from the gearbox and damage to the sub frame and steering rack. 
The inspector suggested it would cost in the region of £7,500 to rectify the damage. 
Mr I obtained an independent  report and the engineer said that there  was corrosion on the 
sub frame that had been there for more than six months and suggested the damage was 
therefore present  when  Mr I took receipt  of the car. The inspector was critical of the MOT  
that had been completed  shortly after Mr I took receipt of the car. The suggestion seems to 
have been that these  problems must  have  been present and shouldve been  noticed.
The manufacturers dealership, who reviewed the work required, concurred and explained 
there was rust on the car that had been  there  from a time before Mr I took receipt of the 
vehicle.
Mr I also arranged a further  independent  inspection.  They said they:
consider the fault to be historic that the fault will have been  present/developing at the time 
of delivery
And they went on to explain:
In our opinion based on the visible evidence, we can confirm  there  was evidence of 
longstanding and historic impact to the sub frame to such  a degree the alignment of the 
vehicle has clearly become compromised. The nearside wishbone is contacting the sub 
frameresulting in a vibration and resonation throughout the vehicle.
Mr I asked Black Horse  to take responsibility  for the repairs but they refused. They said there  
was no evidence of these problems when the car was inspected prior to sale and they said 
that thered been no mention of any issues during the subsequent MOT. 
So Mr I referred  his complaint to this service and our investigator took a look at the evidence. 
She thought  that it was most probable the car was damaged at the point of supply and she 
thought Black Horse  should therefore arrange for a repair at no cost to Mr I and reimburse 
any monthly payments  where he hadnt had use of the car.
But Black Horse didnt agree. They said the dealership had been  very clear that there was 
no damage in the pre-sale  inspection  and they said the independent inspector hadnt given a 
proper explanation about why he assumed  the damage had been there from the beginning; 
other than to say it was most likely due to the mileage. So they asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN99712322my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr I acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse  is 
responsible. I take account of relevant law when deciding  what is fair and reasonable. On 
this basis if I thought the car was faulty  when supplied, Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask 
Black Horse  to put this right.  
But Black Horses responsibility for the car is not unlimited.  Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
I think its most probable  that the problems Mr I complains of were  there from the beginning. 
I say that because:
the independent engineers, who are experts  in these matters, thought it was likely 
they were  
there have been two independent inspections: both have had similar comments that 
the fault was most likely to have been  there  from the beginning
the evidence  from the experts  was corroborated by the manufacturers dealership
the damage was noticed very shortly  after Mr I took receipt of the car. There was 
therefore limited opportunity for it to have happened in his care
Mr I has spent a lot of time obtaining evidence to support his claim. The depth of his 
belief, that the car was damaged on receipt,  is clear and I think its unlikely he would 
have pursued evidence so vigorously if he knew it was likely to contradict his view 
that the damage was historic
Black  Horse say that the pre-sale inspection did not identify any problems but neither 
did Mr I and I can understand that a sub frame problem may not be evident in this 
sort of inspection
Black  Horse also say that the MOT didnt raise any issues. I can see the initial  
independent inspection was critical of the MOT but I feel the weight of evidence  
suggests its most likely the issue was missed here and the problem was pre-existing 
So, on balance, I think theres  quite a bit more  evidence than not, that the car was faulty  
when Mr I took receipt of it. For that reason I think Black Horse need  to take some further 
action.
I know that Mr I would like Black  Horse to allow him to reject the car but Im afraid thats  not 
what the relevant  legislation requires.  Black Horse are allowed one opportunity  to fix the 
problem so I think they should now do so.
Ref: DRN99712323The investigator said that Mr I should have any instalments  returned  that he made to his 
finance agreement  during  the period hes been  without his car.
I noticed that Mr I hadnt driven the car between May and September 2018  as the odometer 
reading, in the various reports hed commissioned, had not changed. I asked if hed 
completed any further mileage and he confirmed hes not driven it since  the inspection in 
May. I understand  that Mr I is unable to access  the car at the moment to demonstrate  the 
mileage but I think his account  seems reasonable and its likely he hasnt  completed  any 
further mileage.  It would therefore be fair for any instalments  hes paid to his finance 
agreement since the car went  to the garage  on 24 May, to be refunded  to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Black  Horse Limited to:
arrange for Mr Is car to be collected  and repaired
reimburse any monthly instalment that Mr I has paid since 24 May. That being the 
period he has been  without the car but has been  paying towards his agreement. Add 
8% simple interest  per annum to this refund from the time the relevant instalments 
were paid until the time of settlement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9971232