K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that St Andrews Insurance plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr V entered into a hire purchase  agreement with Capital Bank for a car in 2001. Around  
four weeks  after the agreement  started,  a PPI policy was set up to protect  Mr Vs monthly 
repayments if he couldnt work due to accident or sickness. The policy also included life 
cover.  
St Andrews  has accepted  responsibility  for the complaint.  To keep things  simple,  Ill just 
refer to St Andrews in this decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr V didnt  agree saying, in summary, that:
He was told the PPI was part of the hire purchase agreement  he was told to sign the 
pre-populated form that was sent to him.
The paperwork  didnt say that the policy was optional.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Vs complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Vs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr V says he was told the PPI formed part of the hire purchase agreement. And I accept 
thats possible. Ive seen  the hire purchase  agreement which Mr V signed,  but it doesnt  
include any reference to PPI. He was sent a completely  separate  PPI application and direct 
debit instruction which he signed.  The PPI application doesnt specifically say that the PPI is 
optional. But I think it was reasonably clear that the PPI wasnt  compulsory  because  of the 
need to complete a separate application  form and a separate direct debit mandate, and 
because the hire purchase  agreement was already in place.
So overall, I think St Andrews made it clear that PPI was optional  and Mr V agreed  to have it 
knowing he had a choice,  even though he may not remember that now.
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think St Andrews recommended the PPI to Mr V so it didnt 
have to check it was suitable for him. But it did have  to give him enough clear information so 
he could decide  if he wanted to take it.
Mr V says he wouldve  received generous sick pay. But the policy wouldve paid out in 
addition to his existing arrangements so couldve been a useful benefit. 
Ref: DRN91615902From what  Mr Vs told us about  his circumstances at the time, I am satisfied that he was 
eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the main restrictions  (such as those 
about unusual  employment situations, or existing medical conditions).
The cost of the policy was shown on the PPI application as £10.47  each month. So I think 
Mr V wouldve  understood how much  he would need  to pay for it.
I cant be sure what information St Andrews  gave Mr V about the policy, or how well it was 
explained. So I accept  that it may not have  done enough here.  But I dont think Mr V is worse  
off as a result. As Ive said,  Im satisfied that he chose  to take out the policy. He was eligible 
for it, and it offered useful protection in his circumstances. Ive seen nothing  to suggest that 
the policy was unaffordable for Mr V at the point when he decided  to take it out. So I think, 
even if hed been told everything he shouldve  been, hed still have bought  the policy.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr V. I know  he feels strongly that he didnt realise the policy  was 
optional. But taking  everything into account, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9161590