K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about how Calpe Insurance Company Limited dealt  with another  drivers 
claim against his motor insurance policy. He also complains that it cancelled  his policy.
background
In January 2017, Mr S took out a motor  insurance policy. Calpe is the lead insurer  in relation 
to that policy. 
In March 2017, Mr S was involved in an accident  whilst driving.  I understand that Mr S was 
driving in the left hand lane and car one was in the right hand lane on a roundabout.  Car one 
signalled and changed lanes, causing  Mr S to take evasive action and collide with the 
passenger, rear side of car two, which was stationary  and also to the right of Mr Ss car. 
The driver of car one didnt stop at the scene of the accident and car one didnt suffer any 
damage. Both Mr Ss car and car two were damaged. The driver and passengers of car two 
suffered personal  injury.  
Mr S didnt claim against his policy for his losses. The driver  and passengers of car two 
claimed against Mr Ss policy.  Calpe  settled the claim on a without  prejudice  basis.  It paid 
out almost £10,000.
Calpe asked Mr S to pay the excess of £3,000 due under his policy.  As Mr S didnt  pay the 
excess, Calpe cancelled his policy and passed the debt to a third party.  
Mr S subsequently took out a new policy, also underwritten by Calpe. That policy  was in 
force for around a month and was the subject of a separate complaint. Mr S says that he 
sold his car. 
Mr S says that the accident wasnt his fault,  so he shouldnt have to pay anything.  He wants  
Calpe to remove reference the cancellation  of his policy from its systems, pay him 
compensation for his distress and losses  and waive all charges. 
Our investigator initially said that Calpe hadnt  treated  Mr S fairly as it hadnt actively 
pursued a claim against the driver of car one, who may have caused the accident. She said 
if it had done that, it may have been able to recover some costs  and Mr S may have  been  
able to claim the excess due under his policy. 
Our investigator also said that whilst  Calpe  is entitled to cancel Mr Ss policy  it wasnt fair to 
do so here.  That was because he continued to pay his monthly premiums  and it could have 
pursued him separately  for the excess of £3,000.
The investigator said that Calpe should actively pursue a claim against car one, remove  any 
adverse information  theyve reported  about the cancellation of Mr Ss policy,  refund charges 
caused by cancellation and pay him compensation of £300.
Ref: DRN92279822Calpe didnt agree  that it had treated Mr S unfairly. It said it had never successfully pursued 
another driver  whose car wasnt directly involved in the impact. Calpe said that as Mr Ss car 
collided with car two, it had to deal with the claim.  It said that it was entitled to decide not to 
pursue a claim it knew would fail, as doing otherwise would increase the costs. Calpe said 
that there  was no reasonable  prospect of recovering  its costs from any other  party, so the 
excess under the policy is due. 
Our investigator looked at the matter  again.  She remained of the view that Calpe hadnt 
acted fairly  in that it failed to investigate car one and cancelled Mr Ss policy unnecessarily.  
But she thought  that, until the claim had been reviewed, it wasnt known whether or not Mr S 
owes the excess. The investigator thought that Calpe should pay Mr S compensation of 
£200 in relation to its delay in investigating the claim. 
Calpe still disagreed with the investigator. It maintained that it had no reasonable possibility 
of defending the claim. Calpe said that it was open to Mr S to pursue the driver of car one, if 
he wished to do so. It said that it shouldnt be expected  to incur unnecessary legal expenses 
in order to build a case that it believes to be unrealistic. Calpe said that it was right to cancel 
the policy, as Mr S didnt  pay the excess.   
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide  which party  is to blame  for causing an accident;  that is a matter for the 
courts. We do consider  however  whether  an insurer, Calpe in this case, acted in line with its 
policy terms and whether it acted fairly and reasonably in coming to its decision  on liability.
Mr Ss policy  terms and conditions include the following:
The Underwriters can conduct the defence, admit negligence for any accident or claim on 
Your behalf. The Underwriters will also [] settle any claim or part of the claim without 
reference to the Insured Person
So, Calpe is free to deal with the claim against  Mr Ss policy as it thinks  fit, to include settling 
the third partys claim.  It can decide  to settle  the third partys claim if it believes it would be 
unsuccessful in defending that claim in court or that it had no reasonable prospect of 
success in getting  another  party to take responsibility for the accident.    
Ive considered this matter carefully.  Based on the available evidence,  I dont  think  that 
Calpe acted unfairly or unreasonably in deciding to deal with the claims by the driver and 
passengers of car two. Mr Ss car collided with car two, which was stationary. I understand 
Mr S doesnt  dispute that. So, car two didnt do anything to cause the accident. In those  
particular circumstances,  I agree with Calpe that the claim against Mr S by the driver and 
passengers of car two would have been  difficult to defend. The driver and passengers  of car 
two arent  obliged to redirect  their claim to the driver of car one, especially as that car didnt 
collide with them. 
Ref: DRN92279823Mr Ss position is that Calpe should have pursued the driver of car one, who he says caused 
him to take evasive  action and collide with car two. Calpe took the view that it wasnt cost 
effective to make further enquires and try to pursue the driver  of car one. That was because, 
in its experience, it had never successfully pursued  another driver whose car wasnt  directly 
involved in the impact. 
As Ive said,  I think Calpe was entitled to settle the claims of the driver and passengers of car 
two on a without prejudice basis. That means that it didnt accept that Mr S was at fault.  But 
I dont think it treated Mr S fairly  when it took no steps in relation to car one. Ill explain why.
Mr S gave Calpe  the registration details of car one. Both Mr S and the driver of car two 
agreed that car one caused  Mr S to take evasive action. In the circumstances, I think it 
would have been reasonable for Calpe to trace the driver of car one and write to her 
insurers. I dont think that it would have incurred significant extra  costs  in doing so. It could 
then take any necessary  legal advice and decide whether it was likely to be successful in 
proceeding against the driver of car one. A successful  claim against car one may mean that 
Calpe could recover its costs and Mr S may recover the excess he has to pay under his 
policy. To put matters  right, Calpe should  actively pursue a claim against  car one. If Mr S 
isnt happy with the outcome of that, he can complain about that separately.
The excess  due under Mr Ss policy was £3,000.  Im satisfied that Mr Ss policy  schedule  set 
out the excess. Also, his policy  explained  the excess in in its definitions.  Mr S is obliged to 
pay that to Calpe, even if the accident  isnt his fault. Mr Ss policy  also provides that Calpe  
will cancel his policy if he owes the excess. But I dont  think  it acted fairly here in doing so. 
Calpe hadnt carried out a reasonable investigation  in that it hadnt taken any steps to trace 
car one. Even if Calpe had carried out a reasonable investigation, I dont think that cancelling 
Mr Ss policy  was fair. Mr S carried on paying his premium and was generally co-operative  
with Calpe. Cancellation of his policy has significant detrimental impact  on Mr S. Calpe had 
other ways  of recovering the excess, without cancelling  Mr Ss policy.  
I think that Calpe should remove information about  its cancellation of Mr Ss policy from 
internal and external records and databases. It should also reverse  charges made  on 
cancellation. 
Mr S has suffered distress  and inconvenience as a result of Calpe not pursuing car one and 
later cancelling his policy. I agree with the investigator that fair compensation for that is £200.
It doesnt alter the outcome at this stage but I should say that its not fair or appropriate for 
Calpe to include its investigation costs in its total claim costs. Thats  because  its 
investigation costs  are to be borne by Calpe,  not Mr S. 
Ref: DRN92279824my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. To put 
things right, I now require  Calpe  Insurance  Company Limited to:
Actively pursue a claim against car one. 
Remove information about the cancellation of Mr Ss policy  from any internal or 
external records or databases.
Reverse any charges  made on cancellation.
Pay Mr S compensation  of £200.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019. 
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9227982