K820x#14complaint
Miss Z complains about the way Assurant  General  Insurance  Limited handled her claim 
under for a damaged laptop computer under a gadget  insurance  policy.  She also complains 
about the amount of the cash  settlement it offered  to her.
background
Miss Z has gadget insurance linked to her bank account. Her laptop computer was damaged 
when something  dropped  on it, the base was bowed  and not all the keys worked properly. 
She made a claim to Assurant. 
Assurant attempted  to repair  the laptop several times. But Miss Z said it still wasnt  working 
properly. She also complained about the number of attempted repairs. 
Assurant said after the second attempted repair it should have offered to replace  the laptop  
or offer a cash settlement.  As it couldnt obtain  a replacement at that point it offered Miss Z a 
cash settlement of £879.79  based on the price of a like for like model  on an online shop.  It 
also offered her £100 compensation. Miss Z wasnt happy with the offer.  Assurant agreed to 
pay it to her on the understanding she might take her complaint further. She came  to us. 
Our investigator initially upheld the complaint, but based on information from Assurant she 
ultimately said it had paid Miss Z a fair amount  to settle her claim and complaint. Miss Z 
didnt agree. She said she couldnt replace her laptop for the amount Assurant had paid her, 
and that she couldnt find anything under £1,100.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Miss Z is disappointed that our investigator initially  upheld the complaint, 
but then said Assurants offer was reasonable. But I think that Assurant has paid Miss Z a 
fair amount to settle her claim  and reasonable compensation in response to her complaint. 
So I dont  uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy allows  Assurant to attempt to repair or replace the damaged  laptop.  If Assurant 
cant repair the laptop then under the policy  it can replace it with a remanufactured (not 
brand new)  device. In the event it cant provide a replacement  Assurant will provide a cash 
settlement based  on the current market value. I know Miss Z has recently said that Assurant 
should have returned the laptop to her as it couldnt repair it, as shed already got a quote 
from the manufacturer for repairs. But Assurant wasnt required to return the laptop  under 
the policys terms. 
Miss Z made  the claim at the end of January 2018.  Assurant  accepted  the claim and the 
laptop was repaired  and returned to her within around three weeks. In April 2018 Miss Z said 
the laptop was still faulty.  Assurant repaired and returned it within a week  of her call. 
In July 2018 Miss Z said the laptop was still faulty,  but Assurant said it couldnt  find a fault 
and returned it to her within a week. Unfortunately  Miss Z had to call a fourth time, and on 
this occasion Assurant offered a cash settlement for the laptop.  
Ref: DRN90006982Assurant has said that it should only have put the laptop through two repair  attempts before 
replacing it. So I think it was right that Assurant offered to replace the laptop. It was entitled  
to replace it with a remanufactured one under the policys terms. This isnt an unusual  term 
in this type of insurance policy and we dont think its unreasonable.  
As Assurant  couldnt find a suitable  replacement it paid Miss Z the amount it would have cost 
to replace it. And Assurant provided three  different adverts showing the price  at which the 
same model laptop as Miss Zs laptop  was on sale. It then paid her the highest of the three 
advertised sale prices - £879.97.  I appreciate it wasnt in stock at this price  at the time 
Miss Z referred  her complaint  to us. But I think this was a fair price at the time Assurant 
offered it, being the market value as set out in the policy  terms. 
I appreciate Miss Z paid a higher price for her laptop, and is concerned  about depreciation. 
But the price for a refurbished laptop wont be the same, and reflects  some depreciation in 
value. I think the amount  Assurant paid her as a cash settlement was reasonable, reflecting 
that the laptop wasnt new. Im satisfied the cash settlement was for the correct make  and 
model laptop, and that the amount Assurant paid is enough to replace the laptop with a 
suitable equivalent. 
Assurant accepts it should have dealt with the claim more efficiently. It also said it didnt 
leave a message  for her in response  to her call to its claims team.  Assurant also said it could 
have handled  a call better than it did, as it had placed her on hold without  asking her 
permission first. It paid Miss Z £100  compensation for distress and inconvenience. I think  
this was a reasonable amount.
So I find that Assurant  paid Miss Z a fair cash settlement for her laptop and the 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  was reasonable. On this basis, I dont require 
Assurant to do anything  more and I dont uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9000698