K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains that Motor Depot Ltd (Motor  Depot) mis-sold her payment protection  
insurance (PPI) alongside a hire purchase agreement for a car.
background
In 2007 Ms M entered into a hire purchase agreement  to buy a car, to be repaid over sixty 
months. At the same  time she bought  PPI to protect  her repayments. The PPI cost her 
£871.20.
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said that as Ms M was 
unemployed at the time she wasnt eligible for the PPI. Motor Depot disagreed  with this view 
and so the case has been passed  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ms M has told us that Motor Depot recommended the PPI to her. I dont  know what  was said 
to Ms M when she bought the PPI and whether a tailored recommendation was made but it 
doesnt make a difference to my decision. I dont  think the PPI was suitable for her and I 
dont think Motor Depot  gave her enough  information about the PPI in a clear, fair and non- 
misleading way so she could decide  for herself  whether or not she should take out the 
policy.
Ms M wasnt working  at the time she took out the PPI. I can see that Ms M has been noted  
as retired in the screenshots Ive been provided.  Ms M explains that she was marked down 
as retired so she could  secure the finance.  From  the paperwork Ive seen and taking into 
account what the parties have told me, I think its likely  Ms M wasnt working  when she 
bought the policy.
Motor Depot is unable  to provide a copy of the policy document from the time. However, we 
do know about these  types of policies  and typically the policies would have required Ms M to 
be working to be eligible  for the cover. PPI was taken out to cover  circumstances where  
Ms M was unable to work through accident,  sickness or if she lost her job. So she would 
have had to be working in order  to be eligible for the PPI. In her circumstances I dont think 
she was eligible for the cover and I dont think it was suitable for her or that she was given 
enough clear information  so she could  make an informed decision about whether or not the 
PPI was right for her. 
If she had been  given the right information I dont think its likely she would have taken out 
the PPI on which she could never make a claim.
I think Ms M lost out as a result of what Motor Depot did wrong. So I uphold  this complaint.
putting things right
Ref: DRN95515362Ms M borrowed  extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it shouldve  been and 
she paid more than she shouldve each month. So Ms M needs  to get back the extra shes 
paid. 
So, Motor  Depot should:
Work  out and pay Ms M the difference between what  she paid each month on the loan 
and what she wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Ms M paid each month from when  she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
If Ms M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Motor  Depot  can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Motor Depot to take off tax from this interest. Motor  
Depot must  give Ms M a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint and require Motor Depot Ltd to 
put things right as Ive set out in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9551536