K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr C say Yorkshire Building  Society  trading as Chelsea Building Society (YBS) 
mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs and Mr C bought  the policy in June 2001  around the same time as taking out a 
mortgage. They applied  for the PPI policy over the phone. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr C only for accident,  sickness,  and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £369 a month  towards Mrs and Mr Cs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. The monthly cost was shown as £18.71  
on the policy schedule.  
At the time,  Mr C was employed  as a lorry driver. He has told us he was not entitled to any 
sick pay and didnt  have  any other  means of repaying the mortgage  should he be unable to 
work. I think  given the time hed been  with his employer at the time,  he wouldve been 
entitled to at least statutory sick pay and redundancy pay. Mr C has said hed had a problem 
with his back and elbow  around  10 years  earlier. 
Mrs C was employed as an office worker at the time.  Shes also told us she was not entitled 
to any sick pay and didnt  have any other  means. Again I think  given  the length of her 
employment, she wouldve been entitled  to statutory sick pay and redundancy pay. 
YBS has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2005. 
Mrs and Mr Cs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs and Mr Cs representative says:
YBS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs and Mr C 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs and     
Mr Cs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means YBS should have told 
Mrs and Mr C about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means YBS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs and Mr C and the 
impact they would have had on Mr Cs chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN97027192The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mrs and Mr C received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs and Mr Cs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs and Mr Cs complaint.
This sale took place  in June 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching 
principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable 
to this complaint;  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
YBS, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN97027193The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like YBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs and 
Mr Cs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so YBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs and Mr Cs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
Ref: DRN97027194-If YBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs and Mr C with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether YBS gave  Mrs and Mr C sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs and 
Mr C, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mrs and Mr C 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs and Mr C 
and YBS,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs and Mr Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mrs and Mr C know they had a choice?
YBS had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  The policy was sold during a 
telephone call. Due to how long ago the policy was sold, YBS no longer has a recording of 
the call.  But  it has provided us with copies of Mrs and Mr Cs mortgage documents  which 
were completed around the time. 
On the mortgage  application form there  is a section about the PPI where applicants  are 
asked to select if they wish to take it out. It also states that the policy can be cancelled at any 
time. This section has been ticked on Mrs and Mr Cs form.  And Mrs and Mr C signed the 
form.
The telephone call to set up the policy took place a day after the mortgage completed. On 
the declaration  form completed during that call, the advisor was prompted to explain the 
policy could be cancelled  at any time.  There is nothing in what Mrs and Mr C have told us to 
make me think that the advisor didnt explain this to them.  
So, I think its more likely  that Mrs and Mr C knew the policy  was optional and they agreed to 
take it out without  undue pressure. 
did YBS provide advice?
Both YBS and Mrs and Mr C agree that advice wasnt  provided  during this sale.
This means  YBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs and Mr C. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Ref: DRN97027195As Ive mentioned  above, YBS no longer has a call recording of the PPI sale,  nor a script it 
wouldve expected  its employee to have  followed.  But it has provided  a copy of the Payment 
Protection Declaration form its employee  completed during a telephone  call with Mr C to set 
up the PPI.  From the contents of that form,  Im satisfied its more  likely than not Mrs and 
Mr C were given  a broad description of what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the 
policy would protect  their payments if Mr C was unable to work through accident, sickness or 
unemployment). It also looks like they agreed  the monthly benefit and were  told how much 
the cover  would cost.   
The form directs the employee to explain  the pre-existing medical condition exclusion if Mr C 
told them  hed had treatment in the last 12 months  or was expecting to in the next 12 
months. But this wasnt  enough to make  the exclusions relating to existing medical  
conditions clear and it doesnt look like there  was any prompt  for the employee to highlight  
the other significant  exclusions of limitations of the policy.  
So I dont  think YBS gave Mrs and Mr C sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs and Mr Cs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs and 
Mr Cs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs and Mr Cs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs and Mr C about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs and Mr Cs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mrs and Mr C have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that YBS ought to have done either. 
what effect did YBSs shortcomings have  on Mrs and Mr C? To what extent  did Mrs 
and Mr C suffer  loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that YBS didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs and Mr C. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
Ref: DRN97027196suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs and 
Mr C would have still taken out the policy, had YBS done things properly. 
Mrs and Mr C say they would not have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs and Mr C had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr C being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs and Mr C chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mrs and 
Mr C thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this differed  
is a relevant consideration when determining if Mrs and Mr C have suffered any loss or 
detriment. 
The information Mrs and Mr C were given  about  the cost and benefit  was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions wasnt 
as clear as it should have  been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs and Mr C thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any existing physical or mental defect, infirmity 
recurring disease or chronic or continuing disease Mr C was aware about at the start 
date or any sickness, disease,  condition or injury whether  diagnosed  or not that Mr C 
received advice, treatment or counselling about from a doctor during the period of 12 
months before the start date;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr C 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr C be unable  to 
his job or any similar  work which his knowledge,  training  and ability reasonably  
qualified him to do.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs and Mr C pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs and Mr C from 
taking out the policy.  
The evidence about Mr Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. Mrs and Mr C had a need for the policy  Mr C wouldve 
Ref: DRN97027197received limited sick pay if he was unable  to work  due to illness,  his redundancy benefits are 
also likely to be limited and they didnt have any savings they could fall back on. Their 
finances would be put under strain if Mr C wasnt working  even allowing for Mrs Cs 
income. The policy would have helped Mrs and Mr C manage the consequences if Mr C was 
unable to work.
Although Mr C says he was suffering from a bad back  and elbow some years  before the PPI 
was taken out and the policy wouldnt have provided  cover  had he needed time off work  as a 
result of these previous  issues, I dont think better information  about this exclusion would 
have put him off agreeing  to it. I say this because although Mr C has said he had to receive 
treatment and take time off with these conditions,  this had happened many  years before the 
policy was sold. Ive not seen anything to suggest  these caused  him any ongoing issues or 
that hes likely to have  thought hed need  any time off because  of them again.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs and 
Mr C might reasonably have expected. Ive already explained that Mr C wouldnt have been 
able to make  a claim if he couldnt  work  as a result of his previous back  problems and why I 
didnt think better information  about  this would put him off taking out the policy. And its 
unlikely Mr C would have  expected to be able to make a disability claim without having to 
provide some evidence  to support  that claim. While  this limitation  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs and Mr C from taking  out the 
policy, Mrs and Mr C, in their circumstances,  still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mrs and Mr C had known they could only claim for disability if Mr C was unable  to do both 
his job and any similar job which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  be qualified for, it 
might have played into their thinking  about what they would have done. And I accept it may 
have given them pause for thought  although  its possible  they may not have been overly  
concerned given that if Mr C was unable (through disability) to carry on his own occupation 
the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
YBS may not have  told Mrs and Mr C that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for, 
but they had limited other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs and Mr C would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr C be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time, ensuring their home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs and Mr C would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr C was made redundant, or unable  to work through  accident 
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mrs and Mr C would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Ref: DRN97027198Mrs and Mr Cs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs and Mr C would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs and      
Mr Cs circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position      
Mrs and Mr C found themselves in as result of the sale was the same  position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mrs and Mr C believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs and Mr C in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude YBS should  pay Mrs and Mr C compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs and Mr C think YBS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
YBSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why YBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  YBS gave Mrs and Mr C, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 200when providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs and Mr Cs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find YBS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs and Mr C and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that YBS had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
Ref: DRN97027199and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs and Mr C in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9702719