K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  The complaint is brought on their behalf  by a claims management 
company.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy which was taken out in 1987 when Mr and 
Mrs F applied for a mortgage.  The policy covered  them  for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. The policy was split between them  Mr F was covered for £200 a month  
and Mrs F for £100 a month. This was amended in 1990 when Mr and Mrs F applied  for 
more borrowing secured on their home. Mr F was then covered for £250 a month,  and Mrs F 
for £150.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Fs case. 
Bradford & Bingley  doesnt have a full record  of the sale, which isnt surprising given it took 
place so long ago. In cases like this, I reach my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in 
other words, what I consider is most  likely to have  happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Bradford & Bingley  didnt  recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs F, so it didnt need to check 
that it was suitable for them.
So the key question I need  to consider  is did Bradford  & Bingley give Mr and Mrs F 
information that was clear,  fair and not misleading in order to put them  in a position where 
they could decide for themselves whether the policy would be useful. And, if there was a 
problem with the way the policy  was sold, then I need to consider whether Mr and Mrs F are 
worse off as a result. That is, would they have done  something different  such as not taking  
out the policy  if there hadnt  been  any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint  and will explain why.
The 1987  mortgage application had a section for PPI. There was a box Mr and Mrs F could 
fill in to say they wanted cover, or a box they could mark if they didnt want PPI. The box to 
take PPI was filled in to indicate they wanted £200  of cover for Mr F and £100  of cover for 
Mrs F. They signed the application, and they wouldve  also completed a separate PPI 
application form but this, unfortunately, is no longer available.
Ref: DRN90872652The 1990  mortgage application also had a section for PPI. The quality of the application  is 
very poor so it is difficult to read.  But I can see it asked the question, Do you wish to take 
advantage of the Societys very competitive Payment Protection Insurance? And theres a 
box where Mr and Mrs F were instructed to, write  yes or no. Yes has been  written in the 
box.
So, despite  what they now recall, I think they were offered the choice to take or turn down 
PPI, with no indication  that either decision would affect the mortgage  application. And on 
both occasions,  I can see they agreed to take PPI. 
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been. But I dont think they would have been put off taking out the 
policy if theyd received better information.  I say this because:
They  were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the terms and conditions.
They  werent  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits  such  as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
they couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely they needed 
better information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Mr F told us he wouldve received 13 weeks pay from his employer if he couldnt work 
due to sickness or an accident and that Mrs F wouldve received statutory sick pay. 
They also had around  £2,000 in savings. But the policy wouldve covered them until they 
returned to work  the policy wouldve paid out for an unlimited period in the event of a 
successful claim,  (reducing to 24 months in 1991 and 12 months  in 1993). The 
mortgage was a major  long term financial commitment and Mr and Mrs Fs home was at 
risk if they couldnt  meet the repayments. So I think its likely  that, despite  what  they now 
recall, they wanted some additional cover if they couldnt  work. The policy  also covered 
them if theyd become unemployed.
I cant  see that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated  to Mr and Mrs F before  
they agreed to purchase it. I dont think they were  told it would cost £15 each month  until 
after the mortgage  had started. For this reason  I have considered  whether clearer  
information about  the cost would have affected Mr and Mrs Fs decision to purchase the 
policy. They had chosen to take out the policy, knowing they would have to pay 
something for it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently  affordable. So 
I think it unlikely they would  have made a different decision if better information about 
the cost had been  provided.
Overall, I dont  think Mr and Mrs F lost out because  of anything Bradford & Bingley did 
wrong, because I dont think better information  would have put Mr and Mrs F off taking out 
the policy. 
Ref: DRN90872653my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9087265