K821x#15complaint
Mr G and Ms H complain  that Admiral  Insurance Company Limited  didnt agree to pay for all 
the repairs needed to their car when they made  a claim on their motor  insurance policy.  
background
On 1 March 2018 Mr G and Ms Hs car was badly damaged in an accident. Admiral paid for 
repairs to the bodywork  but not to the engine.  Based  on the view of an independent 
assessor, it said the engine failed due to a lack of oil. As there was no leak,  Admiral  thought  
it was a maintenance issue. Mr G and Ms H got two reports from a dealership  garage.  The 
reports said there was damage  to the oil sump that had disrupted the flow of oil to the 
engine, which caused the damage. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. She said had the oil been  too low 
before the accident, fault codes would have been detected later, but they werent. She 
accepted the dealership garages view that the sump damage caused  a restriction  in oil flow. 
She thought  the sump  damage  was caused  by the accident. So she said Admiral  should pay 
for the engine to be repaired. She said it should also pay Mr G and Ms H for six weeks  loss 
of the use of their car and for the garages  reports - plus compensation for distress and 
inconvenience
Mr G and Ms H said the remedies the adjudicator  proposed  werent sufficient. Admiral said it                                                                          
didnt dispute  that there  was damage to the sump, but it didnt  agree  that it was related to the 
accident. It said the sump was protected by the undercarriage   which wasnt  damaged. 
Mr G and Ms H consulted  the dealership garage  on that point.  Its engineer said the 
undercarriage was made of a flexible  material. He said it wouldnt necessarily show evidence 
of an impact. They also got a report from another engineer, who inspected the car. His view 
was also that the engine  damage was caused  by the disruption of the flow of oil to it. He said 
the damage to the sump  was due to an accident. And he told Mr G and Ms H that the 
undercarriage was unlikely  to show any damage, given the material it was made  from. As 
there was no agreement,  the complaint was passed  to me for review.  
My provisional view and findings  were  as follows: 
We usually give great  weight to the views  of independent assessors, so I understand why 
Admiral has relied on the opinion  it got from the firm it instructed. Its own engineer  supports  
that opinion. But there are conflicting views from other engineers.  I have to take those into 
account and decide which views are more persuasive, given the available facts.  
I think its significant that Mr G and Ms H can show they had their car maintained by the 
dealership garage. So theres  a record of its last oil change  which  was around six months 
before the accident  and its last MOT   which was only three months  before  it. The car had 
been driven less than 5,000 miles since the service. I think  its unlikely  that it would have run 
out of oil. And had the oil level become low, a warning light would have  appeared. The 
dealership garage  was later able to establish that no fault codes had been triggered prior to 
the accident.
The dealership garage found  a large  area of damage to the sump. It drained over three litres 
of oil from it. It seems  that up to two litres had been added  by Admirals garage.  That doesnt 
account for the total volume  of oil present  which indicates that there was oil in the car at 
Ref: DRN96354032the time of the accident. I dont think theres  any reason to suspect that the dealership  
garage provided inaccurate  details in its reports.  I dont  think  the independent  assessor 
would have done so either. But its possible Admirals garage made an error in not detecting  
any oil initially.  It seems that when the assessor  arrived, he was told oil had been added.  
In the view of the dealership garage, the damage  to the sump  would have caused a 
restriction in the flow of oil, causing the engine  to be starved of oil. Admiral  said the damage 
to the sump  was caused by wear and tear. It based  that view on the lack of damage  to the 
undercarriage. The dealership garage  disagreed with that. It said the undercarriage was 
made of a very flexible material. The other  engineer later instructed by Mr G and Ms H also 
said the damage to the sump would have  affected oil flow. And he thought  the absence of 
corrosion on the sump showed that it hadnt  been driven / subjected to road and weather 
conditions after the damage to it was done. 
Both the dealership garage  and the engineer instructed by Mr G and Ms H inspected  the 
sump, inside and out. It seems that Admirals garage and the independent assessor didnt. 
The dealership garage and the engineer both thought the material forming the undercarriage 
wouldnt show signs of damage  despite the impact to the sump. The independent assessor 
took a different view  but I dont think his views  are more persuasive than the other views.
I dont think theres anything to show that Mr G and Ms Hs car wasnt well-maintained. In my 
opinion, the available evidence points to the opposite conclusion.  I think  its more  likely than 
not that there was oil in the car when the accident happened. I also think its more  likely than 
not that the damage to the sump was caused  by the accident - and that the restricted flow of 
oil to the engine  caused it to seize up. I dont think the lack of damage  to the undercarriage 
is enough to prevent that view of what happened  being the right one.
Had Admiral accepted that the engine damage  was accident-related, it would have paid for 
all the repairs to be done to the car - or may have written it off. So Mr G and Ms H wouldnt 
have been without a car of their own for long. That would have prevented much of the 
inconvenience theyve  faced and would have reduced their costs  significantly.
Mr G and Ms H think Admiral should  pay for repairs or write the car off. They think  it should  
refund their expenses, including a hire car they needed for a pre-booked family holiday.  
They want  £1,999 for the temporary  small replacement car they bought.  They think  Admiral  
should pay for its tax and insurance  as theyre paying for those costs  on the damaged  car. 
They think  it should also pay for the maintenance of the new car and for the fuel costs  in 
having to take two cars on family trips  the damaged car was big enough  for the whole 
family. And they want  to be reimbursed for the cost of their engineers  reports.    
  
The adjudicator proposed  that Admiral should pay for the repair  of the engine.  She said it 
should pay Mr G and Ms H £225  for the loss of use of their car, plus £175 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience (£400 in total). She thought it should also pay for the reports 
from the dealership  garage / its delivery  charge. She said she couldnt ask Admiral to pay for 
the costs of the alternative car. She said the fuel, tax, insurance and maintenance costs 
would have been run up anyway had Mr G and Ms H been using their old car.   
I think it would be fair for Admiral to refund the cost of the hire car. Mr G and Ms H wouldnt 
have had to use one had their own seven-seater  vehicle  been repaired (or written-off). But 
Admiral shouldnt have  to pay for the fuel on the trip, as the fuel would have been used 
anyway. Mr G and Ms H have had to tax and insure  three cars  when  theyd normally  only 
have to pay for those  costs on two cars. So I also think Admiral should waive a portion of the 
Ref: DRN96354033insurance premium and pay for part of the tax for Mr G and Ms Hs car  limited  to the period 
during which  theyve paid for three  cars.  
I dont think Admiral should have to pay fuel costs  for the replacement car. I dont think  its 
possible to say with any certainty what the extra cost of fuel is likely  to have been. The 
seven-seater vehicle  may well have used more fuel than the replacement car  and I dont 
think its possible to show how many miles have  been driven using the two small cars. 
I dont think theres any basis for Admiral  to be asked to pay for the replacement  car. 
Vehicles of that price tend to lose value  very slowly. Theres nothing to say that 
Mr G and Ms H wont get back the sum they paid for it. I dont think Admiral  can be required 
to pay for its maintenance either. Theyd  have had to pay for maintenance on their own car. 
And replacing the tyres  and brakes  may have increased the value of the replacement  car.
I think it must have been very inconvenient for Mr G and Ms H to deal with the loss of their 
seven-seater vehicle,  especially given the size of their family and the remoteness of their 
home. Having to use two small cars over a period  of several months must have been very 
trying. I think it would be fair to raise the compensation suggested by the adjudicator to 
£275. With the loss of use payment,  that amounts to £500,  in addition  to the other  remedies. 
I think it would be a reasonable  way to settle  this complaint. 
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional view. Admiral said the engineer  
Mr G and Ms H instructed may not have  been  qualified to make  a decision and may not have 
known the full facts  about the accident.  It said his report - and those from the dealership 
garage - only said there was damage  to the sump as the result of an incident. Admiral  
repeated that its independent engineer said there  was no damage and no sign of oil around  
the sump. He said the lack of oil in the vehicle caused the engine damage. Admiral said its 
in-house engineer  agreed with that. And he said the lack of marks on the undercarriage may 
mean it was attached to the car after the damage  to the sump was done.  
Mr G and Ms H said Admiral had moved the goal posts again. They asked the engineer 
theyd used to confirm he was fully qualified,  which he did. They  said the dealership  garage 
had carried out exhaustive tests, and its view was in their favour. They  explained more about  
the impact on them  of Admirals refusal  to pay the claim  and its ongoing attempts to justify  
it. They said they thought more compensation should be paid.  They said their damaged  car 
had deteriorated  over the past year, so it should  be written-off rather  than repaired.  And they 
said Admiral should  be required  to pay the difference between the sum theyd paid for their 
small replacement  car and the sum they would get when they sold it.  
My further provisional findings were as follows:
As far as I can see, theres  no evidence to suggest that the engineer  Mr G and Ms H 
selected wasnt qualified  or lacked the experience to give a valid opinion.  And his opinion is 
in line with the view of the engineer from the dealership garage.  I dont think  there can be 
any valid concerns  about  his expertise. Mr G says he gave the engineers all the facts  about 
the accident. I dont  think  theres any reason to doubt that assurance.  In my view, the 
opinions of the engineers  Mr G and Ms H consulted are persuasive, for the reasons set out 
in my previous provisional decision. And their opinions werent limited to saying that the 
sump was damaged  in an accident,  as Admiral  has suggested.
In my opinion, a number  of marks can be seen on the images of the flexible undercarriage 
taken from Mr G and Ms Hs car. And as Mr G pointed out, on the images taken by their 
Ref: DRN96354034engineer, theres  what looks  like a point of impact on the material. Mr G says it lines up with 
the sump, and I have no reason to doubt  it. 
I cant see why Mr G and Ms H would have removed the flexible undercarriage in the first 
place  as Admirals suggested - and then replaced  it after the accident. Theres  no reason 
to suppose they would have known  how to do that, either. The dealership  garages engineer 
says the flexible material should normally last for the life of the car. The cars first MOT  was 
done at the dealership garage less than three months before the accident. The garage  
wasnt aware of the undercarriage  being  removed prior to Admirals garage  taking  it off.    
Mr G thinks the damaged vehicle should  be written-off. In March  2018 the independent  
engineer said in his report that should  Admiral  decide to repair the engine damage, the car 
would be an economic write-off. So I think it would be both practical  and reasonable for 
Admiral to deal with the car as a total loss. That would mean Admiral paying  Mr G and Ms H 
its pre-accident market  value  less any sum its already paid them for repairs.
Mr G and Ms H think Admiral should  pay them for any loss they incur  when selling  their 
replacement car. They  may not make the substantial loss on it that Mr G anticipates  and 
they may have paid too much for it in the first place.  But they bought the car in an attempt to 
mitigate their losses. They wouldnt have had to do that had Admiral  settled their claim. And 
the alternative may have meant they were awarded a large sum for the loss of use of their 
vehicle over a long period of time. So I think it would be fair for Admiral to pay 
Mr G and Ms H the difference between the market value of the replacement car at the time it 
was bought and its market value  at the time of sale.  
Having considered Mr Gs further comments on the distress and inconvenience that 
he and Ms H have faced over the last year, I think theyd previously understated it. And I 
think the level of their upset has risen  following  Admirals  comments  on my first provisional 
view. 
The previous  award  I proposed was based  largely  on the inconvenience Mr G and Ms H had 
faced. I hadnt  fully understood how great that was. And I hadnt  fully taken into account  the 
strain on Mr G and Ms H in constantly having to plan around  both of them  being  available to 
transport the family in two small cars. As theyd been careful about maintaining their three 
year-old vehicle, they found it upsetting that Admiral suggested they hadnt done  so. 
Furthermore, Admiral has suggested  more  than once that Mr G and Ms H misled it about 
what happened to the car. That has distressed them  greatly.
I think Mr G and Ms H did all they could to present what they thought  was clear and 
independent evidence to Admiral about how the problem with the car arose.  They are very 
upset about Admirals recent suggestion that the engineers they relied on were either not 
independent, not qualified  and experienced enough  to comment - or that they didnt know all 
the facts. I think the latter assertion suggests that Mr G and Ms H may have tried to mislead 
the engineers.
Ref: DRN96354035Having reconsidered  all the comments made  by the parties, Im minded  to raise the 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  to £500. I think that would  better reflect the 
substantial trouble and upset Mr G and Ms H have faced. I think the loss of use award 
should be £200 to reflect the period  of 40 days before Mr G and Ms H bought  the 
replacement car. Thats  based on £5 rather than £10 per day as they still had some access 
to transport using  their other (small) car. I think the extra compensation, plus a sum for the 
loss of value on the replacement car if applicable  combined with the other remedies I 
proposed previously - would be a fair and reasonable way to settle this complaint.  
I asked the parties  to comment on my further provisional findings.  Mr G and Ms H accepted 
them. Admiral again said that there was no oil in the engine when it was inspected and that it 
didnt think the sump damage  was caused  by the accident. It said the sump damage looked  
older and was more  extensive than could be expected. It repeated  that the under shield was 
in good condition. It suggested that Mr G drove  the car on despite  the damage. And it said 
the view of the independent  assessor  should  be given greater weight that those  of other 
engineers.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I still think  it should  be upheld.
Ive looked again at the report of the independent  assessor and his further comments. He 
noted that after the accident Mr G drove  the vehicle the short distance to his home  without 
any problem. He also noted it was a few days later that the car was driven  again.  That was 
when Mr G noted a warning light and heard a noise from the engine.  Mr G told us from the 
start that as hed only driven a short distance,  he drove home  again.  I dont think that was 
unreasonable. The car was then towed to the garage. So I dont think  theres evidence that 
Mr G continued to drive the car despite  clear  signs that he shouldnt.  
The assessor relied on what the garage told him about the lack of oil in the car. On the basis  
of that  and the fact that there wasnt a leak - he concluded that the problem wasnt 
accident-related. In his first comments on the report of the dealership garage,  he said if there 
was a restriction in the oil pick up, there  would  still have been oil in the engine. In his second 
comments on the report, the assessor repeated his view that a lack of oil caused the 
problem. The assessor repeated his view again  in a further letter to Admiral in 
July 2018. I can see that Admiral suggested  the assessor might want to discuss  the 
dealership garages  report with its engineer,  but he didnt do so.
I appreciate that the independent  assessor  is an expert in his field.  But from what  hes said,  
he didnt check the level of oil in the vehicle  or see how much oil was added by the approved 
repairer. That took place before he arrived. The dealership garage says it took three litres of 
oil from the vehicle, although the approved repairer  said it had only added one or two litres.  
The independent assessor didnt comment on that, although I think  it points to some oil 
being present  in the engine when the car arrived at the garage.  From the photo  supplied by 
the garage, I think it looks as though theres oil on the dipstick.  And the assessor didnt 
comment on the lack of fault codes stored  in the vehicles memory readout. 
Reports from independent assessors are usually very persuasive.  But in this case, taking 
account of all the circumstances, I think the report from the dealership  garage  is more 
persuasive. Its supported  by the view of the other  engineer  that Mr G and Ms H consulted. 
Ref: DRN96354036As Ive said in my previous decisions,  both engineers thought the oil flow was restricted  and 
they didnt think  it was significant that the cars  under shield  wasnt badly damaged.  
The independent assessor noted that the vehicle ended up in a shallow drainage ditch.  That 
doesnt sound particularly serious. But it seems the damage was caused  on the way into that 
final position. From the start Mr G said the vehicle crashed  through  a hedge  with a thick 
trunk. It then went over several rocks and knocked  over a concrete signpost before coming 
to rest. So I think there was scope for considerable damage to be done to it. 
I havent seen  any comment from the independent  engineer about the damage to the sump  
looking older or more  extensive than would be expected given  the type of accident  it was in. 
And Mr G and Ms Hs engineers examined it closely without coming to that conclusion.
Whilst I understand why Admiral relied  on the independent assessors view, taking 
everything into account I think its more likely than not that the damage was caused by the 
accident. So I think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company limited 
to do the following:  
Pay Mr G and Ms H the pre-accident market value for their damaged  vehicle, less the 
sum paid to them already for repairs 
Add interest on the sum above at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of claim 
to the date of settlement 
Pay Mr G and Ms H £200 for the loss of use of their car
Pay Mr G and Ms H the difference between the market  value  of their small 
replacement car at the time it was bought  and its market value when sold
Pay Mr G and Ms H £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Refund £316.29 to Mr G and Ms H for the hire car
Pay £268.90 for the reports / delivery  charge of the dealership  garage
Pay £60 for the report of Mr G and Ms Hs engineer   
Add interest to the sums due for the hire car and the reports,  at the simple  yearly rate 
of 8%, from the dates of payment to the date of settlement  
Waive / pay a proportion of the insurance / tax on Mr G and Ms Hs damaged vehicle, 
reflecting the time theyve had to tax and insure three cars
If Admiral thinks  its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr G and Ms H how much its taken off. It should also give them a tax 
deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax if appropriate. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9635403