K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly 
gave her loans which  she couldnt afford to pay back. 
background 
Miss S took out 16 instalment loans with Sunny between February 2016 and February  2018.
She says she was in financial  difficulty and her loans kept being increased and granted 
without checking  she could afford  it. Miss S says she cant now repay the loans  and there is 
a balance outstanding.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and said it wasnt unfair for Sunny to offer loans 1 
to 5 but at the point of loan 6 Miss Ss borrowing pattern was a cause for concern and Sunny 
shouldve seen that she was persistently relying  on these loans. He thought Sunny shouldve  
seen that Miss S wasnt  responsibly managing her money and it shouldnt have given her 
any of the loans from loan 6 onwards.
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion  and in particular said that it didnt think  
Miss S was persistently relying on the credit. It pointed out all of the checks and 
assessments it did before  lending to Miss S. It said that on occasions Miss S repaid  her 
loans early and her borrowing pattern showed she was using the product as intended. It did 
offer to write  off Miss Ss outstanding balance to settle the complaint.
Miss S didnt accept  that offer and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN97705782the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Miss S could sustainably  repay her loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint. 
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Miss S. It asked Miss S for 
details of her income and normal  expenditure. And Sunny  carried out checks  on Miss Ss 
credit file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Sunny to give Miss S loans 1 to 5 on the 
basis of the information she gave about  her income  and outgoings. It was early in the 
lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Sunny to agree to lend. As 
Miss S hasnt raised  any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans 
one to five, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Miss Ss lending with Sunny to see if there  was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more 
money to Miss S.
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ss case, I agree with the conclusions  of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached  by loan six. I say this because:
When Miss S took out loan six, shed  been  borrowing  almost  continually and wasnt 
making any inroads  into the amount that she owed. This continued for the rest of the 
loans until Miss S was eventually unable to repay what  she had borrowed.
Although Miss S repaid loan 6 a few days after taking it out she asked to borrow  loan 7 
two weeks later and loan 5 was still outstanding. I think this pattern of lending  shouldve 
alerted Sunny  to the likelihood that Miss S was having  problems responsibly managing 
her money. Although Sunny suggests  this pattern shows the lending was affordable, I 
disagree and think  it is more likely to suggest  borrowing  from elsewhere.
Ref: DRN97705783I think that Miss S lost out because  Sunny  continued  to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards. This is because:
These loans had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Miss Ss indebtedness  by allowing her 
to take expensive credit  intended for short term use over an extended  period  of time.
The number  of loans, combined  with the total length of time Miss S had been borrowing 
from Sunny was likely  to have had negative implications on her ability  to access  
mainstream credit. This kept Miss S in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Miss Ss complaint about  loans 6 to 16.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
If Sunny has sold any outstanding  debts it should buy them back  before  taking  the steps 
below. If Sunny is not able to buy back the debt it should liaise  with the debt owner to 
achieve the result below.
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss S towards interest,  fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance, including  those made to 
a third party and not including  anything  it has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Miss S which 
were considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Miss S originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Miss S as though they had been  
repayments of the principal. If this results in Miss S having made overpayments  then 
these should be refunded  with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move 
to step "E".
D.If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Miss S. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then you should try to agree an affordable  repayment plan with 
Miss S.
E.The number of loans taken from loan six onwards  means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 to 16 should  be removed from 
Miss Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN97705784my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ss complaint in part and direct  Elevate Credit
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9770578