K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Foundation for Credit  Counselling (trading as Stepchange) didnt 
provide her with the service it should have, given her situation, and that it mismanaged  her 
debt management  plan (DMP).
background
Mrs D says that before the DMP was set up she kept her finances  separate  from her 
partners due to his controlling and abusive behaviour. She says that for a time she was 
unaware of the extent  of her partners debts  and that when he told her she was traumatised  
but started  to try to work out if they could afford the repayments. She says she spoke to a 
debt agency which she found very supportive and helpful. She says it said a DMP shouldnt 
be needed for her debts  as these were being  managed and that she should  keep  her 
finances separate from her partner. Mrs D says that she decided  not to use the services of 
the agency as she thought it better to use a free debt service.
Mrs D says that when she spoke to Stepchange  in March 2016  she wasnt  taking her 
medication and was suffering with depression. She says Stepchange made her feel judged  
and didnt try to understand her situation.  She says it gave  her no choice but to enter into a 
joint DMP with her partner. A joint DMP was set up which Mrs D says meant  £1,300 was 
being paid each month; with £1,000  going towards  her partners debts and £300 towards 
hers. 
Mrs D says she sought help and when she contacted Stepchange about her situation  it just 
offered to separate the DMP. She says she didnt want  to risk doing this for fear of her 
partners actions. 
Mrs D complains that Stepchange took away her rights to deal with her own debts and 
finances and failed to offer her advice  that was in her best interests.  She says that the DMP 
affected her credit file and that the management  of the DMP lead to further issues. She says 
that underpayments were  made to a creditor causing an impact on her credit file, while  other 
accounts were receiving more than the minimum amount,  which in turn led to interest being 
charged. Mrs D says she received a lump sum a few months  after starting the DMP which 
was sufficient to pay off her debts  but she wasnt allowed to do this. She also says that in 
last month  of the DMP, despite the alert regarding domestic abuse being on file and her 
saying she didnt want the DMP payment reimbursed, Stepchange did this following a 
request from her partner.  
Stepchange says that Mrs D first contacted it in April 2016 and that details of her income, 
expenditure and debts  were taken. It says she consented to doing a joint budget and so 
information was gathered  from her partner as well. It says that the initial  calls are no longer 
available but that Mrs D raised a complaint in January 2017 about  this issue  and it 
understood it had been resolved. It says it aims to recognise vulnerability  but it is reliant on 
clients explaining  their situation. It says that Mrs D made a further  complaint  in July 2017  
and it discussed  how to help her in more detail. It says that had Mrs D made it aware of her 
situation on the initial call then it might have recommended a single budget but at this time 
Mrs D didnt make it aware of her situation  and vulnerability.
In regard to the actions  taken, Stepchange says that as the DMP was a joint plan it can act 
of instructions from either party,  which was why the January payment was refunded at her 
partners request.
Ref: DRN92634422In regard to the management of payments, Stepchange says that it calculates repayments  
based on the original monthly contractual payments and for credit cards it uses 3% of the 
outstanding balance at the start of the plan. It says the payments to a credit card increased  
following a review of Mrs Ds budget and that Mrs D increased her DMP payment from July 
2017. It says there was also a slight increase in April 2017 following the repayment of a 
different debt. Stepchange says that all payments were made to Mrs Ds accounts in line 
with the usual process. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that parts  of it fell outside of our 
jurisdiction. He said he could consider  Mrs Ds complaint that she requested Stepchange to 
continue her DMP but then issued a refund on her husbands request. And Mrs Ds 
complaint about  her DMP being mismanaged because of how the monthly payments were  
set up. 
Our investigator said that the DMP was set up as a joint plan and that this happened before 
Stepchange was aware of any issues regarding  Mrs D and her husband. As it was a joint 
plan instructions could be made by either party; therefore Stepchange didnt do anything 
wrong by refunding the payment. He also noted  that Stepchange had offered Mrs D a 
separate DMP but this was declined and it had also offered some alternatives to assist 
Mrs D. In regard to the DMP being mismanaged, resulting in over payment  to one creditor  
and underpayments to another, he didnt think that the evidence  suggested  Stepchange  had 
done anything  wrong.
Mrs D didnt accept our investigators view. She said that from the outset one of her creditors 
was receiving more than the minimum amount  and that Stepchange didnt accept her 
requests to stop an underpayment to another creditor - which has caused long term damage 
to her credit file. She said that Stepchange  took little interest  in what happened  once the 
DMP had been  set up and when she was able she had to try to manage the situation  to 
minimise the damage.  She said she was told to have a joint account with her partner even 
after telling Stepchange  about his erratic spending  history. 
Mrs D reiterated that Stepchange failed to acknowledge that as an individual she didnt need 
a DMP. She said that Stepchange didnt treat her as an individual  or take on board her 
vulnerability and make reasonable adjustments. She said that Stepchange has had a 
dismissive attitude towards  her, failing to recognise  how it has put her at risk. She says she 
has been caused financial and emotional harm.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D has raised  a number of issues in regard to the joint DMP that was set up by 
Stepchange. She has explained  her situation prior to and at the time the DMP was set up 
and so I can understand how distressing  this issue has been for her.
In January 2017, Mrs D contacted Stepchange about receiving  a lump sum payment and 
wishing to pay off her debts that were in the DMP. At this time she was told that as she was 
in a joint plan this wasnt possible.  Mrs D said she was unhappy that she had been  linked  
with her partners debts and that she felt she could deal with her own debts and so shouldnt 
be on the DMP. The system notes provided  by Stepchange show that they considered this 
Ref: DRN92634423complaint closed on the same day. It is also said that a letter was sent out at this time. I have 
seen a copy of what Stepchange says would have been sent and this contains  referral rights 
and information  about the six-month  time limit.
Also in January  2017, Mrs D sent emails to Stepchange which suggested there  were  issues 
between her and her partner. Then in July 2017,  Mrs D contacted Stepchange to complain 
about the advice she was given regarding the joint DMP  and to say that her vulnerability 
wasnt addressed. At this time a note was added to the system regarding  Mrs Ds sensitive 
situation.
The system notes from this time again  show the complaint was resolved and closed 
although further conversations about  the issues took place. Again, following this complaint a 
summary letter was sent to Mrs D, which contained information about  what to do next and 
referral rights.
Mrs D didnt raise  her complaint with this service until February 2018. This was following 
receipt of a final response letter from Stepchange dated 23 January 2018. This letter 
covered the issue  Mrs D had raised  about being unhappy her circumstances werent 
recognised when she first made contact and that she thought  the joint DMP was 
inappropriate. It also addressed Mrs Ds complaint that Stepchange issued a refund at her 
husbands request  when  she didnt  want this to happen.
Mrs D didnt refer her initial two complaints to this service within the six month  timeframe. 
She has explained her situation and I note her comments about exceptional circumstances. 
Our investigator explained our jurisdiction and the six month time limit and Mrs D accepted 
this. 
That said the issues Mrs D raised  previously underpin the more recent concerns she has 
reported about actions taken on her account  and more recently  about  the management of 
the payments.  Therefore I have taken the relevant background  into consideration.
This decision addresses Mrs Ds complaint that a refund  was provided at her partners 
request when she didnt wish this to happen, and her complaint about  how the payments 
were managed in the DMP.
Given Mrs Ds circumstances, I can understand why she has raised concerns about a joint 
DMP being set up. I appreciate her comments that Stepchange should have identified her 
vulnerability and that another  debt service provider had been  able to do this. Mrs D raised 
this in July 2017 and then didnt refer it to this service. Therefore  I havent considered  this 
issue further. What I have considered is whether it was reasonable given  the information 
Stepchange had at the time that it acted on Mrs Ds partners instruction.
The DMP was joint and therefore it is reasonable that instructions can be taken from either 
party. I have looked  at the system notes provided and, while  there are markers regarding the 
information Mrs D has provided  about her situation,  I havent  seen anything that meant  
Stepchange shouldnt act on an instruction from her partner.
Mrs D has also raised concerns about  how the payments on her account were managed. 
Stepchange has explained that for credit cards  it uses  a standardised approach with the 
payment based  on the balance at the start of the DMP.  I have looked  at the information 
provided and can see this approach was applied for Mrs Ds payments. While I appreciate 
Ref: DRN92634424the comments made about this being more  than the minimum required payment, I do not find 
that Stepchange did anything wrong  in the approach it took. 
The payment amount  increased slightly in April 2017  and then again in July 2017. The April 
increase has been explained as another account  had been repaid the additional funds  were  
allocated to the remaining creditors. The July 2017  increase  was due to an increase  in the 
DMP payment. I do not find this unreasonable, however I note the comments  made by Mrs D 
about another of her account  being in arrears  (a loan account) and insufficient payment 
being made to this.
I have looked  at the loan account Mrs D is concerned about and can see that following the 
set-up of the DMP the full contractual payments werent being made. This is why the account  
was in arrears and this was recorded on her credit  file. However,  even if the increases 
applied to the above-mentioned credit card payment were instead  applied to the loan 
payments they still wouldnt have been sufficient to meet the contractual repayments. Based 
on the information I have seen, I do not find I have enough to say that Stepchange 
mismanaged the payments  in the DMP.
It is clear that Mrs D has been through a distressing time both emotionally  and financially 
and I understand  she feels Stepchange  could have done more  to help her. However, based 
on the evidence  I have seen, I do not find I have enough to uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019. 
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9263442