K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Airdrie Savings Bank  mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy Mr B took out with a loan in 1992.  He 
applied for the PPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Airdrie Savings  Bank disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint because it is not clear that Mr B consented to take it, 
knowing that he had a choice. This is because the application form shows that the PPI would 
be added  to the loan unless Mr B deselected  it. 
This means  that if Mr B took no action, PPI would be added  to his account..
While the application  form set out some  information  about the PPI and Mr B signed  to agree 
to the loan, it is not clear that Mr B was aware  of the PPI or that by not deselecting it, it 
would be added to his loan. So, I dont think the evidence  shows  that, on the balance of 
probabilities, Mr B was aware of the PPI, that he ought to have realised it was optional, or 
that he consented to buy it. So, I think it is likely that Mr B has lost out because  of the way 
the sale was conducted. 
Ive taken into account Airdrie Savings Banks comments, including what  it said about  what 
the adviser might have  said during  the sale, and that it wouldve been clear  to Mr B that he 
had a choice about buying  the PPI. But I still think I should uphold the complaint. There  is no 
evidence to show what was discussed  with Mr B, or that it was made clear to him the PPI 
was optional, or that he would have to take action in order to not take the PPI. 
putting things right
Mr B borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been. he 
paid more than he shouldve each month and it cost him more to repay the loan than it 
wouldve. So, Mr B needs to get back the extra hes paid.
So, Airdrie  Savings Bank should:
Work  out and pay Mr B the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid without PPI.  
If the loan was paid off early, work  out and pay Mr B the difference  between what  it 
cost to pay off the loan and what it would have cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
Ref: DRN93576492Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr B paid from when he paid it until he gets 
it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then 
on. 
If Mr B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Airdrie  Savings Bank can take 
off what he got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Airdrie Savings Bank to take off tax from this interest. 
Airdrie Savings Bank must  give Mr B a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Airdrie Savings Bank should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9357649