K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  the kitchen she acquired with the benefit of a fixed sum loan from Hitachi  
Capital (UK) Plc trading as Hitachi Personal Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
In October  2016 Miss G agreed  to acquire  a new kitchen  which  she financed by means of a 
fixed sum loan from Hitachi finance.  The kitchen was installed in December 2016 and signed 
off on the day on 21 December. Almost immediately after this, however, Miss G raised 
concerns with the retailer about the quality of the installation and that various  parts of the 
design hadnt been installed as planned.
The retailer  replaced  the kitchen in March  2017. At the same time the retailer asked Hitachi 
finance to delay starting the repayments until 23 March  .The retailer  also offered Miss G 
£400 for her out of pocket  expense and £100  compensation.  Miss G rejected this.
After the second  installation  Miss G continued  to experience issues with the kitchen. She felt 
the workmanship, design, quality and service  was poor and a breach of contract. She 
contacted Hitachi  finance in June  and it agreed to postpone her repayments  for July and 
August to see if the issues could be resolved. It also offered her £200 for the problems shed 
had.
Miss G doesnt consider  the compensation is enough. She says she should have been  able 
to reject the kitchen after the first installation and would  like to do so now. If thats not 
possible shes like the outstanding works  completed, a new warranty starting  from when this 
is done and a refund of the installation costs and her expenses.  In addition shes  unhappy  
the finance agreement was activated before all the problems had been resolved. Shed 
intended to pay it off before it began so this has cost her additional interest as well as being 
unfair. She feels it should now be cancelled and removed from her credit file.
Hitachi said the finance agreement was activated in line with the original agreement and felt 
this was reasonable. It had however agreed to postpone the first payment for two months to 
allow for the replacement  kitchen  to be installed and then agreed  to postpone two further 
payments in July and August as a result of the problems shed had. It said the retailer had 
agreed with Miss G to carry out a number of further repairs, which it felt would resolve the 
problem. It also credited her account with £200  compensation.  This was in addition to the 
£500 the retailer had also offered 
Our investigator said Miss G hadnt received exactly what  shed paid for and this amounted 
to a breach of contract. Shed seen the retailer had tried to fix the problems but that Miss G 
remained unhappy. And there were a number of problems still to be resolved, including 
repairs and adjustments  to the units and changes or errors with the design.  In addition Miss 
G was still seeking  compensation  for what had happened  as well as reimbursement of her 
out of pocket expenses.
While Hitachi  wasnt responsible for the customer service  issues  Miss G had had with the 
retailer she felt it could  have done  more to resolve the issues  when Miss G contacted  it in 
June 2017. She recommended  Hitachi arrange  to have  all defects and issues fixed by the 
retailer or another independent fitter within a reasonable time frame and also pay Miss G a 
further £200 making a total of £400  compensation. It should  also reimburse £114 paid by 
Ref: DRN93361782Miss G for an unused corner cupboard and refund any difference  in cost between the oval 
and square sink. This was all in addition to the refund already paid by the retailer.
my provisional findings
On 15 March 2019 I issued a provisional decision and said as follows:
In view of the disagreement  between Miss G and the retailer  as to the condition  of the 
kitchen, Id requested  an independent report. This identified ongoing problems with the 
design and installation. It said the kitchen  planning  and fitting was poor. There were also 
problems with the quality of some  of the items  installed. It addition  the existing layout of the 
kitchen, as well as the existing pipework, meant some  aspects  of the design  and layout 
wouldnt have been possible. This should have been identified  sooner.
The report  said there were a number of problems with the installation  that had affected  the 
appearance and quality of the kitchen. This included units  that werent  level, poorly aligned 
doors, uneven gaps between the units, panels, doors and walls and poorly  mitred  joints. It 
also said there was damage  to the sink and extractor. There  were also some panels that 
needed to be repaired as well as a number of mechanical and product issues that affected 
the quality of this kitchen  and its use.
It recommended the following repairs should be carried out:
Remove all items  from the kitchen.
Supply the following new items: sink base unit, 500mm wall unit, 150mm  wide wall 
infill,800mm wall unit, pull-out larder, 600mm bridging unit, decor panels, cornice, 
light pelmet, plinths, infills and worktops. Note:  it may be able to replace just the sink 
base panel, 800mm  wall unit mullion, bridging  unit end panels and pull-out left hand  
end panel instead  of the whole unit.
Re-install existing  base units with new sink unit, pull-out larder, new decor panel's  
infill panels and plinths, making sure they are set level.
Install new worktops making sure the mason mitres are clean,  tight and joints glued 
using appropriate  worktop bolts.
Re-install existing  wall units with new 500mm wall unit, bridging unit, 800mm wall 
unit, infill panels,  decor panels, cornice and light pelmet, making sure they are set 
level.
Supply and install new extractor hood.
Supply and fit new handles.
 Supply and fit new Blum  soft close hinges  for the 300mm and 450mm  wide wall units. 
Making sure that items are fitted level, doors and drawer  front adjusted  and aligned  with 
adjacent panels  and accessory  items are cut clean etc.
While I noted that Miss G felt she should be able to reject the kitchen, I didnt agree. Thered 
clearly been problems with the design and installation which had affected its use and 
enjoyment. These had been  present at the time of installation and on that basis  I was 
Ref: DRN93361783satisfied the kitchen hadnt been of satisfactory quality. It was only reasonable, therefore, 
that Hitachi finance should take steps  to put matters  right.
But the kitchen  had been in place since March 2017 and I didnt agree that, at this stage, it 
would be fair or proportionate to reject  it entirely.  If the repairs  itemised  in the report  were 
carried out then Miss G would have  a kitchen of the quality that she was entitled to expect.
I proposed that the findings  of the report should be accepted in full and that Hitachi  should  
now arrange to carry out the repairs by either the retailer or an appointed independent fitter 
within a reasonable time frame. Following completion of the repairs,  Hitachi finance should 
also arrange to have a further report carried out to ensure  all repairs have been completed 
adequately. In addition it should pay Miss G a further £200 compensation making a total 
award of £400  as well as reimbursing her £114  paid for the unused cupboard ordered and 
refunding Miss G any difference in the cost between  the oval and square sink.
Miss G disagreed and said in summary:
She hadnt signed to say she was happy with the installation  so felt the finance 
agreement shouldnt  have  been activated. She said the first payment had been taken 
on 23 March but this was only three days after the second installation  was 
completed. She felt this didnt fit with the retailers ten day cooling off period after 
completion of the installation.
The second installation still had items  that differed from the layout plan. She felt 
Hitachi should compensate her for this and for the fact the product was not as sold.
She hadnt been offered the chance  to reject the kitchen  after the first installation and 
felt this should be offered now.
She felt the compensation didnt  reflect the inconvenience shed had including the 
lack of a washing  machine  for three months and the extra time shed taken off from 
work. The retailer had offered  her £1,282.50 instead of any further repairs but she 
didnt feel this was sufficient. And the £400  previously  paid by the retailer  wasnt  
compensation but a refund of the cost of the van hire the cheque  fort his had now 
expired and she asked for it to be re-issued.
If the provisional decision was upheld she asked  for the cost of the repairs  to be 
deducted from the outstanding balance on the finance agreement.
Hitachi finance felt the independent  report hadnt  taken into account that the kitchen had 
been in use for the past two years and that not all the current issues were due to the way it 
had been installed. It noted  the retailer had offered Miss G £1,282.50 compensation instead 
of doing any further repairs but this had been  rejected. It didnt agree to offer anything more.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres no clear  information on any 
particular point or the information available is disputed as it is here on some  points, Ive 
made my decision on the balance of probabilities, in other words  whats  more  likely than not 
to have happened.
Ref: DRN93361784As the provider of the finance, Hitachi finance is responsible for ensuring that the kitchen 
provided to Miss G was of reasonable quality. If its not then its only reasonable that it take 
steps to put matters right. However there are limits to that responsibility  and that is that its 
only responsible  for the quality of the goods  or services provided at the point of sale and not 
for the customer service  issues  between  Miss G and the retailer.  
Its clear thereve been significant problems with the kitchen provided to Miss G and I can 
understand why shes disappointed and frustrated by whats  happened.  However having 
reviewed the information  again, together with the additional comments  from Miss G and 
Hitachi finance, I remain of the view that my provisional decision is fair as Ill now explain.
Activating the finance agreement:
Miss G signed the finance agreement on 30 October 2016 but it only became active once 
Hitachi finance was told the installation was complete and signed off.  In this case  the 
installation was completed on 21 December and signed off the same  day in a telephone call 
that evening. The retailer then used this to let Hitachi know  and the agreement was then 
activated on 23 December.
Ive seen Miss G changed her mind almost immediately after the installation and told the 
retailer about her concerns. But its clear Hitachi wasnt aware of this at the time and only 
became aware  when  the retailer contacted it in January to postpone the first payment date. 
In the circumstances I dont feel Hitachi finance was unreasonable in activating  the 
agreement when it did.
And the agreement remained in force even  though  the retailer  had agreed  to replace the 
kitchen. So although  Hitachi offered  to postpone the first payment  until 23 March, the 
agreement didnt need to be reactivated at this point as it had already come into force  in 
December.
Cooling off period
Ive seen Miss G says the agreement shouldnt have been activated until the ten day cooling 
off period offered by the retailer had passed.  But this cooling off period was part of the 
retailers warranty and as such not part of the terms and conditions  of the finance 
agreement. The finance agreement did offer a 14 day withdrawal period as part of its terms 
but Miss G didnt take up this option  so Im satisfied she was bound  by the agreement shed 
signed.
Rejecting the agreement ;
I can see Miss G feels she should have been  given  the option of rejecting the kitchen when 
she first complained in December 2016.  But Miss G didnt contact Hitachi until June 2017 so 
I cant reasonably say it was responsible for any information provided  by the retailer before 
then. 
Ive seen Miss G feels the kitchens  still not adequate even after the second  installation. But 
the kitchens been in place and in use for the past two years and I dont consider it would be 
reasonable for it to be rejected now. I remain of the view that the problems can be resolved 
by carrying out the repairs  recommended in the independent report  and that once this is 
done, the kitchen will be of the standard  Miss G was entitled to expect.  
Ref: DRN93361785Ive seen the retailer has made several  attempts to remedy the problems but without 
success. Its also clear Miss G has lost confidence in the retailer to put matters right. In the 
circumstances I consider its reasonable fro Hitachi finance to arrange  for an independent 
kitchen fitter to carry out her repairs.
Design not as ordered
Its clear the final installation is different in some respects  to the one originally ordered.  But I 
can see that before the second installation was agreed, the retailer  explained why some of 
the items  ordered  couldnt be provided and Miss G agreed to this. That doesnt  take away  
from the problems  Miss G has had but I cant agree Hitachi is responsible  for the fact the 
current layout is not entirely as was originally planned. However I consider its fair for Hitachi 
to refund Miss G for items  that have  either  been bought as part of the original installation but 
not then used. For that reason Ill be directing it to refund  £114  for the cost of the corner  
cupboard and to identify  the difference in cost between the sink ordered and the one 
installed and refund the difference to Miss G.
Ive seen Miss G feels the compensation isnt sufficient  to reject the inconvenience and 
upset shes had. I explained in my provisional  decision why I didnt feel that Hitachi  finance 
was responsible for the time shed taken off to oversee the second  installation or for the 
inconvenience caused by having the kitchen replaced. Ive taken Miss Gs additional 
comments on this into account but I wont be asking Hitachi  to refund these costs. Ive seen 
the second kitchen was available  for installation in early February 2017 but unfortunately it 
took some  time to agree  a convenient date.  In the end it was March before  it was done but I 
can' reasonably say Hitachi finance  was responsible for this.
However its clear that the first kitchen  was poorly  designed and poorly installed. As the 
provider of the finance Hitachi finance is responsible for this and for that reason Ill be asking 
it to compensate Miss G for the inconvenience and upset caused by this. Hitachi finance  has 
already paid Miss G £200 but, as my provisional decision explained, I dont consider thats 
sufficient and for that reason Ive decided this should be increased to £400.In addition it must 
arrange at its own expense for an independent kitchen fitter to undertake the repairs  set out 
in the independent  report and then arrange  a further  inspection  to ensure the kitchen is now 
working as it should.
Miss G has asked  for the cost of the repairs to be calculated and then deducted from the 
outstanding balance on her finance  agreement.  However Hitachi  is responsible  to ensure the 
quality of the kitchen was satisfactory so I think its appropriate for it to ensure the necessary 
repairs are carried out rather than to simply deduct the potential cost from the outstanding 
balance.
Finally I note Miss G has said the cheque  for £400  sent by the retailer in 2017  has now 
expired and needs to be re-issued. This was an agreement between  Miss G and the retailer 
which was outside  of the finance agreement. As such I cant ask Hitachi  finance  to make the 
payment or to direct  the retailer to re-issue the cheque.  Miss G will need to contact the 
retailer to ask it to reissue the cheque but thats outside of this decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Gs complaint. I direct  Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to:
Ref: DRN93361786arrange to have all defects and issues identified in the independent report fixed by an 
appointed independent fitter within a reasonable time frame.
following completion of the repairs, to have  a further report carried out to ensure all 
repairs have been completed adequately;
pay a further £200  compensation to Miss G making a total award of £400,
reimburse £114 paid for the unused  cupboard  ordered and refund any difference in 
cost between the oval and square sink.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9336178