K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold  her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs W bought the policy  in 2002 at the same  as taking out a credit card.  She applied  for the 
credit card and PPI policy in branch. 
At the time,  Mrs W was employed as a lecturer. She has told us she was entitled to statutory 
sick pay and, didnt  have  any other  means of repaying her credit card should she be unable 
to work. Mrs W has said she had a medical  condition at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for life, critical illness, accident, sickness,  and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 10% of Mrs Ws credit  card 
balance in the event of a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment and 
would repay  the outstanding balance of the card for claims  for life and critical illness.  At the 
time, it cost 78p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. The premium would continue  
to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  interest. 
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the credit card account closed in February 
2008.
Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ws representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs W wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ws 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mrs W about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs W and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and 
The information Mrs W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue; 
Ref: DRN91813382Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in February  2008. That means the unfair  relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgement in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgement, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN91813383The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ws 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional  advisers to 
give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of 
good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mrs W sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs W suffered  loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs W and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN91813384did Mrs W know  she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Ive seen a copy  of the credit card application  form which was completed during the 
meeting Mrs W had in branch and a printed cross has been placed in the box next to the 
credit card repayment insurance  the name used by Halifax  for PPI. Whilst the cross has 
been printed on the form,  I think  its likely  this answer  would have reflected the 
conversation she had with Halifax in the meeting. Mrs W has signed and dated the form 
which suggests she agreed with everything that had been entered. Ive noted that another  
box for a different  product  has been left blank  which  would indicate that Mrs W made a 
choice not to take out that product  but decided to take out the PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs W knew  the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it did provide advice during this sale. Mrs W has said she couldnt remember if 
she received advice or not. Looking at what Halifax says happened when it sold the PPI, I 
think that it did provide  advice. 
This means  Halifax had to advise Mrs W with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs W. It seems  Mrs W cant remember clearly what happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some limited  information about 
Mrs Ws financial circumstances, but there is no specific  evidence to show the adviser  took 
steps to establish whether Mrs W would have been caught by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Halifax  considered  whether Mrs W had any pre-existing medical  
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that Halifax did all it should  have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs W given her circumstances.  So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs W, I do think  its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs W had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs Ws ability to continue to 
meet her credit card repayments would  have been put under strain if she wasnt 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the sick pay she says she 
would have been entitled to.
Ref: DRN91813385-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs W.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs W. There 
was nothing about Mrs Ws employment  or occupation  which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mrs W has told us 
she had suffered from asthma before the sale. But based on what  she has told us 
about this condition, I dont think this would  have made the policy unsuitable.  
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Mrs Ws 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs W was given a very broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mrs W would have been  told this  at the very least   during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mrs W would  have taken out the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was. The application form she signed also described  
the policy as Credit Card  Repayments Cover, which  would have given her some  idea of 
what the policy was for.
Im also satisfied Mrs W would have realised the policy  wasnt free and its likely  she would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Halifax  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mrs W 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary 
Mrs W might  have been given, I think its more likely than not that she based  her decision on 
the things she was told, rather than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs W Im not persuaded Halifax  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mrs W. Im not persuaded that Halifax gave Mrs W all of the information 
she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
Ref: DRN91813386PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ws representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mrs W? To what extent  did Mrs W 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs W. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs W 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs W 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Halifax done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Halifax took the steps it should have done  to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mrs W, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs W has suffered  loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mrs W would  have acted differently, or whether she would have taken  out the policy  in any 
event.
Mrs W says she would not have  taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. I have considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs W had some interest  in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised her that there  was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her credit card payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
Ref: DRN91813387wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs W ought reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that Halifax didnt make clear  the on-going cost information. So while  Mrs W 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not 
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs W thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and/or symptoms for which  
Mrs W received  advice or treatment during the 12 month  period prior to the start date 
of the policy  which  recur within 12 months  of the start date.  It also excluded any 
chronic or continuing disease that Mrs W was aware of at the start date which  recurs 
within 12 months of that date;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs W 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs W be unable to 
do her own job, or other  work which her experience  or training would allow  her  to  do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mrs W pause  for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the 
policy wasnt as good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs W from taking out 
the policy. 
The evidence about Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mrs W says she had a medical  condition  when 
the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt  have  provided cover  had she needed time off 
work because of this condition, I dont think better  information about this exclusion would 
have put her off agreeing to it. I say this because from what  Mrs W has told us this condition 
was controlled and she hadnt  needed to take any time off work in the year prior to the sale 
of the policy. So I dont think Mrs W would  have thought she would have been off work (for 
more than the 15 day period required by the policy)  and need  to claim because of it.
Im aware that Mrs W has also told us about  some other injuries  and conditions  she has 
suffered from - but these all appear to have occurred after the date of the sale. So these 
wouldnt have been affected by the limitation  to the policy surrounding conditions already in 
existence.
Ref: DRN91813388And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs W might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to 
Mrs W from taking  out the policy, Mrs W, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons  
to take out it out.
If Mrs W had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job 
and any other work which in the insurers view her experience or training would allow  her to 
do, it might  have played into her thinking  about  what she would have  done.  And I accept it 
may have  given her pause for thought   although  its possible she may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Mrs W was unable (through  disability) to carry on her own occupation 
the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs W would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently  close to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her statutory  entitlement. And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Mrs Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs W would  not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs W 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN91813389Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs W in the position she would have  been  in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mrs W compensation, as that would put her 
in a better position  than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs W thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mrs W, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2002 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ws representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs W and about the remedy  
a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax had been  in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs W in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9181338