K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) irresponsibly lent her money  and gave 
her credit.
background
Mrs A says NewDay  shouldnt have allowed her to open a credit  card account. If itd checked 
her credit record  it wouldve  seen she already had other borrowings, an overdraft and she 
used short term lenders. Its lending wasnt affordable. It also shouldnt have increased her 
credit limit every few months. She says she was struggling financially and NewDay made her 
financial position worse.  She wants a refund  of charges and interest  and her credit file 
amended.
NewDay said in its final response that its accounts are designed to assist customers  in 
building or improving a credit  profile. It doesnt carry out an income search to determine if a 
customer can afford the card repayments. Its affordability check  is based on the income 
information given  in the application. Its process is to offer credit limit increases at regular 
intervals if the account is well maintained. The customer  can contact it if the proposed  
increases arent wanted. But Mrs A didnt do so. It hasnt made an error and no refunds can 
be made.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
When Mrs A first applied for the credit card NewDay conducted  proportional 
affordability and credit  searches. Its also a second  chance lender and allows  for 
some negative  information on credit report as its designed to help customers  with a 
lower credit  rating.  When the card was applied for there was a minimal  amount of 
negative information  on Mrs As credit file.
Mrs As credit  file at the times  when  credit limit increases were offered, shows  
NewDay carried out sufficient credit scoring  for the increases offered to February 
2015. Its checks were proportionate and Mrs A was within her credit limit and hadnt 
missed any payments. The letters it sent to her also gave her the option of declining 
the credit  limit increases. But she didnt do so. It also wasnt  aware of the repayment 
plans shed entered into and didnt receive  some information  from the credit 
reference agency. 
Mrs A doesnt agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. She says NewDay didnt ask 
her for any more information  about her financial  position before increasing her credit  limit. It 
didnt ask if she was in financial difficulties. She couldnt refuse the credit limit increases due 
to her situation. NewDay shouldve checked her financial position. Other  lenders did and 
didnt increase their credit  limits.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its up to NewDay to decide who it deals with and gives credit  to. Thats  a matter of it making  
a commercial decision which we wouldnt normally  interfere with. But wed expect  it to carry 
out proportionate checks before doing so.
Ref: DRN93848322Here NewDay  says it considered what Mrs A had said in her application together  with 
information from credit reference agencies. I think  this was proportionate and appropriate.  
What was asked  after that and the lending criteria used to assess  Mrs As credit limit from 
time to time are matters for NewDay to decide upon. But it appears to have considered the 
conduct of her account and relied on information  it was given by credit  reference agencies.
It may well be that this information was limited and not totally comprehensive. And Mrs A 
hadnt told it of her financial difficulties or of any repayment plans shed entered into. But it 
was reasonable  for NewDay to rely on the information it had available from time to time. And 
I dont think it acted  wrongly by offering Mrs A increases in her credit limit as it did.
Furthermore it also made clear that Mrs A could  decline  the credit  limits offered. I understand 
Mrs A says she wasnt in a position to decline the increases  but she couldve nevertheless  
contacted NewDay  to tell it of her financial difficulties  and any repayment plans she had 
entered into. Had she done I agree with the investigator that it appears likely NewDay  
wouldnt have offered the last few credit limit increases. But as Mrs A didnt contact NewDay 
or tell it of her financial situation I dont think it was wrong of it to allow  them to take effect. In 
addition Mrs A wasnt obliged to use her card up to the new credit limits if she thought she 
couldnt later afford to pay the money  back.
Taking everything into account,  although  I sympathise with the position Mrs A has found 
herself in, I dont think NewDays done  anything  wrong. And I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably ask it to refund anything to Mrs A or amend her credit file, as shed like.
Overall I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9384832