K821x#15complaint
Ms D complains about the cash settlement offered  to her by U K Insurance  Limited (UKI) for 
four items of jewellery  following her home  insurance claim for theft after a break in at her flat. 
background
Ms D was a victim  of a burglary in September 2018 during which cash and jewellery were 
stolen from her home whilst she was present. She made a claim to UKI under the contents 
section of her home insurance policy. The claim was accepted. UKI appointed its valuation 
experts to value the items of jewellery that were stolen. Settlement for most  items was 
agreed however,  there was a dispute between Ms D and UKI about  four of the items which 
she believed  had been undervalued. When UKI didnt change its mind  about the settlement 
itd offered Ms D for these  items, she made a complaint. 
UKI looked into Ms Ds complaint and issued  its final response letter in February 2019. It 
said it had based  the settlement offered on the information shed provided it with. It said itd 
also considered  information that shed recently  sent in about the items, but its own expert 
valuers hadnt been able to increase the values  because  that information  (a valuation) had 
been based on the price of European  gold which was different from the Asian gold of the 
four stolen items.  So UKI said its offer to settle  the four items at a total of £7,320  was 
unchanged. UKI said it would consider an Asian  jewellery valuation  should Ms D be able to 
produce one. 
Ms D sent UKI an email from the high-end jeweller  who had valued her jewellery  in 2014 and 
in 2000. The email said that if presented with Asian  jewellery to value  then it would value it 
as such. UKIs valuers wrote to Ms D again to say itd based it valuations  on the descriptions 
and photographs shed  provided in line with UKIs  guidelines on how to value such  claims on 
its behalf. It said that, in the absence of any further  documentation compiled before the loss, 
its values were based on pieces of average  quality. It said it would only alter its values upon  
receipt of pre-loss documentary evidence should  Ms D have any to provide. 
Unhappy with the outcome of UKIs investigation into her complaint, Ms D complained  to this 
service. Our investigator looked into Ms Ds complaint  and initially felt it shouldnt  be upheld  
 he said the valuations Ms D had provided  were on-line valuations so the jeweller hadnt 
actually seen the items Ms D was asking him to value. 
Ms D disagreed with our investigators  findings  and said that she had actually taken the 
jewellery to the jeweller for inspection when obtaining the 2000 valuation. She said it had 
been able to weigh the items and test the gold before valuing it. On reconsidering  the 2000 
valuation, our investigator noted the detailed description for each item included weight, 
length, width etc. from which he understood the valuation would need to be based  on actual 
sight of the jewellery.  
Our investigator agreed that the 2014  valuation, from the same  jeweller, was to update the 
2000 valuation.  He said that as the jeweller had recently confirmed it would value  Asian gold 
as such if presented with it, UKI should  reconsider it valuations based on the two valuations 
Ms D had provided. He also thought UKI should pay Ms D compensation of £150 for the 
trouble and upset  caused by the way itd handled her claim. 
UKI disagreed with our investigators  findings. It said that whilst it wouldnt disagree  that the 
two valuations provided by a registered valuer  were likely to be correct, it thought that non-
Ref: DRN93166342Asian jewellers may value Asian jewellery differently. It supplied guidance notes to set out 
how Asian jewellery is valued by weight and which explained that jewellers that didnt 
specialise in Asian  jewellery may need  to make an allowance when doing so for the purpose  
of their own profit margins.  It said non-Asian  jewellers dont typically offer 22ct gold jewellery  
as part of their ranges,  so consequently their quoted costs  could  be much higher. It said that 
whilst the valuations werent incorrect, they were  based on what  it would cost that jeweller to 
replace the items in question after applying a mark-up. So UKI said the values quoted 
werent necessarily replacement values in wider  market. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The four items of jewellery (using the same  numbering  as UKIs loss list) in dispute are: 
2. Asian  Earrings   22ct gold with emerald and ruby. UKI settlement - £1,720
4. Asian  Ring  22ct gold pearl  ladies  ring. UKI settlement - £700
5. Asian  Bangle   22ct gold lira bangle  with 5 lira coins. UKI settlement - £3,000
6. Asian  Coin  22ct gold sovereign coin. UKI settlement £1,900
Total settlement  offered  by UKI for all four items  is £7,320.
Its a condition of Ms Ds policy that when making a claim she must give UKI any information 
and evidence it asks for including  proof of ownership  or value of lost or damaged  items. 
Ms D took her jewellery to a high-end jeweller  in 2000 and paid for it to be valued (it cost her 
£256.38). The document  states  it is an Appraisal for Insurance Replacement. The four 
items now in dispute appear on the valuation  (by my reckoning the corresponding numbers 
on the document are: 30, 31, 10 and 5) and were also photographed by the jeweller. 
In 2014, Ms D asked  the jeweller to update  the values which it did. Ms D sent both 
valuations to UKI along with an email shed had from the jeweller by way of validation of the 
items lost. 
The email  from the valuing jeweller  said the valuations we use [X] Valuations, have  advised  
that there  is a difference between European  and Asian Jewellery valuations, however, if they 
are presented with Asian jewellery  they will automatically provide  the correct  valuation type 
for this jewellery style on their certification.
So Im satisfied that Ms D had the jewellery valued  twice, that the four items in dispute  
appear on those valuations and that the valuing jeweller valued the items on the basis  they 
were Asian pieces. 
I have to decide now whether UKI treated Ms D unreasonably and unfairly by declining  
reconsider the settlement  offered for these four items based on the information shed 
provided it with. I have to say that I think it has. 
UKI initially declined  to reconsider the settlement itd offered for these four items  on the 
grounds that Ms Ds valuations were based on the pieces being European gold. My 
Ref: DRN93166343understanding is theres a difference in quality (and therefore, value) between European and 
Asian gold.  
But I dont think this was a reasonable approach for UKI to take. UKI has said theres no 
mention on the valuation  that the pieces are Asian gold. Nor is there any mention  that I can 
see of them  being  made of European  gold. And given the carat  of each of the pieces is 22ct,  
which UKI has said isnt a weight/type typically used by European jewellers,  then a 
reasonable inference is these pieces must be of Asian origin  and that the valuer knew that to 
be the case. 
And the valuing jeweller is a very reputable one and has based its valuation of actual 
inspection of the items in question. The jeweller has said that if presented  with Asian  
jewellery it would value it as such.  So I cant reasonably discount  Ms Ds valuations.  They  
were provided by a reputable jeweller  who had actually seen, weighed and photographed 
the pieces, before valuing them.  
UKI has recently said that it agrees that valuations carried  out by a registered valuer such  as 
the jeweller used  by Ms D were likely to be correct. It has also said that Asian  jewellery is 
valued on a weight basis. That would appear to be the case  here as I can see the valuing 
jeweller weighed  the items and documented the weight.  
UKI also:
provided some information about how non-Asian jewellers would look to value  items  of 
jewellery should they be asked to do so;
referred to the same  information which said that jewellers that specialise in non-Asian 
jewellery may need to add a mark-up  for the purpose of their own profit margins;
said that this could result in valuations by European jewellers who dont offer 22ct gold 
as part of their range  being significantly higher those from a jeweller who specialised in 
such jewellery;
said that whilst Ms Ds valuations werent  incorrect they were based on what  it would 
cost the valuing  jeweller to replace  the items  after the relevant mark-up was applied  
meaning the valuations might  not necessarily reflect the replacement values in the wider 
market. 
Ive thought about all the points UKI makes above but they havent  persuaded me that its 
reasonably declined to reconsider the values of the four disputed items based  on the 
information Ms D has provided. Thats because the jeweller who carried out the valuations is 
both reputable and a Registered Valuer. And it has said that it values Asian jewellery as its 
presented. UKIs points  are general ones rather than specific  to the valuations  Ms D had 
done. Ive seen no evidence that her valuing jeweller  has marked-up the items in question  or 
inflated the values just because they are made  of a type of gold it may not typically  stock. 
UKI dismissed the information Ms D provided as an estimate  to replace from a retail 
jewellery store. But thats not what the valuations were. Ms D paid to have her jewellery 
valued. It was an Appraisal  for insurance  replacement. UKI asked Ms D to provide it with 
any documentary information she had about the pre-loss values of these items and shes  
done that. I dont  think  its fair for UKI to now dismiss that information.   
So I think that UKI treated Ms D unfairly  by declining to reconsider the values of the items  
when she provided  it with the valuations. And I think it has put Ms D to some inconvenience 
(by having to repeatedly challenge what UKI said)  and upset in the way its handled her 
claim for which I think it should pay her compensation of £150. 
Ref: DRN93166344my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance  Limited to reconsider 
the settlement  amount to be paid to Ms D for the four disputed  items of jewellery by using 
the valuations  provided by her. I also require  it to pay Ms D compensation of £150 for the 
trouble and upset  its handling of the claim caused her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9316634