K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide  Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI)  with three  different loans.
background
In 1998 Mr W took out a loan with PPI. But both were sold by another  business,  so this 
doesnt form part of this complaint.
In 1999 Mr W took out a further loan. This loan included a single premium PPI policy  where 
the cost was added to the loan upfront. That cost was just over £1,000 adding around £25 a 
month to Mr Ws overall loan repayment. Due to the passage of time Nationwide  cannot say 
how the sale took place  whether by phone or in-branch for example.
In 2000 Mr W took out another loan  again  with a single premium PPI policy. Because  the 
loan was bigger  and for a longer term than before, the cost of PPI was a little over £2,000 
adding around  £35 a month to Mr Ws loan repayment. This was a sale by phone.
For both policies the PPI would  pay out an amount equal to the loan repayment in the event 
Mr W couldnt work because of accident,  sickness  or unemployment. And it would do so for 
up to 12 months for unemployment and for the remaining term of the loan for accident / 
sickness.
Both policies  offered  a pro-rata  refund  if they were cancelled early  before the end of the loan 
term.
Nationwide has provided records  to show that the last loan ended  in 2008.
I issued my provisional decision in April in which I said I didnt think Mr W had lost out to the 
extent that he should  get back everything he paid for PPI. But that he will get back some of 
the cost of PPI for his last loan. In summary my reasoning was:
Nationwide made it clear Mr W had a choice about PPI because  the agreements set 
out the cost of PPI separately from the principal loan amounts, setting out the PPI 
premium, the interest charged on the premium, the total PPI cost as well as the 
monthly cost. And the section was headed  Optional Credit Insurance. 
Nationwide didnt  provide advice or make a recommendation  it provided information 
only so Mr W could decide  if PPI was right for him.
Nationwide didnt  likely do everything it was supposed to do  it didnt give Mr W all 
of the information about  PPI he needed  in a clear  and timely manner.
But Mr W hadnt lost out as a result  because the policies werent fundamentally 
wrong for him given his circumstances  at the times of sale;  the cost was made clear; 
he wasnt affected by the significant  exclusions and limitations  of cover;  and the 
policies provided  for pro-rata refunds so he hadnt lost out as a result of repaying a 
loan and cancelling the PPI early.
Mr W will get back some of the cost of PPI for his last loan because Nationwide  got a 
high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Mr W about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr W, that was 
unfair.
Nationwides offer to pay back the amount of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium was fair in this case.
Ref: DRN91752602Both parties  replied to my provisional  decision saying  they had nothing  more they wished to 
add.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party has given me anything new to consider, I see no reason to depart  
from my reasoning and overall conclusion as set out in my provisional decision.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr W the extra he paid each month because the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI for the last loan. Nationwide 
should also pay Mr W 8%* simple interest on each payment (15%  on payments before 
April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that Mr W has not suffered loss as a 
result of taking out PPI with his loans to the extent that he should get back everything he 
paid for PPI.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium in relation to the last loan  if its not 
already done so. I make no other award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9175260