K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains as a director of S, a limited company, that Society  of Lloyds (Lloyds) was 
wrong to decline  an insurance claim for the theft of cash  in transit.
background
On 20 December 2017 $113k  was stolen from one of S cars.
$61.5k was recovered. Therefore Mr R submitted a claim to Lloyds for the loss of $51.5k on 
S behalf.
Lloyds declined the claim on the grounds  that despite carrying  in excess  of $100k  only one 
armed person was engaged by S to accompany  the cash in transit  rather  than the required 
two.
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that Lloyds had 
done nothing wrong in declining the claim. 
Mr R didnt agree and so the complaint has been  passed to me for review  and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
S policy contains the following:
2.3 SPECIAL  CONDITIONS
The following Special Conditions apply to this 
Certificate section:
2.3.1 where the amount of Cash in Transit exceeds
$50,000, You have one armed  person or two
Unarmed persons engaged by You to
accompany the Cash in Transit.
2.3.2 where the amount of Cash in Transit exceeds
$100,000,  You have  two armed persons
engaged by You to Accompany the Cash in 
Transit.
In its initial  submission to our service Mr R said:
S didnt  anticipate collecting and carrying (on the day in question) more  than $100k
S was carrying two to three times the normal amount of cash because it was just 
before Christmas.
S only intended to carry the amount that it was (at the time of the theft)  for an hour or 
so.
Ref: DRN92952522And in response  to the investigators  view, not upholding  the complaint,  Mr R said:
S anticipated it might collect and carry (on the day in question) more than normal  
and made changes because of this. Had it not made these changes it would have 
been carrying (on the day in question) substantially  more  than the amount it was.
S put on more guards.
S wasnt aware of the amount it had collected  and was carrying  until after the theft 
and the police report and insurance claim were made.
The amount  being  carried would not have been known to the thieves and therefore 
had no bearing  on their decision to carry out the theft.
Had two armed persons been accompanying  the cash  they wouldnt have been with 
the car at the time of the robbery, so wouldnt have prevented  it from happening.
Mr R doesnt dispute he was aware of the special term in the policy  that Lloyds relied on in 
declining S claim. Furthermore, its my understanding that such  clauses arent uncommon in 
polices of this type.  So all Im required to decide  in this case  is whether Lloyds was entitled 
to rely on the clause  it did in declining the claim.
First I think its worth  noting  that I find it difficult to reconcile the first two points  made by Mr R 
in response to the investigators view with the first point he made when initially  submitting the 
complaint to our service. I say this because  S couldnt have anticipated  collecting and 
carrying more than $100k whilst at the same  time not anticipating  doing  so. 
Secondly I think its important to note that the policy here is a commercial one, and not a 
personal one.
I can see that on the policy proposal form Mr R confirmed that S might carry in excess of 
$200k once a week and up to $150k more routinely. So Im satisfied that S could have  
reasonably concluded, on the day in question (particularly given its proximity to Christmas), 
that there  was a real risk it would  be carrying  in excess of $100k and that two armed  persons 
would need to be engaged. Or in the absence of two armed  persons being engaged, no 
cover for the theft of cash in transit  would  be available to it under the policy.
Now I accept I cant say for certain that the engagement  of two armed persons would have 
prevented what happened. I also accept that the thieves might  not have been  aware  as to 
how much  cash  was being carried. But the fact remains that Lloyds didnt want to insure the 
carriage of more  than $100k by S if two armed guards werent engaged by it. And as I say 
above, Mr R doesnt  dispute that he was aware  of Lloyds view in this respect. So I dont 
think it would  be either fair or reasonable for me to direct Lloyds to pay this claim just 
because two armed guards might  not have prevented the theft or that the thieves might have 
been unaware of how much  cash was in transit.
I accept that $51.5k  is a large sum of money for S to have lost, and that this loss might  have 
further consequences for S. But for the reasons Ive given above I find that Lloyds hasnt  
acted incorrectly in declining S claim.
Ref: DRN92952523my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service Im required to ask Mr R, on behalf  of 
S, to accept or reject  my decision before 3 February 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9295252