K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
February 2020. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold most of the complaint.  
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Mr M has said he 
has nothing further  to add. Mr Lender has provided  us with some  additional  comments. 
Although I am only summarising here what Mr Lender has said,  I have considered its entire  
response carefully before writing this decision.
Mr Lender has said that it accepts my findings  in relation to loans 1, 2 and 6. But it doesnt 
agree with what Ive decided  about the other  loans. Mr Lender has pointed out that before 
many of the other  loans there were gaps in Mr Ms borrowing. Whilst it accepts that some  of 
these gaps might not have been enough to constitute a new chain of lending, it thinks they 
do show that Mr M wasnt dependent on its lending. And it points out that the amounts Mr M 
borrowed on loans 3 and 4 were less than the preceding loan hed successfully repaid. And 
it says that the checks it did, both in terms of Mr Ms disposable income,  and the checks of 
his credit file, didnt suggest any evidence of financial difficulties.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ive not been  
persuaded that I should change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. But 
I would like to comment on the additional points raised by Mr Lender.
I think that the repayment problems Mr M faced on his first two loans were  significant. So 
from that point onwards  I think Mr Lender needed to take great care to ensure that those 
problems had been addressed by Mr M before it lent to him again. So that means that the 
checks I would expect  the lender to have performed would be far more detailed  than for a 
similar request  from a consumer who hadnt displayed these issues.
I think that means that any break  in lending would need to be far longer than we might  
ordinarily expect before  the lender could have any confidence that a consumer had put their 
previous problems behind them. So I dont think the gaps  here,  of four months and later 
31 days would have  been enough for that confidence to reasonably arise.
I havent seen  any evidence that Mr M ever got on top of his finances.  And so I dont  think 
Mr Lender would have  seen that either if it had probed deeper into Mr Ms situation. By this 
stage I dont think it was a case of just checking  whether the loans were  affordable  on a 
pounds and pence basis  I think there needed  to be a far deeper understanding of the 
sustainability of Mr Ms finances and whether further lending  could be repaid from his 
disposable income without needing to seek borrowing from elsewhere.
Ref: DRN93518772I think the evidence  of financial difficulties was shown very clearly  at the time of the first two 
loans. So by the time of loan three I think Mr Lender needed to find clear evidence those 
difficulties had been resolved  not be looking at similar information to before that showed  
Mr Ms finances to be in a healthy  state.
In reaching my decision I have considered the variations in the amounts that Mr M borrowed 
from Mr Lender. Those variations might  be an indication  of an improving financial situation.  
But I dont think,  with the possible  exception  of loan 4, that they could be considered to be 
anything other than significant  levels of borrowing. 
So I still dont think Mr Lender should have agreed to lend to Mr M after, and including, the 
fourth rollover of loan 1. Mr Lender  needs to pay Mr M some  compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Mr Lender should have agreed  to lend to Mr M after,  and including,  the fourth 
rollover to loan 1 that he was given  in September 2013. So from that date Mr Lender should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr M on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to loans 1 to 4.
The number of loans  taken before loan 5 means  any information recorded  about loans 5 
and 6 is adverse.  So all entries  about loans 5 and 6 should  be removed from Mr Ms 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold most of Mr Ms complaint and direct  PDL Finance Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN93518773EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender) lent to him in an irresponsible 
manner.
background
Mr M was given six loans by Mr Lender. The first four loans were repayable in one or two payments 
over the following weeks. The last two loans were repayable in six monthly instalments. Mr M wasnt 
able to repay  his first two loans  when hed originally agreed so he needed to defer  his repayments by 
paying some  additional interest. He deferred his repayment  six times on loan 1 and twice on loan 2. 
But all Mr Ms loans from Mr Lender have now been fully repaid and a summary of his borrowing is as 
follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateLoan 
Amount 
1 09/05/2013 29/11/2013 £     500
2 31/01/2014 02/04/2014 £     700
3 15/08/2014 22/08/2014 £     600
4 22/09/2014 25/09/2014 £     200
5 06/10/2014 25/03/2015 £  1,000
6 09/04/2015 12/06/2015 £  1,000
Mr Ms complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt  think that Mr Lender 
should have agreed to give any of the loans to Mr M. So she asked Mr Lender to pay Mr M some 
compensation.
Mr Lender didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint hasnt  been resolved informally, it 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Mr M could repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should  fairly and reasonably have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN93518774the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish whether 
Mr M could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue  difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Mr Lender did some  checks before it lent to Mr M. Before the first two loans it asked him for details of 
his income. And before  the last four loans  it supplemented this information by also asking  Mr M for 
details of his normal expenditure. And Mr Lender gathered some information from Mr Ms credit file 
before agreeing each of the loans.
Generally, the information  a consumer might see, when they request a copy of their credit file, might 
be very different  to that seen by a lender.  A lender  might only see a small portion  of the credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. Ive looked at the 
results Mr Lender received  from its credit checks. Those results dont  show anything that I think  
should have caused additional concerns to the lender.
I dont think it was sufficient for Mr Lender to base its lending decision on loan 1 simply on the amount 
of income Mr M had declared.  The repayment he needed to make on that loan was substantial. The 
income Mr M declared  did mitigate  that repayment amount to some degree, and I have also noted 
that the credit agreement  allowed Mr M to just make an interest  payment in the first month before 
repaying the principal  hed borrowed the following  month. But on balance I think Mr Lender should 
have done more  checks.
I think  the checks that would have been proportionate here would have been similar  to those  that 
Mr Lender did before  agreeing the later loans. And Ive no reason to think  that Mr M wouldnt have 
given similar estimates of his disposable income  if Mr Lender had asked for that information  before 
agreeing the first loan. So given  what Mr M needed to repay, what was apparent  about  his 
circumstances at the time, and that this was his first loan from the lender,  I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask him for the amount of information  that would be needed to 
show the lending  was unsustainable before agreeing  the loan.
As I said earlier Mr M wasnt able to repay this loan as planned and so he rolled  it over on six 
separate occasions. I think Mr M needing to repeatedly defer his repayment should have been a clear 
signal to Mr Lender  that he was having serious problems managing his money. Indeed, good industry 
practice at the time suggested that three rollovers should be the maximum  that was allowed  given the 
clear link between repeated rollovers and financial  difficulties. So I think  Mr Lender should  have 
limited the number of times Mr M was allowed to rollover this loan to three.
Ref: DRN93518775Around two months after finally repaying loan 1, Mr M asked to borrow again. And the amount he 
asked to borrow increased  significantly  and without the deferred repayment he originally  enjoyed on 
the first loan. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr Lender  could have reasonably concluded that 
Mr Ms financial circumstances  had improved  and so he would be in a better place  to afford an even 
larger repayment. So I dont  think Mr Lender should have given Mr M this loan, or any of the 
subsequent loans, either.
I have noted that there was a gap of just over four months between  Mr M repaying loan 2 and asking  
to borrow again. But Ive also seen that Mr M needed to defer his repayment  on loan 2 twice. So 
considering what had gone  before I dont  think  a gap of four months  was sufficient  for Mr Lender to 
conclude that whatever financial problems  Mr M had previously faced  had been successfully resolved.
And I think that the overall pattern of Mr Ms borrowing history with Mr Lender should  have led the 
lender to reasonably  conclude that, by the time of loan 5, any further  lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful.  And so Mr Lender should have realised that it shouldnt  provide further loans for 
that reason too.
By that time Mr M had been borrowing from Mr Lender  for almost 17 months. He was making  no 
inroads into the amount  he was borrowing  loans  5 and 6 were  by far the largest  loans hed taken  
from the lender.  And the gaps between the loans were  also decreasing  I think that Mr Lender should  
have seen this as a sign that Mr M was most likely having  significant problems managing  his money 
and that he was having  to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loans  was leaving in 
his finances. It should have been clear that Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
I think  that Mr M lost out because these  loans  had the effect of unfairly prolonging  his indebtedness 
by allowing him to take expensive credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time. 
The number of loans  Mr M had taken, and the length of time hed been borrowing from Mr Lender,  
was likely  to have  had negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept 
him in the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So I dont currently think Mr Lender  should  have  agreed to lend to Mr M after, and including, the fourth 
rollover of loan 1. Mr Lender  needs to pay Mr M some compensation.
Ref: DRN9351877