K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains that Santander UK Plc withdrew  her overdraft  facility  in 2019.
background
In February 2019  Santander wrote to Ms D to tell her it would be removing her overdraft 
facility in about seven weeks time. She complained about this, as she had already brought a 
complaint against  Santander about  something  else, and she felt that Santander  was seeking 
to punish her for it.
Santander told our investigator that this had probably happened either because Ms D hadnt  
used the overdraft for 12 months, or because a routine review had uncovered negative 
information on her credit  file.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that the account terms and conditions 
said that Santander could withdraw  the overdraft, and he thought  this was a decision 
Santander was entitled to make.
Ms D asked for an ombudsman to review her case.  She maintained that Santander  was 
punishing her for bringing her original complaint.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute  that Santanders terms and conditions allow it to withdraw an overdraft 
facility, and that Santander gave  Ms D sufficient notice of its decision. Rather, Ms Ds 
concern is that Santander may not have been  acting with proper motives.  So I have focused 
on that aspect. However, I have  seen no evidence to suggest that Santander has acted in 
bad faith. I think Santanders explanation is plausible, because  I know  that Ms D has an 
account with another  bank, and in 2018  that account  was sent to a collections agency  and 
then defaulted.  So once that was recorded  on her credit file, Santander would have known  
about it, and taken it into consideration at the next review of her account.
It is unfortunate that the decision to withdraw  the overdraft came only four months  after Ms D 
originally complained to Santander, which is what gave  rise to her suspicions.  But while 
I dont think the timing is a coincidence,  I dont think it is sinister either. Ms D has also 
complained to her other bank as well, and the two complaints  are related, in that they both 
relate to an account  switch from one bank to the other. Ms D first learned  about the alleged 
issue with the account switch when  she began receiving messages from the collections 
agency. So she complained to both banks about  it, and meanwhile the default was being 
reported on her credit  file. So the thing which prompted Ms D to complain to the banks (an 
account going to collections) is the same thing  which led to Santander withdrawing her 
overdraft. Its not just because she complained to Santander. Rather,  the complaint and the 
withdrawal of the overdraft both stem  from the same cause.
(I have already  explained to Ms D why this Service does not have jurisdiction  to consider her 
complaint about  the account  switch.)
Ref: DRN94638912my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9463891