K822xcomplaint
Mr E is unhappy with the service Santander UK Plc has provided following fraudulent 
transactions on his current account. 
background 
Mr E is registered blind, although he can read large font. He uses a debit card with a PIN, 
and online banking. In addition to his sight impairment, Mr E has health  problems which  
make visiting  branches difficult for him. He lives with family members who are also in poor 
health. So he cannot rely on them for support, plus he values his independence. 
This complaint follows on from a previous  one about reasonable adjustments  to the way 
Santander communicates with Mr E and the way it provides him with account statements. 
While those issues are linked theyre  dealt with in a separate decision so are not specifically 
addressed here.
Mr E buys  things  through a popular  online  trading platform (the online platform),  making  
payments via a system linked to his debit card. Since late 2018  hes disputed several 
transactions, describing them  as fraudulent. To process each dispute, Santander requires 
him to sign a disclaimer form. Such forms generally enable the business to re-debit the 
transaction to the account if it later turns out to be genuine. Mr E has raised multiple 
disputes, so has been sent several forms. But Santander can only produce them in standard 
font which Mr E cannot read. Santander insists  he signs the forms - if he doesnt  they wont 
be able to dispute the transactions. But Mr E is uncomfortable not understanding  what  hes 
signing. 
Mr E says hes been told by the online platform that Santander has blocked his debit cards 
to stop his access. But Santander has told him it hasnt  done that, and the online platform  
wont put its position in writing.  So Mr Es being passed back and forth.  To ensure he speaks 
to someone who fully understands his circumstances and contact  preferences, Santander 
has given Mr E the direct contact details of a member of staff in its executive office. But if 
shes unavailable, Mr E phones Santanders  general  customer services  number.  This can 
result in changes being  made which have unintended consequences and things go wrong 
with his account. All of which Mr E says makes him very frustrated and anxious.
 
Our investigator got involved in this complaint at an early stage, and didnt think it was 
reasonable for Santander to expect  Mr E to complete  forms he cant  read. She thought  
Santander wasnt complying with its duty to make reasonable adjustments  in respect  of 
Mr Es disability  by not sending them  in size 16 font.  She  recognised Mr E would find it 
difficult to open  an account elsewhere as he doesnt  have the required identification 
documents, and he needs the account to receive his benefit payments. As he doesnt have 
anyone to assist  him, online banking is essential. 
Hes understandably  anxious about fraudulent  transactions on his account. So overall, she 
didnt think Santanders  approach was fair.
But our investigator didnt think it was likely Santander blocked his card, as hed been  able to 
use it in the supermarket.  And she recognised it had tried to help Mr E by providing him with 
a dedicated point of contact. To recognise  his inconvenience she recommended it pay him 
£700 for the distress hed been  caused.
Ref: DRN94991312Santander agreed to pay the compensation and confirmed it hadnt  blocked Mr Es card.  It 
asked for evidence from Mr E about  the information  he said the online platform had about 
Santander blocking some  payments,  which  our investigator thought was reasonable. Mr E 
says the online platform refused  and may now close his trading account  due to the level of 
disputed transactions,  but our investigator didnt think Santander  was responsible  for that.
Mr E isnt satisfied with the level of compensation. So its come to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by our investigator. Let me explain  why.
Im sure Mr Es sight impairment makes his life very difficult at times. And I respect his right 
to privacy over his financial affairs and his reluctance  to rely on others  to assist him. So he 
requires Santander  to make reasonable adjustments to enable  him to access its services. 
Im aware Santander has made what I think are reasonable adjustments by sending  
correspondence and statements in large  font or audio CD. But I dont think its fair or 
reasonable for Santander to say it can only produce a fraud disclaimer  form in normal  size 
print, knowing Mr E can only read size 16 or larger, and doesnt use a magnifier. 
I dont have the power to direct Santander  to change its processes,  but like all businesses, 
Santander has a duty under the Equality  Act to ensure disabled customers arent 
disadvantaged in the way services are delivered. Insisting Mr E signs  forms he cant  read or 
understand, or denying him the opportunity to dispute a transaction  unless  he does so, is 
treating him less favourably than customers  without  a sight impairment. And I consider  this 
to be unfair.  I assume the disclaimer forms are pre-printed rather  than in a format  where  the 
font size can be manipulated. But Santanders  obliged to come  up with a reasonable solution 
for Mr E. This may mean creating a document containing all the right information in a font 
large enough for Mr E (and other  sight impaired customers) to read. Or, as I understand 
Santander has subsequently decided to do, take Mr Es verbal  declaration in a recorded 
telephone call. I think this is a fair alternative, but this couldve been offered sooner 
preventing a significant degree of anxiety  and frustration that Mr E has felt over this process.  
So I think the £700 compensation recommended by our investigator  is fair in these 
circumstances.
I think Santander has been fair by providing Mr E with a named point of contact, with a 
colleague if shes not available. I appreciate its frustrating if Mr E cant  speak to them 
straight away. But such arrangements can only work effectively if both parties abide by it. So 
this may mean Mr E has to at times, leave a message if his nominated contact is not 
available, rather than immediately calling the general number. As doing so can result in 
consequences for Mr Es account, which then take time to put right. I think Santander has 
acted fairly  in this regard.  
I dont doubt Mr Es having problems using the online platform  but Ive seen nothing  which  
suggests these  have been  caused  by Santander  blocking  his debit card as hes suggested. 
This is because hes been  able to use it successfully elsewhere so on balance,  I dont  think 
the card is actually blocked. And I think its reasonable  for Santander  to require further  
evidence from Mr E about this.  So based  on the evidence Ive seen so far, if the online 
platform has taken steps to limit his trading  due to the number of transactions  hes disputed  
thats not something I can hold Santander responsible  for. 
Ref: DRN94991313So overall, while I appreciate Mr E may be disappointed with my decision,  for the reasons 
Ive outlined above Im not going to award any additional compensation. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint,  but I make no award other  than the £700  Santander  UK Plc has 
already paid.
If it requires  Mr E to sign a disclaimer form it should  make reasonable adjustments  to ensure 
its in a format he can either read or verbally  understand and agree to.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9499131