K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains about delays by Mapfre Asistencia,  Compania Internacional De Seguros  y 
Reaseguros, S.A. in paying a claim under her travel  insurance policy.
background
Mrs P holds a travel  insurance  policy, underwritten by Mapfre.
Unfortunately, while  on holiday  in America, Mrs P was admitted to hospital. Mrs P gave the
hospital her insurance  details. But, due to what seems to have been an error  by the hospital,
Mrs P was billed for treatment.
Mrs P began the process of making  a claim with Mapfre for the costs involved in June 2017.
In June 2018, Mrs P complained to this service because the medical bills still hadnt been
paid and she was concerned about  the impact  on her credit  rating  in America.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He recommended  that Mapfre  should  write 
a letter  to Mrs P confirming that it was responsible for the bills, and setting out details of what  
had and hadnt been paid.  He also recommended that Mapfre  should pay Mrs P £75 
compensation for the way it had handled her claim.
Mrs P indicated she agreed to our investigators proposals. But Mapfre didnt agree  it said 
one bill had been  paid in February 2018,  one bill had been  written off in June 2018 and it 
was chasing the provider  for details of a third bill. Mapfre said it had explained to Mrs P how 
the American billing system works, and it wouldnt repeatedly update consumers with the 
same information during  what can be a lengthy process.
Mapfre subsequently offered  to write  to Mrs P letting her know which bills had been settled 
and which  were still outstanding, and to pay £50 compensation for the way the claim had 
been handled. Our investigator put this offer to Mrs P but she asked  for an ombudsmans  
review, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
When I reviewed  the complaint file, I saw that Mrs P had provided  us with evidence  that 
shed paid the third bill of $132  herself  in March 2018. I contacted Mapfre, who said it 
reimbursed Mrs P when it became aware  of this in July 2018. 
I sent my provisional decision about Mrs Ps complaint in January 2019.  In it, I said;
Based on the information Ive seen,  one bill was withdrawn, Mapfre  paid one bill in February
2018 and Mapfre  says it reimbursed Mrs P for the third bill in July 2018. In any event, Mapfre  
has now offered to write to Mrs P confirming  what has been paid and what (if anything) is still 
outstanding  and I think its right that Mapfre should do this.
The remaining  issue  for me to decide is whether I think  Mapfre  handled this claim 
appropriately. And, if it didnt, what level of payment I think  fairly  compensates Mrs P for the 
impact of Mapfres actions on her.
It does seem the initial error here was on the part of the hospital. So, Ive thought  about  what 
happened from when  Mrs P first presented the claim to Mapfre in June 2017.
Ref: DRN91576602Ive seen correspondence between Mrs P and Mapfre throughout June 2017, July 2017 and 
August 2017 about the claims  process and payment of the excess.
In late August 2017, Mapfre  wrote to Mrs P and said she should forward  any bills or chasers  
she received to it unanswered. This is something  Id have  expected  Mapfre to do.
Mapfre wrote to Mrs P again  in late September 2017 to confirm  cover had been agreed and 
explaining how the American billing system works.  Mapfre  again  said that all bills received 
should be forwarded to it, and said the latest  bill Mrs P had sent was being  dealt  with 
accordingly.
I can understand that Mrs P will have  been anxious to have  the bills paid as soon as 
possible. But the September 2017  correspondence  from Mapfre  explained that claims for 
medical expenses  in America can take longer to finalise than expenses  from other  countries  
and that there was little it could do to prevent Mrs P being sent chasing letters.  In my 
experience of dealing with these  types  of complaints, this is generally correct.
I can see Mrs P sent Mapfre further invoices  towards the end of October 2017, and Mapfre  
acknowledged these.  Mapfre  provided a further update to Mrs P in November 2017, after
Mrs P contacted it. Mapfre again said that American invoices can take longer to process  and 
explained that the bills had not yet been  paid.
Ive seen information on Mapfres file which shows it was in correspondence with the agents 
it uses to arrange  negotiation and payment  of bills like these in October 2017, January 2018 
and March 2018  and theres also undated correspondence with its agents  in the 
information Mapfre has sent. So, Im satisfied it was taking  reasonable steps  to deal with the 
bills during this time.
Contact between Mapfre and Mrs P wasnt as regular after November 2017. But there  was 
little new information  Mapfre  could have given Mrs P, and I think  Mapfre  had already clearly 
set out its position  in some detail in the email of late September 2017.
Having said that, I think it would have been  helpful for Mapfre  to have updated Mrs P when 
the first bill was paid in February 2018  and when the second bill was withdrawn in June
2018.
There was clearly some confusion surrounding the payment of the third bill  as Mapfre says 
it was chasing  the provider but Mrs P had already  paid the bill directly herself. However,  it 
seems Mapfre  wasnt made aware of this until July 2018.
Overall, I think Mapfre handled the claim in a reasonable way up until February 2018  but I 
think after this point  it could have done  more  to communicate with Mrs P about what  was 
happening.
I can understand Mrs P will have been frustrated by what happened. And its difficult  to put a 
value on this. But, overall, I think the offer to pay £50 compensation which  Mapfre  has now 
made is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
If Mrs Ps credit rating in America has been  affected  by this situation,  this is something shell 
need to take up with the medical  providers and credit reference agencies  directly.
Ref: DRN91576603So, my provisional decision was that Mapfres offer to write to Mrs P confirming  the position 
with the bills and to pay £50 compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Both Mrs P and Mapfre accepted my provisional  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information nor made any additional comments, I see 
no reason to change  my provisional findings.   
my final decision
My final decision is that the offer Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. have  made, to write to Mrs P confirming the position with the bills and to 
pay £50 compensation, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.  
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9157660