K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  declined his home  insurance claim unfairly.
background
Mr R holds a home  insurance policy with Aviva.  He submitted a contents claim on 
19 July 2018 as he damaged his television when it was dropped on the floor. However,  
Aviva declined the claim due to inconsistencies  relating to how the damage occurred, as well 
as the extent of the damage. They were also concerned that Mr R was unable  to 
substantiate his ownership of the television with any evidence. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt consider Aviva to have  acted 
unreasonably in declining the claim due to some  of the damage  being inconsistent with the 
television being dropped. The investigator  also did not think there was enough evidence to 
substantiate Mr Rs ownership  of the television  either.  Mr R disagreed, so the matter has 
been passed to me to determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
Having considered the evidence available, it does appear there are a number  of 
inconsistencies in relation  to the damage  and how it occurred:
When Mr R first reported the damage, he said the screen had shattered  but it later 
transpired that the screen was only cracked. 
On the same call, which was made  an hour after the damage had occurred, he said 
he had dropped his side of the television while carrying it with a friend, but in a 
subsequent call with Aviva he said he fell on it. When questioned why he did not 
mention this initially, he said he could not remember.  
The engineer  who inspected the television reported that there was evidence of an 
existing fault (a faulty power  supply) that was not consistent with the accident. 
The account given  by Mr Rs friend  differed in certain aspects  to the account initially  
given by Mr R.
In order for me to say that Aviva ought  to have paid the claim, I would have to be satisfied 
that they were  provided with an accurate enough account of how the loss occurred. But in 
light of the inconsistencies listed above, I dont think theyve acted unreasonably in declining 
the claim.  For example, it would appear unlikely that Mr R would initially forget falling  on the 
television when he first reported the loss, as he reported it less than one hour after the 
accident occurred.  And the fact that a faulty power  supply was also identified  by the engineer  
also undermines Mr Rs version  of events, as this fault/damage was also not consistent with 
the incident reported. 
In any event  even if there were no inconsistencies  present   I do not think there  is enough 
evidence to substantiate Mr Rs ownership  of the television in the first place, or to prove how 
much he purchased it for. 
The policy terms and conditions state: 
Ref: DRN98323242You are responsible for proving  any loss. So we may ask you to provide receipts, 
valuations, photographs,  instruction booklets, guarantee cards and any other  relevant  
information, documents and assistance we may require to resolve  your claim.
However, Mr R was unable to provide any of the items listed  above, as he says the 
television was purchased second  hand  from a friend. I appreciate  this may well have been 
the case, but when there is such little contemporaneous evidence  available to substantiate  
his ownership, I dont consider it unreasonable for Aviva  to have declined the claim on this 
basis either. 
Mr R has also said he is unhappy that Aviva have since destroyed  his television. I havent 
seen any evidence relating to this, but equally I cant see that this is something that formed 
the basis of his original  complaint, or that Aviva  have had the chance to respond  to it. So I 
will not be able to comment on this within my decision, and Mr R will need to raise  this as a 
separate complaint with Aviva  to give them the chance to investigate the matter  and provide  
a final response.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9832324