K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains Creation  Financial Services Limited  called him an excessive amount of 
times in relation  to a finance  agreement he had with it.
background
In 2016 Mr W took out a finance agreement with Creation, which  he paid each month  by 
Direct Debit. However, the Direct  Debit instruction due in April 2017  was returned unpaid.  
Mr W says Creation began calling him excessively, with 82 calls in the first half of 
August 2017 alone. He says he didnt answer  the first few calls but when he did start 
answering, he heard an automated message. Mr W says he tried calling Creation but 
couldnt get through to a person, and the calls continued. He says he started rejecting the 
calls because they were  intrusive and inconvenient.  Mr W paid the balance  of his account  on 
18 August 2017  and he says the calls stopped at this point.
Later in August 2017 Mr W called Creation to complain about the excessive calls. Creation 
posted its final response letter to Mr W in March 2018. But it had incorrectly addressed the 
letter, and Mr W says he didnt receive it. In March 2019 Mr W contacted Creation for an 
update on his complaint, and it emailed him a copy of the final response it had posted. 
In that final response, Creation rejected Mr Ws complaint. It said it couldnt confirm  how 
many times it had called  Mr W, as it only held records for six months after an account in 
arrears was brought up to date. And that the time it had taken to investigate  Mr Ws 
complaint meant its records  were  no longer available.  But Creation explained it can call each 
of the telephone numbers  it holds for a customer up to three times a day. It said that as it 
held Mr Ws mobile  number  twice  on its system,  it had potentially called him up to six times a 
day. Because of this, Creation said it would refund Mr W the £30 fee it had charged him in 
April 2017 for the unpaid  Direct Debit.
Mr W didnt think  this was right so he asked our service to investigate.  He said that while  he 
no longer had screenshots hed taken  of the calls at the time, and his mobile phone  provider 
could no longer provide details of the calls, he did have a screenshot of a spreadsheet hed 
made at the time about the calls. And he said that when he called Creation on 
24 August 2017  hed given it detailed information  about the calls.  For its part, Creation 
provided more information  about the calls in the form of a system extract from Mr Ws 
account, amongst  other evidence. But it didnt provide any call recordings.
Our investigator thought that while the evidence available was limited,  Mr W wouldnt have 
pursued things for so long if he hadnt  had so many calls. So he gave Mr W the benefit of the 
doubt and asked Creation  to pay him a further  £50 in addition to the £30 it had already paid. 
Creation disagreed because it said the system extract it had provided showed it hadnt  called 
Mr W more than three times per day, which was the call limit it was entitled  to. It said that in 
signing the finance agreement, Mr W agreed to be called if his account  went into arrears.
I issued my provisional decision on 12 July 2019,  in which I said as follows.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold it. I realise this will be a disappointment  to Mr W so Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN92872832Before I do, I acknowledge its possible further  evidence might have been available to our 
service if Creation had investigated Mr Ws complaint  sooner  or correctly addressed its final 
response. However, I dont think this complaint was a pressing issue  for Mr W as it seems 
he didnt chase things  up with Creation until more than eighteen months  after he first 
complained. So its not something Im intending  to award compensation for. 
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, Creation was calling Mr W because his account  was in 
arrears. I dont  think Creation was unreasonable to let Mr W know about that, as it might 
have had significant implications for his credit record. Ive not seen anything  to suggest 
Mr W told Creation  he didnt  want  to be called. And Creation is entitled  to take reasonable 
steps to obtain  money owed to it.
The key issue here is the number of calls, with Mr W and Creation giving different versions 
of events about that. Mr W says Creation called him excessively, peaking at 82 times in the 
first half of August 2017. To support this, hes provided a screenshot of a spreadsheet he 
made at that time. For its part, Creation says it didnt call Mr W more  than the three times a 
day it was entitled  to. To support this, its provided  a system extract which suggests it called 
him a total of 38 times  between  May and August 2017.
Where each party gives a different  version  of events  and theres  limited  evidence, I need to 
consider the evidence I do have and make a decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, 
what I think is more likely  to have happened. 
Im minded  to think Creations version  of events is more likely, on balance. I say that 
because its system extract gives detailed information about  the calls it made to Mr W, 
including dates, times and what other activity was happening on Mr Ws account  around this 
time. While I dont  doubt Mr Ws sincerity, his spreadsheet contains  very little detail  its 
essentially a count of the calls he says he received between 2 and 18 August 2017.  And this 
isnt enough for me to be able say Creations system extract  is incorrect. 
As Ive said,  the system extract suggests Creation called Mr W 38 times between May and 
August 2017.  It also suggests that days and sometimes weeks  would pass without calls but 
that at other times one, two or three calls were made each day. Where three calls were 
made, they were made at exactly  the same time, suggesting Creation had attempted  to 
make one call on one occasion that was for some  reason unsuccessful - perhaps because  
Mr W had rejected it, as hes explained he often did - rather than trying to call Mr W on three  
different occasions  at different times of the same day.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Creation called Mr W an excessive amount of 
times. I note Creation  has already paid Mr W £30 compensation, and Im not intending to ask 
it to do anything further.
Neither Mr W nor Creation provided  any comments on my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr W and Creation havent  provided any further comments  or evidence, I see no reason 
to change my decision.
Ref: DRN92872833my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and also above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9287283