K822xcomplaint
Ms H complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI)  failing to arrange her annual  
service, and the potentially severe consequences  of that. 
background 
Ms H has home emergency  insurance  with BGI which covers her for an annual service  and 
repairs to her gas boiler. Shes had this insurance  for a number of years. She said that BGI 
had previously rung her to book an annual service in September.  But it didnt in 2017. 
Ms H said that she contacted BGI in October, to say that she wanted to book the service, 
and to express concern that her smoke alarm was going off intermittently.  BGI asked some  
questions about  the smoke  alarm, and suggested that might  be a problem with the battery. It 
booked her an appointment for early  January.  
Ms H rang again in December. Shed been  feeling  ill for some time, and BGI passed  her 
through to an emergency service. That service attended, and declared the boiler  
immediately dangerous. The gas supply to the house was capped until repairs  could be 
done. 
Ms H said that her boiler  had become dangerous, and she didnt think this wouldve 
happened if BGI had done the annual service  earlier. She expected a service  once a year,  
and said it shouldve been done  in September.
BGI said that it offers to do a service during each year of cover. It isnt necessarily going to 
be done exactly a year after the last service. So it didnt think that it had made  a mistake by 
not booking the service  for Ms H for September. It knew  shed tried to ring again,  to see if 
she could get an earlier appointment, and it was sorry it hadnt  been able to provide that for 
her. 
BGI didnt  agree  that the lack of a service on the one year anniversary of the last service 
was necessarily linked to the problems shed then had with her boiler.  BGI said that a 
service wouldnt guarantee that she wouldnt have issues with the boiler after that. And it 
said that if shed  been smelling gas or if shed  been concerned about carbon monoxide, then 
it would  expect her to contact it straight away.
BGI also said that it hadnt been  able to get to her any sooner, once her gas was shut off. It 
had been very busy at the time, so it said it was sorry  that shed had to wait a short while  
before an engineer could attend.  It had told her on 23 December that her boiler was beyond  
repair. Further work that was done  after this wasnt covered by Ms Hs insurance  with BGI. 
BGI offered Ms H £80 in compensation,  which included £30 for the delay in responding to 
her complaint. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that he agreed  that if a service for 
Ms Hs boiler  had been arranged earlier, then the breakdown mightve been anticipated. But 
he broke his consideration of this complaint down into two parts, whether BGI had an 
obligation to arrange the annual service earlier, and whether  it handled the boiler breakdown  
in a reasonable way. 
Ref: DRN98364992Our investigator said that he thought  it was reasonable for BGI to attend once during the 
year of cover. He thought  that fit with the terms of Ms Hs policy. So he didnt think  that BGI 
had an obligation  to arrange to service Ms Hs boiler earlier. 
Our investigator also said that he thought  that it wasnt unreasonable  for Ms H to have to 
wait two days for an appointment for repairs after her gas had been shut off. He said that 
although Ms H didnt have heat or hot water, the situation was safe, and Ms H was given the 
earliest appointment available. BGI then told her that her boiler couldnt be repaired, and she 
decided to ask the heating installation  firm which is part of the same group as BGI to install  a 
new boiler. That work isnt covered by her insurance  contract so our service cant  consider a 
complaint about  how long that took.
Our investigator said that the compensation that BGI had paid was a reasonable outcome to 
this complaint. He didnt  think it had to do any more. 
Ms H didnt agree with that. She said that she thought BGI should be providing an annual 
service, for operational and particularly safety reasons. She said its website referred to the 
need for a regular  service. She said that if BGI was allowed to delay well beyond the service 
anniversary date the service would become irregular, and sometimes  dangerous. She said 
that BGI had been proactive in the past in getting  in touch to schedule  that service.  She 
thought it had a responsibility to do that, not to pass that responsibility on to its customers to 
schedule their own services online. 
Our investigator asked  BGI when it wouldve contacted Ms H about her annual  service. BGI 
said that it wouldve  contacted her before  her service year was up. 
Our investigator wrote to Ms H to say that one service  in every year of insurance cover  could  
be considered  regular. He said that he appreciated that this might  mean  there could be 
almost 24 months between servicing,  but that would be rare. He said that BGI had told us 
that it wouldve  contacted Ms H during  her year of cover if she hadnt contacted it. 
Ms H still didnt agree. She said that the industry standard  is a regular annual service,  and 
this wasnt provided  to her. That put her health and life at risk. Ms H said that shed still 
received no valid explanation for the deterioration in BGIs service since  2016,  and she had 
no reassurance that long delays to the servicing  date would be eliminated in future. Ms H 
said that she wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so this case was 
passed to me for a final decision. 
Ms H also asked whether  BGI was aware  of the manufacturers recommendations for the 
servicing of her boiler, and if it had complied in full with those requirements after 2016. BGI 
said that the manufacturer said the service should  be done at regular intervals, and only 
recommend annual servicing dependant  on usage  and the quality of installation.  
BGI also sent us evidence  that Ms Hs boiler  had been serviced  in September or October of 
each year for the previous  years of cover. Ms H said that this proved her point, BGI had put 
safety first in preceding years and ensured that there was a service once a year.  But in 2017 
it had downgraded the safety considerations. Ms H said that BGI knew her boiler  was an 
older model  and it needed regular servicing  to keep it safe. 
This case then came  to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN98364993my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same conclusion  on this 
complaint as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ms H rang BGI in late October  to book in an annual service. BGI wasnt  able to carry out that 
service for some months. It booked her an appointment in early January.  
Ms H says that BGI has always previously contacted her to book the service for some  time 
around September. And she considers that her boiler should be given  an annual service.  
She doesnt think that BGI should  be allowed just to arrange that service at some time during 
the year of cover. 
I recognise that Ms H had problems with her boiler, and that it was shut down in order to 
make it safe.  I think that if her service had been carried out in September,  its likely that 
these issues would  have  been spotted  then. I can therefore quite understand why she feels  
so strongly that this service shouldve been done  earlier than it was. And I can see that Ms H 
has previously had each  one of her service appointments made within  less than a year of the 
one before, so I understand  why her expectation was set that an annual service meant a 
service within  a year of the last one. 
But I have to set that against the terms of the contract that she has with BGI. And those 
terms are, I think, also consistent with the interpretation that BGI has given us, that its 
promised it will carry out a service  at some time during the year of cover,  but not when  it will 
do that. So I dont  think that I can decide  in this case that BGI has breached the terms of its 
agreement with Ms H. 
I know that Ms H regards this as a safety issue. But I havent seen anything that suggests to 
me that a service interval of a year or less was a requirement for Ms Hs boiler. And Ive 
already said that I dont  think  thats  actually what BGI had agreed to provide.  
For those reasons, I dont  think  that I can fairly  uphold Ms Hs complaint on this point. 
Ms H also complained about the delay in getting  to her property after the gas was shut off. I 
know that BGI wasnt able to come out straight away, and that this left Ms H without heat or 
hot water  for a couple  of days before BGI could check whether her boiler could  be repaired. 
Im also aware that this was over winter,  and Ms H had recently  been  unwell, probably as a 
result of problems with the boiler.  But BGI told us that it was very busy  at that time, and it 
had given Ms H the first available  appointment. I dont think  that its unreasonable for BGI to 
take a couple of days to get someone  out to see if a repair could be done.  
I know that it wasnt actually possible to repair the boiler, and that it then took some  time to 
get a new boiler  fitted. But I dont think that I can consider this delay as part of Ms Hs 
complaint. The work  to fit a new boiler wasnt done  as part of Ms Hs insurance contract. It 
was done by a separate  organisation within the same group as BGI, and our service  doesnt 
have any powers to consider complaints about this installation. 
Ive considered what Ms H has said carefully. I know that she will be disappointed by my 
decision, but I dont think her complaint  should be upheld.
Ref: DRN98364994my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9836499