K820x#14complaint
Ms N complains that the vehicle she acquired through a hire purchase agreement  financed 
by Blue Motor Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory  quality. She wants it to pay towards the 
repair costs shes incurred.
background
Ms N tells she acquired the vehicle at the end of June 2018 through a dealer Ill refer to as 
Q. Since  then she says shes had numerous issues  with the vehicle and has had to pay 
over £1,000 in repair costs. The items shes had to pay for include tyres;  battery; blocked 
diesel particulate  filter (DPF); brake pads and discs and brake  callipers. She doesnt think  
the vehicle was properly serviced  before it was supplied  to her. And she wants  BMFL to pay 
towards the costs  shes incurred.
BMFL said the issues raised  by Ms N were  wear and tear items for which it wasnt  
responsible.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 February  2020.  I said I intended to 
partly uphold the complaint. And that I thought BMFL should refund the cost of brake  
callipers in the sum of £180.  Ms N hasnt replied  to my provisional  decision. BMFL replied 
saying it didnt accept  my decision and that brake  callipers could  be affected by worn brake 
pads. As no new information  has been provided  I see no reason to change my provisional 
decision which is largely repeated in my final decision as set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Ms N has experienced problems with this vehicle. And I understand shes  
disappointed with having incurred additional  expense so soon after she acquired  it. 
Unfortunately, with used  vehicles  problems  are more likely  to occur and thats whats  
happened here.
Ms Ns hire purchase agreement is a regulated  consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. BMFL supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act 
2015 (CRA). This states that in order to conform to contract goods have to be of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. And satisfactory  quality is defined  as being what  a reasonable 
person would consider to be satisfactory  having regard for issues which can include but are 
not limited to the age of the goods  and previous use. It also includes an element of durability.
Ref: DRN98639772All motor  vehicles require routine maintenance and certain components will require replacing  
during the lifetime of a vehicle. Typically  brakes, battery and tyres  will require replacing  more 
than once but the intervals when this will be required is subject  to many variable factors. 
These include but are not limited to the mileage; manner of driving; loads carried  by the 
vehicle and the terrain on which it is driven. And from the information with which  Ive been 
supplied most of the issues experienced by Ms Ns vehicle appear  to fall into the wear  and 
tear category.  And as this vehicle was four years  old with over 30,000 miles covered when 
she acquired it, I dont think its unexpected  that some components might be nearing the end 
of their serviceable life.
Where I think Ms N has justifiable cause to complain is over the brake callipers. These  are 
an item which might reasonably be expected  to last the lifetime of the vehicle. Ive seen a 
diagnosis from an approved manufacturers agent which shows the nearside front calliper  
was seized and resulted  in an MOT failure.  As this issue  was identified within six months of 
supply, in December  2018, its presumed  - unless its shown otherwise - that the fault was 
present at the point of supply. BMFL hasnt provided  any information to contradict this so I 
think it should pay for the necessary repairs which Ms N had carried out. The cost amounts 
to £180 (non VAT) including fitting.
In summary,  most of the items which Ms N has referred to are serviceable items  which  
routinely require periodic  replacement.  And apart from the brake callipers these are costs 
which a consumer should expect to meet. So whist Im upholding this complaint, I do so only 
to the partial extent  that Ive indicated.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint but only in part.
I now require Blue Motor Finance Ltd to take the following action:
Refund £180 to Ms N, being the cost of replacement brake callipers.  Simple interest  at the
rate of 8% per year should be added to this from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9863977