K820x#14complaint
Mrs G say Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to carry out their instructions to transfer funds into a 
joint account, as a result of which a cheque drawn on that account  was returned unpaid.  She 
feels the compensation offered doesnt  properly reflect the impact of what happened.
background
Mr G brings this complaint  on behalf  of himself and his wife. Mr and Mrs G live outside of the 
UK. On 2 July 2018 they sent written instructions to their UK branch of Barclays  asking it to 
transfer funds from two accounts into one joint account. They said they were  intending  to 
write a cheque on that account for £320,000  shortly  after.
But the transfers werent completed as Barclays said it didnt have Mrs Gs signature on file. 
Barclays wrote to Mrs G on 6 August  explaining  this and asking her to go to her local branch 
to update her details.  This was then followed on 10 August by a letter  saying the cheque for 
£320,000 couldnt be paid as there  werent  sufficient funds in the account.
Mr and Mrs G say theyve issued written  instructions before without a problem. And theyre  
unhappy that Barclays wrote to Mrs G to let her know about the problem rather than using a 
quicker form of contact. They point out that they live abroad so mail can takes several  weeks  
to arrive. They say the fact the cheques wasnt paid has been very embarrassing  for them  
and affected their reputation. And they say because they hadnt had the letter  from Barclays  
by the time this happened they were worried the money had gone missing.  
Mrs G says shes unhappy  at the way she was dealt with when she called Barclays to query 
what had happened. She says Barclays offered her £200 compensation plus £30 for the cost 
of her calls but she didnt feel this was enough to reflect the upset and inconvenience  theyd 
had. She asked for compensation  proportionate to the size of the amount of the cheque,  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience,  as well as redress for the cost of phone  
calls and the resending of instructions  via registered  post.
Barclays said all written instructions are now dealt with locally.  But its central  processing  
centre couldnt carry out Mrs Gs instructions as it didnt have her signature on file. It 
explained that it can only sample  a number of cheques each day which  may explain why two 
cheques had been processed previously  despite this.
It said Mr and Mrs G had sent written instructions so it had replied using the same  method  
and because her account  preference was for paper statements. In the circumstances, it 
didnt agree it had made a mistake in not transferring  the funds or paying  the cheque. But it 
acknowledged that its service to Mrs G after the cheque had been declined  hadnt been as 
good as it could have been.  For that reason it had offered  Mrs G £200 compensation as well 
as £30 to cover the cost of her calls.
Our adjudicator felt it was reasonable for Barclays to carry out checks before processing a 
payment and to refuse to carry out instructions where those checks werent met. Hed taken 
into account that previous payments had gone through  without challenge but as Barclays  
had explained,  it was only able to sample  a number of cheques  so he couldnt  say this was 
unreasonable.
Ref: DRN95776552He could understand why Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with the letters of 26 July and 10 
August. They didnt take into account that Mr and Mrs G now lived abroad.  But he said 
Barclays had acknowledged  that it hadnt  dealt with this matter  as well as it could  have done  
and had offered  compensation. He felt the amount offered  was fair and in line with what hed 
have recommended so he wouldnt be asking Barclays  to do anything  more.
Mr G disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  He said in 
summary:
The letter of 23 July was clear and also contained their contact  number and email  
address so he felt Barclays could  have contacted Mrs G by phone  or email or even 
by registered post which was what theyd  used. If it had, they could have taken steps 
to resolve the problem  before the cheque was issued. He felt Barclays  had been  
negligent in not carrying out their instructions.
Theyd been customers for more than 52 years and Barclays  should have had their 
signatures on file.
Barclays hadnt apologised  for what had happened. When the cheque was declined 
they thought theyd  lost their life savings  which  affected their health  and well being;
He didnt feel the compensation offered was sufficient and that £2, 000 would be 
more reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to broadly the 
same conclusion as the adjudicator although  Ive come to a slightly different view on the 
compensation as Ill now explain.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G feel very strongly about  what happened and I can understand 
why. Its clear they feel Barclays was responsible for their instructions not being followed and 
that for that reason, it should now compensate them adequately for the upset this caused. 
Ive seen Mr and Mrs G sent written instructions to Barclays  on 23 July to transfer money 
from an account held by Mr G and another one held jointly  into an account  belonging to Mrs 
G so that Mrs G could then issue a cheque from her account. It was very clear therefore 
what their intentions were and that the transactions were linked.
Ive seen Barclays has explained that all written instructions  are now dealt with at a central 
processing centre. Its also explained that each day a sample  number of checks are made  
on the instructions  as a security measure and that in this case  Mrs Gs instructions couldnt 
be processed as it didnt have her signature  on file.
I know it was frustrating  for Mrs G but Barclays, like all banks, is required to have 
appropriate anti fraud measures in place  so I think it was reasonable for it to refuse the 
process the transaction if the security measures werent met. And although previous 
cheques had been paid without problem,  Barclays  has explained that it can only sample a 
random number of cheques each day and again I think  thats  reasonable in view of the 
numbers involved.
Ref: DRN95776553However having realised  there was a problem,  I think Barclays  could have done more  to 
help Mrs G resolve the issue.
Ive seen Barclays sent a letter to Mrs G to say why the cheque  couldnt be paid. But Mr and 
Mrs G lived abroad  so realistically it was probable it wouldnt  arrive  for some time- and 
almost certainly not before Mrs G wrote a cheque on her account,  as theyd explained she 
intended to do.
It seems  to me that in sending the letter as it did, Barclays didnt take into account Mrs Gs 
particular circumstances.  Ive seen Barclays said it sent a letter as that was how Mr and Mrs 
G had communicated  with it. Its also said Mrs G had expressed a preference for paper 
statements so it assumed that shed want to be contacted by mail.
But Mr and Mrs G had made  it clear that there was a timeframe in which they wanted to use 
this money so Id have  expected Barclays to take this into account in deciding  how best to 
contact them. And I havent  seen anything in the terms and conditions of the account that 
would have prevented Barclays from contacting Mrs G by phone,  email or text if the 
circumstances required it. As it was the letter  from Barclays  to say the cheque couldnt be 
processed didnt  arrive until after Mrs G had written  the cheque on her account which in turn 
was then declined  because there  wasnt enough money in the account to make the payment.
Its clear Mrs G was very concerned to find that cheque had been refused. And although the 
reason was quickly disclosed when she contacted Barclays  I can understand how upsetting  
this was. Im pleased to see Barclays did then put in place measures to enable the payments 
to go through  without  further delay.
Barclays accepts that when Mrs G called to find out what had happened, it didnt deal with 
the calls as well as it could. As a result it offered her £200 compensation plus £30 to cover 
the cost of the calls. 
I appreciate Mrs G feels the compensation is wholly inadequate bearing  in mind the value of 
the cheque that was refused. Or that it reflects the damage to her reputation. But I havent 
seen anything to show Mrs G has suffered an actual financial loss other than the cost of her 
calls so any award is intended to reflect the distress and inconvenience  shes had as a result 
of whats happened. 
Theres no precise way of calculating such awards but in making my decision Ive taken into 
account the time over which the problems  occurred and the impact  its had. I can see Mrs G 
feels her reputations been  affected by what happened but cheques do get declined from 
time to time for various  reasons and as it then went through shortly after without difficulty,  I 
consider any embarrassment would have  been short lived.
As set out above I dont think Barclays was wrong  to implement the security checks  but I 
consider that if Barclays had contacted  Mrs G more promptly then the problem could have 
been resolved  sooner. For that reason I think its reasonable to increase the compensation 
to reflect  this. Ive therefore decided that Barclays should pay Mrs G £300 plus £30 to cover 
the cost of her calls.  I cant  agree that a higher amount would be reasonable. I should  add 
that as the problems occurred on Mrs Gs account, any compensation will be payable to Mrs 
G alone.
Ref: DRN95776554my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  in part and direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to 
pay Mrs G £300 for the upset and inconvenience  plus £30 to cover the cost of her calls.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9577655