K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs O says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store account in 2002.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100 Mrs O owed  on her store card.  The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs O couldnt  work because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided  life cover as well as 
price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Os case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Os complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear  to Mrs O that the policy was optional  and get her consent before 
PPI could  be applied  to the account.  Mrs O says she wasnt aware that she had PPI on her 
account.
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed at the time of the sale and I can 
see that there is a section to apply for Account Cover  the name used by FICL for PPI. In 
this section it says you should only sign if you want to take out Account Cover.
Mrs O has signed  the section to confirm she wanted  the cover. If Mrs O didnt want  to take 
out the PPI she could  have left this section blank. And Mrs O has signed the overall  
application form which suggests it reflected what she wanted.
The charge  for the PPI would have shown as a separate  entry  on her store card statements. 
If Mrs O didnt know what this charge  was for or hadnt agreed to take it out, I think she 
would have questioned this with FICL  sooner than she did.
So based  on what Ive seen, I think its more likely that FICL made Mrs O aware  that the 
policy was optional and that she chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt 
want it.
FICL said it didnt recommend the policy to Mrs O and, as I havent seen anything to make  
me think otherwise,  I think thats  likely to be right.  So it didnt have to check  if the policy  was 
Ref: DRN90977402right for her. But FICL did need to make sure it gave Mrs O clear  enough information about 
the policy to enable her to decide for herself if she should take the policy.
Its possible  the information FICL  gave  Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given her better or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would  have taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs O 
was eligible for the policy and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the 
cover, such  as having unusual working arrangements or a medical condition of which she 
was already aware. And I havent seen anything to suggest that the policy wasnt  affordable.
Mrs O has told us she would have  received  six months full sick pay from her employer if she 
was too ill to work. But this policy would have paid out until Mrs O was able to return to work  
or until the outstanding balance was repaid  whichever came first. It would also have 
provided the same benefit if she was to lose her job. So I think  this policy  could have been 
useful if something was to have gone wrong.
Ive noted that Mrs O has said that her family  would have  helped her to make her repayments 
if needed. While I appreciate her family  would have  wanted to help, support from others  cant 
always be guaranteed as their circumstances can also change, meaning they are unable to 
provide such financial  assistance. So this point  doesnt alter my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9097740