K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  about the application process they went  through  with TSB Bank Plc 
to port their mortgage. Theyve said it took an unreasonable  amount  of time and that, due to 
TSBs error,  they had to pay a valuation fee twice which  put them in their overdraft. 
background
At the end of April 2018, Mr and Mrs E approached TSB to apply  to port their mortgage. 
They had a buyer for their property and wanted to take their mortgage  with them to their new 
property.
During May,  they spoke to TSB and provided the relevant paperwork for their application  and 
on 4 June they were  told that the application  was accepted by the underwriters. The offer 
was issued later on 20 July 2018  following some  repairs to the property. 
When Mr and Mrs E first contacted  this service, the matter was ongoing, and they said they 
felt that TSB were dragging their feet and moving the goal posts. They were concerned that 
the delays might mean that the house  purchase  didnt  complete. 
Later, when  our investigator looked  into the matter, he spoke  to Mr and Mrs E and found that 
they had been able to port their mortgage  and complete on the house purchase. They told 
our investigator that they felt a sum of £500  would be reasonable to compensate them  for 
the delays and stress caused by TSB during this process. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld as he didnt think TSB took an 
unreasonable amount of time to process the application. He thought that the £100 paid by 
TSB in recognition  of the distress and inconvenience caused was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs E disagreed and asked  for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that this was a difficult and frustrating time from what  Mr and Mrs E have 
said and that they feel that the delays caused by TSB added to this. Buying a house can be 
a stressful process  and there are often pressures from buyers, sellers, estate agents and 
solicitors. Here, Mr and Mrs E were porting their mortgage which can add an extra level of 
complexity and administration as further checks need to be completed and documentation 
provided. It can also take additional time. What Ill look at here is whether TSB caused 
unnecessary or unreasonable  delays  over this period.
initial application appointment
Mr and Mrs E have  said that they were delayed by a week  as they missed  a telephone 
appointment for the initial application on 11 May 2018. This was arranged  for 4pm but the 
agent from TSB called  just before  this time and Mr E wasnt  able to answer.  On calling back,  
Mr and Mrs E couldnt get through and it turned out the number provided was incorrect.  An 
appointment was arranged  for the following week  and the initial  application stage was 
completed on 18 May 2018.  I understand that this must have been frustrating for 
Mr and Mrs E but I do think that when  a time is arranged,  both parties  should  make  
Ref: DRN91429592themselves available immediately before and after the time. The agent  from TSB called at 
3.56pm and whilst  this is slightly early, I dont  think it unreasonably so. 
Ive noted Mr and Mrs E were not able to call back on the number provided by TSB and this 
does appear to be the agents error as the number  provided was incorrect. But I think  that 
the delay of a week  was not unreasonable as Mr and Mrs E did say Friday afternoon suited 
them best. Ive also considered what impact  this delay had. I understand that Mr and Mrs E 
said this might have meant  that the seller  pulled out, but fortunately this didnt happen, so 
they were not adversely disadvantaged  by this.  
providing documentation
The following  week,  TSB contacted Mr and Mrs E to ask them to provide identification 
documents. I understand that these were initially rejected by TSB as it did not match their 
records. This appears to be due to a difference in the order of names and whilst  I appreciate  
this is frustrating, I think it was quickly resolved. 
Mr and Mrs E have  also said that TSB rejected some  of the documents they provided until 
they were in the format required and that this caused further delays.  They said that TSB 
didnt initially  tell them  what format  they wanted them in. Ive looked at this and understand 
Mr and Mrs Es point  that TSB could have specified the format in which  to provide them  from 
the start but ultimately,  I dont think there  were any unreasonable delays due to this issue. 
 
Considering everything, I do understand Mr and Mrs Es frustrations but I dont think  that 
TSB acted unreasonably here. I say this as its important that identification  records  match  to 
be accepted by underwriters and to help reduce the threat of any fraud. Later  in May, the 
identification documents were accepted and the application was referred to the underwriters 
so I dont think this caused  an unreasonable delay. 
referring the application to underwriters
Mr and Mrs E have  also said they dont understand why their application  didnt meet the 
initial affordability criteria and that, by referring  this to underwriters, TSB cost more time.  
There are special rules for customers in Mr and Mrs Es situation,  which  say that lenders 
arent required to carry out an affordability  assessment as they are not applying for additional 
borrowing or making any other changes to their mortgage which  would be material to 
affordability. Their  application passed the underwriters checks  so what Ive considered is 
whether, by referring it to underwriters, TSB caused an unnecessary  delay. 
Here, the application  was referred to the underwriters in late May 2018. Mr E called on 
1 June 2018 and TSB said that they hadnt heard back  from the underwriters. At this point, 
he said he wanted to make a complaint about the process. On 4 June 2018  TSB said that 
the application was accepted by the underwriters. As this was approved  by the underwriters 
within a few days, I dont think  this caused an unreasonable delay to Mr and Mrs Es 
application. And, overall, I think the mortgage  application completed  within  a reasonable 
time.
valuation fee
Mr and Mrs E were  told by TSB that the valuation fee that they paid of over £270  was 
accidentally refunded and were  asked to pay it again. This later turned out to be incorrect  
and, by paying this fee twice, their account  went overdrawn. They said they felt this had to 
Ref: DRN91429593be paid before they received the accidental refund through as they were worried  any delay 
may cause  the house purchase  to fall through. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Es concerns and appreciate that this is an inconvenient  error 
which cost them by going into their overdraft. Ive looked at the statement provided and can 
see that the account did go overdrawn from 5 June 2018. Ive noted that a sum under 50 
pence a day was charged. 
Ive asked TSB about this and they have shown that the fee was refunded into 
Mr and Mrs Es account on 12 June 2018 following the complaint they made, along with 
£100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. Whilst I understand 
Mr and Mrs E may have incurred a small cost because of this seven day period, I think  this is 
adequately covered within the £100 offered and I wont be asking TSB to do anything more 
here.
survey
After Mr and Mrs Es application was accepted by the underwriters, a valuation survey  was 
carried out which highlighted  an issue  with damp.  It was recommended that this was 
resolved as the surveyor recorded that the repairs were essential.  Once  these repairs were 
completed, the mortgage offer was provided  on 20 July 2018. I understand that this also 
caused some delay but I dont think it was an unreasonable one and was necessary to 
obtain the best value  for Mr and Mrs Es property. 
conclusions
Having considered everything, I dont think TSB treated Mr and Mrs E unfairly during this 
application. Whilst I appreciate it was a stressful time for Mr and Mrs E, I dont think  that TSB 
caused any unnecessary or unreasonable delays. The whole  application process was 
completed in just over two months  from the initial application appointment on 18 May 2018 to 
the mortgage offer being issued on 20 July 2018.  I consider  this time to be reasonable, 
especially considering  that the offer was delayed by the last few weeks due to the repairs 
being carried out on the property.
I think the £100 that TSB has paid Mr and Mrs E for any trouble and upset caused by their 
error about the valuation fee and initial  missed  appointment is fair and reasonable. As this 
has already been  paid,  I wont  be requiring TSB to do anything further here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2020.
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9142959