K820x#14complaint
Mr T and Mrs T are represented. The representative says their complaint is that HSBC UK 
Bank Plc mis-sold investments to them on the following  grounds:
They were advised to invest too much  of their capital and to expose too much of that 
capital to risk.
Planned property renovation expenditure was not taken into account in the course of 
HSBCs investment recommendations.
The investments  were too risky for them. They  were aware their values could 
fluctuate but they were too risky for their inexperienced investor profile.
background
One of our investigators  considered that the complaint should not be upheld.  In the main she 
said available evidence supports the following conclusions:
When they were advised by HSBC in 2004 Mr T and Mrs T were retired;  they were 
debt free; they jointly had a net disposable  monthly income of £440;  they owned  
three properties; they had around £87,000  in savings; they wanted to invest £80,000 
but ended  up using only £70,000 in the recommended  investments and reserved  the 
remainder; their objective was to achieve  a higher level of growth over five to ten 
years; they were  prepared to take some risk with the investments and Mr T specified 
a desire to invest £5,000 in a higher risk Asia fund.
Overall, out of the £80,000 Mr T and Mrs T made available  for investments 60% was 
exposed to a low level of risk, 17.5% was exposed to some  more risk, 12.5% was 
exposed to no risk, 6.25% was exposed to a higher level of risk and Mr T retained 
3.75% for direct share purchase  he and Mrs T wanted to make. Almost three 
quarters of their money was exposed to a low level of risk and overall  the 
investments did not mismatch with their risk profile.
There does not appear to be evidence that planned property renovation expenditure 
was discussed  with or mentioned  to HSBC.
Evidence about Mr Ts and Mrs Ts investment  experience is limited, but the manner 
in which  they approached the investments suggests they had some  investment 
experience. 
The representative, on behalf of Mr T and Mrs T, did not accept this outcome. It asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. It said even though the majority of the investments were towards the 
lower end of the risk scale a point of unsuitability  remains in the sense that too much (over 
80%) of their tangible  cash was exposed to some  level of risk and was inaccessible for five 
years.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as expressed by the investigator  for broadly the same  reasons.
In the circumstances of their case,  I do not consider that Mr Ts and Mrs Ts objectives in 
2004 can reasonably be redefined by the representative for the purpose  of their present 
complaint. In this respect, I do not accept its point that it was unsuitable  to have their money 
exposed to some level of risk and inaccessible for five years.
Ref: DRN96761452Know-your-client (KYC) related evidence supports the investigators summary of Mr Ts and 
Mrs Ts circumstances  in 2004. The same evidence says they had a medium  risk profile, that 
their aim was to achieve capital growth (including  maximising investment returns) and that 
the merits of doing this through diversification  in investment risk classes  was discussed 
between the parties.  In this respect,  the diversification mix recommended was around 20% 
in the secure category, around 55% in the cautious category, around 16% in the balanced 
category and around 9% in the adventurous category. The evidence  also says they wanted  
to allocate £80,000 for the investments over the following five to ten years.
I consider the KYC related evidence  to be reliable and it appears  to have been signed by   
Mr T and/or Mrs T. In the absence of wider  evidence that suggests  their objectives went  
against their best interest, I am satisfied that their objectives were  as depicted  in the KYC 
document. That set the basis for HSBCs recommendations. It also follows that it cannot 
reasonably be said that exposing  over 80% of their capital to some risk and rendering it 
inaccessible for five years was unsuitable   given  that it was their express objective to 
expose all of their £80,000 capital to investment risk and to render it inaccessible for five to 
ten years.
In terms of the allegation that the investments  were  too risky, this appears to have been 
conceded by the representative   given its acceptance that the majority of the investments 
were at the lower end of the risk scale. I consider that the allegation  has not been 
established and that evidence shows the investments matched an investor  profile that was 
mainly secure and cautious in nature, with a minority part of that profile having a higher 
attitude to risk (based on what appears to have been a specific request from Mr T and/or Mrs 
T for such a higher attitude to risk). The majority  of the investments included a capital 
protected Individual  Savings Account and a stock  market linked growth bond that 
guaranteed no less than a return of capital if held for its full term. In addition, £10,000 was 
retained in cash.  
Overall, on balance and even if the matter  of risk suitability is viewed in the context of 
investment experience I consider that the investments were  not unsuitable for Mr and Mrs T. 
I note the investigators  point that Mr T and Mrs T could have been more  experienced than 
the representative says they were and I note that the KYC document says they had a 
medium risk profile . In addition and like the investigator said, there  does not appear to be 
evidence to support  the representatives  argument  about planned expenditure being ignored.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ts and Mrs Ts complaint. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to accept or reject  
my decision  before 25 October 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9676145