K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr B says Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.  Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold. 
Ill explain  why.
Capital One had to make it clear  that the policy was optional and Mr B had to agree to take it 
out. Ive been given a copy  of the credit  card application form that was completed at the time 
and on this form there is a section  about PPI. In this section there are boxes to tick to accept 
or decline the cover and I can see that a tick has been placed in the yes box. If Mr B didnt 
want to take out the PPI he could have ticked the no box. Mr B has also signed the overall 
form which suggests he agreed with everything that had been entered.
In addition to this, Ive also seen  copies of Mr Bs credit card statements and the charge 
for PPI is shown as a separate entry. If Mr B didnt know what this extra  charge was for, 
or hadnt agreed to take out the PPI, I think he would have questioned at the time.
So, based on everything Ive seen  and been  told, I think  Capital One made it clear that 
the policy was optional and that Mr B agreed  to take it out, knowing he could refuse it if 
he didnt want it.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr B got the information he needed  to decide for himself  if 
it was right for him.
Its possible  the information Capital One gave  Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI by ticking the box on the application form 
so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based  on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover  initially we were informed that Mr B was a full time student but it has since been 
confirmed he was in full time employment at the time of the sale. And so it appears it would 
have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  
So I dont think  better  information about  the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
Ref: DRN97632752Capital One said that the level of commission and profit  share it received did create  an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it has paid back the extra Mr B paid each month because 
the commission and profit share  it received was more than 50% of the cost of PPI premium. 
It also included 8% per year simple interest to compensate Mr B for any time he was out of 
pocket. 
Mr B says there have  been other court  cases in relation to non-disclosure  of commission  
where consumers have received everything back.  So he thinks Capital One should refund all 
of the money  paid for the PPI.
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint is the law. But I also need to take into account 
relevant regulators  rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case Capital  One has made Mr B an offer of compensation  in relation to the level of 
commission it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. But Mr B wants 
Capital One to do something  different.  
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Mr B and his complaint  to see if theres 
anything about  him that would mean the business should do something different  if the 
remedies set out in the FCAs rules dont lead to fair and reasonable redress for Mr B. But 
there isnt anything about Mr Bs complaint or circumstances that suggest  the redress  paid 
by Capital One isnt fair or reasonable.
In this case I think Capital  Ones offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
Ive also thought about what  Mr B has said about  being able to ask family members  to help 
make his credit card repayments. Whilst I appreciate his family would have wanted to help, 
support from others cant be guaranteed  as their circumstances can also change,  meaning  
they are unable to provide such financial assistance. So this doesnt change my decision.
Ref: DRN97632753my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe)  plc does not have  to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Capital  One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9763275