K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about incorrect  advice  from Legal  and General Assurance  Society  Limited 
about taking tax free cash from her pension.
Background
Mrs H said see was entitled  to protected tax free cash  (PTFC).  She told L & G this when she 
asked about a cash out retirement plan (CORP).  It told her she would get around £42,000 in 
tax free cash and issued  an offer.  But it had since told her this was an error and she would 
only get around £17,000. In expectation  of receiving that amount shed said she would help 
her daughter  buy a house. She wanted L & G to stand by the original terms.
L & G said Mrs Hs IFA contacted it in mid March  2018 for a quote for a CORP. Her IFA said 
Mrs H had a plan with another  provider that carried  PTFC.  He asked whether Mrs H could 
take the PTFC and put the remainder into a three year CORP.  It agreed with was possible 
and issued a quote guaranteed for 35 days. 
Mrs H contacted L & G in mid April to update some details and because she was no longer  
using her IFA for this matter. Mrs H was told the details could be updated  after she accepted 
by signing and returning the application form. She was told L & G would request the full 
transfer from the pervious insurer and then pay Mrs H her full PTFC.  
Mrs H made  contact again in mid June 2018 saying she wanted to go ahead with the quote.  
As the quote was out of guarantee  it needed  to be re-run and at that point  the adviser 
realised there was a mistake and only 25% could be taken as tax free cash. The PTFC  was 
only available with a lifetime annuity.  L & G accepted  it had given wrong information in some 
telephone calls. It said it was sorry and had paid £200 into Mrs Hs bank account  for 
disappointment. This was later increased  to £300.
The investigator said he thought L & G had made a mistake and should do something to put 
things right. He said L & G accepted theyd given incorrect information. Mrs H had been 
clear she wanted to take the PTFC and was given a quote on that basis. It seemed the 
incorrect information was confirmed in April 2018. When she made further  contact in June  
she was told the information was incorrect. This mustve been upsetting. However  the 
original March quote was now out of time. He said the issue  was whether L & G should have 
to honour the original  quote. He accepted Mrs H had suffered a loss of expectation. While 
incorrect information was supplied and confirmed the correct position  was outlined  before 
Mrs H decided to go ahead. So he didnt think it was fair to ask L & G to honour the quote. 
He thought the payment  of £200  was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs H said she was disappointed and also that L & G had contacted her in November 2018 
to offer £300.  L & G made no comment on the decision  but confirmed it had made an 
increased offer of £300.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN95817102To make an award I need to find that L & G has done something wrong. L & G accepts that it 
gave wrong advice so it is clear  it made  a mistake  and gave incorrect advice about the PTFC 
availability through its CORP. In fact that wasnt legally  possible. Where there is a mistake  
the law requires that Mrs H be put back in the position she wouldve been in but for that 
mistake. The law does  not require Mrs H to be put into the position  she wouldve been in had 
the mistaken advice  been correct. 
In this case Mrs H was wrongly told that she could take PTFC through a CORP. But that 
wasnt correct. Had Mrs H been  given  the correct advice she wouldve been told she could 
only take the normal level of tax free cash in her CORP. So it is clear  that Mrs H isnt entitled  
at law to be given the benefit  of the terms of the original quote  with PTFC which  were  wrong.
However the position at law can be different if it can be shown that Mrs H acted  to her 
detriment in reliance  on the wrong information.  In this situation Mrs H says she wanted to 
take the PTFC which was higher but didnt want to buy an annuity. This is why she was 
seeking a CORP. This was something  she felt both she and her IFA had made clear to L & 
G. She later said she wanted  the higher PTFC as she wanted to give her daughter some 
money to buy a house. 
I have reviewed the correspondence. Mrs H was asked to expressly confirm that she 
wouldnt be able to take the PTFC  if she went ahead with the CORP. She later confirmed her 
understanding. It is clear  Mrs H understood she wasnt getting  the PTFC. So she didnt rely 
on the incorrect and out of date quote to her detriment. Instead  she proceeded in the light of 
correct information.  Even  if I am wrong in that conclusion the quote  was out of date by the 
time she proposed  to accept, so was no longer capable of being accepted.
So for the reasons given Mrs H isnt entitled  to the benefit of the higher payments she was 
told would  be available  in March 2018.
I have considered whether to make an award  for distress and inconvenience. Such an award 
is designed to reflect the impact of the mistake  on Mrs H and not to punish  the business.  It is 
clear that Mrs H suffered  a loss of expectation  due to the mistake and this mustve  been 
distressing for her particularly as she hoped to give the money away. I think the impact was 
moderate and the offer of £300 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
L & G have confirmed that the offer of a total of £300 (which  includes any payment made to  
date) remains open for acceptance should  Mrs H wish to accept it.
my final decision
My decision  is that Legal and General  Assurance Society Limited has made a fair offer to 
pay a total of £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9581710