K821x#15Complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited cancelled  the payment arrangement theyd 
agreed.
Background
In October  2016 Mr P took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn to cover the 
cost of a used car. The agreement was for 60 months, with a monthly  repayment  of £364. In 
January 2019  he agreed a payment plan to clear  the arrears on the account.  He agreed to 
pay Moneybarn £36 a month starting  on 1 February 2019, in addition to his normal agreed  
monthly payments.
In February 2019  he received a letter from them advising he was in arrears. He said he 
immediately informed them hed made the payment  of £400 on 1 February 2019. He said 
hed made  it online with his debit card.
He says on 15th February  2019 Moneybarn chased him again for payment  even though hed 
paid on time.  He says they also sent him a letter threatening  a default notice on the same 
day. He said Moneybarn later admitted the payment  plan had failed unnecessarily. 
He said they told him they might not be willing to enter into any further payment plans. He 
feels this was unfair as hed made  the agreed payment and the business had cancelled the 
agreement without reason.
He agreed a new payment plan on 12 March 2021, and he said he was told the default 
notice had been taken off the system. He said he was told he could phone in every month if 
he didnt want to pay by direct debit.
He said he made a further payment  of £400 on 31 March 2019  as had been agreed. He said 
on 10 April 2019 he received another email from Moneybarn saying they hadnt received any 
payment, and a letter  threatening to issue a default  notice within 7 days.
He said Moneybarn told him they cancelled  the January 2019 payment plan because  he 
didnt call in after making the payment. He said this didnt  make sense as theyd already told 
him in writing that there  had been  no reason for the payment plan to be cancelled. He said 
they sent him another  default  notice even  though  he hadnt  missed a payment.
He said Moneybarn agreed to reset the arrangement on 29 April 2019. He said he was told it 
wasnt necessary for him to pay by direct debit. He said he was told to pay on the 
due date and not beforehand   as the payment would not be recognised by the system. This 
was the opposite of what hed been  told previously by Moneybarn.
He said he did not want to make the payments by direct debit. He said he preferred to pay 
online by debit card, as he had always done.  He said the payment plan document clearly  
stated a direct debit was not necessary. He said Moneybarn told him they wouldnt agree  a 
new payment plan without a direct debit being in place.
Mr P feels  hes lost out because the original plan was for £400  per month for the foreseeable 
future. When the next plan was arranged in April 2019, this was only for 3 months at which 
time Moneybarn told him theyd review it, and hed need to pay more  each month.  He says 
he needs to pay more only because Moneybarn unnecessarily cancelled the January plan.
Ref: DRN91330642Moneybarn said theyd  cancelled  the payment plan because Mr P hadnt contacted them on 
1 February 2019  to set up a new direct debit  instruction. They  said theyd agreed a payment 
plan of £36 starting  on 1 February 2019,  and theyd moved Mr Ps normal monthly instalment 
payment date to coincide with the new payment date. They  said theyd allowed the first 
payment to be made manually,  and told Mr P to contact them on 1 February  2019  to set up 
his direct debit.
They said they received a payment on 1 February 2019 as agreed,  but because Mr P did not 
contact them  to set up the direct  debit, they cancelled the payment  plan and a confirmation 
letter was sent to him.
They acknowledged  hed continued to make  the agreed payments but told him he need to 
set up a direct debit to keep the plan in place.
Moneybarn said theyd  been supportive  since Mr P told them he was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
Our investigator felt Moneybarn had acted fairly. He said when they agreed the payment 
plan in January  2019, theyd confirmed theyd accept the first payment by card, and 
subsequent payments would need  to be made by direct debit. He felt Moneybarn  had 
cancelled the payment  plan because the direct  debit hadnt  been set up. He agreed  that 
Moneybarn had sent a default  notice to Mr P when they shouldnt  have, because hed made 
the payment  but he didnt think this had a detrimental effect  on Mr P.
Mr P disagreed. He said Moneybarn told him the plan was cancelled  because he hadnt 
made the payment, and this was wrong. He said hed been told in writing that the plan 
shouldnt have been cancelled. He was also unhappy that another default notice had been  
issued and this hadnt been  addressed.  He said that his complaint should  be upheld  as 
Moneybarn have admitted in writing  that the plan shouldnt have been cancelled.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 February  2021  explaining why I intended  to uphold the 
complaint. I said:
Cancellation of the payment plan
On 14 January 2019 Moneybarn wrote to Mr P to confirm the payment plan arrangement. It 
showed the first payment was to be made  by debit card on 1 February 2019, with 
subsequent payments from 1 March 2019 to 1 July 2019 by direct debit.
The letter thanked Mr P for agreeing  to make the payments by direct  debit.  It went on to say 
that If we dont receive your payment(s),  or you pay us late and you havent warned us, we 
will cancel the payment plan.
It doesnt say the payment plan would  be cancelled if he failed to set up the direct debit.
In their letter of 8 February  2019, they informed Mr P that his payment  plan was cancelled. 
They said this was because they hadnt received or been  able to collect  the latest payment 
that was due. But we know that Mr P made the agreed payment  by debit card.
Ref: DRN91330643On 21 February 2021, and on 25 February  2019,  Moneybarn emailed Mr P following calls 
hed made  to them. They confirmed the payment  had been made and said they couldnt see 
why the payment plan had failed.
They asked Mr P to complete the direct debit mandate so they could set up the payment 
plan again. They also set out what needed  to happen if Mr P wanted to keep the payment 
plan in place.  They told him he could make  the arrears payments manually by debit  card, but 
the normal monthly payment must be made  by direct debit as set out in the original  
agreement. They told him theyd accept  the next payment by debit  card, because they were 
close to the payment due date.
They explained hed need to complete the direct debit mandate, and invited him to confirm if 
he wanted to add the arrears amount to the direct  debit, or continue to make  this manually.
This is confirmed in Moneybarns response to his complaint. In this letter  they acknowledged 
that Mr P had continued to make the payments manually. They  also warned Mr P that his 
agreement remains at risk without a Direct  Debit and set payment plan in place.
I can see from their correspondence that Moneybarns preferred method of payment is by 
direct debit. I can understand  why  theyve made efforts to agree an affordable payment 
plan with Mr P, and a direct debit reduces their risk that a payment might be missed. But 
Mr Ps told them he wanted  to continue to pay by debit  card.
I can see nothing in the correspondence that says payment must be made  by direct debit. 
The original  agreement says that payment must be made by direct debit, but it also says 
they can accept  payment  by another method at our absolute discretion. Im persuaded that 
the payment plan arrangement over rides this term. The important thing here is that Mr P 
was in financial difficulty, an affordable payment plan was agreed,  and Mr P continued to 
make the payments as agreed.
On 2 March 2019 Mr P received another  letter  from Moneybarn  saying the arrears  had 
increased or well need to send you a default notice. This was despite  him making  a 
payment by card on 1 March 2019  as arranged with Moneybarn.
Another payment  plan was confirmed on 12 March 2019. But this was only for the payment 
on 1 April 2019, and again it was agreed he could pay by debit card. This letter explained  the 
different ways payment could be made. They said payment by direct debit was the preferred  
method for Moneybarn.  But in this letter, they acknowledged  Mr Ps preference  was to pay 
by debit card, and they explained the easiest way to do this.
He made  a payment, by card, on 1 April 2019.  But on 10 April 2019  he again received  a 
message from Moneybarn saying they hadnt  received  his payment. They  said if he didnt 
contact them  within 7 days, theyd issue a default notice. They would  then require him to pay 
the full arrears, or theyd end the agreement and arrange recovery  of the vehicle.
Mr P replied  saying he had made the payment, and would make  the next payment on 1 May 
2019, by card, and do the same each month after.
He then received  a default notice dated 23 April 2019 saying hed breached  the agreement.
Ref: DRN91330644This notice  said the agreement had been breached because Mr P hadnt complied with 
clause 2.6. This is the clause Ive referred  to above, which states  all payments must be 
made by direct debit.
I dont consider it was reasonable  for Moneybarn to issue the default notice. Mr P had 
continued to make the agreed payments, albeit by debit card.  I wouldnt expect a lender  to 
need to issue  a default notice only because the customer chooses to pay by a different 
method.
I can see that Moneybarn  has taken appropriate  steps to help Mr P. His account has been in 
arrears for a considerable time, and it has recognised his financial difficulties, and shown 
appropriate forbearance and consideration. As a lender it is entitled to take proportionate  
action when a consumer is in arrears.
But their correspondence  with Mr P has been contradictory. The agreement says payment 
should be made by direct  debit, but theyve  told him on several occasions theyre willing  to 
accept payment by debit  card. And, on these occasions, Mr P paid the amount agreed in the 
payment plan, on time. Theyve even  gone  as far to explain how to make  the payments by 
card.
So Im satisfied he didnt  break the January 2019  payment plan,  and it wasnt fair or 
reasonable for Moneybarn to cancel it. And Im not satisfied that it was fair to issue a default  
notice only on the basis of the payments not being  made by direct  debit. I also find the 
correspondence sent to Mr P about  missed payments shouldnt have been issued.
I understand why Moneybarn  would prefer to receive payments from Mr P by direct  debit, as 
it reduces the likelihood of future  payments being  missed. But on this occasion,  he made the 
agreed payments  on time.
So Im upholding  this part of the complaint.
Im not commenting on the call waiting times,  or Mr Ps suggestion Moneybarn should  
implement a call waiting  duration message. Its not for me to comment on the processes a 
business implements.
Im not requiring Moneybarn accept Mr Ps suggestion that he doesnt have to pay by direct 
debit. He hasnt  said why hes unable to do this, and Moneybarn  hasnt  said why they require 
it. I invite both parties to submit their comments on this matter.  But Im unlikely to insist  that
Moneybarn must or must not do something  if it doesnt fit with their commercial  processes. 
Only the industry  regulator can impose  such conditions on a business.
Putting things right
Ive said the default notices issued  between January 2019 and April 2019  shouldnt have 
been issued. Moneybarn should ensure that any recording of these  be removed from Mr Ps 
credit file, and refund  any charges they imposed for the issue  of these notices, if they havent  
already done so.
Im not asking Moneybarn  to reinstate  the January 2019 payment plan. Each payment plan 
is based on an appropriate check of Mr Ps financial situation at the time, so its important 
that the payment plan is based  on the most recent  assessment of Income and Expenditure, 
Ref: DRN91330645not what may or may not have happened  if the plan hadnt been cancelled  whatever the 
reasons for the cancellation.
Moneybarn should  pay £250 to Mr P for the upset they caused by issuing correspondence 
and default notices when hed made the payments, and theyd already acknowledged  
payment. They  may offset this amount against the outstanding arrears.
Im not going  to insist Moneybarn issue an apology to Mr P. Such  an apology is likely to be 
insincere. It is up to Moneybarn to decide whether or not they wish to offer a genuine 
apology.
Responses
Mr P accepted my provisional findings.
Moneybarn expressed  their disappointment with my decision  to uphold but said they were 
happy to credit the suggested £250.00 to Mr Ps agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because both parties have accepted my provisional  decision, and because no further  
evidence has been submitted that changes my mind,  Im adopting my provisional findings as 
my final decision.
Putting things  right
For the reasons  Ive explained, and as I set out in my provisional  decision, Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited should:
Remove the record of the default  notices  issued between  January 2019 and April 
2019 from Mr Ps credit file, and refund any charges they imposed for the issue  of 
these notices, if they havent already done so.
Pay £250 to Mr P for the upset they caused by issuing correspondence and default  
notices when hed made the payments, and theyd already acknowledged payment. 
They may offset this amount against the outstanding arrears.
Ref: DRN91330646My final decision
For the reasons  given  above I uphold Mr Ps complaint. Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited should 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2021.
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9133064