K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains that Europ  Assistance S.A. (trading as Europ Assistance S.A. Irish Branch) 
has declined  his claim under his travel insurance  policy. 
background
Mr L made a claim to Europ Assistance S.A for costs incurred following the loss of his 
passport whilst on holiday. 
Mr L went to the airport with his wife to catch a flight home.  Whilst there he realised that his 
passport was missing, and he was unable to fly. As she had no choice, his wife took the 
return flight alone  and Mr L remained behind and reported the loss to the police. He also 
tried to contact  the UK consulate to obtain  a replacement passport but as it was Christmas it 
was closed. Mr L took a taxi back to his hotel,  and in anticipation of obtaining a replacement  
passport when the consulate reopened, he booked the next available flight  back to the 
airport he departed  from, which was three days later. 
On the morning the consulate reopened Mr L spoke to the car hire company hed used 
during his trip who told him that theyd had found  his passport in the car hed hired from 
them. Mr L retrieved his passport from the car hire company and flew back  to the UK on the 
rescheduled flight. On his return to the UK he submitted a claim to Europ  Assistance S.A.
Europ Assistance  S.A declined his claim.  It said that under the terms and conditions of the 
policy Mr L is obligated to submit original receipts and he hadnt done so. Europ Assistance 
S.A disputes  the circumstances  of the claim itself questioning  when the return flight was 
booked and asking  why Mr L didnt fly home sooner.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said the claim was valid and he recommended 
that Europ Assistance S.A meet the claim.  But Europ Assistance S.A dont agree with the 
outcome and its asked  for a review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done so, I intend to uphold  this 
complaint. 
I need  to decide whether Europ Assistance S.A has taken a fair approach when considering 
Mr Ls claim. Having  carefully  considered  all the evidence I dont  think Europ Assistance  
S.As approach  is fair. So, Ill explain how I think Europ Assistance S.A should  fairly settle  
this complaint. 
the policy cover
The policy states:
SECTION D: PERSONAL EFFECTS, TRAVEL
DOCUMENTATION AND DELAYED BAGGAGE
What is covered:
b. Travel Documents  The insurer will pay for any reasonable expenses  you incur whilst  
obtaining replacement  passports, green cards, visas, accommodation vouchers and petrol 
Ref: DRN95810472coupons or travel tickets, which have  been lost or stolen during the trip, up to the amount 
shown in the Schedule of Benefits.
the claim
Mr L made  a complaint to this service at the end of February 2019,  some two months after 
hed submitted his claim. He complained  to us in frustration as hed been unable to contact 
anyone to get an update  on his claim or even  to make sure it had been submitted correctly. 
Further to our involvement it took a further two months  for Europ Assistance S.A to 
acknowledge the claim. 
In July 2019 we received  an email which said that Mr L hadnt proved that he tried to obtain  
a replacement passport  and for that reason Europ  Assistance  S.A couldnt  accept his claim 
for the costs of the extension of his stay and the return  flight.  And in August we received 
another email which stated that there were  question marks over the validity  of the taxi 
receipts, and that there  was no proof  that Mr L couldnt have taken an earlier  flight home. 
Europ Assistance S.A also questioned why hed booked a flight  so soon after reporting  the 
passport missing. 
Ive read Mr Ls testimony  and Im persuaded that he is telling the truth and that his claim is 
genuine. In particular Im satisfied  with his explanation surrounding the booked  flight. A quick 
search shows that there are currently only three weekly  flights  from Mr Ls holiday 
destination back to the airport  he departed from. And given the time of year and the fact that 
the consulate was closed due to the Christmas  holidays, it was completely reasonable to 
book the next available flight three  days later, giving Mr L time to obtain the replacement 
passport once the consulate reopened. Booking a flight  any sooner wouldnt have been 
feasible as there were  none operating, and the consulate was closed  for two days. A later 
flight wouldve pushed him into the following week, costing Europ Assistance S.A more  in 
claimed expenses. In fact, its likely that hes mitigated any unnecessary  losses  to Europ 
Assistance S.A by booking the flight that he did when he did.
Mr L has sent us a copy of the police report,  a receipt for two nights in a hotel paid in cash  
along with a credit card showing  payment for a third night, a taxi receipt  from the day he lost 
his passport and a receipt for his return flight. 
Im satisfied  that these receipts are genuine.  They match  the times, dates and circumstances 
as described by Mr L. He is not claiming for anything  outside of these expenses  and the cost 
of these expenses  seem more than reasonable. 
Ive seen no evidence that Europ Assistance S.A attempted to investigate or validate Mr Ls 
claim. There is no record of Europ  Assistance S.A contacting  Mr L to determine what 
happened. or of it checking  the frequency of flights from Mr Ls holiday destination. It failed 
to take into account the fact that Mr L was travelling at Christmas when everything was 
closed. Europ Assistance  S.A made a decision to decline the claim  without attempting  to 
validate it. I dont think thats reasonable. I think Mr L acted appropriately. And based  on the 
evidence provided I cant see that there  was any breach of the policy  terms and conditions  
by Mr L. So, I uphold  this complaint, and I recommend that Europ Assistance S.A pay the 
claim for all submitted receipts up to the limit allowable as per the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. I also recommend that Europ Assistance S.A pays  £100 for the 
inconvenience and poor service it provided.  
my final decision
Ref: DRN95810473My final decision is to uphold this complaint.
I require Europ Assistance S.A. (trading as Europ Assistance  S.A. Irish Branch) to:
pay Mr Ls claim for all submitted receipts  subject  to the policy  limit and any 
applicable excess as per the remaining terms and conditions  of the policy.  It must 
add interest* to the remaining payment at the simple  rate of 8% per year from the 
date of claim to the date of settlement.
pay £100 in compensation for the poor service and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Derek Dunne
ombudsman
*If Europ Assistance S.A. (trading  as Europ Assistance S.A. Irish Branch) considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell 
Mr L how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr L a certificate showing this if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9581047