K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Ambant Underwriting Services Limited failed to effectively communicate  
that it was increasing  his boiler cover premiums.  
background
Mr T took out boiler  cover  with Ambant  in 2012. The policy renewed annually  each  
December with the premiums increasing  by small amounts each year.  In January 2018, the 
premium increased from £24.98 a month  to £49.96  a month.  Due to some  health issues, 
Mr T hadnt been checking his bank statements regularly and it wasnt  until December 2018  
that he noticed the increase. 
On checking the renewal  letter hed received  the previous December (2017) Mr T noticed 
that nowhere in the body of the letter did it advise him his premium was increasing.  Mr T 
thought the letter was unclear and misleading.  He said reassuring text was given 
prominence but the information about  the premium increase appeared in smaller font. He 
called Ambant to complain and said he was a long-standing customer whose boiler was in 
good condition.  
Ambant looked  into Mr Ts complaint sending him its final response  letter  in January  2019. 
Ambant didnt uphold  Mr Ts complaint and said that this year it had adopted a new 
approach to its renewal  pricing whereby itd undertaken an analysis of its historical  claims 
data to understand the key factors driving  claim costs. It said that analysis was used to 
assess the risk of future  claims being  made and to personalise renewal premiums on a 
customer by customer basis to more  accurately reflect the likely claim costs.  
Ambant said the main factors driving  claim costs were the boiler manufacturer, the boiler 
age, claims history and likelihood of future claims and costs.  It said that this years  pricing  
methodology was different to previous years.  It said the new methodology had been applied  
fairly to all its customers. And it said itd sent Mr T renewal documentation which gave him 
the opportunity  to discuss any queries  or changes he may wish to make.  
Unhappy with the outcome of Ambants investigation, Mr T complained to this service.  He 
said the premium increase hadnt been sufficiently highlighted to him, nor did he think  an 
almost 100%  increase in premiums was fair and he wanted the difference hed paid 
refunded. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint but didnt recommend  that it was upheld.  She 
thought the renewal letter Ambant had sent Mr T in December 2017 clearly  showed what his 
new premiums  would be and showed  the total paid for the previous years cover. She also 
thought that Ambant had been  able to explain why Mr Ts premium  had increased and that it 
had been applied fairly in the same  way it would to all its other customers.  
Mr T disagreed with our investigators findings. He said he thought  his premium had been 
doubled because  Ambant no longer wanted to cover  an older boiler. And he said that 
Ambant hadnt  taken into account the fact that not all its customers  were in a position to go 
through their bank  statements  monthly.  He said the fact hed been  unwell  hadnt  been taken 
into account by Ambant. He said all hed received notifying him about  the increase  was a 
standard renewal  letter which he had a legitimate  expectation would be the same  as all the 
others hed received over the years.  Mr T said he thought  Ambants new approach  to pricing  
was vague and couldnt understand why the callout hed had on his policy was of such  
Ref: DRN91178432concern when pricing his policy. Mr T said he was paying less to his new boiler cover 
provider. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts points but didnt change  her mind. She said shed seen 
no evidence that Ambant was increasing premiums in order to deter  customers with older 
boiler or that Ambant had increased  Mr Ts premiums unfairly. She said shed seen no 
evidence that Mr T had made Ambant aware of his health issues  so she couldnt reasonably 
expect it to make changes to how it dealt  with him if it was unaware of his circumstances. 
Similarly, she said she couldnt hold Ambant responsible for the fact Mr T had been unable 
to check his bank  statements. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as 
disappointment to Mr T, I dont think his complaint  should be upheld, Ill explain why. 
Ive seen the renewal  letter Ambant sent Mr T in December 2017 advising him of his 
upcoming annual  renewal.  On the right-hand side of the page the payment details for both 
the forthcoming, and expiring, policy years are set out. I think Ambant set out the increase  to 
Mr Ts premium clearly. Im unable to agree  with him that the letter  was misleading or that it 
failed to communicate that his premium was going  to increase. 
Im sorry  to hear that Mr T has had some issues with his health. But I cant  fairly  and 
reasonably hold Ambant responsible for the fact it meant he wasnt  in a position to check  his 
bank statements monthly and that he expected the renewal letter to be the same  as in 
previous years. Thats because I understand Mr T didnt make Ambant aware that he was 
unwell. So, I cant fairly make Ambant responsible for something it had no knowledge of. 
Ambant is required to clearly communicate the forthcoming premium and Im satisfied it did 
so. 
Turning now to the actual increase in premium  itself, I cant  tell Ambant what price it should 
charge Mr T for his boiler cover. Thats for it to decide, based in part on the risk it thinks  
there is of Mr T needing a call out and its wider commercial requirements. When  calculating 
Mr Ts renewal price  in 2017,  Ambant  has explained  its renewal pricing model changed that 
year. It said the new model allows it to assess the risk of future claims being made and to 
personalise renewal premiums on a customer by customer basis  to more accurately reflect 
the likely  claim  costs.  And Ambant said the main factors driving claim costs were the boiler 
manufacturer, the boiler age, claims history and likelihood  of future  claims and costs.  
Ambants entitled  to reassess these factors when setting the price of its policies. This means 
prices can go up or down, depending on what it thinks the risks are that year for all of its 
customers. So the fact Mr T had a call out on his policy  in the year prior to the increase is 
one of the factors Ambant wouldve taken into account when setting his renewal price.
What this service can do though, when a consumer complains about the price they have 
been charged, is look at whether the insurer has treated the consumer fairly and whether it 
can explain  why its charged the price  it has. We can then explain to the consumer that 
weve checked the price  theyve  been charged and are satisfied that theyve been treated 
Ref: DRN91178433fairly and in line with the way that the insurer has treated all its other customers with similar 
risk profiles. 
Its important  to understand that this service  doesnt  normally assess whether a price is too 
high to cover  a particular  risk. Thats for the insurer to decide based  on its appetite for risk 
and its business  requirements more generally. So, we wont  normally  say whether a product 
represents good value for money.  We generally  accept that insurers can charge what  they 
like for cover  so long as they act fairly. In simple terms, that means that they should apply 
their chosen  pricing  model consistently  provided  the consumer has flexibility to shop around 
and change insurer if they wish. Im satisfied thats  the case here.  
Ambant has shared with us how it calculated Mr Ts renewal price.  Im afraid  I cant  share  
that information with Mr T because its commercially  sensitive but Id like to reassure him that 
Ive checked it very carefully and am satisfied its applied it fairly to his circumstances. 
Ambant has also told us it applied  its new pricing  model to all its customers,  so I dont think  
Mr T was singled out in any way or treated any differently. And hes said hes now changed 
providers so I can see he had the flexibility to shop  around and change  providers.
Mr T says hes now paying less for his new cover than he paid to Ambant  before it 
significantly increased his premium. But that doesnt  mean  the price Ambant was charging 
was necessarily unfair. The insurance  market is a highly competitive one and new policies 
typically include significant discounts in order to attract new customers   that is even the 
case where different  products are offered  by the same providerR. Renewing  cover will 
involve a bit of time and effort to get the best terms. People who take the time to shop 
around often end up paying less. 
Finally, Ive seen no evidence that Ambant increased Mr Ts premium because  it wanted to 
deter existing customers with older boilers.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9117843