K821x#15complaint
Mr C is unhappy hes been charged  for services that shouldve been covered by his 
breakdown insurance  policy underwritten by Ageas Insurance Limited.
background
In September  2018 Mr Cs car broke down at 5:30am on his way to work. He called the 
number given to him by Ageas, but the agents  who answered the call couldnt trace his 
policy. He was told to either call back at 8:30am, when Ageas would be open  and someone  
should be able to help him, or to pay £159  for breakdown recovery. He paid for recovery.  
Later that day Mr C was contacted by the agents who explained they could provide a hire 
car, and was asked  to pay a security deposit on a credit card. He refused as he felt he was 
entitled to all of the benefits under his policy, and no hire car was provided.
Mr C is unhappy that he was charged  £159  for breakdown recovery,  and that he was asked 
to pay a security deposit for a hire car.
Our adjudicator found Ageas hadnt  acted fairly. He felt that their agents shouldve  been able 
to locate Mr Cs policy details when  his car broke down in September 2018. He also noted  
that, when Mr Cs car broke down again  in March 2019, his details still couldnt be located  by 
the agents. But the payment for the first breakdown (the subject of this complaint) wasnt 
collected and nothing was charged for the second  breakdown. So the investigator 
recommended Ageas  pay Mr C £100 for the inconvenience he was caused.
But the adjudicator also felt it was reasonable for the agents to ask for a security deposit for 
the hire car, which would be held against  the card until the hire period had ended - if the hire 
car was returned undamaged then this deposit  wouldnt  be charged.  Because Mr C wouldnt 
give his card details  for the deposit,  the investigator  also felt it was reasonable that the no 
hire car was provided.  So he didnt think Ageas should do anything  more about the hire car.
Ageass agents  didnt  agree with the adjudicator because they felt Mr C had received all of 
the assistance he was entitled to. They say they provided breakdown recovery  pending  
confirmation of his insurance policy,  and once this was confirmed they didnt charge him 
anything. They also say they didnt  provide  a hire car because Mr C wouldnt give them his 
credit card details for the security deposit. Because of this, they dont think  they should be 
asked to pay any compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
The facts  of this complaint  arent  disputed. Nor is it disputed  that Mr C was entitled  to 
breakdown recovery  and a hire car. Mr C had taken out his policy in April 2018  so its 
reasonable to expect  his details to be on the agents system by September  not all 
breakdowns take place  while Ageas is open so the agents relying upon calling Ageas to 
verify insurance isnt acceptable customer service.
Ref: DRN98052482But Mr Cs details werent on the agents  system in September,  nor were they on the system 
in March 2019  some 11 months after Mr C took out the policy. This meant that Mr C was 
on the phone to the agents for an extended  period of time while they tried to trace his policy 
and he had to secure  a payment of £159  on his credit card before he could  be rescued. 
Even though  Mr C wasnt actually charged  the £159  because the agents were able to 
confirm insurance before  any payment  was taken, I consider this to be unacceptable.  If Mr C 
hadnt had a means of payment with him when he broke down then he wouldve been left 
stranded for hours before  Ageas opened  and the agents could confirm insurance.  This 
wasnt the service he paid for and the failure  to ensure his details were  added to the agents 
system caused him great  inconvenience. Because of this I agree with the investigator that 
Ageas should  pay him £100  compensation.
Mr C was also entitled to a hire car, which was provided by the agents.  I think it was 
reasonable he was asked  to provide card details for a security deposit   he wouldve  been 
liable for any damage he caused to the hire car while it was in his possession. The terms of 
his policy  also say he would have to provide a credit  card for the hire car provision. So I dont 
think the agents did anything wrong by asking for card details or by not providing a hire car 
when card details  werent given. I wont be asking Ageas to do anything about more  about 
the hire car.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ageas Insurance  Limited  must 
pay Mr C £100 for the inconvenience caused resulting from his insurance  details  not being 
available to their breakdown recovery  agents.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9805248