K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC gave  him misleading information about the bank 
charges for his business that applied when he used an immediate deposit machine (IDM).
background
Mr K says he was told in 2016 that if he used the IDM rather  than pay in at the counter he 
would not receive  any charges whatsoever. In fact there were still charges for using the 
IDM applied both for each  cheque and according  to the amount of cash  paid in. Lloyds 
issued a final response letter in August 2018  and said that the charges had been applied  
correctly but it offered  £25 for the inconvenience.
Our investigator recommended that Lloyds pay compensation of £100  for inconvenience. He 
did not think that Mr K had made  a financial loss as the charges were in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account.  
Mr K, who is represented in this complaint, did not agree. He wanted all the charges for 
using the IDM refunded. And he said that had he known about them hed have changed 
bank.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds told Mr K that having investigated your complaint, its clear  you were given incorrect 
information by the branch.  Ive  noted that in fact using the IDM meant  a per credit  cost 
which is quoted  by Lloyds as £0.65 for paying  in at the counter would not be applied.  But 
that there  would still be a charge relating to the amount of cash paid in  the major part of  
Mr Ks banking   and for each cheque. These  charges were the same as paying in over the 
counter. And, as an example,  Lloyds has provided  a copy of the invoice for the period from 
10 September to 9 October 2018  for Mr Ks account. This showed that he paid in some cash  
at the counter and some  still to the IDM and was charged the same rate for each.
Mr K has paid the amount of charges he should have although he expected them to be 
lower. Lloyds has provided him with a breakdown of those charges and so, if he was for 
example thinking  about changing  bank, hed still have been able to review those actual 
charges. I wont be holding Lloyds to refund charges based on what  its staff said to Mr K in 
error. This has though been inconvenient to Mr K and in my view this is fairly reflected in the 
award already  recommended.
Ref: DRN92052412my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr K 
£100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9205241