K820x#14the complaint
Mrs S says TSB Bank plcs IT problems had an impact on her.  
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. At the beginning of May Mrs S tried 
to pay her council tax online but wasnt  able to  so she made the payment at a TSB branch 
instead. The payment didnt reach Mrs Ss council  tax account. So, towards the end of the 
month and after getting a final reminder from the council,  Mrs S made the payment again. 
Mrs S asked TSB to trace the first payment and later complained  about the time it was taking 
to do so. The councils  bank told TSB it had received the payment, but the council  still 
couldnt find it. On 15 June Mrs S called  TSB again  and established  that the reference 
number had been missed off the payment. On 19 June TSB temporarily credited £211  to 
Mrs Ss account and wrote to her on 21 June to say it was looking into what  happened. The 
letter said TSB might take back the £211 if the payment was later returned  by the council.  
After checking  her council  tax account  again several  weeks later Mrs S found that both the 
missing payment and her second payment had now been credited. As £211 of this money 
wasnt hers Mrs S asked the council  to send it back to TSB  but TSB told the council it 
wouldnt be asking Mrs S for the money back.  
TSB responded to Mrs Ss complaint in December.  It apologised for the problems  and the 
service shed experienced and said it would pay her £100 for the trouble and upset  caused  
and £50 to cover her expenses. 
Mrs S referred her complaint to us. She said £50 wasnt enough to cover  her expenses and 
£100 wasnt enough to compensate her for the worry caused. She also said she wasnt  sure 
if TSB would  still take back  the £211,  which was adding  to her concern. She thought £1,000  
would be a fairer  amount  of compensation. 
Our adjudicator checked that TSB wouldnt be reclaiming the £211 from Mrs S. TSB told us it 
wouldnt. So our adjudicator felt the £211, with the £150 TSB had also paid Mrs S, was a fair 
amount of compensation for the issues shed  experienced.  
Mrs S said she wouldnt  accept less than £500.  She said £50 didnt cover  her call costs, loss 
of earnings, or the time spent and inconvenience caused. She said having  to find the second 
payment to the council had left her unexpectedly short  that month and TSBs payment didnt 
adequately compensate her for the stress and upset the whole issue  had caused to her. 
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I think the total amount of £361  TSB has already paid is fair compensation for 
the issues Mrs S has raised.  Im aware this wont be the outcome she hoped for.
Its unfortunate Mrs S wasnt  able to pay her council tax online as she wanted to and was 
inconvenienced having to go to the branch to pay instead. And, because TSB didnt put the 
reference on the payment, the council  didnt immediately match it up to Mrs Ss account.  
Ref: DRN99882642From what  I understand, the payment was sent and did arrive at the councils bank, but it still 
took quite some time to be located  and applied to Mrs Ss council tax account. Because  of 
the number of complaints it was dealing with, TSB didnt trace the payment as quickly as it 
could have. And it also didnt keep Mrs S properly updated with what was happening. Mrs S 
tells us the council has also admitted some fault in the way it handled her enquiries. But I 
think its fair to say its unlikely any of this would have happened  if Mrs S had been  able to 
make the payment online, or if the reference  number had been  put on the branch payment in 
the first place. 
So its clear that TSBs actions have had an impact on Mrs S  and are likely to have cost 
her some expenses too. But I think the amount TSB has already paid to Mrs S is fair 
compensation for that. Ill explain why.
Mrs S says her costs  were more than £50 because of call costs  and loss of earnings. Shes 
put the cost of one particularly long call to TSB on 15 June  at £10.50  and said she cant  
quantify how many other calls shes also made. But without evidence  about the calls or the 
overall cost of them, its hard for me to say that the £50 TSB has already paid isnt enough  
as it would allow for another four calls of similar length. 
As far as loss of earnings go again  Mrs S hasnt  put a figure on that. Shes told us she 
cancelled a half days work when she first found  out her payment hadnt been credited to her 
council tax account. She said she did that because she hadnt  been able to get through to 
TSB on the phone earlier in the day and also because she felt it would be the simplest and 
quickest way to take proof of payment  to the council offices. I can understand why she 
decided to do that, but I dont think I could fairly say that TSB should  cover the cost of that 
half day. It was ultimately Mrs Ss choice to visit in person. 
Similarly Mrs S says she took another half day off a week later as she hadnt  had an update 
from TSB and again couldnt get through on the phone. But she had already asked TSB to 
trace the payment  at that stage. I agree that took longer than it should have and TSB didnt 
keep Mrs S properly updated.  But again it was her decision to visit in person  with no 
guarantee that the branch would be able to help with her query.  So again I dont think it 
would be fair to say TSB should pay for Mrs Ss lost earnings. 
Mrs S also wants  TSB to pay her for a half day she says she took off work to move her 
account to another bank. Its clear she wasnt happy  with the service she got from TSB 
overall. And this feeling has been added  to by problems with her online banking and also 
other changes TSB made to her account  including  a decision to stop accepting  foreign 
currency cheques a year ago. TSB was entitled  to make that commercial decision, even if 
Mrs S doesnt think it was communicated well. As it was ultimately Mrs Ss choice  to move 
bank I cant reasonably say TSB should compensate  her for her time doing  that either. 
I do also have to take into account that TSB  albeit belatedly  applied a temporary  credit  to 
Mrs Ss account. Ordinarily it would be entitled  to take that payment back again once the 
original payment was found. But TSB has said it wont claim that payment back  and Mrs S 
has had the benefit of it, because its gone  towards her council tax account. Mrs S argues 
that TSB still hasnt  told her directly that it wont be taking  that money back. But we have 
received that confirmation from TSB  so Im satisfied this should be enough reassurance for 
Mrs S that the money is hers to keep. And I cant ignore that payment when Im thinking  
about the overall fairness of what TSB has paid Mrs S.
Ref: DRN99882643Its clear this situation was very troubling for Mrs S and I can understand that she was 
concerned about  where her money  had gone. And she was concerned that she was late 
paying her May council  tax through no fault of her own and had to make a second payment 
before knowing  where the first one had gone.  Shes said that left her short of money  but 
looking at her statement  I cant  see that was actually the case.  The replacement payment 
didnt leave her overdrawn at any time and didnt cause any issues making other  payments. 
Ive taken into account that Mrs S chased the original payment up several times on the 
phone and in person,  with TSB and the council. And Ive thought about  the level of worry 
shes said this caused her overall.  Mrs S has asked for £500 in compensation. But taking 
everything into account, I agree with the adjudicator  that the £361  TSB has already paid to 
Mrs S is a fair amount of compensation for the issues shes  raised.  
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc has paid Mrs S a fair amount to resolve  her complaint. 
So I make no order or award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9988264