K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that UK Insurance Limited  (UKI) have unfairly declined his home insurance 
claim.
background
Mr H holds a home  insurance policy that is underwritten  by UKI. He submitted a claim in 
2018 as a gas pipe was leaking and required  a repair. UKI said they consulted  every  part of 
the policy and determined that the only potential head of cover in these circumstances would 
be accidental damage. But given that the pipe was concealed, it wasnt possible to 
determine whether  the damage  had been  caused  accidentally, so they asked Mr H to 
provide an engineers report  to establish  the cause of the issue. 
Mr H arranged for an engineer to attend his property  but said that he was also unable to 
determine the cause of the damage as he did not want to break through the concrete floor. 
So UKI refused  to cover the claim as they said that Mr H had not been able to show that the 
damage was caused by an insured  event   such as accidental damage   or whether it had 
simply eroded over time due to wear and tear which  was excluded under the policy.  
Unhappy with this decision, Mr H brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She considered that it was unfair of UKI to decline the 
claim when  it wasnt  clear  how the gas pipe had been damaged  and thought that the insurer  
ought to have investigated  this rather than asking Mr H to determine the cause of damage.  
As a result, the investigator said that UKI should reimburse  Mr Hs costs for having the pipe 
repaired, as well as paying an amount of £50 compensation.  
UKI disagreed and said they had handled  the claim fairly and in line with their policy terms 
and conditions, so the matter was passed  to me to determine. I issued  my provisional  
decision on this complaint on 4 February  2020. I said I was intending on reaching a different 
outcome to the investigator,  as I was minded not to uphold the complaint, and set out the 
following findings:
The policy  terms and conditions state that Mr H is covered  for:
Service pipes and cables
We will pay for accidental damage to underground drains,  pipes, cables and tanks 
which you are legally responsible for and which provide services to or from your 
home.
Accidental damage is further defined by the policy as sudden and unintentional physical 
damage that happens unexpectedly.  
It is a well-established  principle of insurance  that the burden of proving a claim falls to the 
policyholder. So in these circumstances, the onus is on Mr H to show  that an insured event 
has occurred, i.e. that the damage to his gas pipe was most likely caused  accidentally. And I 
dont consider its unreasonable for UKI to expect Mr H to provide evidence  that an insured 
event had occurred  before  they considered the claim any further. 
However, Mr H has not been able to produce  any such  evidence.  UKI requested that he 
arrange for an engineer to inspect the damage and determine its likely cause. But no such  
Ref: DRN97958382determination was able to be made because it was seemingly too labour intensive to be able 
to carry out a proper  inspection.  I appreciate that it may have involved a fair amount of work 
to break  through the concrete to be able to inspect the pipe, and that it may have been more 
expensive than a simple inspection. But if such an inspection showed  that an insured event 
had occurred, then it would be reasonable to expect UKI to cover this cost as part of the 
claim. 
But as it stands, Mr H has not been able to demonstrate with any evidence that the damage 
to his gas pipe was caused accidentally  and so should be covered by the policy.  So in these 
circumstances, I do not think it was unfair for UKI to refuse to consider  the claim any further 
in the absence of such evidence. As a result, I do not intend to uphold this complaint, so I 
will not be asking UKI to cover the claim.
If Mr H is subsequently  able to produce any independent  evidence  (such as an engineers 
report) to substantiate his claim and show that the pipe was accidentally damaged as per the 
policy definition, then I would expect UKI to reconsider the claim in light of this. But on the 
weight of the current evidence, I do not think UKI have acted unreasonably by declining to 
consider the claim.
I invited both parties to respond.  UKI accepted my findings, but Mr H disagreed.  In summary,  
he said:
As far as he is concerned the damage was caused accidentally,  as his gas meter is 
kept in a small cupboard which could have been  damaged by the hoover that is kept 
in there.  His engineer  also thinks the damage  was caused accidentally;
The definition of home emergency is something that poses a risk to health  or 
residence or wellbeing  and causes damage or makes a building unsafe. He had a 
gas leak and was also told that this posed  a risk to his electrical  unit which  could 
have exploded,  yet UKI did not send anyone to attend to the emergency  or carry out 
repairs; and
He made  a claim in 2017 for a water leak and the insurer  sent a plumber to carry out 
repairs without asking  any further  questions, despite the damage being  a result of 
wear and tear rather than accidental damage.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  including  Mr Hs recent 
comments  to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it.
I understand that Mr H feels strongly  that the damage was caused accidentally, and I 
appreciate that this may well be the case. However,  there is no contemporaneous evidence 
to substantiate  this, and neither is there any documented  expert  opinion  to demonstrate that 
accidental damage  was the likely cause. I appreciate  that Mr Hs engineer  may be of the 
opinion that the damage  was accidental. But in the circumstances, I do not consider an 
undocumented opinion to be sufficient  enough  evidence to demonstrate that an insured 
event had likely occurred.
Mr H has also said that UKI failed to send  somebody to attend to the gas leak which, by 
definition, would be considered a home  emergency. Mr Hs policy does indeed provide 
cover for home emergency assistance if his source of heating  fails. However, the policy 
specifically excludes  leaks  from gas pipes:
Ref: DRN97958383We wont  pay:
to repair  leaks from any gas pipe or gas-fired appliance
So although  I appreciate the situation may well be considered  as an emergency in the 
conventional sense (and according to the definition he has referenced) it is an emergency  
that is specifically  excluded by the policy  which would also include any consequential 
damage (such as the risk posed  to his electrical unit) if it is not a specific  insured peril itself 
and where the leaking  gas pipe was the ultimate  cause  of the risk of damage. So I do not 
consider UKI to have acted unfairly by failing to send  somebody to tend to the leaking gas 
pipe and carry out repairs given that this event is specifically excluded. 
Finally, Mr H says that he made  a claim in 2017  for a water leak,  where  the insurer sent a 
plumber out to carry out repairs  without  asking any further questions, despite the damage 
being a result of wear  and tear rather than accidental damage. In certain  circumstances, an 
insurer may decide, at their own discretion,  to indemnify a claim that would otherwise be 
excluded under the policy terms and conditions. But just because the insurer  has exercised 
such discretion in the past does not mean  they are obligated to do this in all subsequent  
claims that may not be covered.  And where  the policy requirements have not been met, or it 
cannot be shown  that an insured event has occurred, I cannot  fairly or reasonably direct  the 
insurer to cover the claim. 
So Im afraid  Mr Hs recent submissions do not change the outcome I set out in my 
provisional decision, and it follows that I do not uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9795838