K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mr S bought the policy to protect his repayments  when he took out a loan. It was at a 
meeting in 1998 in one of the banks branches. The loan included an amount to pay for the 
policy. And it provided Mr S with cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed so the complaint  was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S says he cant remember  any mention  of PPI at the time of the sale. Lloyds no 
longer has a copy of his credit agreement but thats not unreasonable  given how long 
ago the sale was. It has provided a sample  of the form that was in use at the time.  
On this the cost of the PPI was set out separately under the heading Optional Loan 
Repayment Protection. And lower down the form, under the heading Optional Loan 
Protection, the options to select or decline PPI were set out with equal prominence. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ss comments but I also have  to consider how long 
ago the sale was and how that might affect  what he recalls. Overall I think its most 
likely Lloyds made Mr S aware  he had a choice about buying PPI, and he chose to 
take it out.  
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr S. And it seems to have been suitable  for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. Mr S was entitled to six 
months full pay from his employer if he was sick. But the PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to this - for up to the term of the loan for accident and sickness  claims and 
for up to 12 months for unemployment. He also said his parents would have helped 
but thats not suitable alternative  protection. Its not guaranteed and peoples  
circumstances can change. Overall, I think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mr S if 
he was sick or lost his job. 
The cash  price of the policy and the monthly  cost were shown on the agreement   
but the interest payable wasnt set out separately. But as the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently  affordable, I dont  think Mr S wouldve made a different 
decision if hed been given clearer cost information. The missing interest payment 
was around £3 per month, so it seems unlikely  knowing  this would have made a 
difference to Mr Ss decision. And given how long the policy  couldve paid out for, if 
Mr S made a successful  claim  he couldve  got back quite  a bit more  than he paid for 
it.
Ref: DRN92113622Mr S wouldve  only got back a limited refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the 
policy early.  But I havent seen  anything from the time the policy  was sold to suggest  
he thought hed repay the loan early.  So I dont think this meant the policy wasnt  
right for him.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But Mr S 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things (such  as type of 
employment contract or pre-existing medical conditions). So I think its unlikely he 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided   overall, 
I think he would still have taken  out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mr S has lost out because  of any problems  with the sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9211362