complaint
Miss K and Mr S say Santander UK Plc, trading as National & Provincial Building Society, 
mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on Miss K and Mr Ss complaint in May 2019 (see attached).  I 
said I was minded not to uphold it. I invited Miss K, Mr S and Santander to let me have anything 
else they wanted me to consider before I issued a final decision.
Miss K and Mr S responded,  through their representative, to say they accepted  my provisional 
decision. Santander had nothing further to add.
Miss K and Mr Ss complaint now comes  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence is either incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive made a decision  on what I think is most likely to have happened  based on 
whats available.
Miss K and Mr S accept my provisional  decision. So for the same  reasons as set out in my 
provisional decision I do not uphold their complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold Miss K and Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K and Mr S 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 August 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9721244K820x#14Provisional Decision - May 2019
complaint
Miss K and Mr S say Santander  UK Plc, trading  as National  & Provincial  Building Society,  mis-
sold them a payment  protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Miss K and Mr S took out a PPI policy to protect their mortgage repayments in October  1987. Neither  
Santander nor Miss K or Mr S can say now how the policy was sold to them. The policy covered  them  
both. It cost £7.20 per month for £156 per month of cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. It 
wouldve paid out for up to 24 months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator upheld Miss K and Mr Ss complaint because Mr S said he had a pre-existing 
medical condition (PEMC). The adjudicator  thought  that made the policy unsuitable  for Miss K and 
Mr S and Santander had recommended PPI without pointing out that it may not suit their needs.
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators view because  Mr S had not produced evidence of his 
PEMC, despite  being  asked  to do so.
Miss K and Mr Ss complaint comes to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence is either  
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made a decision on what I think  is most likely  to have 
happened  based on whats  available.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. Im 
currently minded  not to uphold Miss K and Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss K and Mr S said that PPI was added  without their knowledge. I cant know what  was 
discussed with them at the time they took out their mortgage and PPI. Santander no longer
has a copy of Miss K and Mr Ss paperwork from the time of the sale. The policy was sold over 30 
years ago and the mortgage account closed  around 18 years ago, so thats not surprising. But 
Santander has sent in examples of the type of mortgage paperwork it was using around this time. On 
the sample mortgage  application Ive seen, the customer was told about  available insurances, 
including PPI and asked to tick the box if they wanted the insurance. I think  it was made clear that 
PPI was optional. I cant know if paperwork just like this was used in Miss K and Mr Ss case, 
because I dont know how the PPI was sold to them.  But, according to Santanders  records, the PPI 
was taken  out at the same time as the mortgage.  So I think it likely  that this or similar paperwork 
wouldve been  used.  I think it likely  therefore that Miss K and Mr R opted to take out the insurance 
knowing they didnt have to. I can understand why they may not remember it this way now, after so 
much time.
Because Santander doesnt  know  how the policy  was sold to Miss K and Mr S it has worked on the 
basis that it recommended the PPI to them. To be fair to them, I have taken  this approach too. So that 
means Santander also had to check whether  the cover was right for them, as well as giving them  
clear information about it, so they could decide for themselves if they wanted  to buy it.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I cant see that it was unsuitable for them,  looking at their 
circumstances at the time.
Ref: DRN97212443Dealing firstly  with Mr Ss PEMC, weve  asked Mr S a few times to provide  evidence of this. Although 
Mr S told us on his PPI Questionnaire that he had a PEMC, he didnt tell us exactly what this 
condition was, when it was diagnosed, how it was being treated or the effect it had on his day to day 
living or ability  to work. This is important information, because Miss K and Mr S werent clear about 
exactly when the PPI was added.  So, I cant  know if Mr S had a PEMC at the time of sale and if so, 
how it was affecting him.
Miss K recently gave us some information on the telephone about  Mr Ss condition.  Given  the nature 
of the condition mentioned,  it seems to me that Mr S should  be able to get this evidence from his 
doctor. He hasnt given me any reason  to believe that might not be possible. Without it, based on 
whats available, I cant fairly conclude that the PPI was unsuitable. It seems to me, based on what  
Ive seen currently, that Miss K and Mr S couldve benefitted from everything the policy offered 
because I cant see that they were affected  by any of the main  limitations or exclusions on cover.
It also seems that claims relating to Mr Ss PEMC may not have been excluded  anyway, unless he 
knew he had a PEMC at the time of applying for PPI  for which a claim has been paid under the 
insurance. I havent been told that Mr K had previously made  a claim in respect of this condition.  So, 
I think its possible he wouldve still been covered for it at the time he applied  for PPI. And it was 
open to him to cancel  the policy at a later date,  after hed made  a successful claim in respect of that 
condition. So, without more,  currently  I cant fairly  conclude that hes lost out or that if given clearer  
information Miss K and Mr S likely wouldnt have bought  the policy. I think they probably would  have.
I also think the PPI was suitable because:
Miss K and Mr S seemed eligible  to take out the PPI.
they said they were  eligible to get less than 3 months worth of sick pay through  work.
However, the PPI would have paid out on top of any work benefits  and for up to 24 
months per successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim, so potentially  much 
longer than their work  benefits wouldve covered them for. 
Miss K and Mr S said they had savings of less than 3 months worth of pay. But, I cant  see 
that these other resources made the policy  unsuitable. It wouldve  allowed  them to use their 
savings to meet other household  expenses, or to keep them  for the future,  with the 
reassurance that their mortgage  repayments  could be met if they lost their job or werent  
well enough  to work. And not keeping  up with the repayments on a loan secured on your 
home can have serious results.
the policy  appeared affordable. They were paying a monthly premium for it and it 
couldve been cancelled at any time without  them  losing out financially.
Overall, I currently think the PPI would have been useful to Miss K and Mr S, in their 
circumstances. And that it was reasonable  for Santander to recommend it, if it did.
Its possible Santander  didnt  give Miss K and Mr S all the information  they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know  whether  it made the cost clear  or pointed out the main things the 
policy didnt cover. But, although the information may not have been as clear as it couldve  been,  
before I decide whether  to uphold their complaint,  I must consider whether Miss K and Mr S have lost 
out because of this. I cant see that they have. I think they wouldve  understood they had to pay 
something for PPI, and as Ive said above the cost was affordable and the policy suitable.
It follows  I dont currently think Miss K and Mr S have lost out because  of any problems  with the sale 
and I dont think this policy was mis-sold  to them.
Ref: DRN97212444my provisional  decision
Im currently  minded not to uphold  Miss K and Mr Ss complaint.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9721244