K820x#14complaint
Mrs N says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs N bought the policy by post in 2003  at the same  time as taking out a credit  card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mrs N disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. Ive
followed this in making my decision.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ns complaint because:
Ive seen Mrs Ns signed credit card application  form.  Apart  from Mrs Ns name and 
address, the application has been  filled in by hand. In it is a section dealing with PPI. 
After a brief description of the insurance  it asks the applicant  to tick a box if they want the 
cover. I can see that there is a tick in the box. So Im satisfied  that BOS  made  Mrs N 
aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose  to take it.
Mrs N says that she didnt need  the PPI because she was entitled to sick pay from her 
employer and had some savings. But BOS didnt  recommend  the policy  to Mrs N so it 
didnt have to check if she needed it or whether it was suitable for her. As Mrs N chose to 
take the PPI, I think she wanted to protect her repayments against accident, illness and 
unemployment.
Its possible the information BOS gave Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should
have been. But Mrs N wouldnt  have been  affected by any of the main things the policy
didnt cover  such as time off work because of a pre-existing  medical condition.  As Ive 
said, Mrs N has told us that she had other  means to make her monthly credit card 
payments had she not been working. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
these. The policy was also competitively priced  and had a reasonable benefit. So I dont  
think better information would have stopped her buying  it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9302978