K820x#14complaint
Mr A and Ms Gs complaint concerns life cover sold to them in 2008 to protect  their 
mortgage. The sale was made by an appointed representative (AR)  of Legal & General  
Partnership Services Limited (L&G).
Theyre represented by a claims management company (CMC), which  has said,  in brief;  
The policys premiums were loaded  as a result of the relationship between L&G and 
its AR, meaning the policy provided a lower  level of cover  than a similarly priced 
policy sourced from the whole market, disadvantaging Mr A and Ms G.  
If Mr A and Ms G had been aware  of this, they wouldnt have accepted  the 
recommendation.
They should therefore be refunded the difference  between  the loaded and non-
loaded premiums.
background
The CMC felt the sale of the policy breached several of the rules set out in the Financial  
Conduct Authority  (FCA) Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (ICOBS) 
concerning the requirement to provide information  about a policys important characteristics. 
It referred to an article published  in a 2008  industry  publication that speculated about policies 
sold by ARs having  loaded  premiums.  The article gave a comparison between  quotes for 
cover (using the same criteria  of age, gender  and smoker status) given  by an L&G AR and 
that given by a whole-of-market  financial adviser. This appeared to show that the latter  
provided a higher level of cover in return for the same premium.
The CMC felt that in light of the ICOB rules thered been a requirement for the AR to provide 
customers with clear  information about this difference  in pricing. It said the loaded premiums  
existed entirely for the benefit of the AR and L&G with no corresponding benefit  provided to 
the customer. The CMC felt the loaded premiums  couldnt be justified by the quality of the 
ARs advice  precisely  because of the apparent failure to disclose the higher costs. It said 
such contracts were unfair and that L&G had failed  to manage a conflict  of interest with the 
AR. 
L&G didnt uphold  the complaint. It said, in brief; 
The FCA had set out the underlying principles and policy  considerations relevant to 
price discrimination  and cross-subsidy. In summary,  price discrimination could be 
defined as a firm charging a different price to different consumers for the same 
product, where  the price difference couldnt  be explained by differences  in the costs 
of supplying the product. 
In this case  comparing an AR sale against a whole-of-market  sale  the expenses  
associated with the former would be higher because of increased reinsurance costs  
on higher-risk tied business, higher acquisition costs on the provision of advice, and 
lower persistency on the profile  of this book. 
In respect of the ICOB  rules,  L&G was satisfied its AR had acted  correctly.  It said that 
during the sales  process the adviser  went through and provided  Mr A and Ms G with 
a Protection Choices illustration and a Key Features Document (KFD). Both set 
out full details of the policy including its main characteristics   the significant  benefits, 
Ref: DRN92616612exclusions and limitations, together with the duration  of the policy  and price 
information. 
The illustration confirmed the monthly premium  and the total payable  if Mr A and 
Ms G were  to keep the policy for the full term. The illustration also set out the amount 
the AR would receive in commission. So, L&G was satisfied the adviser  had provided 
enough information to enable Mr A and Ms G to make an informed  decision.
In summary, the premiums on policies offered by L&Gs ARs were  not loaded.  The 
difference in cover described in the quoted article  could be due to a variety  of factors.  
For example, the financial adviser  couldve sacrificed some  commission.
The CMC wasnt satisfied  with L&Gs response, so referred the complaint to this service.
My colleague gave his view on the matter,  saying in brief;  
The cost of life cover should  generally  be the same whatever the source of a sale.  
But the cost of arranging the policy might vary. For example, a policy  purchased on-
line might  be cheaper for a business  to process,  so the cost of arranging  the same  
type of cover might be discounted. Additionally, as noted by L&G,  an adviser  might  
be prepared to waive part of their commission.
Theres often someone  prepared to undercut the price of a product to secure 
business. So, the assertion that a consumer couldve  purchased  the same product 
elsewhere more cheaply wouldnt be enough to demonstrate L&G acted unfairly  or 
had priced an identical product differently.  
The documentation  provided to Mr A and Ms G showed the commission costs and 
how much  would  be paid over the term of the policy. 
In his opinion,  the premiums  hadnt  been loaded,  and he agreed that L&G had 
provided enough information  to enable Mr A and Ms G to make an informed decision 
about purchasing  the policy. 
The CMC didnt accept  my colleagues view.  It said, in brief, that;
The reason  the cost varied was to provide  padding for businesses  to make money 
out of the customer.  The variation was to protect  the business,  not benefit  the 
customer.
The burden of proof  should be on the business to prove it was not behaving in an 
uncompetitive and price-discriminating  manner. 
It rejected the economic arguments of L&G and this service  regarding loaded 
premiums. The AR was large and L&Gs biggest in terms of client  numbers. So, 
together they shouldve been able to use their market power to achieve  price 
reductions. These shouldve then been  passed on to consumers in the form of lower  
prices and/or better  products. 
Basic  economic theory was being tossed  out of the window by L&G and this service, 
both implying that the more one sells the less market power one has  so by some  
undefined market mechanism one incurs  extra costs for marketing products. But the 
extra marketing costs  do not exist. Rather, this was an example of profiteering at the 
expense of unsophisticated customers. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
Ref: DRN92616613my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Turning first to the ICOBS  rules referred to by the CMC, these concern requirements  around 
providing information (specifically orally)  to ensure customers  can make an informed 
decision on whether  to accept a recommendation. This information  must cover the main 
characteristics of the policy  including its significant  benefits, exclusions and limitations,  its 
duration, and price  information.
Regardless of what was discussed with Mr A and Mrs G, the documentation  provided to 
them appears to have met the requirements for the provision of information.  In terms of 
pricing, the documents, as noted,  showed the cost of premiums,  the total amount payable  
and the commission  that would be paid to the adviser. 
But at the heart of the complaint brought by the CMC on behalf  of Mr A and Mrs G is not a 
dispute about whether they were  informed about the price of the policy. Rather,  the issue  is 
whether the way in which that price  was determined, and the factors  involved in doing so  
namely potential  loading  were characteristics  that shouldve been  communicated.  And, 
further, may have influenced the decision to purchase.
The documentation  provided to Mr A and Ms G by the adviser confirmed that he was able to 
recommend a mortgage from the whole market,  but he could only recommend insurance  
products from a single  insurer  L&G.  And Ive not seen that Mr A and Ms G were told they 
had to take out life cover  with L&G or indeed any other provider as a condition of the 
mortgage. 
So, I think as long as Mr A and Mrs G were fully informed  of the significant benefits, 
exclusions and limitations of any recommended policy and of its costs, the AR had satisfied 
the ICOBS requirements.  And I dont think there was any further requirement to provide 
details of the mechanics by which L&G set the price of its policies. 
Provided Mr A and Mrs G, or any other potential customer, were made aware of how the 
policy worked, how much it cost and  importantly  that they were  able to make 
comparisons with other providers before proceeding, L&G and its AR were in my view acting 
correctly. Providing the conditions described above were met, Mr A and Mrs G werent 
trapped into paying a higher price than they needed to. 
The CMC has suggested that L&G was in some way duty bound  to pass on any savings it 
could make through the economies  of scale achieved from working with a large AR 
(assuming there were any). But I dont think thats the case. If it did in some  way load the 
premiums for this type of sale (and I dont think theres enough evidence  to support a finding  
that it did), making the cover more  expensive for a potential  policyholder  might  simply  lead to 
them finding  an alternative supplier elsewhere.  So, it would offer little benefit to L&G or its 
AR. 
In summary,  Im satisfied  that the sale of the policy to Mr A and Ms G was conducted in 
accordance with the relevant rules  and regulations. Ive seen nothing that leads me to 
conclude that L&G were engaged in price discrimination, offering an unfair  contract or failing 
to manage a conflict of interest. 
Ref: DRN92616614my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 March 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9261661