K821x#15complaint
Mr I has complained about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled his request to retain his 
car after it was written off and it paid out under his motor insurance policy. 
background
Mr Is car was damaged  in an accident and he made a claim under his policy. AXA wrote it 
off and eventually  agreed a settlement  amount for the car with Mr I. He asked if he could 
retain the damaged car, but was told he couldnt  as it had been classed as category B for 
salvage. Mr I then saw the damaged car for sale and complained to AXA. It told him it had 
been re-classified  as salvage category S and was now being sold as salvage. 
AXA apologised for not informing Mr I the salvage category had changed and offering him 
the chance to buy it back. And it paid him £200  in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this had caused him. It then stopped the sale of the damaged  car and offered 
him the option  to buy it back at 35% of the pre-accident market  value.  Mr I paid this for the 
car and got the car back. 
He then complained to us, as he wasnt happy  with the service  AXA had provided and he felt 
AXA had charged  him too much for the damaged car. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Is complaint. He established  AXA would have got 
30% of the pre-accident  market value for the car. In view of this, he didnt think it was fair 
AXA had charged  Mr I 35% to buy his car back. He suggested AXA refund the difference.  
But, he was satisfied what AXA had paid Mr I in compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience was fair.
Mr I has said hes happy with the investigators assessment. AXA doesnt  agree with it. It 
says it hasnt acted  unfairly, as its likely  the car would have been sold as salvage  at a 
minimum of 35% of its pre-accident market  value. As AXA doesnt agree with the 
investigator the case has come to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the sake of completeness, I should  say I agree with our investigator that what  AXA has 
paid Mr I in compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience is fair. 
But, I still need to consider  whether  what AXA has charged Mr I to buy back his car is fair. I 
cant see anything in the policy document provided by AXA that specifically states it will take 
possession of Mr Is car if it pays out in full on the basis its a total loss. But I accept its a 
general principle of insurance  that if an insurer pays out on this basis,  the car becomes its 
property. Nonetheless,  I think an insurer should  allow a policyholder to retain or buy back  
their car if its repairable. This is because the car was their property and I consider it fair and 
reasonable for policyholders to be able to keep it if they want  to, provided  the insurer doesnt 
lose out as a result. 
So, while I dont think AXA should  have  lost out as a result of Mr I buying  back his car, 
equally  I dont think it should be better  off as a result of this happening.  In my opinion, this 
Ref: DRN96862602wouldnt be fair, as AXA would  in effect  be making money  as a result of Mr I wanting  to 
keep a car that belonged  to him and can be safely repaired. AXA should just end up in the 
same position it would have been  in if it had kept Mr Is car. 
AXA has told us that it would have got 30% of the pre-accident market  value of Mr Is car if it 
had kept it. So I think this is the most AXA was entitled to charge  Mr I if he wanted to buy the 
car back.  AXA has instead charged  him 35%.  Its argued this is fair because  it would  have 
sold for at least this amount on the open  market. But it seems  to have missed the point that if 
it had charged him 30% it would have been in exactly the same position as if it had retained 
possession of the car 
So, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for AXA to refund the 
difference between  the 35% it charged  Mr I and the 30% I think it should have charged him, 
plus interest to reflect  the fact that Mr I has been  without this money  for a period of time. The 
amount is £1,325 and interest  should  be at our usual rate of eight  percent  per annum simple 
from the date Mr I paid the money  to AXA to the date it refunds  it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Is complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay 
him £1,325.  It must add interest to this amount at eight  percent  per annum simple from the 
date Mr I paid it what it required for him to buy back his car to the date it pays him the £1,3251.
 
AXA should  do this within 28 days  of us telling it Mr Is accepted my decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Robert Short
ombudsman
1 If AXA considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr I how much its taken off. It should also give Mr I a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN9686260