K822xcomplaint
Mr A is unhappy that Usay Business  Limited  is unwilling to pay out the cost of his declined 
claim after it mis-sold  him private medical  insurance.
background 
In April 2018 Mr A enquired online about  private medical insurance through Usay Business 
Limiteds website. Following this enquiry he was contacted  about  taking out cover. Mr A 
explained that he and his wife were citizens of another country but were planning on staying 
in the UK for maybe three months,  going abroad and then returning for another three  
months. The sale took place over several  calls and resulted in him taking out a policy which  
required him to be a permanent UK resident.
In July 2018 Mr A unfortunately fell ill whilst  in the UK. He went  into hospital as an 
emergency and following  his discharge he needed to return daily to the hospital for medical 
treatment. After five days he was well enough to be given a prescription for the medication 
he needed. Mr A received  an invoice from the hospital as  being  a non UK resident  he 
wasnt eligible for NHS treatment. He sent this to his insurer and put in a claim. His insurer 
declined the claim  as he wasnt eligible for the policy. It refunded the premiums  hed been 
paid for the policy and cancelled cover.
Mr A complained to Usay  as it had sold him a policy that he couldnt  use. Usay  agreed it had 
mis-sold the cover, but said that as the premiums had already been refunded to Mr A it didnt 
need to do anymore. Mr A considered it should  pay the cost of his treatment, so he brought 
his complaint to our service. Our investigator awarded him £250  in compensation but didnt 
think Usay should  pay the claim. Usay agreed to pay the compensation. Mr A disagreed  and 
asked for an ombudsman to consider his case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As its been  accepted by Usay that it mis-sold Mr A his medical insurance policy, I dont need 
to consider this issue. I need to decide what the appropriate compensation for this error is.
Its clear that if Usay had correctly advised Mr A then he wouldnt have taken out this cover. 
Hes explained that he was looking for a suitable  and affordable health insurance policy. But 
it seems that he couldnt get cover under standard private medical insurance policies, as 
these require him to be a permanent UK resident or citizen,  with a GP and access to NHS 
cover. So it seems that what  he was looking for wasnt available  to him, as the limited  
information I have  on more specialist international policies suggests they are much more  
expensive and also still may have excluded certain types of treatment, such as emergency 
admissions. When our investigator spoke to Mr A about what  he wouldve  done in if Usay  
had told him he couldnt  take out a private medical  insurance policy, he said he wouldve 
looked to minimise his costs. But he hasnt elaborated  on this.
Its not clear how Mr A wouldve looked  to minimise his costs. And I havent been provided 
with any information  to show he wouldve taken out alternative insurance  if hed been given 
the correct information. And as Ive set out above, even if he did look to do this, I cant say if 
Ref: DRN92701392hed have found one that was suitable  and affordable for him. So I dont think  theres enough 
information for me to consider this point further.
As I appreciate Mr A acted under the impression  that he did have cover,  Ive looked at his 
information available to see if this knowledge  affected his actions. From this it seems  that he 
went to the hospital as an emergency as he was feeling very unwell and unfortunately he 
was very ill. Considering the notes from when  he was first seen, and that later the treating 
doctor felt Mr A needed  outpatient treatment for five days  before he would issue him a 
prescription, it seems Mr A needed hospital  treatment. So Ive considered the situation he 
wouldve been in if hed known he didnt have health insurance, but it doesnt seem  the 
medical bill he now has was avoidable  in any event.
I agree  Mr A has been inconvenienced by Usays  actions and he was falsely given the 
impression he would  be covered for treatment if he fell ill whilst in the UK. So I consider he is 
due compensation  for this. But I dont agree it should be to the level of his hospital bill, as 
based on the information available it seems most likely he wouldve incurred these costs  
anyway, due to the severity of his illness and the lack of evidence he wouldve taken out 
other cover. On that basis I consider £250 is a fair award for the inconvenience  hes 
suffered.
my final decision
Mr A is due compensation for Usay  Business  Limited mis-selling him the policy.
My decision  is that Usay Business Limited should pay Mr A £250   if it hasnt already done 
so  within 28 days of receiving notice of his acceptance of this decision.
Mr A should  note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding  on all parties and he 
probably then wouldnt  be able to take legal action over this matter  for additional  
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between him and Usay Business Limited  as to whether the 
£250 offer still remains open for acceptance.  Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the 
offeror after rejection of it has been  communicated.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9270139