K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC (when it was trading as Lloyds TSB) mis-sold her 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 2010 Mrs C applied  to Lloyds for a loan. She also took out PPI to protect  the loan 
repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Briefly, Mrs C says PPI wasnt discussed  with her and she wasnt  aware that it had been  
added to her account. Mrs C told us she was self-employed so she didnt think  that the 
insurance wouldve  been of any use to her. And she said that she couldve relied on her 
husband to help make  the loan repayments  if she wasnt  working. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
I think Lloyds made  Mrs C aware  that the PPI was optional and that chose to have it. 
On the loan agreement Mrs C signed  to get her loan there  was a separate  section  at the end 
for the PPI. Next to where it says I wish to purchase  Loan Protection Insurance  theres a 
tick and Mrs C has also signed in this part of the form. I dont know exactly what  was 
discussed at the time. Ive taken carefully  into account what Mrs C says about the way she 
was sold this PPI. But it wouldnt be reasonable to expect her to remember  exactly what was 
said so long ago. This means that what Mrs C says now isnt enough  on its own for me to be 
able to uphold  this complaint just based on the way she says she was sold PPI. I have to 
look at all the available information and decide  what I think is most likely.
I find the way that information about the PPI was set out in the loan agreement  Mrs C signed  
presented the policy clearly as separate from and additional to the loan. I think  its likely that 
Mrs C wouldve been aware  at the time that it was up to her to say if she wanted  PPI  she 
couldve left this part of the form unticked  and unsigned if she hadnt wanted PPI. Based on 
all the information  Ive seen, I find that the PPI was added  to her loan account when Mrs C 
chose to have  it and indicated this was what she wanted. 
Lloyds says it advised Mrs C to take out the policy  and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  
based on what Ive seen of Mrs Cs situation at the time. 
Mrs C was eligible for the policy. Because she was self-employed, Ive looked very carefully 
at the circumstances under which a self-employed person  could claim on this particular 
policy. And having done so I dont think they are onerous  it wouldve been no more difficult  
for Mrs C to claim  on the policy than it wouldve been for an employed policy holder. 
Ref: DRN96720552And it doesnt look as if Mrs C was affected by any of the other main conditions  that mightve 
limited the policys benefits to her. So, even  if not everything was mentioned,  I dont think  
that knowing more  about things the policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference  to her 
decision to take the policy out. And PPI provided  more dependable  cover  than relying  on 
someone else to help out in the event  of money problems. So I think PPI was suitable  for 
Mrs C.
The loan agreement  sets out what the policy would cost Mrs C each month,  as well as 
showing the monthly loan repayment.  It also gave her an indication of how much  she could 
pay overall for the PPI if the loan ran for the full term. So I think at the time Mrs C wouldve 
been aware shed be paying  for the insurance and how much  this would cost each month  
even if shes forgotten  this now. 
Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to - so she 
appears to have wanted this type of cover and been  happy to pay for it at the time. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable for her. Overall, I think  it unlikely Mrs C 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance, 
I think Mrs C would still have taken out the policy.
As this was a monthly premium policy Mrs C was able to cancel this at any time without 
losing out financially if she changed her mind  or she no longer wanted to pay for it. And 
within a couple  of months it looks like she did cancel the PPI and the direct debit instruction 
shed set up at her bank  to pay for this. So the PPI was running for only a very short time - 
barely 2 months.  
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mrs C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9672055