K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr G says American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr G bought the PPI when he took out his credit card by post.  The credit card application  
form had a box to tick if Mr G wanted to join the credit card repayment  protection  plan. 
On Mr Gs form this box is ticked and he signed the form. And I think he wouldve  known  
the box didnt  have to be ticked if he didnt want the protection.  So based on what I have, 
I think AMEX made it clear that Mr G didnt have to take the PPI and he chose  to take it.
AMEX didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have to check  the PPI was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr G got the information  he needed to decide if the PPI 
was right for him.
Its possible the information AMEX gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt  as full or as clear as 
it shouldve been  for example  concerning the cost. But he chose to take the cover - so 
it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Mr Gs work sick pay and redundancy benefits 
wouldve lasted no more than six months.  And Mr G didnt  have  savings or anything else 
to help pay his credit card if he lost his job or was too sick to work. Hes said his family  
couldve helped pay his credit card, but other peoples circumstances and ability  to help 
can change. And from what Ive seen of Mr Gs circumstances at the time, he wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so the cover wouldve 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the cover was affordable.  
Taking everything into account,  I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mr G off taking out the cover.
Which means AMEX doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G. 
But AMEX  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because:
When the policy was sold, AMEX expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr G about  that. 
Because AMEX  didnt  tell Mr G, that was unfair.
To put that right,  AMEX has offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about all Mr Gs points, including what hes said about not being given enough 
information about the cover. But, for the reasons Ive already given above, these points dont 
change my decision.
Ref: DRN90992152what the business needs  to do
AMEX has to pay back to Mr G any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. AMEX should also pay back  to Mr G any extra interest  he paid 
because of that.
AMEX should  re-work  the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr G the difference between  
what Mr G owes  and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. AMEX should also pay Mr G 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr G can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited does  not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Mr G any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9099215