K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr D bought the policy in 2009 some years after taking out his original mortgage  in 1998. He 
applied for PPI policy over the phone during a mortgage review interview. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr D for unemployment only  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £453.72  a month towards Mr Ds mortgage balance  in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £17.69 a month. 
At the time,  Mr D was employed  as an Electrician. He has told us he was entitled to sick pay, 
death in service and would  have  received some redundancy pay if made  unemployed and 
he had no savings or other means  of repaying his mortgage. Mr D has said he was in good 
health at the time of the sale. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage started in 1998,  and Mr D took out 
further advances  in 2000, 2002 and 2005 and the mortgage is still running. 
Mr Ds representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ds representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr D wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ds representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr D about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr D and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN99985752The information Mr D received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ds. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D arranged a further advance on his mortgage  after mortgage  lending became regulated 
in October 2004   this led to the whole mortgage becoming an FCA regulated  mortgage. 
That means the unfair relationship provisions  set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, 
the Supreme Court  judgment in Plevin  about  s.140A  of that Act and the rules and guidance 
made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission 
in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
This sale of the PPI took place in 2009  after the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005  and after the 
FSA renewed its insurance  conduct rules  in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
Ref: DRN99985753General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so BoS was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr Ds complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr D with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Mr D sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN99985754-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr D, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr D suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr D and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr D know  he had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr D took out his mortgage  and a number of further advances without taking out a PPI 
policy. It wasnt until this mortgage review took place in 2009 that he took out a PPI policy. 
Therefore, Mr D was aware he didnt  need  to have  the PPI with his mortgage, and it was 
sold at a totally different  time to the original mortgage and any further  advances. So Mr D 
should have known he could carry on as he was without the PPI if he didnt want it.
I can also see that Mr D was given  the choice of accident, sickness  and unemployment 
cover as well as life and critical illness cover that the policy  could provide. And Mr D chose to 
only take out cover for unemployment.  So he clearly  was given information about what  the 
policy could cover and choices about the policy. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr D knew the policy  was optional and 
he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
BoS says it has no records to indicate  if it provided  advice during this sale.  Mr D has 
indicated he cannot  remember  if BoS advised  him. BoS has taken the approach  that advice 
was provided, as it cannot be certain  it wasnt. There  was a Demands and Needs Document 
completed at the time of the sale and this indicates  that certain things were recommended.  
Then there are notes to record what was accepted by Mr D and what wasnt.  Taking all 
these factors into account, Im persuaded that BoS did provide advice.
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr D with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given his needs  and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  during  the call, the documentary evidence suggests  
that BoS took some steps to establish whether the policy was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr D. The adviser should have been  aware of some  of the history of Mr Ds financial 
circumstances as he had held his mortgage and taken out further  advances  over a number  
of years with BoS. And although  a demands and needs statement was completed  to try and 
establish whether  Mr D had a need  for the policy  by asking questions about his wider 
circumstances such as any health  issues and existing means  I dont think it did enough to 
ensure the PPI was suitable. 
Ref: DRN99985755Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr D given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr D, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr D met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr D had a need for the policy  his redundancy benefits were likely to be limited and 
he didnt have any savings he could fall back on. The policy would have helped Mr D 
manage the consequences  if he lost his job.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr D. He has told 
us the cost on a monthly basis was discussed on the telephone  and he was happy  to 
pay the set amount.  And although Mr D says he was financially stretched at the time, 
Ive seen nothing  else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt  affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr D. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ds employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  
for him to claim. And he didnt take out cover for accident and sickness so the 
exclusions about health conditions are not relevant. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim, 
it still provided useful  cover given Mr Ds circumstances.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr D be unemployed for 30 days before  
he could make a claim and would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for 
each claim, it still provided  valuable  cover given: Mr Ds circumstances,  the fact the 
policy protected the mortgage repayments relating  to his home and the potential  
consequences should Mr D be unable to make the repayments on loans secured 
against his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr D sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what BoS was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr D was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover during the telephone  call. That is that the policy  would protect 
his payments if he was unable  to work  through unemployment  and I think  he was told of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because Mr D says there was a 
discussion about the cost on a monthly basis. This was also confirmed  to him in writing  by 
letter of 30 March 2009 and Mr D could still have cancelled the PPI at that point without 
actually paying  anything for it.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr D agreed to take out the policy.  
Ref: DRN99985756Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr D Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mr D all of the information  he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ds representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ds. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ds representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr D about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ds representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr D has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mr D? To what extent did Mr D suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr D. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr D suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr D would have 
still taken out the policy,  had BoS done things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr D, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr D has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, 
Mr D would have acted  differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Ref: DRN99985757Mr D says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr D had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of unemployment, he concluded  he wanted that product. But he made that 
decision based on incomplete information,  meaning  what he thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ds circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr D was given about the cost and benefit 
was clear. But the information  about  other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mr D would get back in return in 
the event he made a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Mr Ds expectations about what 
the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his mortgage 
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did  if anything, it is more 
likely than not that the policy actually  paid more in the event of a claim than he would have 
expected as there was an additional  cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr D thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if wasnt a 
permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr D pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr D from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr D was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr D wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr D was in permanent  
employment. So, I still think  he had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
Ref: DRN99985758Mr Ds representative has raised  issues about  restrictions in the policy for pre-existing 
medical conditions,  back pain and mental health  conditions. However, as Mr D didnt  take 
out the cover for disability these restrictions did not affect him in any way.  
BoS may not have told Mr D that any claim he made would be limited to a 12-month period. 
This may have differed  from what he expected and might have hoped for. But his statutory  
redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr D would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  he be unable to work in the circumstances covered by the 
policy. The policy  allowed  for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his outgoings 
at a difficult and uncertain  time, ensure his home was not placed at risk and might potentially  
help preserve Mr Ds redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr D would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if he was made redundant. In the circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not Mr D would have  taken  out the policy in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ds representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr D would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr D 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr D believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
Ref: DRN99985759represent fair compensation to put Mr D in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr D compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr D thinks BoS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mr D, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2009 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ds representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr D and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr D in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9998575