K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains about the charges  levied  on her account by TSB Bank plc.
background
Miss H had an account with TSB. But shes unhappy about the amount of charges thatve 
been applied.  She told TSB she was in financial difficulty but she doesnt feel the bank has 
responded sympathetically. So shed  like TSB to refund  the charges.
TSB said itd applied the charges in line with the terms and conditions  of the account. And 
itd written to Miss H on each occasion  so that she could take appropriate action.  So it didnt 
think itd done  anything wrong.  
Miss H wasnt  satisfied  with TSBs  response.  So she contacted our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. But she felt TSB had applied the charges within  the terms 
and conditions of the account.  She could  see TSB had contacted  Miss H on each occasion. 
And the bank had refunded a number of charges. So she couldnt say TSB had acted 
unfairly or unsympathetically. 
Miss H didnt agree. TSBs actions had affected her health. So shes  asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do sympathise with Miss Hs situation. Shes experienced some financial difficulty and feels 
TSB has made  things  worse by applying charges to her account.
Unfortunately, as our investigator has explained, the Supreme Court made a ruling in 2009 
which said account charges cant be challenged on the basis they are too high or excessive. 
So I can only look at whether any mistakes were  made when they were applied.
And based on what Ive seen TSB has applied the fees for overdraft use and returned  items 
correctly. Theyve been charged in line with the terms  and conditions  of the account which 
Miss H wouldve been  aware of when she opened  the account.
The Supreme Court ruling also applies  to customers claiming financial hardship. But I would 
expect TSB to act positively and sympathetically once Miss H had made it aware of her 
difficulties. 
I can see TSB has refunded some  of the charges  applied to Miss Hs account.  And its 
written to her on a number of occasions  so Miss H could  review the account and her planned 
spending. Having  looked at Miss Hs account  statements  I cant  say TSB has applied the 
charges incorrectly. And I dont think the charges are solely  responsible for 
Miss Hs financial situation.
Ive looked carefully  at everything Miss H has said. And I dont underestimate how her 
financial difficulties have  impacted on her. But, based on what Ive seen, I cant really say 
TSB has done anything  wrong. 
Ref: DRN98459292Its not made  any mistakes when  it applied the charges.  And its reacted sympathetically to 
Miss Hs circumstances.  So I wont  be asking  TSB to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9845929