K821x#15complaint
Mr M says his longstanding adviser, Impartial Adviser Ltd (IAL), failed to give him effective 
advice about his pension arrangements, specifically in relation to the impact of changes to 
the Lifetime Allowance (LTA).  He says this has caused him a financial loss.
background
IAL has been financial  adviser to Mr and Mrs M for around 20 years. This was the position 
until as recently as 2019.
On 11 April 2001 Mr M informed IAL that his last day of employment would be 31 August 
2001. He set out the terms of his occupational  pension scheme  (OPS) retirement package, 
which included a deferred pension of around  £37,000 a year,  which he could start to draw in 
a couple of years when  he reached the age of 50.
Mr M also had an added voluntary contribution (AVC) pension  plan with Equitable Life. He 
sought advice  from IAL about what to do with this fund, which  at the time was worth around  
£36,000. He didnt think hed need  to take any money from it for perhaps another  10 years. 
But he was mindful  hed stopped making  contributions because of transfer  penalties  that 
applied.
IAL advised  Mr M to take his AVC benefits  at age 50 in order  to avoid penalties  and benefit 
from guaranteed  annuity rates. He decided not to do this and in 2002 the trustees changed 
the provider from Equitable  Life, which was experiencing problems, to Standard Life. In 2003 
Mr M reached 50 and he started  drawing  his main pension. This was increased each year to 
reflect changes in the cost of living.
By 2017 Mr M had decided the time was right to access benefits from his AVC pension. He 
and his wife were expecting to travel,  so the additional finances would support those plans. 
He sought advice from IAL which recommended he move his fund to a different provider. It 
said this would enable  him to access 25% as tax-free cash (TFC) with the residual funds 
being invested according to his risk appetite.
Mr M accepted IALs advice and wheels were  put in motion  to give effect to the transfer of 
his AVC. This included  completion of necessary documentation to transfer  agency  for Mr Ms 
pension plan to IAL. That wouldve enabled  it to access  information  about the plan and make 
arrangements on his behalf. Unfortunately,  as IAL were  doing this it came  to light that he 
wouldnt be able to access  the TFC he was expecting.
In 2006 the Government had introduced the Lifetime  Allowance (LTA). This set the 
maximum value  of benefits someone  could receive  without a tax penalty. Initially  it was set at 
£1.5m. This increased each year until 2010-11, when it reached  £1.8m.  The Government 
decided to reduce  the LTA in 2012-2013 when it was set at £1.5m. In 2014-2015  it fell to 
£1.25m. In 2016-17 the LTA was set at £1.0m  and in recent years it has been increased to 
take account of inflation.
As the LTA was reduced the Government introduced  transitional  measures to ease the 
impact on consumers who had, or expected to have,  benefits which exceeded the new limits. 
These protections are at the heart  of Mr Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN92381142IAL worked out the value  of Mr Ms OPS pension  for the purposes of calculating his position  
against the LTA.  It found the value  of his pension benefits in payment were in excess of 
£1.3m, well above the £1.0m limit applicable  at that time or the available protections.  It 
concluded that Mr M wouldnt therefore  be able to take TFC from his AVC fund after all.
Mr M says that IAL had been responsible  for giving him comprehensive and regular financial 
advice since he and his wife had engaged its services. This included  covering their 
investments, tax and pensions. He says it shouldve informed him about the LTA provisions 
as they evolved.
For example, during  the period when the LTA was reduced there  were  opportunities for Mr M 
to apply for Fixed Protection (FP):
-FP 2012 which protected the LTA at £1.8m.  The deadline to apply was 5 April 2012.
-FP 2014 which protected the LTA at £1.5m.  The deadline to apply was 5 April 2014.
-FP 2016, which wouldve held the LTA at £1.25m. Consumers can still apply for this.
Mr M says that as a result of the acts and omissions  of IAL hell now incur over £20,000 
more tax on his AVC pension benefits  than he wouldve if hed secured FP 2014.
IAL said Mr M lost his chance to take TFC from his AVC fund between 2011  and 2014.  It 
says it wasnt under an obligation  to review his situation and that he wasnt in contact for 
advice about his pension during this period. It said it was only after Mr Ms instruction to 
withdraw TFC from his AVC that it found his existing pensions  were in excess of the LTA 
and so any benefit crystallisation event (BCE) wouldve given rise to a tax charge.
IAL says that Willis  Towers Watson,  which was the administrator for Mr Ms OPS and AVC 
scheme, shouldve  contacted  him when the LTA was first introduced, and again when there  
were significant changes to the regulations, to inform him about the regime  and to advise 
him to check  what protection to apply for.
The adjudicator investigated Mr Ms complaint and thought it should be upheld. He thought  
IAL had failed in its duty of care to him. IAL disagreed with the adjudicators findings. Mr M 
accepted his opinion about  the merits of his case but queried  the proposed redress. 
So, Mr Ms complaint was passed  to me for review. I issued my provisional  decision earlier  
this month. Im grateful to Mr M for his detailed  comments which Ive carefully considered.  
Where these were material to my findings  Ive responded in this final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Where theres  conflicting  information about 
what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and 
to decide, on the balance  of probabilities,  whats most likely to have happened.
Both parties  have provided lots of information  and argument concerning  the events 
complained about.  Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses 
and their customers. While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart  of this complaint.
Ref: DRN92381143I should note that Ill only be considering the acts and omissions  of IAL in this decision. For 
example, I wont be providing  findings  related to what the administrator of Mr Ms OPS  did or 
didnt do. Indeed, complaints relating to the administration of an OPS are a matter for the 
Pensions Ombudsman, where a complainant isnt satisfied with a respondent organisations 
reply. These matters are outside of my jurisdiction.
Im not upholding Mr Ms main complaint, although I do think IAL were responsible for 
failings which led to a loss of expectation on his part. Ill explain why.
My starting point is the contract or client agreement between Mr M and IAL. Ideally this 
wouldve set out in clear  terms what services  were being provided  and on what basis.  For 
example, were the advice, management and arrangements ongoing or piecemeal? What 
were the expectations  of each party?  And what was the exchange  what  fees were agreed?
I appreciate regulatory  expectations of how these matters were formalised has changed  over 
the years. And where relationships have  been  in place for a long time, it can be difficult to 
locate original paperwork. It seems the earliest client agreement  on file is from 2010. It starts 
by setting out the range of services IAL provided,  and its regulatory credentials  for doing so. 
For example, it says it could help with:
Arranging (bringing about) deals in investments
Making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments;  (e.g. including  Individual  
Savings Accounts; Personal Pensions; Stakeholder  Pensions; Unit Trusts etc)
Advising on investments (including Occupational  Pension Transfers  and Occupational 
Pension Scheme Opt Outs)
Mr Ms complaint is about the advice he received from IAL with regard to his pension 
arrangements. So, its certainly an area of expertise for the firm.
The following  passage from the client  agreement  provides a bit of information about how IAL 
would give its customers advice:
Advice Process: - irrespective of the service you require, we will advise and make a 
recommendation for you only after we have assessed your needsThe  result  of these 
discussions will in all relevant cases, be confirmed in writing, by us to you in our suitability 
letter and be deemed to form part of this Client Agreement.
The agreement goes  on to confirm (bolding  is my emphasis): 
Reviews: -We will be glad to advise you at any time but unless previously agreed we will 
not carry out a review of any investments  that you have already taken out previously 
or that we have already arranged on your behalf,  unless  you contact  us to do so.
These terms suggest the service Mr M received wasnt of an ongoing nature at this time and 
that if hed wanted a review of his portfolio, including his pension  arrangements, the onus 
was on him to request one. And Ive not seen any agreement between Mr M and IAL that it 
would be proactive in conducting reviews.
Next, Ive considered  the available evidence to see if Mr M sought advice about  his AVC 
pension and/or whether there  was a pattern of IAL giving him advice about his arrangements 
and if so whether  it was reasonable  for him to rely on this.
Ref: DRN92381144Mr M says that although the main documentation  supplied by IAL related to annual 
investment reports where there was a fee relationship, he and his wife had more  
comprehensive discussions about their financial situation on at least  an annual basis,  either  
in person or on the phone.
Mr M has provided copies of emails and correspondence which he says illustrate the all-
encompassing nature of the advice they received from IAL. For example, Ive seen notes 
from 2001 where Mr M provides information about his financial circumstances. A little later 
the same  year theres  a letter where  IAL provides specific advice about inheritance tax (IHT). 
Id observe that this early correspondence confirms that IAL was being appointed  by Mr and 
Mrs M as agents for their investments. In that regard the client agreement from 2010  said:
When you instruct [IAL] to act as your independent financial adviser, we recommend that 
you transfer your existing policies and investments into our agency so that we may receive 
communications direct from the product providers concerned...
Id note IAL wasnt appointed as agent for Mr Ms pensions. Thats not surprising because  he 
was a member of an OPS  and AVC scheme  provided by his employer. Administration of 
these pensions appear to have been the responsibility of a firm called Willis Towers Watson.
The advice provided by IAL in 2001, which  Mr M has drawn  my attention to in order  to exhibit 
its coverage, related to exploring options  for avoiding inheritance tax on his and his wifes 
investments and assets. The advice appears  to have  resulted from a specific  enquiry from 
them. But it didnt encompass Mr Ms pension arrangements.
Mr M identifies another letter  from April 2001 as the key evidence of the nature of IALs  
engagement with him concerning his AVC:
In this letter [IALs  adviser] has viewed and advised on both my redundancy package  
from Mobil Oil Co. Ltd and my AVC fund. Please note there was no separate  fee for this 
review and advice....it was all part of the comprehensive IFA service offered.
this letter and my contemporaneous notes of the 08/01/2001 mtg, demonstrates  that [IAL] 
had intimate/detailed knowledge of my AVC fund from the very start of our long relationship.
I agree  with Mr M, the letter clearly shows he received advice from IAL about his AVC on 24 
April 2001. And that he didnt pay for this in addition to the fee arrangement that was already 
in place.
But Im mindful IALs response was to a detailed and specific query  from Mr M, set out in a 
letter from him dated 11 April 2001. In it he asks for advice about what  he should  do with his 
AVC fund. IAL advised him to take his AVC benefits  at age 50 in order  to avoid penalties  and 
secure a guaranteed annuity  rate. Mr M decided against IALs recommendation.
Mr M hasnt  been able to locate a record of discussions he had with IAL about  his AVC after 
2002 until the end of 2014. He says that communications about his pension during this 
period were  verbal,  rather than written. Mr M says IALs  advice subsequent to 2001 had 
been that he didnt need cash, so given  the potential tax implications of accessing  his fund 
hed be better off leaving it to grow.  And his estate could benefit from tax-free death benefits.
IAL has also been  unable  to locate any evidence of discussions it had with Mr M about his 
AVC after 2002  until the end of 2014. It says prior to December 2014, Mr and Mrs M only 
Ref: DRN92381145received ad hoc reviews of their finances  at their request. It said this was within the 
parameters of the client agreement in place at the time.
IAL says the last face to face meeting with Mr M and his wife was in October 2008. I can see 
from the follow-up correspondence the main reason for the meeting was to discuss  their 
deposit savings,  but the performance of their investments was also reviewed, and some  
switches recommended.  Theres no mention of Mr Ms AVC being  discussed.
Later in 2008  Mr and Mrs M relocated  some distance away  from IAL. That might explain why 
theres very little on file recording interactions  between the parties.  Ive seen an email from 
2011 with advice from IAL about  investment strategy. Mr M says of this interaction:
The attached email  exchange is instructive in showing how [IALs  adviser] tended to work 
with his clients. Wed  ask a question, hed respond. This is back  in April 2011 and I had 
initiated a question about getting more exposure in BRIC marketsUnless the client has 
enough expert knowledge to ask exactly the right question, then mistakes and omissions can 
happen. To use a dartboard analogy, the client must throw the dart and hit near the bulls eye 
everytime!
I understand what Mr M is saying here. Theres a pattern  in the limited records  we have of 
advice being provided in response to enquiries  from Mr M. The problem  for him is that I 
havent seen anything after 2002  where hes provided IAL with new information,  asked  any 
questions about  or received advice in relation  to his AVC.
Ive received broadly the same copy documents from both parties. I think  this more likely  
than not suggests an absence of other  important  communications. Thats significant because 
while we can see advice  being provided  on investments, savings and taxation, theres 
nothing more about Mr Ms pension.
Mr M did receive advice about what to do with his AVC when he sought it. Most significantly 
in 2001. I dont know what was discussed about  his pension between  2002 and 2014. Both 
parties take a different position. So, I cant be sure what specific  questions Mr M asked. But I 
havent seen that he sought  or was provided  with advice. I think if he had then its more  likely 
than not thered be some record of it, as there was for the advice he and Mrs M sought  for 
their investments and IHT planning.
Next, I considered what services it might  have been  reasonable  for Mr M to have expected 
given the fees he was paying. Mr M told us:
[IAL] were collecting  substantial fees each year, typically £800-£1000  [a] yr in commission 
over ~18 years. My wife and I particularly  got on well with [IALs  adviser] who we mainly 
dealt with and found him to be very warm, reassuring and almost parental in his concern for 
any financial  or taxation issues we raised  associated with our investments. It was a 
comprehensive service.  Never once did [IALs adviser] say, I cannot  advise you on that as I 
am not charging  you a specific fee for that topic.
The client  agreement in 2010 set out the cost of reviews:
We will discuss  your own individual needs,  as an example - initial review £500.  Each  follow-
on review 0.5% of the portfolio  value with a minimum of £350.
The client  agreement also set out the fees and commission it would charge for the services it 
provided and the products it accessed on its customers behalf. The hourly charges ranged 
Ref: DRN92381146from £175 for a financial planning consultants time to £40 for administrative matters. It also 
set out fixed project  fees:
 We are able to quote a fixed fee for a specific project. Please ask us for more information.  
You may also ask us not to exceed  a given amount without checking with you first. It is the 
policy of Impartial Adviser Ltd. to ask clients to sign a fee agreement prior to undertaking any 
chargeable work; this is to avoid any confusion  at a later date.
A list of typical examples are shown  below:
-Initial financial planning  surgery (up to 3 hours) with outline report, but with no 
specific product advice £ 400
-Pension transfer analysis report £ 850
-Amalgamation of up to 5 personal  pension policies with a view to purchase an 
annuity £ 1000
-A full bespoke financial planning report £1500  to £5000
IAL has given us a breakdown of the fees it says it had charged  Mr and Mrs M since 1998. 
These amount  to around  £6,000. The bulk of the charges related to Mrs Ms investments. In 
his response to my provisional decision Mr M queried the record  of charges. And he thinks 
IAL under represented the work  it did on his behalf.
Mr M has provided clear evidence showing that IAL had oversight of his investments from 
early on in their relationship. So, when I noted IALs record indicated he hadnt been charged  
any fees until 2013, I think hes made  a valid challenge to that initial  finding.
Mr M worked  out his investments with IAL accounted for a little less than 20% of all the funds 
IAL had oversight of. So, he says when  I noted  that IAL had charged him £192 between  
2013 and November 2014,  this wasnt the true position. By reference to the annual  fees IAL 
said were chargeable  pre and post November  2014, he believes  the fees he incurred were  
higher.
Getting an accurate breakdown of adviser fees is material  because  of the redress Im 
proposing. So, IAL will need to provide Mr and Mrs M with a detailed breakdown of fees 
levied. I would expect  this to provide the basis from which both parties can reconcile the 
transactions and arrive at an agreed  understanding of the adviser fees paid and how these 
related to both Mr and Mrs Ms interests.
However, the substantive point is that Mrs M was the main  client  for the purposes of 
investment advice. Even by his own calculations Mr Ms investments didnt quite account for 
20% of the funds  IAL advised on. And given the basis on which  fees were being levied, his 
interests were necessarily responsible for generating  a smaller proportion  of these.
Mr M said that IAL reports were addressed to him and his wife. Their investments were  listed  
together and treated by the adviser as a package. Most of the financial discussions with the 
adviser were  with him. And decisions were  taken jointly. I understand the point Mr M makes 
here, but presumably he and his wife arranged their investments  in the way they did for good  
reason. And it is a fact that Mrs Ms plans and policies made up the bulk of the portfolio IAL 
was advising on.
Further, given what we know from the schedule of charges  for IALs  advice services from 
2010, theres a reasonable  argument  that Mr M shouldve realised he wasnt paying for a 
Ref: DRN92381147comprehensive service.  But I also appreciate  IALs actions over the years  mayve clouded 
matters.
As Mr M told us, he received advice about his AVC in 2001  and he didnt have to pay for it. 
So, perhaps its understandable  he seems to have  made the assumption he would be able to 
continue to call on such services as and when he needed to.
But I dont think its reasonable for Mr M to have expected  responses  to any informal 
enquiries about his pension  arrangements to have constituted advice. As far as I can see, 
there hadnt been a proper consideration of the circumstances  of his AVC since 2001, when 
IAL responded to his detailed written enquiry.
Since that time Mr Ms circumstances and those  of his wife wouldve changed. As indeed 
had the regulatory landscape.  As we know,  the LTA wasnt introduced until 2006  and it 
wasnt until 2012-13  that rather than increasing it, the Government began to reduce the 
threshold.
I dont know what information Mr M received from his OPS pension  administrator between 
2006 through until 2014. I dont know what the requirements were  on OPS  administrators to 
inform members about regulatory changes.  If he did receive information, I dont know how 
fulsome that was. For example, in his circumstances having taken a pension prior to 2006, 
certain conditions  applied under the LTA regime. And I dont know if the administrator 
recommended members sought financial  advice.
Mr M did show us a newsletter he received from Willis Towers Watson in the summer of 
2013. I can see it mentions changes to the LTA.  Heres  an extract:
from the tax year 2014/2015 the HMRC [LTA]  is reducing from £1 5 million to £1 25 
million; this equates  to a tax relieved pension  of £75 000 pa reducing  to a pension  of 
£62,500 pa; above this a Lifetime allowance surcharge is levied by HMRC.
This reduced level will not affect the vast majority  of Plan members.  However,  the Company 
has a separate  benefits programme the ExxonMobil  Supplementary Plan (ESP) for staff 
approaching the standard Lifetime allowance level. Members will be approached individually  
if they qualify  for this discretionary programme in the first quarter of 2014  allowing time to 
act, if wished, before the pension changes come  into effect.
Mr M had already taken  his pension by this time of course. And he told us that he wouldve 
read the article  and thought that it didnt affect  him because his pension was below £62.5k  in 
2014/15. As a non-expert, he didnt realise the impact of having  taken his pension prior to 
2006 would  mean  that a different calculation wouldve been carried  out, which wouldve 
made it clear  it was in his interest to secure protection.
I accept the newsletter from 2013 didnt trigger Mr Ms interest  in the LTA issue  at that time. 
Hes provided a copy of an email he sent to Willis Towers Watson, which  was about another  
article in the publication concerning the transfer  of his AVC from Equitable Life to Standard 
Life.
Mr M says that this is evidence he maintained a keen interest  in what  was happening to his 
AVC and that a person in his situation  wouldve been consulting with his financial adviser at 
the time about  it. But it doesnt help me understand what  support and/or questions he was 
asking of IAL. And it also shows he was aware of the role of Willis Towers Watson in 
administering his OPS  pensions.
Ref: DRN92381148I cant see Mr M discussed  this or any other developments  on the LTA regime  with IAL. But 
its arguable any information  he was receiving  from his pension administrator about changes  
that affected his scheme shouldve put him on notice about the need to seek advice, 
including about  the LTA issue.
If Mr M had asked  IAL for advice about his AVC during the relevant period I think  it wouldve 
given this to him, perhaps this time for a fee. But as Ive already set out, I havent  seen  
anything to show me he provided IAL with updated information about his pension or AVC.  
Nor that his scheme administrator had informed him about significant  changes to the LTA 
regime. And I havent seen a request  from him for a review, advice or recommendation.
Mr M says Im taking a narrow,  contractual view of his complaint. He considers the 
relationship with his adviser to have been  more comprehensive and pragmatic. I think it must 
be right to start with what we understand about the client agreement  both sides  signed-up to. 
But as Ive already mentioned, Ive asked  for evidence about the nature, scope and 
frequency of the advice IAL actually delivered as I do consider these matters to be relevant. 
Unfortunately for Mr M, he hasnt been able to provide any telling evidence.
I dont think it would  be reasonable for IAL to be liable for not giving Mr M advice  relating  to 
any regulatory and tax change at any point  during  their relationship  when there was or could 
have been the potential  for a financial impact  on him, when he hadnt  sought such  advice. 
Given the substance of the agreement in place  between the parties that wouldnt be fair.
I can see that in November 2014  IAL wrote  to Mr and Mrs M noting  that it had been  a while 
since it had conducted  a comprehensive  review  of their financial situation.  It also wanted to 
update them on certain regulatory  changes.  And it was introducing another adviser as their 
new main point of contact for the future. The meeting  took place a few weeks  later and on 10 
December 2014  it issued a record of the meeting.
One of the key elements  of the discussion was about the Retail  Distribution Review (RDR).  
This came into effect on 1 January 2013 and concerned  changes  to the way advisers would 
be remunerated  moving away from a system  which included commissions to a fees-based 
approach. The relevant  passage of its subsequent report  said:
We currently receive 0.5% of the value  of your Fidelity Stocks & Shares ISAs  and Aviva 
bond on an annual  basis, which we use to monitor your funds; provide ad hoc advice and 
run the office.
In future any changes  to existing investments or the addition of new money turns off existing 
commission arrangements, which would mean  we could  be working for you without any 
remuneration which  you will appreciate would not be a viable  situation.
As discussed during  our meeting, to provide the above and pay increased regulatory costs 
we have had to increase our charges to 0.75% p.aThe above adviser  charge  totals  around  
£770 per annum
This enables us to provide  you with an annual face to face review meeting, in addition to 
monitoring your funds  and being  available to offer a reasonable level of adhoc advice and 
assistance throughout the year.
This letter is helpful in confirming the basis of the arrangement it had with Mr and Mrs M up 
until that point  and how things would change going forward. In particular the introduction  of 
an annual face to face meeting where  their financial portfolio would be reviewed.  It also led 
to a significant increase in fees for the services provided.
Ref: DRN92381149Mr M questioned whether  IAL was late in introducing these changes. The RDR was a review 
by the FCA that, amongst other things, sought  to improve transparency in the 
communication of investment charges. As a result, financial advisers were required to 
provide information  upfront about  fees for the service they provided.  But the RDR wasnt 
retrospective, so it didnt apply to investments before its time.
IALs report  for Mr and Mrs M recorded  a detailed  discussion about  their investments. There  
was a recommendation to switch one of Mrs Ms investments. Their  share-holdings were 
also discussed. 
I can see Mr Ms pension  provision was covered in the review.  Mr Ms current  payments 
were confirmed as was the position on annual increases. His Standard Life AVC was valued 
at £67,000. Mr M was said to have  been pleased with its performance in recent years and its 
recorded there was no need to withdraw benefits  from the scheme at that time.
I think  you will find that [your AVCs] link with the old Mobil scheme is now broken and you 
can take benefits from it at any age and in line with current pension legislation,  which  would 
mean 25% as tax free cash and the residual  used to provide an income.
This wasnt correct. I think IAL possessed sufficient information at this point to have 
understood that it needed to investigate  the position  on LTA. It knew Mr Ms pension was 
now worth  around £50,000 a year and that it enjoyed  annual increments to account  for the 
cost of living. And it knew he had a valuable AVC. 
IAL shouldve realised  from its records and the review meeting that Mr M had been  in receipt 
of his pension  since 2003. This had particular implications for establishing how the LTA 
calculations would work. 
So, in December 2014 IAL shouldve been  making him aware that because his existing 
pension benefits  were already at the limit of the LTA he could secure, this could impact on 
his ability  to take the TFC from his AVC. Instead  I can see that IAL communications  with 
Mr M around  his annual review in 2015  and 2016,  where he confirms the value of his AVC 
and his plans  for taking  benefits, do nothing to inform him of the true position.
As an aside,  Mr M posed the question as to whether the introduction of a new adviser, so 
that their former contact could spend  less time working from the office, might shed some  
light on why they werent  alerted the previous  year to the LTA issue. Ive not seen anything 
on file that confirm this was the case. 
In 2017 Mr M decided that he wanted to draw  the 25% TFC from his Standard Life AVC,  
which communications from his OPS  pension administrator also appear to have indicated  
was available. The funds  were to be used for travelling he and his wife had planned. He 
sought advice  from IAL.
In November 2017 IAL recommended Mr M transfer his Standard Life AVC to a different  
provider. This would enable him to access his benefits in a flexible manner. Specifically, it 
said hed be able to take TFC and the residual funds could be invested  to achieve capital 
growth. At the time his fund was worth around £87,000. Mr M accepted IALs  
recommendations.
Ref: DRN923811410Wheels were put in motion  to give effect  to the transfer of Mr Ms AVC. This included  
completion of necessary  documentation to transfer agency for his pension plan to IAL. That 
enabled it to access  information about the plan and make arrangements  on his behalf.
Unfortunately, as IAL were doing this work by January 2018 it had come  to light that Mr M 
wouldnt be able to access  the TFC he was expecting. IAL finally  realised that by accessing  
his AVC fund Mr M would trigger a BCE,  which meant his pension benefits would need  to be 
tested against  the LTA.  By this time Mr Ms annual pension was around £53,000. 
The multiple used  for the LTA calculation for people in Mr Ms situation  was 25 times  the 
pension in payment  (not 20 that was used for standard LTA workings).  Thats because hed 
benefitted from a pension since 2003,  prior to the introduction of the LTA.  The calculation  
showed his benefits were  already in excess of £1.3m. Even had FP 2016 protection been 
secured at £1.25m, he still had no headroom. So, his AVC funds would be in excess  of the 
LTA and he wasnt able to take the TFC hed been expecting.
IAL clearly  failed to provide  Mr M with the best advice it had been  contracted to do so from 
2014. Indeed, it compounded its initial failing from that point each subsequent year, 
reinforcing the impression  that hed be able to access  TFC from his Standard  Life AVC when 
that wasnt the case.
Mr M says that IAL werent competent  to deal with matters relating to the impact  of the LTA. 
So, even if hed sought advice in late 2013  or early  2014 it wouldve given him the same  
flawed information.  That may or may not have been the case, but the point is if the firm had 
failed to give proper  advice when there was still time for him to have secured FP 2014,  then 
Id now be upholding  his main complaint point.
in conclusion
Ive decided that I wont be upholding Mr Ms main complaint  that hell suffer a substantial 
tax loss as a result of IALs  ineffective advice about his AVC and the LTA regime.
Thats because I think:
-The available evidence shows his contract for services  with IAL wasnt  of an ongoing 
nature until December 2014. Prior to this if hed wanted a review  of his pension  
arrangements, the onus was on him to request one. And Ive not seen any 
agreement between  Mr M and IAL that it would be proactive in conducting reviews. 
And IAL wasnt the servicing agent  for Mr Ms pensions.
-Mr M did receive advice about what to do with his AVC when he asked for it in 2001. 
I dont know what was discussed  about his fund between 2003  and 2014. Both 
parties take a different position. So, I cant know what specific  questions Mr M asked.  
But I havent seen  that he sought or was provided with substantive advice. I think if 
he had then its more  likely than not thered be some  record  of it, as there  was for the 
other advice he sought for his investments and IHT planning.
-IALs main client from the outset in terms of investments managed  was Mrs M. Mr 
Ms interests made up about 20% of their total funds and the fees he wouldve been 
charged were therefore relatively  small. Given what we know  about IALs  schedule  of 
fees for substantive services from 2010, its arguable he shouldve  realised he wasnt  
paying for the comprehensive service he believes he was.
Ref: DRN923811411On balance, I dont  think it would be reasonable for me to direct  IAL to make  good any loss 
he might  suffer when  he comes to take benefits  from his AVC. It seems  there  was an 
opportunity for him to have applied for FP 2012 or FP 2014 and that without this when he 
comes to take these  pension benefits he may incur a significantly higher  tax bill than he 
mightve. But, I cant see that IAL was responsible for this.
Im upholding other aspects of Mr Ms complaint, although I appreciate he will view these as 
second order matters  given his main concern. I find that from December 2014 until 
November 2017  IAL failed to provide him with effective  advice, given what  it had contracted  
to do for him. I also find that this led Mr M to experience a loss of expectation.
putting things right
I require Impartial Adviser Ltd to provide Mr M with compensation for the things it got wrong. 
This includes a refund  of some of the fees he was charged and a payment for the distress 
and inconvenience  he has experienced.
I havent seen  any criticism of the services  IAL provided to Mrs M, nor in relation to the 
advice Mr M received about  his savings, investments or other ad hoc matters. Thats of 
course excepting the position with his AVC,  where I think its fair to say IALs advice was 
flawed over a period  three years.
So, given that the matter  of his pension arrangements wouldve been a key interest for Mr M 
for that period, IAL should refund 50% of the fees it charged for the services provided to him 
between the period December 2014  until December 2017.
As Ive already  set out, to effect this refund IAL will need to provide Mr and Mrs M with a 
detailed breakdown of those fees levied for the period in question. This will provide the basis 
from which both parties  can reconcile the transactions  and arrive at an agreed 
understanding of the adviser  fees paid and how these related to both Mr and Mrs Ms 
interests.
Mr M was disappointed  with the award I proposed for trouble and upset. He thought it would  
send the wrong  signal about tolerance  for IALs behaviour and the poor advice it had given 
him about the LTA.
When Im deciding a complaint like this, Ill think about whether  its fair to award 
compensation for trouble  and upset. This isnt intended to fine or punish  a business  which  
is the job of the regulator. But when somethings  gone wrong,  a businesss recognition  of the 
emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day  lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations.  For me to award compensation, I need to decide that 
the impact of IALs actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. Its clear  to 
me this was the case here.
Understandably the matter of whether Mr M couldve secured FP for his pension LTA has 
been playing  on his mind. Hes experienced a loss of expectation. IAL failed to effectively 
advise him, even though by the time he sought  its input  late in 2014  hed already missed the 
opportunity.
Ref: DRN923811412Given the loss of expectation Mr M experienced which was compounded by IALs  failure to 
give him effective advice about  his LTA position for three years,  I said IAL should also pay 
him £ 500 for the distress  and inconvenience it has caused him. I remain of the view this 
substantial award  is appropriate.
my decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Ms main  complaint. But Ive 
concluded Impartial Adviser Ltd got some  things wrong and so needs  to pay him the 
compensation Ive outlined.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9238114