K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 
alongside a store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr S says FICL mis-sold him the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt  uphold  this complaint. Mr S 
disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr S says the PPI was added without his consent, and he was just told where to sign on 
the application form. But Ive seen a copy of this application form which  included  a 
section for PPI. In this section Mr S signed to agree  to the cover - but there  is nothing  
here to indicate  that he had to sign in this section so I think  Mr S wouldve known he 
couldve left this section  blank  if he didnt want the PPI. And this signature is also 
separate and additional to his signature to agree to the store  card.
So based  on this evidence I think FICL  made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the 
PPI and that he chose to take it out  although  I can understand if he cant  remember  
this.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if the policy was right 
for him. But it did have  to make  sure Mr S got the information  he needed to decide if the 
PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  So I dont think better  information  about the 
policy would have  put him off taking out the cover.
Mr S says he was entitled  to up to six months  worth of sick pay which he couldve  used  
to make his repayments if he was too sick to work.  But the PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to Mr Ss sick pay  so these  funds couldve been used for other expenses.  And 
Mr S told us he didnt have any savings or other  insurance to cover him in the event he 
was suddenly unable  to work.
Ref: DRN97149122So overall I still think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mr S and I dont think  better 
information about the cost and benefit of the policy wouldve  changed his decision to 
take out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9714912