K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that IGO4 Limited  unfairly charged him an additional premium for exceeding 
the declared annual mileage agreed  when he took out his motor insurance policy.
 
background
Mr C took out his motor  insurance policy with IGO4 in September  2017 through  a price  
comparison website. The policy documents were sent to Mr C by email. The policy  was a 
telematics one so a smart  box was fitted to the vehicle shortly after. The policy premium 
was based on a declared annual mileage of 10,000 miles not being exceeded and totalled 
£1509.41 to be paid by direct debit in 10 instalments of £125.95.
IGO4 sent an email to Mr Cs email address in March 2018 to say that he had completed 
75% of his declared annual mileage and the data from the smart box showed that it might be 
exceeded. It said that if his limit was exceeded,  he would be informed and there might be an 
additional charge and an administration  fee to increase the permitted mileage  on the policy.  
Alternatively it said he could increase  the mileage himself by processing the change on-line 
in order to avoid  being charged  an administration fee. 
Further emails were  sent in April 2018 (to say that 90% of his agreed  mileage allowance had 
been completed) and in May 2018  to say that Mr C had seven days  to update his mileage 
but if he didnt,  the permitted  mileage  would be increased to unlimited and an additional 
premium of £125.40 (including  a £25 administration fee) would be added  to his policy. As 
IGO4 heard  nothing from Mr C, it processed  the change to policy about 10 days  later 
confirming doing  so in email.
Mr C received a letter  from his bank in early  June 2018 to say that hed exceeded his 
overdraft limit. On investigating why, Mr C discovered it was due the additional premium 
collected by IGO4. Mr C complained.
Mr C said hed not been notified  of the pending increase to his mileage by text or a 
telephone call. He said he hadnt consented to the additional premium being  added  to his 
credit agreement. He said that when he took out the policy he hadnt  realised  there was a 
restriction on the annual  usage of his car or been made aware  of the financial penalties  for 
going over the estimated mileage. He said he couldnt trace receiving the emails  sent in May 
2018. He asked for the additional premium to be taken off his credit agreement  and a refund 
of the sum of £70 which had been taken from his bank account.  
Mr Cs father, acting as his representative, contacted IGO4 on Mr Cs behalf and was told by 
an adviser that he could  pay £55 on his debit card to increase the mileage by another  5,000 
miles. Mr C said IGO4  should refund him £95 plus compensation  for the worry and upset he 
was caused and refund the extra bank charges which  were  incurred. 
IGO4 looked into Mr Cs complaint but didnt think itd done  anything wrong. It said it had told 
him during the sale that it would use his email address  to keep him up to date with 
information about his policy. It also said itd told him at the same time that if he went  over his 
declared mileage it wouldnt stop his cover but could  charge him an extra premium based on 
his driving rating and on how quickly  hed exceeded the limit. It said itd sent him three 
emails to the correct  email address to warn him he was nearing his agreed mileage limit and 
that if he exceeded it he could be charged extra to exceed it plus a £25 administration  fee. It 
Ref: DRN96782602also said the emails  stated he could avoid the fee by going online to process the change  to 
his mileage allowance himself. 
IGO4 said none  of the emails it sent Mr C had bounced back so had no reason to think  he 
hadnt received  them.  
Unhappy with the outcome of IGO4s investigation, Mr C complained  to this service. Our 
adjudicator looked into his complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She thought  
the policy terms and the smart box terms made it clear that the premium could change  as a 
result of the data sent to IGO4 by the smart box including when the estimated mileage was 
exceeded. She also thought IGO4 had given Mr C appropriate notice that he was likely to be 
charged an additional premium for exceeding his declared annual  mileage. She said that 
IGO4 couldnt be responsible for the emails ending up in Mr Cs spam folder. 
Mr C disagreed with our adjudicator. He said hed not received IGO4s  April 2018 email. He 
also said he thought  hed not been treated fairly  because IGO4 had used only email  to 
correspond not letters and that the emails that had been sent werent clear enough on the 
implications and costs  of failing to adjust the declared annual mileage figure. Our adjudicator  
thought about what Mr C said but wasnt persuaded to change  her mind.  
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr C I dont think his complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The policy Mr C took out was purchased and administered online.  In order  to purchase the 
policy Mr C had to agree hed read and accepted the smart box terms and conditions and 
agreed to IGO4s fees. The terms said IGO4 would use his email address and phone  
number to keep  him up to date about  important  information  relating to his policy. The policy 
guide said:
if you go over your declared  mileage we wont stop your cover,  but we may charge you an 
extra Premium based on your Driver Rating  and how quickly you exceeded the limit.
About the data the smart box sent IGO4 the terms said:
We may use this data to change you insurance  Premium, including (but not limited  to) if you 
drive more than your estimated mileage.
The policy documents were all sent to Mr Cs email address in a welcome email. I can see 
from the statement  of insurance that was attached that the annual mileage is cited as 
10,000. So the policy was taken  out  and the premium set  based  on Mr Cs annual 
mileage not exceeding 10,000 miles. 
So I think it was clear  from the type of policy Mr C purchased (also  known as a telematics 
policy) that hed agreed to limit the mileage he drove in the policy year to 10,000  miles. In 
return, IGO4 rated Mr Cs policy and calculated  his premium on the basis  of that declared 
mileage. 
Ref: DRN96782603This service wouldnt generally tell any insurer that it should or shouldnt  use specific data to 
assess the risk its being asked to insure.  The risk is IGO4s to take on so it will decide how 
to assess it and will charge a price accordingly.  And the annual mileage was one such  factor 
that IGO4 considered relevant when  setting the premium. And the type of policy that Mr C 
had  a telematics  one which meant  his car was fitted with a smart box  meant  his premium 
was impacted by his driving behaviour which was sent back  via the smart box to IGO4. 
The policy documents made it clear that if Mr C exceeded his declared mileage, then IGO4  
could charge him an extra premium. Thats because the more  the car is used  the greater the 
risk IGO4  considers that presents. So it will charge an additional premium in such  
circumstances because  the risk has changed. And the policy  terms, and the type of policy  
itself, permit that change to be made.  
And, as the policy was taken out online,  and email the means  to let Mr C know  about 
important changes to his policy, I dont think IGO4 behaved unreasonably by warning  Mr C 
twice by email  in March  and April 2018   that he was nearing  his annual  declared mileage 
limit. It also notified him that hed exceeded it in May 2018 whilst again reminding him he 
could go online to increase his mileage. 
Mr Cs father  has said Mr C didnt check his emails.  Hes since said all of the emails (except 
the April 2018  one which he cant locate)  went to Mr Cs spam folder. But none  of thats 
IGO4s fault. I can see they were  sent to the correct email address and theres  no evidence 
that they werent delivered. Even if I accept the April 2018 email wasnt received as 
suggested by Mr C, there were still two others  that were. They  were  clear about what was 
happening and what steps Mr C could take.  So I think  IGO4 took reasonable steps to make 
Mr C aware his limit was approaching and what he could do to limit what that would cost 
him. 
IGO4 gave Mr C the opportunity to re-set his mileage limit by telling him he could top his 
miles up online and avoid  paying its administration fee. That seems  fair to me. But when it 
didnt hear from him it set his annual mileage to unlimited and charged him an additional 
premium for doing so. I understand the total amount charged to Mr C came to £140 which  I 
understand is made up of the additional premium of £100.40, the administration  fee of £25 
and interest of £15 charged by the credit company. The total amount was split over the two 
remaining outstanding  direct debits taken in June and July 2018. 
We asked IGO4 to show us how itd calculated the additional premium  itd charged Mr C. It 
provided us with some confidential information  to show us how itd worked  out the premium. 
Im afraid I cant share that with Mr C because its commercially sensitive but Id like to 
reassure him that Ive checked if very carefully  and am satisfied that the amount charged 
has been fairly calculated in line with IGO4s own underwriting criteria.
And I think that IGO4  treated Mr C fairly by offering (after hed complained)  to reverse the 
unlimited mileage charge  (£125.40) it had applied when he said he would like to re-set  it to 
15,000 instead of leaving it as unlimited. IGO4 said the premium based  on 15,000 miles 
would be £55.82. I understand it also offered to waive  its administration  fee. But the fact any 
refund would have  to be processed through the credit provider because  the £125.40  had 
already been added to the credit  agreement isnt IGO4s fault. The sole remaining direct  
debit to pay would need to be adjusted  but that could  only happen once the £55.82 was 
paid. 
Im unable to agree  that IGO4  tried to charge Mr C a further £55.82. It offered to charge him 
this amount instead of £125.40 but said it could only reverse the original additional  premium  
Ref: DRN96782604once the new one was paid. And it couldnt  process that refund because that the 
responsibility of the credit  provider. Ive not seen any evidence that IGO4  was trying to 
charge Mr C twice. Despite Mr Cs decision not to take IGO4s  offer up in the circumstances, 
I do think the offer was a fair one. 
So I dont  think that IGO4 has treated Mr C unfairly. I think IGO4  took reasonable steps to 
notify Mr C that he was about to exceed his annual mileage  and that an additional  premium  
would be due. I think the emails it sent Mr C clearly explained the implications of not 
updating his mileage forecast. Mr C also agreed  when taking the policy  out that if he went 
over the agreed  mileage, IGO4  could use the data from the smart box to charge him an extra 
premium for doing so. Im satisfied that Mr C agreed  IGO4  could communicate with him by 
email and that it sent all the emails to his correct address, none of which  were  returned 
undelivered. Finally  I think that the extra premium  charged was fairly calculated
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9678260