K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains that The Governor & Company of the Bank of Ireland (BoI) incorrectly 
recorded information on her credit  file about  the appointment of receivers  over her portfolio 
of properties.  She wants the default date changed  so the entry  will be removed from her 
credit records.
background
Ms D had a portfolio of buy to let properties mortgaged with BoI. She said that she agreed 
for the receivers to be appointed in February  2010, but eventually took back  control of the 
most of the properties (following some property sales). But Ms D said that one property was 
not recovered from the receiver,  but repossessed by BoI in August 2013 and sold.
In 2018, Ms D was told by BoI that the default date in respect of this property recorded in her 
credit records as August  2013 was correct (not 2010 when the property was first put into 
receivership). This meant that the entry  would  remain in the records  until 2019.  Ms D didnt 
think that this was fair and felt the default  date should be 2010, when she lost control of the 
property.
Ms D complained to BoI. It said the property was taken into its possession  in August 2013, 
and so this was the correct default  date.
Ms D complained to us, saying that she lost control  of the portfolio  in 2010, including this 
property. BoI explained that the loss didnt accrue  until 2013, which was why this was the 
default date. The adjudicators view was that BoI hadnt acted fairly. He said that the 
Information Commissioners Officer (ICO) expected defaults to be recorded by the time the 
mortgage was six months  in arrears, which was by October 2010. The adjudicator  said the 
default date for this property should be recorded  in the credit records  as October 2010. He 
also said that BoI should pay Ms D £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by 
its failure to correctly report the default date. 
BoI disagreed. It said that the ICO guidance specifically said that it didnt cover mortgages  
and that it was accepted in such cases, a default was when the property was repossessed 
as it was the point  of no return. BoI said that the adjudicators view was only correct  for 
unsecured debt. The adjudicator disagreed; he pointed out that this was a commercial 
mortgage. BoI reiterated that the ICO was clear  that the default date for mortgages was 
likely to be the date of repossession as before then the parties  had to work together  to avoid 
such an outcome. Ms D didnt disagree with the adjudicator, but thought the default date 
should be August  2010. She also confirmed  that the entry had now been removed.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
I think  BoI isnt at fault and the correct default  date is August  2013 (though this is now an 
academic point as the disputed entry has now been  removed due to the passage  of time).
The ICO guidance relied upon  by BoI is from 2016,  which is after the events in question.  But 
that guidance is similar to earlier  ICO guidance and reports  on the issue of the default  date 
in relation to mortgages and credit records. Its fair and reasonable for me to consider the 
ICOs advice to lenders.  
Ref: DRN94826262Its relevant to point  out that a default  date in credit records  is meant  to record  the point 
when the relationship between the lender and customer has come  to an end. And the 
guidance makes  it clear that there  isnt an automatic trigger  to register the default date for 
mortgages. BoIs own policy is that the date of repossession is a key date, and this is 
reflected in the guidance and within standard industry practice.  
In the circumstances of this case,  I dont think the date the receiver was appointed was the 
end of the relationship between BoI and Ms D. For a start, receivership is reversible, and 
indeed many of the properties in the portfolio  were  recovered from the receiver by Ms D. And 
the reference to six months worth of arrears  within the ICO guidance primarily refers to 
unsecured debt, not mortgages. For mortgage  cases, the lender and borrower are required 
to work together to explore reasonable ways to avoid repossession, which  is generally a final 
and irreversible  step. The property was rented out for a period, but a new tenant wasnt 
found in 2013, which was why BoI repossessed  it.
In my view, it was when  BoI repossessed the property  that the relationship between Ms D 
and it broke  down. This means that I think its fair and reasonable for the default date to be 
recorded as August 2013 and BoI isnt at fault.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  BOI accepted my view. Ms D mentioned that she 
was now facing bankruptcy proceedings and asked for more  time to respond.  She was given 
time (and I waited a few more weeks),  but didnt add more to her initial  response.  Ms D said 
that she disagreed  with my provisional  decision and felt that shed been disadvantaged by 
the law. She also said that she thought BOI had been inconsistent and unfair.
I have carefully considered the complaint again,  as well as the comments from Ms D, who I 
understand has taken  legal  advice  recently. I have  considered both the law and the relevant 
regulatory rules, and am satisfied that Ms D has been given a reasonable opportunity to 
respond. But I remain of the view set out within my provisional decision and think the 
conclusion Ive reached is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or reject my decision before 
29 December 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9482626