K820x#14complaint
Mrs I, as attorney for her mother Mrs W, has complained  that TSB Bank plc sent information 
to her sister - Ms C - about their mothers mortgage  account.
background 
In 2010 Mrs W wrote  to TSB saying I give my permission  for my daughter  [Ms C] of 
[address] to act upon my behalf for my mortgage,  as of this day 3rd September 2010 and any 
other matters relating  to my mortgage.
In October  2018 a lasting power  of attorney (LPA) was registered  giving Mrs I and her 
brother Mr W permission to deal with their mothers affairs. This was registered with TSB in 
November 2018  and the correspondence address was amended  back from Ms Cs address  
to Mrs Ws address.
On 16 January 2019 TSB sent correspondence  to Ms Cs address. Unhappy with this Mrs I 
complained to TSB. It said it hadnt been told to revoke the existing written  authority for 
Ms Cs access  to the account  and said that it would  need a written  request to do so.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mrs I didnt agree so the matter  
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB has confirmed that Ms Cs access to the account has now been revoked following 
receipt of a formal written  request  for that to happen.
Mrs I said she made  it clear nothing should  be sent to Ms C after November 2018 when the 
LPA was registered with TSB. But TSB has said it didnt  get that instruction, and could only 
have done so if the authority was formally  revoked in writing.  As Mrs I is the one bringing this 
complaint (on behalf of Mrs W) against  TSB, to uphold the complaint Mrs Is version  needs  
to be more likely than TSBs version; not just as likely. And having  considered  everything, on 
balance I cant say that Mrs Is version  is anything other than just as likely. 
All that said,  from what Mrs I has told us Mrs W hasnt suffered any financial loss as a result 
of the post being sent to Ms C. Mrs I has said My mother was upset that the mortgage  
statement letter outlined what current payment arrangements had been made between her 
and TSB. Information which my sister  not privy  to [sic]. Mrs I told us the letter was dated 
16 January 2019  and it caused her mother great distress and stress.
Ive seen a copy  of the letter that was sent to Ms C on 16 January 2019 and I cant see 
anything in that which disclosed any current payment arrangements other  than that the 
account was paid by standing order (no further details were given). Instead it was a standard  
redemption statement so all it included was the account number, the account  name  and the 
amount needed  to redeem the mortgage. All of this was information  Ms C would have 
already known, albeit the balance would have been very slightly  different from when she last 
should have known the information (according to Mrs I) about three months earlier. 
Ref: DRN97073372It may be there  was another letter  addressed  the same way on the same day which  is what 
Mrs I is referring  to which contained more personal  information. But even if there was that 
wouldnt be a matter  for our service  as theres not been any financial loss caused. In any 
event Im not persuaded on balance (as I must be to uphold this complaint) that the 
permission to send  information to Ms C had been formally revoked. Just registering the LPA 
and updating the correspondence  address  on the account wouldnt formally  revoke  the prior 
authority Mrs W had given for her daughter to deal with her mortgage account  for the last 
eight years.
I dont underestimate  how strongly Mrs I feels about  the situation, and if she remains 
concerned about  a possible  GDPR breach, I can only suggest she considers taking it up with 
the Information Commissioners Office (www.ico.org.uk/for-the-public/).
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W (or Mrs I 
on her behalf) to accept  or reject  my decision before 23 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9707337