complaint
Mr P has complained about work  Admiral  Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited undertook after he 
suffered a water leak from his loft.
background
There was a leak at Mr Ps home in November 2017. Mr P was away at the time but notified 
Admiral on his return home. Admiral accepted the claim but there was a delay before drying 
began. I understand the house was declared dry sometime in March  2018. Admiral then 
reinstated the property including replacing the laminate flooring in the lounge and porch.
By July 2018, whilst the claim  was still on-going, Mr P called Admiral  to report  further  
damage. I understand that Admirals contractor was lifting the laminate flooring as there  
were issues  with it when, in the porch  area, the concrete  floor underneath was found  to be 
wet. Once the concrete was exposed  it dried  quickly and Admiral said to Mr P it was likely a 
pre-existing damp issue. It told him it wouldnt finish the re-work it had started regarding the 
laminate and that Mr P should have  the damp issue investigated.
Mr P obtained a report. This said the walls  in the porch werent showing any sign of rising  
damp but the floor slab was wet. The report said this was likely due to ground  water or a 
leak. Admiral completed leak detection work  and found no leak. It said this showed  the 
damp wasnt an issue for it to deal with. Mr P complained  to us.
Our investigator pointed  out to Admiral that the damp was discovered during its insured 
work and, regarding the insured work, it was liable to complete a long-lasting  effective 
repair. He, therefore,  said Admiral should  resolve the damp  issue and replace the flooring.
Admiral objected to this but then said it would pay Mr P £886 to carry out work to the floor 
and reinstate some plaster work it also accepted  it had completed poorly. It didnt give a 
breakdown for that price. Mr P pointed out that his damp specialist had done  work as well 
as completing the report, and that had all cost £700.  Admiral  said it would pay Mr P £1,586 
to settle the matter.
Mr P said that wouldnt cover everything. He produced an estimate for replacing the flooring 
for £2,593. Admiral  said it would pay this amount to settle the claim (implying  this 
superseded its previous offer). Mr P said he wouldnt accept anything  less than £5,000  as 
more work  might well become necessary when the rest of the laminate was lifted,  which 
would also necessitate the removal of skirting boards. The complaint was passed to me.
I felt Admiral should be paying Mr Ps costs for the damp report and work, as well as the 
estimate for his flooring.  I also though it should  pay £250  compensation.  I issued a 
provisional decision setting out my findings, which were:
Ref: DRN9170964K822xAdmiral  hasnt sent us its file from the point of the November 2017 water  leak.  It has only 
provided details  from the point  Mr P called it in July 2018 regarding  the problem with the 
wet concrete. Admiral  says it obtained a drying certificate before starting  its initial repairs  
but hasnt provided  that to us. But Admiral  has told us that it only tested the surface of the 
concrete before proceeding with work. That isnt sufficient to show  the floor was dry. Its 
quite common for the surface of concrete to dry once exposed to the air, but it can take 
some time, especially after large water  leaks, for all of the water that has been absorbed 
into the concrete  to rise to the surface  and evaporate. So Im not satisfied that a drying 
certificate being issued  on the basis of the surface  of the concrete only being tested and 
found to be dry, evidences it, as a whole, was dry.
Im also mindful that the walls of the porch werent found to be damp at all. It doesnt 
make sense that the floor slab would be suffering from damp rising from the ground but 
not the surrounding walls.
Admiral also, when  completing insured work,  has to ensure that its repairs are long 
lasting and effective.  It isnt uncommon  for properties subject to water leaks to be 
suffering from pre-existing damp  issues. And where  this is the case  it often results  in 
delays in drying. In essence, the pre-existing issue is noticed. Where that is the case and 
it is unrelated to the insured work we might  well find its fair for the insurer to require the 
homeowner to resolve that themselves  before insured  work  is completed. But here 
Admiral was satisfied the home was dry and completed works. Those works havent 
lasted. I dont think its reasonable  for Admiral to then walk away  from that.
That being  said,  I note Admiral has agreed  to make a settlement for resolving  the damp 
and replacing  the flooring. Its figures  offered to date though dont  entirely make sense to 
me. Mr P has paid £700 for the damp  report (which  Admiral insisted he get) and for 
carrying out damp proofing. He will also, according  to his estimate, have to pay £2,593  
for replacement flooring.  Therefore,  Admiral should  pay Mr P £3,293  to settle  this 
element of his original  claim, plus interest on the £700 part of this sum, if Mr P shows 
proof of when he paid this amount  (from  the payment  date until settlement is made).
Whilst I note Mr P wants £5,000, I havent seen evidence which suggests that is likely 
what it will cost him to complete the work. If, as work progresses, further work is found 
necessary then Mr P will have to halt work and contact Admiral  so it can review  a request 
for further  payment.
On occasion,  Admiral has referred to this damage to the laminate flooring being  a second 
claim. It isnt a second claim, in my view. If Admiral has recorded it as such  on its own 
and any industry database it will have to amend that to show  its only a continuation  of 
the November  2017 incident and claim.
Admirals original offer to Mr P of £886,  it said, was for flooring and plasterwork.  I havent  
assessed anything  regarding plaster work as part of this complaint regarding flooring.
I havent seen  any estimates from Mr P, or any breakdown,  as Ive said, from Admiral, 
which might  explain what work is needed  and at what price. So, Im not going to make  
any finding about costs for plaster  work in this decision.
Admiral put Mr P to a lot of trouble when this damage was found.  Im satisfied that £250 
compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
Ref: DRN91709643Mr P said hed paid for the damp work  and report (£696  in total)  by credit card. He sent 
us proof  of that. He said hed have a cost to remove and store his furniture and sent an 
estimate showing that would be £1,345.77. He said there were two repair issues  
outstanding for which he hadnt currently obtained estimates; cracked  plaster work and a 
missing piece of wood on the inside of the doorframe removed by Admirals contractors.
When Mr P sent his response  in Admiral hadnt  replied  to my provisional decision. Our 
investigator sent it proof of Mr Ps card payments and told it interest  would be at the rate 
of the credit  card, taking  into account  payments Mr P had made and, if he paid it off in a 
lump sum, interest on the lump sum amount at 8% would  apply. The removal estimate  
was also shared with Admiral. When Admiral still made no comment on either the original 
findings or the new evidence I asked our investigator to tell Admiral  I felt it should pay the 
estimated cost for removal. Admiral was given a final opportunity  to reply. It didnt do so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Admiral has chosen not to reply,  and Mr P has accepted my provisional  findings, Ive no 
reason to change  them.  They now form part of the findings, of this, my final decision.  
Admiral has also not objected to or commented  on the further  evidence  and findings I shared 
with it. I accept Mr P paid for work  by credit card so Admiral should pay interest* accordingly. 
I also accept that Mr P will have to move his items  out whilst the floor is reinstated, so 
Admiral should cover  his costs for that too. So I will be requiring Admiral  to pay Mr P for his 
damp work and report (£696), plus interest*, for the replacement flooring estimate £2,593  
and the removal  estimate  £1,345.77. The latter two dont attract interest. Theres also my 
compensation award.
I know Mr P would like the other  repair issues settled at this time but I explained provisionally 
why I wasnt including  any findings about  the cost of plaster repairs in this decision. And 
Mr P has confirmed  he doesnt have an estimate for this work yet, or for the repair of the 
door frame.  Therefore, once he obtains these  costs he will have to send  them to Admiral  for 
it to consider.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited  to pay Mr P:
£696 to reimburse costs paid to the damp  specialist, plus interest* on the two payment 
amounts that make  up this sum, at the rate of the credit card, but taking  into account 
any payments made by Mr P which decrease  the balance,  until Mr P cleared the 
amount or he receives reimbursement.  If the credit card payments were  cleared by 
Mr P, apply  interest at 8% to the final amount  he paid,  until he receives the 
reimbursement awarded  here.  
£2,593 for replacement  flooring. 
£1,345.77 for removal costs.
£250 compensation.
Ref: DRN91709644Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*If Admiral  Insurance  (Gibraltar)  Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from 
any interest due to Mr P, it should  tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a certificate showing this if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
 
Ref: DRN9170964