K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that the used car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement  with Advantage 
Finance Ltd wasnt  of satisfactory quality. Mr K wants  to now reject  the car. 
background  
In September  2017 Mr K acquired a used car via a four year hire purchase agreement.  The 
car was around 10 years  old and had a mileage  of 95,000. 
On the day Mr K collected the car he says it jumped and the engine warning light 
illuminated so he took it back  to the dealership. Mr K says the dealership carried out repairs  
to the injectors  and returned the car. But the same problem arose again in October  2017  so 
the car went  back again to the dealership for repairs. 
Mr K says despite the repairs  the car continued  to have the same  problems and went  back 
to the dealership twice more in November 2017 and January 2018. He says that in February 
2018 the dealership told him they wouldnt be carrying out further repairs  under the warranty. 
During this period Mr K contacted Advantage and made a complaint about the condition of 
the car. However,  Advantage closed Mr Ks complaint  about  the car in November 2017 after 
he told it the repairs had been successful.   
The engine management light illuminated  again at the end of February 2018 and he 
contacted Advantage. Advantage asked Mr K to visit a garage for a diagnostic check  and to 
then forward it the report.  Mr K sent Advantage a slip of paper with handwritten  fault codes 
on it. Advantage said that wasnt sufficient to be a report on the cars condition.  
Mr K fell into arrears under the agreement in January 2018. Mr K was able to make  up these 
arrears but his account fell into arrears again in March 2018. Advantage issued collection 
letters and sought payments from Mr K. It stopped all collection action while this complaint 
was being looked at by this service.
In March 2018 Mr K reported that the car had lost power while  it was being used abroad.  Mr 
K says it was inspected  by a roadside  recovery service. Mr K told Advantage that he wanted 
to reject the car.  
In April 2018 Mr K informed Advantage that the car was no longer working. Advantage 
offered Mr K the opportunity to voluntary terminate the agreement. Mr K agreed to this but 
then didnt complete  the required form and return it. 
Mr K arranged for the car to be recovered  back to his home  in the UK. He sent a letter of 
rejection to Advantage in June 2018. Advantage arranged for the car to be independently 
inspected in July 2018. The engineer found that the car had faults with its timing  chain and 
had evidence of clutch judder but said both issues were the subject of fair wear  and tear. 
Ref: DRN92218342The engineer said the warning light was in respect  of the engine  temperature  warning light 
and this would require further investigation  as an issue with the water pump was suspected.  
The engineer said taking into account  the age and mileage of the car together  with the 
amount of time and miles driven since the inception of the agreement he was of the opinion  
that the car had been of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.  And that the current  issues  
with the car had developed after the purchase of the car through  general wear and tear 
which was consistent  with the cars age and mileage.
Advantage didnt  uphold  Mr Ks complaint about  the car. It said the earlier  issues raised  by 
Mr K in October  and November 2017 werent  related to the issues found  by the independent  
engineer during his inspection of the car in July 2018. It said those earlier faults  had been  
repaired by the dealership  in November 2017.
Advantage said that the current faults with the car hadnt been present at the point of sale 
and had arisen over time through wear and tear. It said the car had been of satisfactory 
quality and Mr K wasnt entitled  to reject it.
Advantage requested Mr K pay the arrears on his account. Mr K disagreed  that he wasnt  
entitled to reject the car and complained to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr Ks complaint  should  be upheld.  She said there 
wasnt sufficient information  to persuade her that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale. She said that with a car of that age and mileage it was reasonable to expect 
issues to arise from wear and tear over time. 
The adjudicator said she didnt think Advantage had acted unreasonably or unfairly  to Mr K 
in accepting the independent report on the condition of the car.
The adjudicator also said she didnt think Advantage had acted unfairly in the way it had 
handled the arrears  that had accrued on the account. It had tried to offer assistance to Mr K 
but he had failed to keep  making payments as required  under  the agreement.
Mr K disagreed with our adjudicators view. He said the car had been faulty since day one 
and had been patched  up to avoid the real underlying problem. The continuing  breakdowns 
of the car show that it wasnt of satisfactory condition.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer  Rights Acts 2015  goods  must  be of satisfactory  quality, as described 
and fit for purpose. When considering whether a used car is of satisfactory  quality then its 
what a reasonable  person would expect  taking into account the age, mileage and other  
relevant circumstances. Looking at this car which was 10 years old and had a mileage of 
95,000, I think  most people would expect a car of that age and mileage to have some degree  
of wear and tear. 
Durability is also something that needs to be considered when  looking  at satisfactory 
quality. There is a reasonable expectation  that the components of a car will function  without  
Ref: DRN92218343a problem for a reasonable period of time.  However, reasonable period will again depend 
on the age, mileage and condition of the car. 
Mr K says he had problems with the car from the day he collected it. He says the car was 
jumping and the engine  warning light was illuminated so it went  straight  back  to the 
dealership for repairs. He says the same  fault arose three weeks  later and that the car went 
back to the dealership five times  from September  2017 until January 2018.
Ive seen repair invoices  for November 2017 which show that the cars injectors  were  
replaced by the dealership. I havent seen any evidence of repairs conducted either  earlier or 
after November 2017. 
Ive seen the contact  notes  made  by Advantage which  set out the history of the contact  
between Mr K and Advantage. There arent  any notes about contact with the dealership.
Mr K first made contact  with Advantage in October  2017 when he said the car had been 
back to the dealership twice but that the problems  remained. Advantage asked him to 
provide evidence of the faults  so that it could raise  it with the dealer. Nothing appears to 
have been sent in and later that month  Mr K confirmed  that the car had been repaired.  
However, two days later Mr K contacted  Advantage and said the car was back  with him but 
the issues remained. He was again  asked to provide evidence so that Advantage could 
make enquiries. A few days later Mr K told Advantage that the dealership  had collected the 
car again for repairs. Advantage closed his complaint.
Advantage had reason to speak with Mr K about  his account on two occasions after that but 
he made no mention  of any faults  with the car. In February 2018 Mr K informed Advantage 
that the EML was illuminated. Advantage told Mr K that this was a general warning light and 
didnt necessarily mean the earlier repairs  had been  unsuccessful. It asked him to obtain  
more information.  Mr K didnt contact  Advantage until around two weeks later when 
Advantage didnt  think  he was clear  as to whether there was a fault present or not. So 
Advantage asked  for more information  about the faults. Nothing  was provided by Mr K.
Advantage spoke  with Mr K about  his account (due to the arrears) but he didnt raise any 
complaints about  the car until April 2018 when he said it wasnt working.  At that point 
Advantage raised the option  of voluntary terminating  the agreement  or providing an 
independent report  about the faults with the car.
In June 2018 Mr K raised rejecting the car and explained it was now broken down in 
Guernsey. A complaint  was opened  and Advantage arranged for the car to be independently  
inspected. Mr K arranged  for the car to be returned to the UK.
The inspection was carried out in July 2018  and consisted of both an inspection and a test 
drive. So Im satisfied that it was reasonably  thorough. The independent engineer didnt raise 
any issues with the cars  fuel injectors.  He found faults with the clutch and timing  chain and 
possible issues with the water pump as the engine  temperature  warning light had illuminated 
during the test drive. (This was not the same  light as the EML). The independent engineer  
said that all the issues arose from wear  and tear and not a material  failure.
The independent engineer also noted  that the car had been driven for 8,100  miles in the 
time it had been  in Mr Ks possession and concluded that these faults wouldnt have been 
Ref: DRN92218344present at the point of sale taking into account  that Mr K had had the car for 10 months  and 
driven it around 800 miles per month.
Mr K says the car has suffered from the same  faults  from the point of sale and that it isnt of 
satisfactory quality. But I dont think I can reasonably reach  that conclusion. The faults raised  
by Mr K were very general such as jumping  and the EML being illuminated. No further 
information about them was provided  by Mr K despite several requests at the time being 
made. Mr K told Advantage that he was having the same problem with the car but Ive no 
details to assess as to what those issues were. Looking at the miles driven by Mr K I cant  
say the car wasnt usable in the time he had it. 
I think most  people would expect a 10 year old car to need maintenance and repairs on a 
fairly regular  basis. I accept the independent engineers report  about the issues he found 
with the car when  he inspected it. So in light of that I think  its more  likely than not that the 
repairs that were carried  out in November 2017  were successful. So those faults were fixed  
and the later faults with the timing  chain and clutch were due to wear and tear after Mr K had 
used the car and driven it for several  thousand miles over several months. I think  most 
people, taking into account the use Mr K had, would consider that the car had been durable 
and of satisfactory quality  at the point of sale. 
And although there were faults  with the cars injectors this doesnt mean Mr K has a right to 
reject the car because  of that. This is because under the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 if faults 
arise that are shown  to be present or developing at the point of sale the retailer (or finance  
provider) has an opportunity to carry out a repair which in this case  the dealership  did. 
Mr K says he wouldve  brought his complaint sooner if hed realised  that Advantage was 
responsible for the quality of the car. But I agree  with the Adjudicator  that I dont  think that 
wouldve made a difference  to my decision. An independent report  wouldve been required to 
allow him to reject the car and Ive no reason to think an earlier  report  wouldve reached a 
different conclusion.
Its not disputed  that Mr K fell behind on his account.  I appreciate  he has had some personal  
matters to deal with but I dont think Advantage was trying to add to his distress at that time. 
It tried to assist but as it had problems making  contact  I dont think  asking him to clear  the 
arrears was unreasonable. 
So for the reasons given Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. Im satisfied that the current 
faults with the car have arisen  through wear and tear and werent  present  at the point of 
sale. Mr K isnt entitled to reject the car.
Ive seen that the arrears under the agreement havent been actioned by Advantage while  
Mr Ks complaint was being investigated  by this service. I think  that was fair of Advantage.  It 
will need  to speak with Mr K about  the way forward and set up an appropriate  payment  plan 
for any amount  owed.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Ref: DRN92218345Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9221834