K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about esure Insurance Limiteds  handling of her home insurance claim for 
storm damage to her conservatory and its contents.  
background
Mrs H called esure in mid-June 2018 to report a claim for damage to her polycarbonate 
conservatory roof which had let water into the conservatory damaging it internally along with 
some of her contents. She said she thought the damage had been  caused by recent high 
winds. Mrs H said she needed esure to send someone out to put a polycarbonate roof panel 
back in its place. esure advised Mrs H to get someone out herself to make  it safe and to stop 
further water  from getting it. It instructed a loss adjuster to visit her and validate the claim. 
The loss adjuster attended Mrs Hs house  to assess the cause of water getting into the 
inside of the conservatory and to cost out any insured repairs.  He thought that water  was 
getting in as a result  of wear and tear to the roof and poor workmanship in its construction.  
The loss adjuster said he thought thered  been age deterioration of the roof panels.  He noted 
two panels failed to meet the gutter  channel leaving a gap which  water could get behind. He 
said the location was consistent with where  Mrs H had said the conservatory had sustained  
internal damage. He noted mastic  tape had been  used internally which he thought showed 
attempts had been made to seal the gap. He also noted that some of the sheet  closers  for 
the panels were  loose  which he thought could be due to the panels  breaking down over time 
due to sun exposure causing  thermal expansion  and contraction. 
Upon receipt of the loss adjusters findings,  esure declined  the claim on the grounds that the 
damage had occurred gradually  as a result of wear and tear which was excluded  from cover 
by the policy  terms.  
Mrs H complained to esure  about  its decision. She also complained that esure had told her 
to go up a ladder  herself and carry out a temporary repair,  that shed been  mocked  by its 
staff for her accent, that its contractor had left a mess, that it was saying she was a liar and 
that there  was a storm because not only did it damage her conservatory but her fence too. 
Mrs H said that she was withdrawing her claim for damaged contents because  it was all too 
stressful. 
esure looked into Mrs Hs complaint but didnt think itd done anything wrong. It said the 
claim had been  declined because the weather  around the time of the damage didnt meet 
the policy definition  for storm and because, even if it did, the damage was a result  of wear  
and tear which wasnt covered by the policy. It said its claims adviser  had never told Mrs H 
to climb a ladder  and carry  out repairs herself.
Unhappy with esures findings, Mrs H complained to this service. Our investigator looked  into 
her complaint and recommended that it was upheld. She said there  was evidence of a storm 
in the days before the damage  was discovered.  She also thought the damage sustained was 
consistent with storm damage and that the storm was the main  cause of it. She didnt  think 
the damage was the result of wear  and tear and poor workmanship. So she recommended 
that esure settle  the claim and pay Mrs H compensation of £150  for not being  more 
sympathetic to her when  she called to log the claim.  
Ref: DRN92477102esure disagreed with our investigators  findings.  It said the loss adjusters report had set out, 
in detail, why the main  cause of the damage was wear and tear and poor workmanship and 
that the findings were supported by the photographs  taken. It also disagreed with our 
investigators recommendation that it pay Mrs H compensation of £150.  
The complaint was passed  to me for consideration and I issued a provisional decision in 
November 2019.  I made  the following provisional findings:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I fully appreciate that this provisional  decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs H but, 
having reviewed  all the available evidence, Im unable to agree  that esure has unfairly 
declined her claim or that its claims handling  has caused her any distress. Ill explain why. 
Mrs Hs policy covers her for damage caused  to her home by a one-off storm event. It is the 
storm that must be the principal cause of the damage if the claim is to be covered by the 
policy terms. If the damage is caused  by wear and tear, it isnt covered by the policy.  
This service has a long-established approach to considering  complaints  about claims for 
storm damage. It generally  takes  into consideration the following questions:
was there a storm on or around  the date the problem  occurred?
is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with the storm damage?
were the prevailing  storm  conditions  the main cause of the problem?
If the answer  to any of these question is no, the complaint is likely to fail.
The policy terms provide  a definition for storm. They say its violent gale force  10 winds  of 
55mph or more  and/or accompanied  by 25mm or more of rain in any 24 hour period and/or 
at least a foot of snow. esures weather report didnt show thered been winds  that reached 
the speeds required by the policy terms in the 7 days  prior to the damage. The weather data 
service used by this service does.  As a result,  esure now accepts there was a storm in the 
days before  the damage was discovered. So the answer to the first question is yes.  
The answer to the second  question is also yes  storms can cause  the type of damage    
Mrs H claimed  for. 
Unfortunately for Mrs H, the answer to question 3 is no. Whilst I accept that the damage to 
the conservatory occurred during the storm it doesnt automatically mean the storm itself 
was the main cause  of the damage. 
I cant fairly ignore  the loss adjusters report.  To do so wouldnt be reasonable. I can see he 
carried out a thorough  investigation and inspection into what had caused  the damage.  His 
conclusion was that it was mainly  caused  by poor workmanship  (as shown by the two 
polycarbonate panels  that finish short of the gutter channel and the re-fixing of the eaves 
panel forward of its original construction position) and wear  and tear (displayed by the age 
breakdown and discolouration of the panels due to sun exposure and continued thermal  
expansion and contraction).
Ref: DRN92477103Both these  causes are further supported by the photographs  in the report.  I can see that 
there is staining to the floor and the insertion of mastic tape. These  also suggest wear and 
tear over a period  of time rather than damage  caused by a one-off  event  of storm. 
Ive also thought about the way esure treated Mrs H whilst  it was handling her claim. Mrs H 
says she thinks that esure mixed  her up with a different policyholder  because  she was 
provided with different  reference numbers. Im unable to agree. There were different 
reference numbers  but they related to her policy number, claim number and complaint 
number.  
Ive also seen no evidence that esure lied to Mrs H, that it told her to go up a ladder and 
temporarily fix the roof herself  or that it wrongly  told her damage to her fence wasnt  covered  
by the policy  terms.  I can see from the policy terms that damage to fences caused by a 
storm is excluded from cover. Ive noted  that Mrs H says she was insulted about  her accent. 
esure has denied  any of its staff wouldve done so and, Im afraid that in the absence of any 
independent evidence either  way, Im unable to make a finding  that this happened. 
Finally Ive looked at how esure handled  Mrs Hs claim and I dont think it did do anything  to 
add to the inconvenience of having to make  the claim in the first place. By their very nature, 
all insurance claims  attract a certain amount of inconvenience. Thats  to be expected. But 
where an insurer, through its actions or words,  makes an already  stressful  situation worse,  
this service would  look to award compensation. Having taken all the circumstances of this 
complaint into account, I dont think esure  can be said to have done that with this claim.  So I 
cant reasonably  recommend that it pay Mrs H any compensation. 
esure replied  to my provisional decision to say it accepted  my provisional findings  and had 
no further comment to make. Mrs H replied  to my provisional decision and made  the 
following points: 
That I hadnt understood properly  what had happened both in relation to the storm and 
what she was told when she phoned esure  to ask it for an emergency call out number;
That esure told her to go up the ladder  herself;
That esures contractor told her the wind had lifted panels on the roof and that hed 
rested his ladders  and hammered and drilled on the roof;
That the same contractor was responsible for using  the white  mastic, pulling back  the 
lead flashing,  removing the fillers, installing the white  tape and leaving bits of her 
conservatory everywhere; 
There are no markings or stains on her floor;
That she was insulted about her accent;
That the loss adjuster  who came  out tried to take her possessions which is what led to 
her decision  to halt the claim;
Her gutters were  ruined by esures  contractor;
She would  willing  take a lie detector test to prove  she is telling the truth because she 
doesnt lie;
That I was as bad as esure by siding with what itd said;
The case  was returned to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN92477104I am sorry  to hear from Mrs H that she is in ill health.  And I would like to reassure her that it 
is not the case that I have sided with esure, or that I think she isnt telling the truth.  But 
when I am reaching  a decision  on a complaint I have  to weigh up all the evidence  before me 
 provided by both parties to the dispute  and reach a fair and reasonable decision based  
on that evidence.  It isnt the case  that one partys  evidence  is preferred over another. It is 
about reaching a fair and balanced  decision. And that will typically mean  that one of two 
parties will be left disappointed by the outcome. Unfortunately thats unavoidable. But I cant 
fairly ignore evidence.
In her response, Mrs H has provided  a full account  of what happened  around the time that 
the damage was discovered and the claim was made. I appreciate that she doesnt think I 
understood what took place. But her account in response to my provisional decision largely 
repeats the account she gave before I issued it. And Id like to reassure her that I do fully 
understand what happened. But just because I havent repeated  in full everything that 
happened, it doesnt mean Ive not taken all the facts into account. 
Mrs H says that esure said it didnt have  an emergency  call out number. But I can see from 
Mrs Hs policy schedule that her policy didnt include home emergency cover. So I cant  say 
that esure unfairly  declined to give her a telephone  number. Home  emergency cover is a 
policy add-on which requires the payment of an additional premium. I can see that Mrs H 
hadnt selected or paid for it. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  Ive seen  no evidence  that esure told Mrs H to go up the 
ladder herself.  
I accept that the wind may well have lifted the panels on the roof. But that doesnt mean the 
wind was the main reason the panels lifted. If the panels had been properly secured then 
they shouldve  been able to withstand winds of the speeds reported. Ive reviewed the 
photographs of the damaged roof again in light of Mrs Hs recent  comments about esures 
contractor being  the cause of that damage. The photographs show  mastic tape has been  
applied internally between  the roof and wall panels.  Part of the tape has yellowed. This 
suggests its been up there while.  So its reasonable to think  it wasnt  applied  by esures 
contractor. 
Theres no independent evidence that the contractor rested his ladders on the roof, pulled 
back the lead flashing or removed the fillers.  But I can see from the photographs that the 
original panel  fixings have, in places, corroded. Such damage occurs over time, not as result 
of a single  identifiable storm. And Ive seen from the photographs that theres evidence of 
age deterioration  to the polycarbonate roof panels  in the form of discolouration and moisture  
between the sheets. Such damage will also have occurred over time.  
I can see where the contractor removed  and re-fixed the eaves panel  but the loose and 
distorted panel  closers  to the bottom  of the polycarbonate panels exhibit damage that has 
occurred over time and not as the result of a storm. 
Ive seen photographs of minor water staining  and discolouration internally. I know Mrs H 
disagrees that any exists  but I cant reasonably ignore the photographic evidence that has 
been provided. 
I note Mrs H has repeated that she was insulted  by esure about her accent. Ive no further 
comment to make on this issue beyond what I said in my provisional decision.  
Ref: DRN92477105I cant see any damage to Mrs Hs gutters  in the photographs Ive seen.
Whilst I note Mrs Hs comment that esures  loss adjuster tried to steal her contents,  I cant 
reasonably make a finding that this is what happened.  Thats  because  theres  no 
independent evidence available for me to assess  which  would allow me to fairly say that, on 
balance, it happened. 
So with regret for the disappointment this final decision will cause Mrs H, it follows  that Im 
unable to uphold  her complaint about esures  handling of her claim for storm damage to her 
conservatory roof and its contents. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9247710