K822xcomplaint
Mr C says The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op Bank), then trading as Britannia  Building  
Society, mis-sold  him a mortgage  payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2005. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld.  Mr C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. I reached  a different view to that 
of the adjudicator. So I sent out a provisional  decision  and asked for comments and further  
evidence that I should consider. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general 
approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this case.
Ive considered what Co-op Bank  has said, but my current view is that the PPI was 
mis-sold to Mr C. I will explain why. 
Co-op Bank  recommended the policy to Mr C, but I dont think the recommendation 
was a suitable one in his particular circumstances. I say this because  it looks to me 
very likely that Mr C could have managed to carry on paying his mortgage for a long 
time, even  if he became  unable to work through sickness, or if he was made  
redundant. 
In 2005 Mr C had been working for his company,  which is a major international 
private-sector employer, for around  18 years. If he was made redundant, I think  its 
likely hed have received a substantial redundancy payment. Hes also shown  us 
evidence of savings  that he had, partly  in the form of investments. It looks  likely that 
the value of his savings,  combined with those of his wife, would have been at least  
the equivalent of a years salary. Its true that some of these may have been less 
easy to cash in than others. But, combined with his likely redundancy entitlement, I 
think he should have  been advised  that he didnt really need unemployment cover. 
Mr C is still with the same employer, and he has sent in evidence that his current 
entitlement to sick pay is extremely good. If the same employment conditions  applied 
in 2005, he would have been entitled  to 24 months sick pay if he was off work due to 
sickness, or if he got injured at work.  Sick pay for injuries outside work would be at 
the companys  discretion  but I dont regard that as a major deficiency  in his cover, 
especially as it looks likely  he had savings and investments  he could fall back  on. I 
cant be sure that such generous sick pay was available to him in 2005,  but I think it 
likely that it was at least  very similar. I think its unlikely that the companys standard 
sick pay would have  been increased so substantially in the period since  2005.  
And Ive not seen  anything in the paperwork  that Co-Op Bank has provided so far 
which shows me that its adviser  found out about Mr Cs circumstances  and needs,  
including his employee benefits  and his savings and other means; or which  shows  
that Co-op Bank took these  into account  when advising  him about the PPI, or 
explains why it still felt the PPI would be right for him. And Mr C has been consistent 
Ref: DRN99806282in telling us that he felt Co-op Banks  adviser  was pushy and that at least  some of 
the sales process was rushed. So overall  Im not satisfied that Co-op Bank  took all 
the steps it should have  done in that regard and I dont, on balance,  think that its 
recommendation was a reasonable  one.
My current  view is that I dont think Mr C would have bought the policy if Co-op Bank  
hadnt recommended  it to him. So I think its fair and reasonable to uphold his 
complaint. And that means I dont need  to deal with the other  issues hes raised 
about the sale.
I didnt receive any further comments or evidence. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  I am upholding this complaint. 
fair compensation
Co-op Bank  should  put Mr C in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Co-op Bank should:
Pay Mr C the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Co-op Bank can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Co-op Bank to take off tax from this interest.  Co-op Bank 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN99806283my final decision
Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. The Co-operative Bank Plc must  make  redress to Mr C as 
set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9980628