K821x#15complaint
Miss E complains  that Uncle Buck Finance  LLP (Uncle Buck) irresponsibly lent to her. 
background
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  on 9 January 2020. That decision is attached 
and forms part of my final decision.  
Miss E had taken out two loans  with Uncle Buck and I set out the reasons why I was 
intending to uphold the complaint in respect  of both loans.  I asked  the parties for their 
comments. 
No reply was received  from Miss E. Uncle Buck responded to say that the credit  report  it 
undertook showed  that Miss E had no outstanding short term loans. It said that just because  
Miss E had repaid loans  in the previous month, it did not mean her commitment  would 
continue. It said that Miss E had misrepresented  her financial position, which was a potential  
application fraud. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Having considered the matter again, I havent seen any reason to change my provisional 
decision. So I uphold  this complaint in respect of loans 1 and 2. 
Ive thought about what Uncle Buck said about  Miss E having no outstanding  short  term 
loans. However, the point  here is that she had made  repayments for such  loans in the 
preceding months.  The credit report indicated that she was over indebted. That should  have 
been enough to raise  questions to Uncle Buck as to whether  it should  be lending  to her. It 
should have undertaken  further checks at that stage. Had those further  checks  been 
conducted, for the reasons set out in my provisional  decision, Uncle  Buck should have 
concluded that Miss E could not sustainably afford  to repay  these loans. 
As to whether  Miss E had misrepresented her financial  position,  the question  for me in this 
matter is whether Uncle Buck lent irresponsibly. What I would say is that as well as taking 
account of the information  Miss E provided, where  Uncle Buck had obtained  the credit 
report, it had to consider the information contained within  it. If Uncle Buck  considered that to 
be inconsistent with what Miss E told it, it should  have checked  further.  
So with all of this in mind, as I said above,  I uphold the complaint in respect of loans 1 and 2. 
Uncle Buck  will need  to take action to put things right. 
putting things right 
Uncle Buck  must take the following action:  
refund  all interest and charges Miss E paid on loans 1 and 2. 
Ref: DRN95364622pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;  and 
remove any negative payment information about loans 1 and 2 from Miss Es credit 
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Miss E a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Uncle Buck Finance  LLP and it is required to comply  with the 
above putting things right  section.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2020.  
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN95364623COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Miss E complains  that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP (Uncle Buck) irresponsibly lent to her. 
background
This complaint is about  two payday loans  Uncle  Buck provided to Miss E in August 2014. Miss Es 
borrowing history is as follows:  
Loan Date taken Loan amount Repayment Date repaid
1 1 August 2014 £200 £269.90 22 August 2014
2 28 August 2014 £375 £506.06 4 May 2018
Before Uncle Buck lent to Miss E, it asked her to tell it about her income and expenditure. It also 
undertook a credit  check.  
Our adjudicator didnt think that Uncle Buck should have lent Loan  2 to Miss E. She said that a 
proportionate check at that stage would  have  shown  that Miss E had several  outstanding  payday 
loans at the same time.  Our adjudicator thought Uncle Buck would have known that Miss E could not 
sustainably repay loan 2. 
Uncle Buck did not agree with our adjudicators decision. It said that just because  someone has short-
term lending commitments,  it does  not mean  they have  difficulties managing their money. As the 
parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Uncle Buck needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Miss E could repay  the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN95364624the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Uncle  Buck was required to establish whether 
Miss E could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis  might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue  difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Es complaint. 
As I said above, when it was deciding whether to lend to Miss E, Uncle Buck did a credit  check. Ive 
been provided  with a copy of that document and I can see that it indicated that Miss E was over-
indebted. It also showed that she had made credit repayments of over £1,100 in the previous month. I 
think after receiving that information, Uncle  Buck should  have done more  to consider whether Miss W 
could sustainably afford to repay  this loan. It was proportionate  for it to consider the information  
contained in her credit file. 
Ive been provided with evidence of Miss Es finances from the relevant  time. Aside  from the credit 
check, had Uncle Buck undertaken a proportionate check, I think it would  have seen that Miss E was 
juggling a number  of payday  loans  at the same time. I can see that in July 2014, she had made  over 
£700 worth  of short-term lending  repayments, as well as paying other credit commitments. She had 
borrowed further sums. Had a proportionate check been  carried out, I think it would have been clear 
to Uncle Buck that Miss E could not sustainably repay loan 1. 
Later that month when Miss E applied  for loan 2, Uncle Buck would have been aware that this was 
the second loan she had applied for within  the same  month.  And the expected repayment was 
somewhat higher for loan 2  it represented over a third of her declared monthly  income.  Taking  
account of these  factors,  Uncle Buck should have done more to look at whether Miss E could also 
afford to repay  loan 2. 
Again, Ive considered  the evidence Miss E provided about her financial situation from the relevant 
time.  A proportionate check would  have  shown  that Miss E appeared  to be reliant  on short-term 
lending. She had made significant repayments that month and also borrowed more. It should have 
been very clear to Uncle Buck that Miss E could  not sustainably afford  to repay  loan 2. 
Ive taken account  of what Uncle Buck said in response to our adjudicator. However, the issue here is 
not that the mere presence of short-term  lending  indicated that Miss E couldnt afford to repay  her 
loans. But the number of short-term loans  Miss E had (and the associated  repayments she had to 
make) would  have a significant  impact  on her ability  to sustainably repay  her borrowing with Uncle 
Buck.  And if Uncle Buck  had undertaken a proportionate check, it would  have identified this. 
With all of this in mind,  Im proposing to uphold  the complaint about loans 1 and 2. Uncle Buck will 
need to take action to put things right for Miss E. 
Ref: DRN95364625putting things  right  what I am planning to tell Uncle Buck  to do
refund all interest and charges Miss E paid on loans 1 and 2. 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges  from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; and 
remove any negative payment information about  loans  1 and 2 from Miss Es credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle  Buck  to take off tax from this interest.  Uncle Buck  must 
give Miss E a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further comments from the parties, Im intending to uphold 
Miss Es complaint.   Im intending to tell Uncle Buck Finance LLP to put things right as set out above.
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 23 
January 2020, after which I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9536462