K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that due to delays by Clydesdale Bank Plc a payment he made for dental 
work wasnt received  in time to take advantage of a promotional offer.  
background
On 24 January 2018 Mr I paid Clydesdale £25 to complete  a CHAPS payment of £5,000  to 
his dentist. He wanted  to take advantage of a promotion that was due to end on 
31 January 2018.  
There was an error  by Clydesdale which meant the receiving bank returned the funds on 
29 January 2018.  Another CHAPS payment was made on 30 January 2018 to send the 
money back to the receiving bank. 
Mr I says the money wasnt received by his dentist  until after the promotional  offer ended. As 
a result,  the cost of the dental  work doubled.  Mr I complained and Clydesdale agreed it had 
initially made a mistake when it made the transfer but that the funds had been sent again in 
time for the promotional offer. Clydesdale paid Mr I £100 but didnt agree to cover  the 
increased cost of the dental work. 
Mr I referred his complaint  to this service and an investigator looked  at whatd happened.  
They explained that the investigation would only look at whether Clydesdale sent the money 
in time and if itd caused the delay  that meant the deadline was missed. The investigator 
said that whilst Clydesdale had initially  made a mistake when keying  the payment 
information itd sent the funds back in time to take advantage of the promotion.  They  thought 
the £100 Clydesdale had paid Mr I was fair so didnt  recommend it do anything  else.  
Mr I remains unhappy and asked  for his complaint  to be appealed so its been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin  by explaining that Im only looking at Clydesdales actions in this decision. 
Clydesdales accepted it made  a mistake when it initially keyed the information Mr I provided  
to complete the CHAPS payment. As a result, the funds were  returned by the third partys  
bank on 29 January 2018. But Clydesdale  completed another CHAPS payment at around 
09:35 on 30 January  2018, sending the money  back.
Clydesdales website  confirms that CHAPS payments are paid to the beneficiary on the 
same day theyre sent as long as thats  been done before 16:00.  Im satisfied from what  Ive 
seen that the second transfer  was completed on 30 January 2018 before that time so 
wouldve been received by the beneficiarys bank  on the same day. Thats reinforced by the 
fact the funds werent subsequently sent back to Clydesdale. 
As the funds were  sent to the beneficiary bank with enough time for Mr I to qualify  for the 
promotional offer Ive not found  that Clydesdale caused him to miss out. I appreciate  the 
Ref: DRN97412802funds dont appear to have reached  the destination account on the day they were sent but 
thats not something Clydesdale had any control over. 
I can see the investigators discussed  what  happened at the beneficiary bank after the 
transfer was received but Im not going to comment as Im only looking at Clydesdales 
actions here.  
Mr I was concerned that hes been unreasonably charged a £25 fee for completing the 
CHAPS transfer but thats the price  Clydesdale charges for that service. So I havent found 
its been unfairly applied here. 
Clydesdale paid Mr I £100 because of the error  in sending the original CHAPS  payment. 
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I think thats fair in all the circumstances. Whilst I 
agree Clydesdale did initially get the CHAPS payment  wrong, Im satisfied it sent the funds 
back to Mr Is dentist in time for him to qualify for the promotional  offer.  Ive not found 
Clydesdale caused  Mr Is CHAPS payment to miss the deadline  so Im not telling it to take 
any further action.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  beyond the £100  Clydesdale Bank Plc has 
already paid. Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2019
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9741280