K821x#15Complaint
Ms O has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) irresponsibly provided her 
with an unaffordable open-ended  credit facility.
Background
Drafty provided Ms O with an open-ended credit facility. This was a running account  facility 
where a consumer could request funds up, to their credit  limit, which would then be 
deposited into their bank account. The facility  was provided to Ms O in August 2018. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Ms Os complaint. He thought that Drafty shouldnt  have 
provided any further funds  after March 2019.  Drafty disagreed and asked for an ombudsman 
to look at the case. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im upholding Ms Os 
complaint in part. Id like to explain the reasons  for my decision.
The relevant regulations in place  at the time Ms O was initially  given her running  
account credit facility 
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that Drafty gave Ms O this facility  
when it was regulated  by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And the relevant 
regulatory rules in place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) section  of the FCA Handbook of rules  and guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  And it says a firm had to consider the potential for the 
commitments under  the regulated credit agreement to adversely impact the customers 
financial situation  as well as the ability of the customer  to make repayments  as they fall due 
over the life of the regulated credit agreement, or for such  an agreement  which  is an open-
end agreement (like Ms Os facility) , to make payments within a reasonable period.
CONC 5.2 also includes some guidance  on the sorts  of things a lender  needs to bear in 
mind when considering  its obligations  under CONC 5.2.1.  Section 5.2.4(2) says a firm 
should consider  what  is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what  a lender should bear in mind when 
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says In making the creditworthiness assessment 
or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit..
Ref: DRN90738692CONC 5.3.1(2) then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences..
In practice all of this meant that a lender  had to take proportionate steps to ensure a 
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable  manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender  had to gather 
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance  didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.  And any checks  had to take into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being  lent and when  what was being borrowed was due to be repaid.
Ive kept all of this in mind  when thinking about whether Drafty did what it needed to before 
agreeing to Ms Os Drafty facility. As explained,  Ms O was given what  was an open-ended  
credit facility. So overall I think that this means  the checks Drafty carried out had to provide 
enough for it to be able to understand whether Ms O would be able to both service  and then 
repay her facility within a reasonable  period of time.  Draft also needed  to monitor  Ms Os 
repayment record for any sign that she may have been experiencing financial difficulty.
Why I dont think that it was unfair for Drafty to have provided the initial  facility  to Ms O
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I do think  Draftys checks  before 
providing this facility to Ms O were proportionate  taking  all the circumstances into account.
As explained, Ms O wasnt  given  a payday loan where he had to repay all of what  he 
borrowed plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility where there  
was an expectation  that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within  a 
reasonable period of time.  CONC doesnt set out what a reasonable period of time is. So I 
think its important to note that a reasonable period  of time will always be dependent  on the 
circumstances of the individual case. 
In any event, in this case, Ms Os credit agreement contained a hypothetical repayment 
schedule (should the total amount available have been drawn  down) requiring monthly 
payments of around  £130 in order for the facility to be repaid within a reasonable period of time.  
So, in these circumstances,  I think Drafty  needed to carry  out reasonable and proportionate 
checks to understand  whether Ms O could make monthly repayments of around £130.
Drafty says it agreed to Ms Os application  after shed provided details of her monthly 
income and expenditure and looked  at her credit score.  It says the information  it gathered  
showed that Ms O would be able to comfortably make payments of around £130  a month. 
And in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Ms Os first loan with Drafty. The information  
provided does  suggest  that Ms O was asked  to provide details of her income and 
expenditure. Bearing in mind the amount  of the monthly repayment, the questions Drafty 
asked Ms O, this was Ms Os first loan and the credit score recorded, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Drafty  to rely on the information Ms O provided.
Ref: DRN90738693I accept Ms Os actual financial position may not have been reflected either in the 
information provided, or the information  Drafty  obtained. But Drafty could only make its 
decision based on the information it had available at the time. And, at this stage of the 
lending relationship between the parties, I dont think proportionate checks  wouldve 
extended into Drafty asking Ms O to evidence what she was declaring,  or it asking her for 
her bank statements.  So overall I dont think that Drafty treated Ms O unfairly  or 
unreasonably when it initially provided her with an open-ended  credit facility in August 2018.
Why I think Drafty shouldnt have provided further funds after March  2019
After Ms O was provided with the facility,  she immediately  drew down the full amount of 
credit available. And after this followed a pattern where Ms O immediately borrowed the 
maximum amount of credit  available shortly after she made  a monthly  payment. In other  
words, she was immediately borrowing what shed just repaid. 
In my view, this was indicative  of a consumer who may have been borrowing to make  ends  
meet. And as Ive already mentioned, Drafty  had an obligation to monitor Ms Os repayment 
record and offer assistance should  it have been  apparent that she may have been 
experiencing financial difficulty. As our adjudicator explained, it is clear that Ms O wasnt  
making any inroads  at all into the amount she owed Drafty. And by March 2019 Drafty  ought 
to have realised that Ms O was struggling financially. 
In these circumstances, I dont think its reasonable to conclude that Ms O would more likely 
than not have been able to make her payments  without borrowing further  or experiencing 
financial difficulty. Indeed her repayment record suggested she was only able to make her 
payments by borrowing further. And, in these  circumstances, Im satisfied that the further 
credit provided after March 2019 onwards  was unsustainable  for Ms O.  
What Drafty should  do to put things right
To put things right for Ms O, Drafty  should:
all interest  and charges added  to the facility  as a result  of the extra  lent from 
March 2019 onwards  should be removed. Any payments Ms O has made should 
be deducted from the adjusted balance  in order words, Ms O should  only have 
to pay any interest  that accrued, on the funds advanced before March 2019.  The 
payments Ms O made after this date should  then be deducted from the adjusted 
balance. If the payments Ms O made would have  cleared  the adjusted  balance 
any extra  should be treated as overpayments  and refunded to her; and
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if there were any, from 
the date they were  made to the date of settlement ;
if the outstanding balance is cleared once all adjustments have been made then 
any adverse information recorded as a result  of this facility should  be removed 
from Ms Os credit  file. 
if, after all adjustments have been  made, an outstanding balance remains  Drafty 
can collect this from Ms O should  it wish to do so. However, I would  remind 
Drafty of its obligation to exercise  forbearance should Ms O be experiencing 
financial difficulty and it choose  to collect any potential  outstanding balance.
Ref: DRN90738694HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must 
give Ms O a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Os complaint. Gain  Credit LLC 
should put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9073869