K820x#14complaint
Ms A is unhappy with the increases in premiums  on her home  insurance with 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc. 
background
Ms As home insurance policy was taken  out with St Andrews in 2005.  The first premiums 
charged in 2005  were  £303.34 for the year. This increased over the years and in 2019 the 
quote for her premium was £499.23.  Ms As policy  was cancelled  with effect from 
1 July 2019. 
Ms A says the price of her insurance  increased  without good  reason. Shes unhappy  that the 
price she was paying was higher than the price new customers would pay. She wants  a full 
refund of the difference  between what she paid over the years and the discount price  
charged to new customers for the same deal.
St Andrews  says the policy  was priced correctly  and it has treated Ms A fairly. Our 
adjudicator agreed  with this. Ms A is unhappy  and so the case  has come  to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would be, in
effect determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role. But I
can look at whether St Andrews has treated Ms A fairly throughout the period she held her 
insurance policy. Based on the evidence Ive seen I think St Andrews has treated Ms A 
fairly. Ill explain why.
Ms A has said shes unhappy  that her premium  was higher than the price new customers 
would pay. Often  new policies will have introductory  discounts. And its likely this is what  
happened in Ms As case. This is common across the industry and policies may well initially  
be priced lower to attract new customers.  I dont think its unfair for an insurer to seek to 
recoup that cost over the first few years. 
St Andrews  isnt obliged to explain  to its customers how its priced  its policies. But it does 
need to send renewal offers a reasonable amount of time before the policy  renews so they 
have the chance to shop  around or discuss the price  with St Andrews if theyre  unhappy. 
St Andrews  appears  to have done this, and I can see that Ms A called them  numerous  times 
to discuss her premium over the years. 
Looking at St Andrews  records,  I can see Ms A contacted them in 2008 to say shed found 
cheaper cover elsewhere and was offered a discount of £108.53  which she accepted. In 
2009 and 2010 she also called St Andrews about  her premium. St Andrews  didnt offer a 
discount on these  occasions but she decided to renew her policy regardless. Between  2012  
and 2019 Ms A called  St Andrews every year to discuss  her premiums and discounts were  
offered and applied at various levels every year. 
Ref: DRN91905112Ms A is unhappy she had to call St Andrews every  year for discounted  premiums  and thinks  
they should just have  offered a lower price to begin with. But its for consumers to decide  
whether they want to pay for the cover theyre offered at the price  theyre  offered. The price 
offered to Ms A in 2019 was ultimately unacceptable  to her and she cancelled her policy  
saying shed found what she thought was a more suitably priced  policy elsewhere. 
People who take the time to shop  around often end up paying less. I think Ms A was aware  
of what she was paying for her premiums, and knew she couldve cancelled it and gone 
elsewhere had she been unhappy  at any time as she ultimately did. For these reasons I 
dont think St Andrews should have to compensate Ms A for this in the circumstances of her 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9190511