K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited  (BMW FS) was not of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr H entered into a HPA with BMW  FS in March 2017 to acquire a used car. He says that 
within the first few months he had to return the car on several occasions for repairs. 
Although repairs  took place  under warranty Mr H says that the noise from the brakes wasnt 
resolved despite  several repair attempts.
Mr H says the noise  from the brakes caused  him embarrassment and that dealing  with the 
issues has caused him stress and inconvenience.
In July 2018, Mr H returned the car to the dealer. The dealer paid him £24,000  for the car. 
The settlement  for the HPA at that time was £26,442.67. The shortfall  between  the amount  
paid for the car and the HPA settlement was covered by the manufacturer.  However Mr H 
says that he should receive  a refund of his deposit given the HPA was settled early.  He also 
wants compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he has been caused.
BMW FS says that Mr H reported the issues with his car around eight months after 
acquisition having  driven 6,000  miles.  It didnt  accept  that Mr H had a right to reject the car 
given when the issue was raised but offered, as a gesture of goodwill, a contribution  of 
£2000 towards a new vehicle or a suppression of two rentals if Mr H purchased an approved 
used vehicle.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint  and recommended that Mr Hs deposit be refunded.
BMW FS didnt accept our investigators view. It said that Mr H chose to sell the car back to 
the dealer and it shouldnt  now be penalised for the car no longer being available  for 
assessment. It said the issue with the noise from the brakes  was raised  more  than six 
months after acquisition  and no evidence had been  provided to show  there  was an issue 
present or developing at the point  of supply. It reiterated that although it didnt accept that 
the car should  have been allowed to be rejected it had offered a gesture of goodwill which 
wasnt accepted.  It noted  the car had been  driven over 12,000 miles while in Mr Hs 
possession which was more usage than he expected to have which didnt support the car 
not being fit for purpose.
BMW FS said that the deposit wasnt paid to it but was instead paid to the dealer. It said that 
even if there  was a right to reject (which  it didnt accept) Mr H wouldnt be entitled  to a full 
refund of his deposit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities - that is what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN97286982Mr H acquired  a used car through a HPA. Under the regulations, BMW  FS can be held liable 
if the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into 
account factors such as the age and mileage of the car. At acquisition  the car was two years 
old and had been driven just under 7,500 miles.
Mr H had repairs carried out within the first six months. This suggests  there were  issues  with 
the car that were present or developing at the point  of supply.  However as these  repairs 
appear to have resolved those issues and I understand the repairs  were carried out under 
warranty I accept those  specific issues were  resolved.
The outstanding issue relates to the noise coming  from the brakes. Mr H says the issue  was 
present from around June  / July 2017 but I cant see any evidence that this issue was raised 
with BMW FS before November 2017.
I note the comments made  by BMW  FS about the issue being  raised  more  than six months  
after acquisition. I also understand that as Mr H no longer has the car it is not now possible 
to carry out an independent  inspection  to confirm whether or not issues were present or 
developing at the point of supply. However, based on the evidence  that has been supplied  in 
support of this complaint I find I am able to make  a decision.
When assessing whether  or not a car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply there 
are a number of aspects  that should be considered. These include whether the car was 
sufficiently durable  and any issues relating to safety. Mr H acquired a used car however it 
was only two years old at acquisition and so it would be reasonable to expect that it wouldnt 
experience any major faults shortly after acquisition.
The issue  with the noise from the brakes  was raised  within  the first year and I accept that 
had this issue been due to worn  brake  discs  or pads then it would have  been  reasonable for 
these to have  been replaced  and the issue  to be considered as wear and tear. However 
repairs were carried out including  all components  relating  to the brakes. As the noise has 
continued this suggests the issue relates  to something else.
Given when the issue arose (Mr H says it was present from June / July but was raised 
around nine months  after acquisition) and as this doesnt appear  to be linked  to the 
serviceable aspects  of the brakes, I find it more likely than not that there is an underlying 
issue and that this was developing at the point of supply. As further inspection is not possible 
I have relied on the information provided  and while  I note the comments about faults not 
being found, based on the other evidence provided  I accept there is an ongoing issue  with 
the car. 
Also, given the repairs Mr H had to have in the first few months,  the safety issues he has 
noted and the ongoing issue with the noise  from the brakes I find, on balance, the car was 
not of satisfactory  quality  at the point  of supply. Repair attempts have  been  undertaken but 
these havent  resolved  all of the issues. Because of this I think  Mr H should  have  been  
allowed to reject the car when the initial repair of the brakes didnt resolve the noise.
Mr H wasnt given the option to reject  the car but instead was allowed to return  the car and 
have his HPA cancelled with nothing further  owing. BMW FS also made  a goodwill offer in 
regard to Mr H getting a different vehicle.
I think the actions  taken so far go part of the way towards putting Mr H back  in the position  
he would  have been had he been allowed  to reject the car. However had rejection  taken  
Ref: DRN97286983place it would have  been reasonable to also expect  his deposit to have been refunded.  
Therefore, in this case I find it fair that Mr Hs deposit is now returned to him along with 
interest.
Despite the issues  with the car, Mr H did continue to have use of it as shown by the mileage 
covered. Therefore I do not find that his monthly  rentals should  be refunded. I do however 
find that the issues with the car have  caused Mr H distress and inconvenience and I think he 
should be compensated for the number of times he has had to return  the car an for the 
repair. Based on this I think BMW FS should pay Mr H £150 compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited should refund Mr H the deposit  
he paid, recorded  as £4,500 in the HPA,  along  with 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. 
BMW FS should also pay Mr H £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
has been caused.
If BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr H a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9728698