K821x#15complaint
Mr G says Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny.co.uk  (ECI)  irresponsibly 
lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 7 instalment loans which ECI provided to Mr G between November 
2015 and June 2016. Mr G complained the loans  were not affordable for him, so he 
concluded ECI had lent to him irresponsibly.
Our adjudicator rejected  the complaint about loans 1 to 3 but upheld Mr Gs complaint saying 
loans 4 to 7 were  lent irresponsibly and were  unsustainable for him. Our adjudicator 
suggested in her letter dated  7 August 2019 that the following  redress was to be calculated  
and paid by ECI as follows:
You shouldn't  have given Mr G loans 4 to 7.
A)You should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr G towards  interest, fees 
and charges  on these loans,  including payments  made  to a third party  where applicable, 
but not including anything you have  already  refunded.
B)You should calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual  payments made by
Mr G which  were considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr G originally made 
the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
C)You should pay Mr G the total of "A" plus "B".
D)You should remove any adverse information you have  recorded on Mr G's credit file in 
relation to loans 4 to 6. The overall  pattern  of Mr G's borrowing for loan 7 means any 
information recorded about  them is adverse, so you should  remove this loan entirely from 
Mr G's credit  file. If you have sold any of the loans you should  ask the debt purchaser to do 
the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest.  You should give
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax you've deducted, if they ask for one.
Mr G didnt make any comments about our adjudicators view however, ECI recently agreed 
with part of our adjudicators view and made a gesture  of goodwill to settle the complaint. It 
calculated that Mr G borrowed a total principle amount of £3,800.00. He had repaid 
£4,000.64, so ECI suggested it would pay the difference of £200.64 to Mr G.  
Our adjudicator sent ECIs offer to Mr G and told him the calculation was not strictly in line 
with our approach  as it did not include the payment  of 8% per year simple interest. Mr G did 
not respond to our letter, so we assumed he disagreed with ECIs offer to settle  and the 
complaint was passed to me to look at again. 
None of the parties has commented on loans 1 to 3 being rejected. So my decision will only 
be looking  at ECIs  offer on loans 4 to 7. 
Ref: DRN94849072my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
I dont need to decide here whether loans 4 to 7 were made irresponsibly and were later 
unsustainable for Mr G because ECI has recently made an offer to settle the matter  in 
respect of those loans.  I have looked carefully  at ECIs offer, but I do not think  it is in line with 
our approach which was set out clearly by our adjudicator in her letter dated 7 August  2019. 
The key issue then is whether ECI has done  enough to address  the complaint. ECI has 
looked at Mr Gs complaint and accepted  it may not have calculated or assessed  its findings 
correctly when it received  the complaint. On receiving our adjudicators  view,  ECI took steps  
to check its findings  and it made a revised offer to Mr G. ECI offered  Mr G the sum of 
£200.64. However, this is not in line with our approach as it does not include any interest 
payment to Mr G and it does not agree to amend his credit  file. So I think ECI should  do 
more to put things  right for Mr G by adding interest and amending  his credit file as our 
adjudicator suggested in her view.
Taking everything into consideration, I do not think ECIs gesture of goodwill is a fair way to 
settle this complaint, so I am going to increase the compensation for Mr G which  will bring 
ECIs offer in line with our approach. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Elevate Credit International Limited should do more to settle  this 
complaint. Elevate Credit International Limited should do the following:
refund  all interest, fees and charges Mr G paid on loans 4 to 7 (inclusive);
pay 8% simple interest per year on any refunded interest, fees and charges  from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative payment information about loans 4 to 6 (inclusive) from Mr Gs 
credit file. If Elevate  Credit International Limited has sold any of the loans, it should  
ask the debt purchaser to do the same;
remove loan 7 entirely from Mr G's credit  file. If Elevate Credit International Limited 
has sold loan 7, it should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Elevate Credit International  Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. Elevate  Credit International Limited must give Mr G a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Ref: DRN94849073Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9484907