K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out alongside a 
credit card. Mr D says Lloyds  Bank PLC, trading as TSB at the time, mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Lloyds is unable to tell us when the PPI was sold but its assumed the PPI was sold at the 
same time the card was taken out in 1978. Mr D also thinks  the PPI was sold in 1978, so Ive 
also considered  this PPI to have been  sold in 1978  in my decision. 
Unfortunately due to the length of time thats passed  neither party has been able to provide 
any documents from the time of sale.  So Ive had to consider what both parties have said in 
order to come to a decision on the balance of probabilities  on what I think  is more likely to 
have happened. 
Mr D first complained that he wasnt aware  the PPI was an optional  product or that it could 
be refused. But more recently hes said that he didnt even know he had PPI. But these 
complaint points are contradictory, as not being aware something is optional suggests  Mr D 
was aware of the PPI but wasnt given  the choice to say no it. Ive also considered that the 
PPI was sold a long time ago, which is something  I have to keep  in mind. 
Lloyds says the PPI wouldve been  presented  as an optional  product and it wouldve only 
been added  to Mr Ds account with his consent. While Mr Ds credit card application form is 
no longer available to support what Lloyds has said, I also dont have any evidence to 
support what Mr D has said. And without any evidence to show Mr D wasnt given a choice 
about the PPI or didnt consent  to it, I cant fairly and reasonably  uphold  the complaint on this 
point. So I think its more  likely than not that Lloyds  wouldve presented  the PPI as optional 
and Mr D chose to take it out. 
There is some dispute about  whether or not Lloyds advised Mr D to take the PPI. Lloyds has 
assumed this was an advised sale but Mr D says he wasnt  given any advice or 
recommendation. However,  it is not necessary for me make a conclusive determination  on 
this point. This is because  I have  not found  that the policy was unsuitable for Mr D for the 
reasons set out below. So, even if I assume advice was given, it does not affect the outcome 
of this complaint.
As an advised sale Lloyds wouldve had to take reasonable  steps to ensure  the PPI was 
right for Mr D  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover 
and, as he did have  any sick pay or savings to use to make his repayments, he seems to 
have had a need for the cover.  
Ref: DRN94313712Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr D about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for him if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. And for all the reasons I think the policy  was suitable for him, I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9431371