K821x#15complaint
Mr C says Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny (Sunny) irresponsibly lent 
to him.
background
This complaint is about five instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr C between  November  
2017 and August 2018. Mr Cs borrowing history based on what  Sunny provided is as 
follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
repayment*
1 21/11/2017 01/12/2017 6 £300.00 £85
2 13/01/2018 07/02/2018 6 £600.00 £182
3 03/03/2018 05/05/2018 6 £400.00 £130
4 13/04/2018 05/05/2018 6 £300.00 £221**
5 16/08/2018 04/01/2019 6 £600.00 £163
*these amounts have been  rounded up/down
**includes repayment  amount for previous outstanding loan
Mr C has said Sunny did not lend to him responsibly. Sunny has said it completed eligibility, 
creditworthiness and affordability checks for each loan application. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Cs complaint in part and thought loans 4 and 5 should not have 
been given. Sunny disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr C could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN90115542refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C hasnt disagreed  with our adjudicators opinion on loans 1 to 3 so I wont  be looking at 
these any further  as there is no ongoing  disagreement about  them.  But I will bear them in 
mind when Im looking at Mr Cs other  lending.  
But by the time Mr C asked for loan 4, Sunny should have done more  than relying  on the 
information he was providing about  his finances.  I think it should have taken steps at that 
time to independently verify Mr Cs true financial position. Mr C has provided us with his 
bank statements and credit file so we could  see what better checks  would have shown 
Sunny.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans 4 and 5 would most likely have 
shown that Mr C was having trouble in managing his money. Loan 4 was taken when loan 3 
was still outstanding. Ive also seen from the information provided,  which  includes a credit  
report, that Mr C already  had two or more existing short-term credit  commitments when he 
applied for loan 4 and that by the time he asked  for loan 5, he was repaying  at least three  
other high-cost creditors. 
It was clear from this that Mr C wasnt using these  high-cost loans to deal with a short-term 
cashflow problem. So, in these circumstances, Sunny ought to have realised it was unlikely 
Mr C wouldve been able to sustainably repay  loan 4  and any subsequent  loans.  
 So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 4 and 5  so Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans 4 and 5;
Ref: DRN90115543pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 4 and 5 from Mr Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Cs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9011554