K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited  (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to invest his pension in an
unsuitable investment.
background
Mr S has said that he was cold-called  in 2016  and offered a pension review. He was in his
mid-forties and had two personal  pensions. Mr S has said he was told that his pensions  were 
frozen but that he could transfer  them to one plan and make investments with better  
returns.
The two plans worth  around £94,000 were subsequently transferred to a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP).  About  £93,000  was then invested through  a discretionary fund 
manager (DFM) into debentures issued by a single company.
Mr S, through his representative,  complained to Alexander David  in November 2018. I
understand Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint. The
representative subsequently referred  the complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr S complaint.  He asked Alexander David for its files
and to provide  any other evidence it wanted us to take into account. Despite reminders, he
received no response.
The investigator therefore assessed  the complaint on the evidence  that had been  presented,
and in light of what he understood had happened  given what hed seen on other cases.  He
had investigated  other complaints against  the same firm that had been referred to us where
the nature  of the complaints were very similar and which were about the same investment.
The investigator said that he understood St Pauls  Marketing had sent Mr S promotional
material relating to debentures issued by this single company. He also said that he
understood St Pauls  Marketing sent,  or arranged to be sent, a summary report to Mr S
detailing the historic performance  of his existing plan and discussed it with him.
The investigator noted that when  Mr S applied for the SIPP  and the DFM account he also
signed a document drawn up by the SIPP provider indemnifying  it against  any liability arising
from the investment.  Among other  things, the indemnity said that he had read the
information prospectus provided by the company issuing  the debentures and was fully
aware that the investment  was high risk or speculative, and illiquid. He also acknowledged
that he had chosen not to seek advice. 
The investigator noted Mr S had said that St Pauls  Marketing had recommended the 
investment.
The investigator said he understood Mr S had been  given  a summary report
showing the details  of his existing pensions.  He thought it was likely a comparison of the
possible returns from both schemes would have been made and he thought it was difficult to
envisage a comparison being made  without  a discussion of the merits of making  the
proposed investment.
The investigator said although Mr S had signed an indemnity saying he hadnt sought
Ref: DRN90870282advice, he thought it unlikely this was a genuine execution only transaction  given the nature
of St Pauls Marketings  involvement and Mr S lack of experience.
The investigator said that the promotional  material he had seen about the investment said
An investment in the Company is only suitable  for investors capable  of evaluating the risks
and merits of such investment and who have sufficient resources to bear any loss which  may
result from the investment. He said Mr S had little investment experience.
The investigator noted that Mr S was in his mid-forties, the two pensions  represented  over 
half his private retirement provision and hed said he wanted a safe investment. His view 
was that seemed likely  in the circumstances. And that investing over half his pension  in 
illiquid bonds from a single issuer was clearly unsuitable. 
He also thought that even  if St Pauls Marketing hadnt recommended the investment it
should have assessed its appropriateness  in accordance with the Conduct of Business
Rules (COBS) 10, given  the investment was a non-readily realisable security.  The rules  said:
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges  or deals  in relation to a non-readily  realisable
security, derivative  or a warrant  with or for a retail  client and the firm is aware, or ought
reasonably to be aware, that the application  or order is in response to a direct  offer financial
promotion.
COBS 10 required St Pauls  Marketing  to assess Mr S knowledge and experience in
the investment  field relevant to the specific type of product or service  offered or demanded
so as to enable the firm to assess  whether  the service or product envisaged is appropriate.
The investigator said Mr S had no significant investment knowledge and no experience of
making investments  of this nature. The investigator  thought the investment wasnt
appropriate. And he didnt think Mr S would have invested but for the actions of St Pauls
Marketing.
The investigator also thought that St Pauls Marketing had arranged  the investment  for Mr S.
He said the regulated activity making  arrangements with a view to transactions in
investments had a very broad scope. He thought St Pauls Marketings activities  fell within
that scope.
The investigator noted that one of the Regulators strategic objectives was to protect
consumers, and its rules reflected that objective. The Principles required St Pauls Marketing
to conduct its business  with integrity, pay due regard to its customers interests and treat
them fairly, and manage conflicts  of interest  fairly. He thought St Pauls  Marketings
interactions with Mr S had directly  resulted in an inexperienced investor  investing  most of his
pension in illiquid, high risk assets. In the circumstances, he didnt think  St Pauls Marketing
had acted in accordance with the Principles or in Mr S best interests.
The investigator sent his assessment of the complaint to Alexander David. However it didnt
provide a response. The investigator  subsequently wrote to both parties on 3 February 2020
explaining that the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman for review and to make a
final decision. No further evidence or arguments were provided.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN90870283Alexander David didnt  respond to Mr S original complaint. Neither did it co-operate  with
our investigation; it didnt provide its business  files or respond to the investigators
assessment of the complaint. Theres  only very limited evidence available  to establish what
happened at the time of the investment.
Ive carefully considered  the evidence that is available including  Mr S recollections of
events. St Pauls hasnt  disputed what Mr S said in his complaint to it, or what the
investigator said in his assessment.
Im also mindful that this is one of a number  of complaints we have received and which I
have seen against St Pauls Marketing Limited;  all of a similar nature, involving seemingly
similar circumstances and the same  investments.
Clearly I need to consider each complaint on its own facts and the evidence provided  in each
particular case.  But Ive noted that what Mr S has said about St Pauls role is consistent  with
what other complainants have described. So I think what he has said is plausible. And taking
everything into account, I have found it credible.
Mr S completed a complaint form for us a copy of which was sent to Alexander  David.  In it
Mr S had said after receiving the cold call a meeting was arranged at his home. And at the
meeting the adviser told him he could get a better  return from the new investment compared  
to his existing  investment.  He said he was a low risk investor with no previous  investment
experience. And he thought the advice to transfer his funds  into a high risk investment was
unsuitable.
The documentation  shows Mr S transferred  his pensions to the SIPP and invested in the
debenture. In my experience  its unusual for someone of Mr S background and experience
to transfer and invest in this type of investment without prompting.
I think the transaction was unlikely to have  happened  without  the involvement of St Pauls.
Im satisfied that it initiated  the investment in the debenture.  It was aware of where the
investment was going to be made  through the DFM and facilitated it. Mr S has said St Pauls
advised him to invest; the investigator said he thought it unlikely this was an execution  only
transaction and he went onto consider  the suitability of the transaction.  The firm hasnt
disputed this. In all the circumstances, I think its more likely than not that advice was given.
The investigator also said he thought St Pauls  was involved in arranging the transaction and
that it was required, but failed, to assess its appropriateness in accordance  COBS  10. He
set out his reasons for understanding this and went onto say he didnt think  the debentures
were appropriate  for Mr S.
Again, St Pauls hasnt  disputed this. I agree with the investigator that its more likely than not
that St Pauls  arranged the investment. It was the promoter for the debenture,  but Im
satisfied, on the limited evidence that it went beyond just promoting it and was involved in 
arranging the investment  (and advising on it). The debenture was high risk and speculative
and clearly wasnt appropriate for Mr S given his background, knowledge and circumstances
I also agree  with the investigator that St Pauls didnt act in Mr S best interests.  For the
reasons given above, I think  it was clear that the debentures werent suitable or appropriate 
for Mr S given his circumstances and this should  have  been clear to St Pauls.  Im satisfied 
that if St Pauls had acted  in Mr S interests, not advised him to invest  in the debenture or if it 
had told him it wasnt suitable  or appropriate  for him he wouldnt have invested in it.
Ref: DRN90870284Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls  failures  caused Mr S to transfer  and invest in a 
product that he would otherwise not have invested into. And Im satisfied its failures caused 
the losses that Mr S has claimed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint. I order Alexander David Securities Limited  
to calculate and pay compensation to Mr S on the following  basis.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr S as close as possible to 
the position he would probably  now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think  Mr S 
would have invested differently. The investigator recommended  that the full transfer value of 
the SIPP should be used for calculation purposes  albeit I note some of it remained in cash. 
I think this is reasonable  given  that its not possible  to know precisely what  he would have 
done with the pension  had it not been  for St Pauls  actions.  Im satisfied that what I have  set 
out below  is fair and reasonable  given Mr S' circumstances and objectives  when he 
invested.
Its unclear what the status of the debenture is. My understanding is that its currently not 
possible to encash  it, however that its given a notional value. I note its current notional  
value is materially higher than the amount Mr S invested. Its possible the calculation 
might show  Mr S hasnt suffered a financial loss.
what should  Alexander David Securities  Ltd do?
To compensate Mr S fairly  Alexander  David Securities  Ltd should:
Compare the performance of Mr S' investment  with that of the benchmark  
shown below. If the fair value  is greater than the actual value, there is a loss 
and compensation  is payable.  If the actual value is greater than the fair 
value, no compensation is payable.
Alexander David Securities Ltd should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities Ltd should pay into Mr S pension  plan,  to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The payment 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander  David  
Securities Ltd compensation  into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing 
on or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S' 
pension plan it should pay that amount direct  to him. But had it been possible  to pay 
into the plan it would  have provided a taxable income. Therefore  the compensation 
should be reduced to notionally  allow for any income  tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. The notional  allowance should be calculated using Mr S' actual or 
expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example if Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement
Ref: DRN90870285age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would  
have been able to take a tax-free  lump sum,  the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mr S £250 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the 
matter has caused him.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple  format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities 
Ltd considers  that it is required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much it has taken  off. It should 
also give Mr S a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsfor half the 
investment: FTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index;  
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed  
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
this decision8% simple  a 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement if 
settlement isnt 
made within 
28 days of 
Alexander David being 
notified of Mr 
S acceptance 
of this decision
Actual value
This means  the actual transfer  value of the SIPP  at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the debenture is illiquid (meaning  it cannot  be readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the SIPP. So, the value 
should be assumed  to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. Alexander David Securities 
Ltd should take ownership of the illiquid  investment by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension  provider  / administrator.  This amount  should be deducted 
from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to purchase the investment its value 
should be assumed  to be nil for the purpose of calculation.
Alexander David Securities Ltd may wish to require  that Mr S provides an undertaking 
to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing or 
Ref: DRN90870286receipt from the pension  plan. Alexander David Securities  Ltd will need to meet  any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the sum transferred from the pension provider, plus any charges incurred 
within the plan on transfer, would have  been  worth at the end date had they grown in line 
with the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  
Alexander David Securities Ltd should use the monthly average rate for the fixed  rate 
bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity as published  by the Bank of England. The rate for 
each month  is that shown  as at the end of the previous month.  Those rates should be 
applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should  be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other  distribution  out of the SIPP should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on.
SIPP Fees
The investigator recommended  that Alexander David pay five years worth  of SIPP fees if it 
couldnt buy the investment. I think this is reasonable  as Mr S hasnt  got the opportunity to 
transfer to another pension if the illiquid  debenture remains in it. So if Alexander David 
Securities Ltd cant buy the investment and it remains illiquid, it should pay Mr S an amount 
equal to five years of SIPP  fees based on the current tariff. This is in addition to the 
compensation calculated using a nil value  for the investment.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
 Mr S wanted  capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
 The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone 
who wanted to achieve  a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
 The FTSE  UK Private Investors  Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017,  
the FTSE WMA Stock Market  Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government  bonds. Its 
a fair measure  for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher 
return.
 I consider that Mr S risk profile  was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably  put Mr S into that position. It does not mean  that   
Mr S would have  invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise  
Ref: DRN90870287that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr S could have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective and risk attitude.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2020.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9087028