K821x#15Complaint
Mr B has complained about two loans he took out through a company called Greenlight 
Credit Ltd, trading as Varooma, in 2013. Mr B says that it was irresponsible  for the company 
to provide him with the loans as he could not afford  to pay them  back.
Background
Mr B took out the first of the loans (Loan 1) he is complaining about in September 2013  for a 
period of 12 months. The loan was for £500. The annual percentage rate (APR) was 
270.3%. The total charge  for the credit was £494.  The total amount to repay was therefore  
£994. The monthly repayment was £83. This loan was secured  on Mr Bs vehicle.
The following  month (October 2013) Mr B took out a further loan (Loan 2) with Greenlight 
Credit over a period  of 12 months.  This was for £265. The APR was 270.3%  and the total 
charge for the credit was £255.25. The total amount repayable  was £520.25. The monthly 
repayment was £43. 
Mr B says that Greenlight Credit should  not have provided him with these loans and if they 
had carried out checks on his credit, they would have  known he could not afford  to pay them 
back. Soon  after taking  out Loan 2, it appears Mr B had difficulties  keeping  up with 
repayments on the loan. He said that he lost his job in December 2013 and that Greenlight 
Credit should have done more to help him at this time as he was in financial difficulties. 
Greenlight Credit entered into a payment arrangement with Mr B which  meant he paid 
£12.50 per month towards  Loan  1 and £7.50 towards Loan 2. Soon  after this payment  
arrangement was put in place, the vehicle upon which  the loans were secured was written 
off and in February  2014 the insurance  company paid off the finance at the agreed 
settlement.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Bs complaint.  They didnt recommend that the complaint 
regarding the first loan should be upheld. But they did think that Greenlight Credit  shouldnt 
have provided  Mr B with the second  loan as they should have  been  aware  that Mr B was 
having difficulties  managing his money. Our adjudicator also thought that Greenlight Credit 
did enough to help Mr B when  he was in financial difficulties.
Greenlight Credit didnt agree with our adjudicator  with regards to Loan  2 and said that both 
loans were lent to Mr B responsibly. So the complaint has come to me to decide.  
My findings  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Loan 1 but I do uphold Mr Bs 
complaint about  loan 2. I will go on to explain why I have reached this decision. 
Greenlight Credit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that they didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that they should have carried out proportionate checks 
to make sure that Mr B could repay the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These 
checks should have  been reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit 
Ref: DRN95756702being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments, and the 
total cost of the credit being provided.
Loan 1
Greenlight Credit have told us that in respect of Loan 1 they carried  out an affordability 
assessment based  on the information Mr B had provided to them about his income and 
expenditure. This showed that Mr B had a disposable income of £300. As the monthly 
repayment was £83, they concluded that the loan was affordable  for Mr B.
Given the amount  of the loan, the monthly repayment and the period of time over 
which it was to be paid,  Im satisfied that Greenlight  Credits checks  were  reasonable 
and proportionate as far as Loan 1 is concerned. And I think the decision to lend was 
fair based on the available information.  
Loan 2
Although the loan amount  and monthly repayment was less for loan 2 than it was for Loan 1, 
I think that it was unfair for Greenlight  Credit to have provided  Mr B with this second loan. 
This is because Mr B had not repaid his existing loan with Greenlight Credit and had very 
soon after taking out the first loan, taken out a second loan for a relatively small amount  
close to the amount he would have had remaining as disposable income. This meant both 
loans were effectively running  alongside for a similar period  of time. The repayment on this 
loan in addition  to the repayment of the first loan would have eaten into Mr Bs already 
limited disposable  income  and would have left him with very little in the way of unexpected 
expenses. In addition to this Mr B had paid his first instalment towards Loan 1 late. Although 
there could  have been several reasons for this, in my view,  it was an indication that Mr B 
was already struggling to manage  his existing commitments. I havent seen any evidence 
that Greenlight attempted to find out from Mr B what the reason for this was and ensure that 
he wasnt already  struggling  financially before agreeing to Loan  2. 
So based  on the available evidence, I think Greenlight Credits decision to lend was unfair  
and I uphold Mr Bs complaint with regards to Loan 2. I have set out below what  I think  
Greenlight Credit need to do in order to put things right for Mr B.
Financial Difficulties
Mr B has also complained that Greenlight  Credit  did not give him enough  help when he lost 
his job and was in financial difficulties.
If a business is aware, or should reasonably be aware, that a consumer is facing  financial  
difficulties, we would expect them to deal with the consumer in a positive and sympathetic 
manner. 
In this particular  case, I note that once Greenlight Credit became aware that Mr B was in 
financial difficulties, they entered into an affordable payment arrangement  with Mr B which  
meant that he was only expected to pay £20 in total a month  towards both of the loans. I 
note that the loans  were settled in full in February  2014 as the vehicle upon which  the loans 
were secured was written  off. 
Ref: DRN95756703In these circumstances, I think Greenlight Credit  did act positively and sympathetically with 
Mr B and I wouldnt  have necessarily expected them to have done more  at that stage.
Putting things  right
Greenlight Credit shouldnt have given Mr B Loan 2. So Greenlight Credit should:
A)Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B on Loan  2, including interest,    
fees and charges. 
B)Add the amount in A to the amount they applied to the balance  in settlement following 
the car being  written off (£382.20).
C)They should then deduct the loan amount of £265 from the total of A and B.
D)Greenlight Credit should then refund  the amount calculated in C with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on that amount, from the date Greenlight Credit  received the 
settlement in B to the date the complaint is settled. Greenlight Credit should  then move 
to step E.
E)Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Bs credit  file in relation to Loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Greenlight Credit to deduct tax from this interest.  
Greenlight Credit should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax Greenlight  Credit 
have deducted,  if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I partially uphold Mr Bs complaint against Greenlight Credit  Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2020.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9575670