K820x#14complaint
Mr A in his capacity as a director  of Company T, has complained about Danske Bank 
Limited, trading  as Danske Bank  (Danske for short). He says it hasnt allowed him early  
access to a fixed term deposit owned  by Company T.
background
Mr A says that Danske  has treated him unfairly  because it wouldnt allow  him early  access to 
his fixed term deposit. Mr A says hes got an agreement with Danske to access early, 
although he accepts  he doesnt have any written  evidence of this agreement.  He does point 
to having had early  access  on a number of occasions to previous deposits with Danske.
Danske says its treated  him fairly. It accepts Mr A has had access  before but says it has 
discretion on each application  that Mr A makes  to it. And just because hes had access 
before doesnt  mean there is an agreement to grant access again. And it says that its terms 
require special  circumstances  for early withdrawal  and its satisfied  there arent any such 
circumstances here.
Mr A complained to Danske and it said it treated him fairly.  Mr A says he disagrees. The 
adjudicator did not agree  with Mr A. As Mr A remains  unhappy  this complaint has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a disagreement as to what has happened I must make  my decision on what 
is more likely to have  happened.  Or in other words the balance  of probabilities.
Having considered the entirety of the matter I do not think  this complaint should be upheld.  I 
say this for the following  reasons:
Im not persuaded there was an agreement that Mr A could have access  whenever  
he wanted to his fixed term deposits.  Its clear from the paperwork there was a 
discretion available to the bank to allow access if it chose to. But just because there 
were examples of such discretion  being  exercised doesnt mean that Mr A had a right 
to early access automatically or that Danske had agreed to let him have access  
whenever he wanted.
I am satisfied that Danske had sole discretion on whether to grant early access. Mr A 
was allowed to ask for early access but I dont see that Danske was under any 
obligation to grant it. 
It is clear from the paperwork (which was consistent with earlier investments made by 
Mr A) that to gain early access there needed to be special circumstances.  Mr A 
hasnt made any persuasive  arguments  about his having  special  circumstances. So I 
dont think Danskes  position that he didnt  have sufficient special circumstances is 
unfair.
Mr A argues that it would be normal practice  to grant access, because it had done  so 
before. But this misses the point-there was discretion to give or not give access in 
every case. And in this case Danske used its discretion not to grant access.  So Mr A 
Ref: DRN95600262will have to wait until the maturity date or ask Danske again,  knowing it has discretion 
to say no if it wishes.
Im not persuaded Danske has done anything wrong in declining Mr As request. So I 
think it would be unfair to uphold this complaint.
So all in all Im not persuaded Mr A or his Company have been treated unfairly by Danske in 
the circumstances. So, in short, this complaint does not succeed. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Northern Bank  Limited 
trading as Danske  Bank. So it has nothing more to do with regard to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A on behalf of 
Company T to accept  or reject my decision before 26 April 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9560026