K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  about how Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) has dealt with 
the allocation  of hotel chain loyalty points  that are earned through spending on its credit card 
account.
background 
Mr L told us that he has a credit card account which is administered  by Creation, which is the 
most recent provider of a reward scheme  operated  by a large hotel group. Mr L told us that 
this is the third such card he has held over a period of years  since 2009. The card is given 
out as part of the hotel  groups  loyalty  scheme. Every so often the group changes  provider 
and Creation is the third provider since he started  using  this system.
Mr L wanted to complain about  how the points under the loyalty scheme are allocated.  He 
said that the present scheme is supposed  to provide him with 2 points for every £1 spent, 
but 4 points for every £1 spent either with the hotel chain, or overseas. He said the former  
account providers  have operated the account  on a monthly spend basis. They would  add up 
the monthly spending total, and award  points on that. But Creation is operating the account 
on a different basis. It awards points per transaction. So if a transaction  includes some  
pence, Mr L doesnt earn any points on those. 
Mr L also said that the account seemed to have a floating accounting date. He said it 
changed every month, and ranged between 21st and 26th of the month. He said that meant 
that he didnt know when payments had to be made, and on one occasion  had meant  that he 
needed to pay a monthly subscription twice in the same month.  He said hed complained 
about this, and Creation had just completely failed to deal with that point. 
Mr L then wrote again, to say that he wasnt being awarded the right points  for overseas 
transactions. He said that he had used his card online to make  a purchase in euros,  and that 
should accrue 4 points  per £1 of spend,  but Creation had only allocated 2 per £1 of spend. 
Mr L said he wanted Creation to correct the credit  of points  on his account  every month 
since this started. He wanted the fraud  remedied for all of Creations  other customers  too. 
Creation has previously awarded  Mr L extra points for transactions which  were  done 
overseas, but were  only allocated 2 points per £1 spent. But in response to a more recent 
complaint on this, Creation said that what it had done this time was right.  Mr L should  only 
get 2 points per £1 of spend. That was because, although the transaction  that Mr L was 
referring to was in euros, it had been  made  online in the UK. So Creation said it didnt have 
to give him the extra points. 
Creation said that it was issuing statements on or around the 22nd  of each month. It couldnt  
always stick to the same  date, because  of the varying number of days in each month. It said 
that all the statements had been issued  between the 20th and 23rd of each month,  except 
for December when it issued his statement  on the 26th. (Creation later sent our service a list 
of when Mr Ls statements were  issued, and that included  a date of 24 July.) Creation said 
that it didnt put the statement date on the website  because  that wasnt  the only statement 
date it had, other customers had different dates. But Mr Ls was around the 22nd.
Creation has also written to Mr L to confirm it calculates points on each individual spend, not 
on the whole  spend across the month. It didnt think it had made a mistake with that either. 
Ref: DRN91997752When Creation wrote  to our service about this complaint it said that it still thought that it had 
responded properly to Mr Ls complaint  about  statement dates. But it said that it had taken a 
long time to respond to one of his complaints about points awarded for an overseas 
transaction, and it couldnt see that it had dealt with that issue  going  forward. It said that 
because of that it would like to pay Mr L £100.  
Our adjudicator asked  Creation for some more  information about Mr Ls account, and in 
response Creation  said that Mr L would only earn half the points that he seemed to think he 
should get, so it would award 2 per £1 of overseas spend. It said that it had got this wrong 
when it had previously  written to Mr L. It also said that Mr L could change his statement date 
if he would  prefer.  
Creation also sent us some of Mr Ls statements, and what Creation said about  the points 
that Mr L earned didnt  seem to match what was on those statements. Our adjudicator  asked 
about this, and Creation then confirmed that it pays Mr L double the amount of some  other  
customers, because  he has a premium account which entitles him to double  reward  points. 
Creation also changed  its mind  about what it should be paying  him for foreign currency  
transactions. It now says that it only pays 2 per £1 spent for any online transaction,  whether 
it was a foreign  transaction  or a domestic  one. 
At first our adjudicator didnt uphold  this complaint. She said that Creation was able to 
calculate points  on individual transactions. Online payments would  only get 2 per £1 spent. 
And Creation was issuing his statement around  the 22nd of each month. It was usual for 
card account  statement  dates to vary. Mr L could change that date if he wanted  to. 
Mr L didnt agree with that. He said that Creation  hadnt given us the right information.  He 
said the credit card is run by the hotel  group,  and this is the third one hes had. He said he 
only used it for the reward points.  
Mr L sent us a statement which set out the points he would receive. He told us that said that 
he would  get 4 hotel group points for every £1 spent abroad. He said that Creation had 
added an extra provision  later to say that he would only get 2 points for every  £1 spent in the 
UK or online, but he said that he was entitled  to 4 points for any overseas spending,  even if it 
was online. He thought  that was the right legal  interpretation  of these conditions. 
Mr L then wrote again. He said that he was still being deprived of the right amount of points. 
Hed made another overseas transaction,  and only been awarded 2 points per £1 spent even 
though that wasnt an online transaction.  
Creation then said that it wouldnt  change  how it was calculating points to base this on 
monthly spend. It said that as the main  benefit of the card is to earn points on each spend, it 
is assumed that the points are calculated  per transaction and not monthly.  
It also said that it wouldnt change  the way that it awards points on foreign transactions. It 
said that isnt something it was able to honour  as the points side of the agreement  is 
managed by the hotel group and this is a business  decision. It said that awarding him more  
points wouldnt be feasible,  because it would need  to be done manually each month, and it 
wouldnt be fair to other customers  who werent  getting them.  
Ref: DRN91997753Creation said that Mr L should only be receiving points as set out in the terms and 
conditions. And it said it could change those terms, but the customer  cant. It said that if Mr L 
wasnt happy with the new terms he could cancel  his card. But Creation didnt show us when 
any change may have happened, or confirm whether or not the terms had actually changed.  
Our adjudicator then upheld this complaint. She said that the terms and conditions  that she 
had seen didnt  mention  that online transactions would only earn 2 points rather  than 4 
points per £1 spent. So she said that any transactions which  were  done in a foreign currency 
should earn 4 points  per £1 spent. She said that the terms  clearly stated that points  are 
earned per transaction, and for every £1 spent. So she wouldnt ask Creation to calculate 
Mr Ls points on a monthly basis. A transaction of 99p didnt earn a point. 
Our adjudicator said that Creation hadnt  been  able to show that the terms had changed. 
Unless it could provide evidence that it was initially made clear  that online transactions  
couldnt be considered foreign transactions, or that there had been  a change, Creation would 
need to recalculate  Mr L's account  balance  to award him the right amount of points. And it 
would need to pay £150 to make up for the inconvenience caused. 
Creation then said that it agreed with our adjudicator. It said that it would pay what she 
suggested, and recalculate Mr Ls points. And it said that it was having discussions with its 
legal and marketing  team about rewording its terms and conditions  to make  this clearer,  to 
ensure the situation didnt repeat itself with other customers. 
Mr L didnt agree. He said that he wanted  to know if the recalculation of points for foreign 
transactions was a permanent fix, or if after this decision Creation would just start to 
calculate points  on the basis of its rather different understanding  of the terms and conditions.  
Mr L also said that he wouldnt  accept  our adjudicators findings on the rounding  off of 
transactions and disallowing spending  of under £1. He said that the hotel group was really  
responsible for that. And hed had a card since 2009. He said that the hotel group was really  
the controlling body  here, Creation was merely its agent. He said that the hotel group was 
contractually responsible  for this.
Mr L also said that hed never had any terms and conditions about the award of points, 
except what was set out on his statements. He wasnt  even sure that Creation had the right 
to amend the points award system. He said that the position had been  the same  across 
different providers, and he thought that Creation  had just inherited a pre-existing contractual 
position. And he said that statements from previous card providers showed that the points 
should be awarded on the basis of a monthly spend.  He said that hadnt changed, there had 
been no new terms on this, so he should  still be getting what  he used to get. 
Our adjudicator didnt  change her mind. She said that Creation had acknowledged that its 
terms and conditions werent clear, and it had agreed to make changes to them.  And we 
could only deal with Mr Ls complaint  on this. We couldnt make Creation change  its previous 
award for all customers. 
Mr L said that hed raised  points that hadnt  been fully dealt with. But our adjudicator didnt 
agree. She said that we arent able to apply a permanent fix for this problem  going  forward. 
Creation was planning to change its terms and conditions about  points.  Mr L could complain 
about future allocations if he wished. And although  other card providers had calculated 
points differently, our adjudicator didnt think that Creation had done anything  wrong  by 
allocating points per individual spend.  
Ref: DRN91997754Mr L said that this made things clearer. He said that he thought  the main  contracting  party in 
this case was the hotel group, not Creation.  He said that the contractual relationship  for the 
reward points started  when he took out a card with a different provider. He said that the 
different behaviour of previous providers formed a contractual  precedent. He didnt think that 
Creation could change that without the hotel groups agreement,  and even if it did change 
now, he thought  that Creation was contractually bound for previous spending. 
Mr L said that he understood  that Creation would be changing the terms. He said that until 
that happened he expected that the outcome of this case would continue (so that he would 
still get 4 points per £1 of foreign currency transaction,  even if that transaction was done 
online). 
Mr L also said that it was very unsatisfactory that our service only dealt with individual  
complaints, and he was surprised  that we didnt have a responsibility to contact the Financial 
Conduct Authority  when something  that affected many  customers was uncovered. He asked 
whether he should  do that. 
Our adjudicator said that we were satisfied that the complaint had been set up against the 
right business. Creation  had liaised with the hotel group to provide responses to the 
complaint. And she said that our resolution was for the complaint raised, anything  in future 
would have to be raised with Creation. She said that Mr L could tell the FCA about this issue 
if he wished to. This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our adjudicator.
Mr L has queried whether  this complaint  should  be set up against a different business. The 
hotel group that Mr L refers to is regulated as a financial business, but its a credit  broker, so 
it introduced Mr L to Creation. And Creation  then offered him credit. Its Creation  that 
provides the card account. The contract  that Mr L has for this card account is with Creation. I 
think this complaint is set up against the right business.
Creation might not actually decide  what the rewards scheme offers.  Its suggested that it isnt 
in control of that. But I do think  that it is responsible, as far as the relationship  with Mr L 
goes, for how that scheme is administered.
Mr L states that he has had a similar card, provided  by different providers, since 2009. Hes 
also told us that the terms have changed  over this time. There was apparently an 
improvement in the number of points he could accrue  when the previous provider started to 
operate a reward  card for this hotel chain. 
I think that what Mr L has had is a series of separate,  although  perhaps  largely  similar, 
contracts with different  providers. I dont think that it would be fair and reasonable for me to 
conclude that Creation  is bound to follow what previous providers have done. 
Mr L argues that Creation should award points on the basis of monthly spend, not individual 
transactions. I cant see anything in the terms of Mr Ls card which  requires this. What  I have 
seen seems to me to be equally  compatible, if not more, with calculating  awards on the basis 
Ref: DRN91997755of individual  transactions. Previous providers may have been more  generous,  but Ive 
explained I dont  think I could reasonably make Creation do the same  because of that. So I 
dont think its unfair  or unreasonable for Creation to work on the basis of individual  
transactions. I dont  think its promised  Mr L that its going to do anything different to that.
Mr L also argues that the date of his monthly  statements  fluctuates.  It clearly does, to a 
modest extent. I know that Mr L says that other providers dont do this, and it causes him 
difficulty. But Im sorry to have to say that just because  other  providers might  stick more  
closely to one date,  doesnt mean I can require Creation to do the same.  I can see why Mr L 
doesnt think what Creation is doing  is ideal. But I dont think its unfair or unreasonable,  so I 
dont think I can fairly  tell Creation to change this. It has offered to amend his statement 
date, if hed like. I think  thats the right thing to do to resolve this part of Mr Ls complaint. 
Mr L also raises  a question about what points he should be awarded for foreign transactions,  
including transactions which are done in a foreign  currency,  but done online.  He says that 
the only terms he has ever seen about the points awards on his card are those set out on his 
statements. And he thinks those  entitle him to 4 points per £1 of foreign currency  
transaction, even  if that transaction was done online. 
I think that the terms of Mr Ls reward scheme  are likely to be those set out on his statement. 
I say that because the only other  things Ive seen which could be terms, seem to be 
promotional materials which either set out the provisions in the same format  or in less detail. 
I havent seen  any more detailed terms on the cards reward points  system.  
Those terms used to say that Mr L was entitled  to 
double points  when you spend at [the hotel chains  properties] within  and outside  of 
the UK, and also when  you spend abroad
 and 
2 [hotel  chain] Rewards Club points for every  £1 spent on all other  purchases  in the 
UK
I think that the more  natural reading  of this is that Creation will allocate 4 points per £1 of 
foreign currency transaction spending, even  if that transaction was done  online. 
Mr L has been honest enough to point out that this then changed slightly. He said that the 
second statement  he got from Creation said that he would earn 
4 [hotel  chain] Rewards Club points for every  £1 spent abroad  
4 [hotel chain]  Rewards  Club points for every £1 spent in any [hotel from the chain] 
2 [hotel chain]  Rewards  Club points for every £1 spent on all other purchases in the 
UK and online 
Mr L reads this in the same way as the previous text, as entitling him to 4 points per £1 of 
foreign currency transactions, whether online or not. Creation hasnt sent us statements 
which include this, but Ive no reason to think that Mr L has misrepresented this text. 
I think that Mr Ls interpretation is a reasonable reading of the text here, and in the light of 
the previous version, and the fact that Creation  hasnt been able to confirm that this was 
intended to change the terms  of Mr Ls account, I think  that Mr Ls is the better reading of 
this provision. So I think, on balance, that Creation did say to Mr L that it would award him 4 
points per £1 of foreign  currency  transactions. For that reason, I think  Creation  should 
reassess all the foreign  currency transactions Mr L has made, up to the date of my decision,  
to make sure it awarded that amount. Where it hasnt, it will need to make up the shortfall. It 
should also pay him £150 for the inconvenience that this complaint has caused him.
Ref: DRN91997756Mr L also wanted us to fix this issue going  forward, and he wanted us to fix it for other  
customers of Creation too. But I cant do either  of those things. Ill explain why not.
Our service is an informal dispute resolution service. It doesnt  have the powers to make  
awards which affect all a businesss customers.  Mr L has said he may raise this case with 
the regulator, and hes welcome to do so. 
Similarly, I dont  have  the power to tell Creation how to deal with Mr Ls card, going forward. I 
can only look at the issues in a complaint that Mr L has raised with Creation. If no changes 
are made to Mr Ls terms and conditions,  and he thinks the points still fall short,  then he can 
raise this with Creation  again.  
But what  Creation  says suggests that the way that Mr L, and I, have interpreted the terms of 
the reward scheme isnt what it meant.  It only meant to give 2 points for any online spend. 
And its told us that its going to amend those terms in future. Mr L, on the other hand, has 
said that hes not sure that Creation actually has the power to make changes  to those terms. 
I dont have the information to make any decision on whether Creation can or cant  make 
changes to the reward scheme  terms. And Ive nothing to suggest that it has tried to do this 
yet. So I make no finding on this point. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Creation Financial Services Limited must recalculate  Mr Ls 
allocation of reward points, to ensure that he has been granted  4 points per £1 of spending  
for all the foreign currency transactions he has made up to the date of this decision. It must 
also pay Mr L £150 for the inconvenience  that this complaint has caused him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9199775