K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy taken out in 2001. Mr and Mrs P say Yorkshire Building Society (trading as Chelsea 
Building Society  CBS) mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think CBS made it clear that Mr and Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out, although I can understand why they cant remember this. I say this 
because Mr and Mrs P were  given a choice  to say if they wanted to apply for PPI or not 
on their mortgage application  and they said yes. The PPI was then sold at a later date 
during a phone  call. Theres nothing  that suggests Mr and Mrs P were  told they had to 
have the PPI.
CBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs P so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for them. But it did have  to make sure Mr and Mrs P got the information  they needed to 
decide if it suited  them. I can see from CBS records that Mr and Mrs P decided to 
change the cover  they bought  before their mortgage started.  Ive also seen a letter  Mrs P 
sent to CBS about her request to increase the amount  of cover in 2005.  These  things 
suggest CBS provided enough  information for Mr and Mrs P to be able to choose the 
cover that suited them.
Its possible the information CBS gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
they were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put them off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs P has said - including what  they have said about 
one of them being made redundant in 2005  and telling the bank about this. There is some 
contradictory information about this, as CBS recorded (in early  2005) that although 
redundancies and re-structuring had taken  place in the company they both worked for, 
neither of them had been affected. If Mr or Mrs P were made redundant after this then they 
might be able to make  a back-dated claim  theyd need to contact the insurer  about  this, 
rather than CBS. These points dont  change my decision.
This means  CBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P. 
However, CBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P because: 
Ref: DRN99746532CBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs P about that. Because CBS didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, CBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs P any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9974653