K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) handled  a claim on his home  
insurance.
background 
At the end of 2017 Mr W made a claim on his insurance with AXA following a car crashing 
into a brick  wall at the front of the property. This also damaged  the security gate attached to 
it. This property is tenanted by a third party.
There were some initial delays as AXA said it was unable to begin works  to the property until 
it had received payment of the £100  excess. By June 2018 AXA hadnt begun  the works  to 
repair the wall so Mr W raised a complaint. In particular, he was concerned about the delays 
and that, as a result  of there being no security gate,  his tenant had experienced an upsetting  
incident with an intruder at the property. AXA acknowledged the issues and paid Mr W £250 
compensation.
In September  2018 works began  to repair the wall. During the building  works,  Mr Ws 
neighbour complained that the contractor being used had emptied building  materials  into 
their garden. AXA arranged for this to be cleaned. Following these works,  Mr W raised  a 
complaint about  the way the wall had been  built. In October 2018 further works were  agreed 
and these appear to have  been completed  by the end of 2018. A further  complaint was 
raised. AXA again acknowledged the significant delays and issues with the contractors and 
paid a further £450 compensation for this.
Mr W reported further issues with the workmanship and a survey  was carried  out to review 
this. Following this survey, AXA acknowledged the poor workmanship  and apologised.  It 
offered to cash settle Mr Ws claim given the repeated issues  and it paid him a further £400 
compensation. AXA later provided Mr W with a cash settlement for the costs of rebuilding 
the wall and the cost to reinstate the security gate.
Mr W remains unhappy with AXA. He doesn.t believe the total compensation of £1,100 is 
enough given  the time hes spent on the claim and AXAs multiple  errors.  Mr W lives abroad 
and says he will need to travel back to the UK to project manage  the repairs  as the property 
is in a conservation  area and wants to make  sure the work is completed  to the standard  it 
needs to be. Mr W believes AXA should  pay for the costs he will incur in returning  to the UK, 
including travel, accommodation and car hire. Mr W has also highlighted other costs, 
including the fact that he felt unable to increase the rent his tenants were paying  due to the 
ongoing issues and the fact that he was unable to sell his property while this issue  was 
ongoing and take advantage of other investment opportunities.
AXA says that the costs  Mr W is claiming  arent  covered  under  his insurance policy.  It has 
also said that it hasnt  had the opportunity to consider any costs that will be incurred in order  
to ensure that the repairs meet the standards required for the preservation  area,  but it is 
willing to consider any additional  costs.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think  AXA needed  to 
pay for Mr W to travel back to the UK to oversee the project  as she hadnt seen evidence  
that this was necessary. But she did think AXA should pay Mr W an additional £400 
compensation for the trouble and upset  it had caused him. And she thought AXA should  
record any additional costs outside  of the insurance claim costs. Our investigator  initially  
Ref: DRN94443682asked AXA to reimburse the £100  excess but later changed her opinion  on this as AXA is 
still pursuing costs from the third partys insurer and has said it is pursuing  the £100  excess 
as part of that.
AXA agreed with the investigators conclusions. But Mr W didnt agree, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same  reasons.
AXA has agreed that the works carried out to date have been  of poor quality and has now 
sent Mr W a cash  settlement directly, so he is able to have the works done himself.  Given  
the background of this claim, I think thats appropriate in the circumstances. As those costs 
have been agreed I dont  need to comment on them here. But as AXA has acknowledged 
that the works carried out have been poor,  it should record  any additional costs incurred in 
putting this right outside of the claim to make sure Mr W isnt disadvantaged by these errors.
Mr W has said that he wants AXA to accept the costs he will incur  for flying  back to the UK 
and project managing the build. These include his travel, accommodation,  car hire and loss 
or earnings.  But I havent seen any evidence that its necessary for Mr W to oversee the 
buildings works  himself or that this is a cost that would  be covered under the terms of his 
policy. And, like out investigator, Im not satisfied that the repairs  are of such a complex  
nature that they require Mr W or a professional  to be appointed to oversee the works. And 
this is not something  any of the previous surveyors have recommended.  So I dont  think  AXA 
needs to cover any costs  Mr W incurs should  he decide to travel to the UK to oversee the 
works personally.
But AXA has said its will consider any further  costs Mr W incurs as a result of the building  
works in order to comply  with the preservation order. As Mr W hadnt  submitted any costs 
prior to referring the complaint to this service,  this isnt an issue AXA has had the opportunity  
to consider. If Mr W submits any further costs and is unhappy with the outcome, he could 
raise a further complaint. But I cant consider costs that havent been submitted to AXA as 
part of this complaint.
Mr W has also said that AXA should  compensate him for loss of rent as he believes  he could 
have increased  the rent for the property  had this issue not taken so long to resolve. But 
Mr W has only been able to show evidence  from a generic property website about the 
expected rent. He hasnt provided  any evidence to support the fact that he would have 
increased the rent, had it not been  for this ongoing  claim  or any evidence  that he discussed 
this with his tenants.  The property itself appears  to have remained habitable  throughout the 
claim. And I note that Mr W has been  able to increase the rent on the property by £150 per 
month. So Im not satisfied that Mr W has lost out on rent as a result of this claim. And in any 
event, Mr Ws policy  doesnt provide cover for loss of rent.
Mr W has also raised concerns about  loss of opportunity in that he could have sold the 
property and invested the funds from that sale elsewhere. But like the investigator I consider 
this to be a theoretical  loss rather than an actual loss. Mr W didnt ever indicate to AXA that 
he had intentions of selling the property.  And I havent seen any evidence such  as 
Ref: DRN94443683conversations or estimates from estate agents  that show Mr W was intending to sell his 
property. So Im not satisfied that Mr W has lost out as a result  of this claim and I dont think  
AXA needs  to make any payments in respect of loss of opportunity.
I have also considered the excess  payable on this claim. An excess is payable on every 
claim under the terms of Mr Ws policy. But AXA has explained  that it is pursuing the insurer  
of the third party who caused the damage  and is pursuing the excess for Mr W as part of 
that. So, as this matter  is already being  pursued by AXA, I dont think it needs to make any 
payments to Mr W in respect of this unless the excess  is recovered from the third partys 
insurer.
Mr W has said that he wants significantly more compensation than AXA has offered him. 
Having reviewed Mr Ws complaint, I can see that he has spent a significant amount of time 
dealing with the claim. But we wouldnt generally consider a payment based  on Mr Ws 
hourly rate. Instead we consider the distress and inconvenience caused  to Mr W as a result 
of the mistakes AXA made during  the handling  of this claim.
This claim  has taken far longer than it should have, and I can see that the works carried out 
have been of poor quality, which must  have  been incredibly frustrating for Mr W. AXA hasnt 
proactively managed the claim and has allowed it to go on far longer than it should  have 
done. This has also caused  Mr W to have  to spend time having additional discussions with 
his tenants regarding the situation. So taking all of this into account, I think  AXA should pay 
Mr W £400 in addition  to the compensation already offered to reflect  the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to Mr W by its handling  of this claim. This increases  the total 
compensation to £1,500.
putting things right
To put things right, AXA Insurance UK Plc should:
pay Mr W a total of £1,500 compensation, including the payments already made
record the additional costs incurred as a result of poor workmanship  outside of the 
insurance claim costs
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc should  put things 
right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9444368