K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited  handled a 
water damage claim under their home insurance policy  and with the settlement it made 
them.
background
Mr and Mrs M made a claim to Lloyds  after a leak from their dishwasher caused  damage  to 
their kitchen.
Lloyds accepted the claim and appointed  a contractor  to carry out repairs.  Mr and Mrs M 
ordered new kitchen  units which Lloyds contractor fitted. There were problems with the 
quality of the units and one had to be replaced  three times.
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with the way Lloyds contractor fitted the kitchen. Lloyds  
agreed that some of the workmanship wasnt acceptable. But it said some of the issues  
complained about were  due to the quality of the units  which  wasnt  its fault.  It offered  them  a 
cash settlement so that they could use their own kitchen  fitter to make good  the poor 
workmanship on the part of its contractor. The amount it offered was £1,340 based on what 
it would  have cost it for another of its contractors to do the repairs  in question.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  think this was enough. Their kitchen fitter had told them  the kitchen 
needed to be taken out and refitted with new units.
Lloyds also apologised  for the poor service Mr and Mrs M had received and paid them a 
total of £750 compensation for that.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint  to this service. I issued a provisional decision 
explaining why I was minded to uphold it. An extract from my provisional  decision is set out 
below:
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  the following issues:
1.The wiring  for the under-cabinet lighting has been taped to the under-side of the 
cabinets;
2.The panels on the wall behind a glass splashback arent level with each other;
3.Cupboard doors and drawers not being aligned properly;
4.The silicon seal around the worktops  looks messy;
5.Gas hob mis-aligned so that its not in line with the extractor  fan;
6.Oven housing out of line so that adjacent  units are also at an angle;
7.Paint peeling;
8.Something sticking up under the vinyl floor; and
9.Sink not secured properly.
Lloyds accepted responsibility for items 3,5,7,8  and 9. Firstly  Ill look at whether it should 
have allowed for any of the other  items in its cash settlement.
Lloyds said it believed  some of the issues listed above were down to the manufacturer  of 
the units, some down  to its contractor and some  were a combination  of both. Mr and 
Ref: DRN91963512Mrs M said that although there were various problems with the quality of the units, these 
have all been resolved. Having looked  at photos of the kitchen I think the outstanding  
issues are more likely all to have been caused  by poor workmanship. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say the fitter didnt allow for the under-cabinet lighting before fitting the 
cabinets onto the wall. This seems likely to me as the wiring  should have been housed  in 
the cabinet instead of being taped onto the outside. To put that right I think the cupboards 
will have to be taken down and refitted with the wiring correctly  in place.
Instead of tiling Mr and Mrs M opted  to have panels fitted onto their wall behind a glass  
splash back. The panels appear  to have been stuck to the wall. Unfortunately they arent 
properly aligned with the result that theres a ledge between two panels on which a coin 
can be balanced. This spoils the streamlined effect Mr and Mrs M were hoping  for. In my 
view the panels  need to be taken  off and refitted or replaced.
The oven housing  is also clearly  out of line and should  be put right.  That might have had a 
knock-on effect  on the other  units  on the same wall. Lloyds agreed to pay for the units, 
doors and worktops  to be adjusted. Since the worktops will have to be removed, the 
silicon will have to be redone  in any event.
So Im not persuaded that Lloyds  included the cost of remedying all the items of poor 
workmanship in its cash settlement.
Where an insurer hasnt  carried out a proper repair and offers to arrange to put it right, I 
usually think its reasonable to give it a chance to do so. But if the insurer  doesnt offer to 
put it right, as is the case here, the only other option is for the insurer to pay the consumer 
to get the work done by a contractor of the consumers choosing. I dont think  its fair for 
Lloyds to base  the cash settlement on what it would have paid to have  the work carried out 
as insurers will generally have a more favourable rate from their contractors than an 
ordinary consumer would be able to get.
I am minded to require Lloyds to settle  this claim on the basis  of the lowest of three  quotes  
to be provided by Mr and Mrs M for the above  repair works and to pay any VAT due on the 
amount payable subject to being provided with a VAT receipt.
Mr and Mrs M have  suffered a lot of trouble and upset during the course  of this claim. In 
addition to the stress and disappointment  caused by the poor workmanship, the lack of 
project management meant they had to chase Lloyds for updates on progress and there 
were some unnecessary delays. But to its credit I think Lloyds has recognised that. 
Overall I think  the sum of £750  paid is fair and reasonable to compensate  Mr and Mrs M.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs M asked that Lloyds should  settle  
the claim on the basis of a quote  from their kitchen  fitter whom they knew and trusted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agreed in principle with my provisional findings that Lloyds hadnt included 
the cost of remedying all the items of poor workmanship  in its cash settlement and shouldnt 
have based the cash settlement on what it would have paid its contractor to carry out the 
Ref: DRN91963513work together with my findings regarding compensation,  I see no reason  to change them. So 
my provisional findings now form part of this final decision.
I appreciate why after the history of this claim Mr and Mrs M want a kitchen fitter that they 
know and trust. But it wouldnt be fair to make Lloyds pay whatever that kitchen fitter might 
want to charge, especially if it might be out of line with what  other people might  charge. I still 
think the fairest solution is for Mr and Mrs M to obtain three quotes and for Lloyds to settle 
on the basis of the lowest.  If Mr and Mrs Ms fitter is more expensive than the lowest  quote,  it 
will always  be open to them to use him and pay the difference themselves. Lloyds should 
also pay any VAT due on the amount payable subject to being provided with a VAT receipt.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited  to settle 
this claim on the basis of the lowest of three  quotes to be provided by Mr and Mrs M for the 
repair works Ive found necessary as mentioned above and to pay any VAT due on the 
amount payable subject to being provided with a VAT receipt.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 September 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9196351