K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in November 1999 and November 2000  to go with personal loans. Mr T says Nationwide 
Building Society mis-sold him both of the policies.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ts 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ts representative  disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ts. I havent set out that detailed information  
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 I think Nationwide made it clear that Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out. I say this because on each  of the application forms Mr T ticked a box to 
show he wanted to take out PPI cover. If Mr T hadnt  wanted the cover,  he could have ticked 
a separate box to show that. Ive also seen  that each of the loan agreements  referred  to the 
PPI as being optional  so Mr T would have seen he didnt have to have the PPI if he didnt 
want it or changed his mind about  it before signing each agreement. 
 It looks as if the first policy was sold in a branch and that Mr T applied for the second 
one when he returned an application form by post. From what Ive seen Nationwide  didnt 
recommend the PPI to Mr T - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right or suitable  for 
him. But it did have  to give Mr T enough clear and timely information so he could decide for 
himself if it was right for him.
Ref: DRN95863432 Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr T. Although Mr T told us about 
an operation hed had more than forty years  earlier, I dont think better  information  about 
each of the policies medical condition exclusions wouldve caused him to change his mind 
about Mr T taking them  out. I say this taking into account that the operation  was a routine 
and relatively commonplace operation that was unlikely  to have any adverse effect on his 
health in the future. So I dont think Mr T wouldve acted  any differently had he known  more  
about the exclusions. 
It also looks like each of the policies was affordable  so it seems like it would have been 
useful for Mr T if something  went wrong. And they would have provided a pro rata refund 
when they were cancelled so Mr T wouldnt have been left out of pocket. Because  of this I 
dont think Mr T would have declined the cover  had Nationwide done  anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr T would have still taken  out PPI. The policies were sufficiently 
close to what its likely  he thought he was getting, and I think  each policy could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that he would have taken them out in any event.
Mr Ts representative  has raised a number  of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant Nationwide should  have  disclosed the poor value and explained 
the significance  of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of 
making a claim.
But Mr Ts representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  and 
circumstances of Mr Ts individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ts particular case.  But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr Ts complaint   so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 September  2021.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9586343