K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains that the car she financed through an agreement with Volkswagen  
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) was not of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply.
background
In July 2017 Miss T took receipt of a new vehicle  that she financed  through  a hire agreement 
with VWFS. She paid an initial rental of £849.12 and 23 further monthly instalments of 
£283.04 were to follow.
In February 2018  Miss T took the car to the dealership as she said the car was unlocking 
itself; the alarm was coming  on and the windows were unwinding when  she didnt want them 
to. She says she had booked the car in earlier but before she could get the car to the 
dealership she had an accident.
VWFS couldnt identify or duplicate the problem  with the doors unlocking but they did find 
and repair  an electrical problem as a gesture of goodwill and in the hope it would resolve the 
problem Miss T complained of.
But when Miss T got the car home  the car was still unlocking itself.  So VWFS booked the car 
in again and this time they kept it for a week. They couldnt identify or duplicate any 
problems and therefore didnt complete any work. 
At this point VWFS paid Miss T £200 in recognition of the fact shed been  without  her car for 
a time. But they wouldnt  take any further action as they said there was no proof there  was a 
fault with the car and even if there was it was not clear whether the fault was there from the 
point of supply:  it couldve been  caused  by the accident.
Miss T terminated her agreement early as she didnt  think  the car was safe.  She then 
referred her complaint  to this service  and our investigator took a look.  He noted that Miss T 
had provided evidence of the faults  being  there  before  the accident as he explained shed 
provided copies  of messages with a third party in which she discussed the issue and shed 
also provided a video to show the car with the alarm going off for no good  reason. So he 
thought it was most likely  that the faults  were there before the accident  and that there were 
faults with the car that were probably  there from the beginning and that VWFS had failed to 
fix. For that reason  he thought Miss T should be allowed  to cancel her agreement but 
because shed already terminated  it, he thought  the best resolution would be for VWFS to 
refund the advanced rental  Miss T had paid and refund the cost of termination.
But VWFS disagreed. They stressed that there was no proof there was a fault with the car at 
all and they didnt  think the third party  messages could be relied on. They  noted  that the new 
owner didnt seem to have identified any further problems so they didnt think a breach of 
contract had been  evidenced. They explained that alarms could be set off by a variety of 
factors such  as an open window; movement in the cabin; passing vehicles or an opened 
sunroof and they said there was a design function on this car that automatically dropped the 
windows and unlocked  the car to cool it down. They said this could be activated by holding  
down the unlock button for a time. So, unhappy with the investigators view,  they asked for a 
final decision  by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN96124452my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint VWFS but I am persuaded there  was a fault with this car at the point 
of supply and that the fault wasnt repaired satisfactorily. So I think VWFS  will need  to take 
some further  action.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss T acquired  her car under a hire agreement.  The relevant law says that the car should 
have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS are responsible. I 
take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask VWFS  to put 
this right.  
But VWFSs  responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards. So 
if damage sustained  to the car as a result of the accident had created the electrical 
problems, VWFS wouldnt be responsible.  
Here Im persuaded  that there was a fault present at the point of supply. I say that because:
Miss T has provided  copies  of messages shes exchanged with a third party about 
the problems.  These  were  made  before the accident she had
Miss T has also provided a video in which the alarm is going off in the car 
unnecessarily. I cant see any windows or sunroof open; no one appears to be in the 
car and moving  and passing vehicles seem  limited and are moving  slowly.  
the alarm  is going off in the video but the lights arent flashing. This seems unusual 
and I think provides further evidence this is related to an electrical fault
I think its unlikely Miss T would have terminated her deal if she wasnt experiencing 
problems. There was a cost to this termination  that I think its unlikely she would have 
wished to incur 
some  electrical repairs were completed by VWFS and Im persuaded this supports 
the assumption there may have  been further  electrical problems
Im not persuaded by VWFSs  suggestion  the windows could be unwinding  because  Miss T 
was holding the unlock button  down for too long. The fault Miss T reported  wasnt  simply that 
the windows unwound unnecessarily it was also that the car unlocked unnecessarily and the 
alarm was activating. Whilst I understand  that pressing the unlock button would unlock the 
car, I think  its fair to say Miss T wouldve  expected this. 
VWFS said there hadnt been any issues reported by the new customer  who bought the car. 
Im not persuaded this is evidence a fault doesnt  exist. I see that the fault was intermittent 
Ref: DRN96124453and may not have  occurred yet or been  reported  by the new customer. It took several  
months before Miss t noticed it.
In these circumstances wed usually ask the business to wind up the finance agreement  and 
accept rejection of the vehicle. But as Miss T has already terminated her deal I think the 
manner in which the investigator has suggested the matter is resolved is sensible.  Miss T 
has had to pay to be released from her contract  early and its fair this cost is refunded  to her 
along with the initial rental fee. As VWFS has already paid Miss T £200  compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience shes experienced I am not suggesting they should  pay anymore 
as I think the compensation was reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
refund  the advanced rental  Miss T paid and add 8% simple interest per annum
refund  the cost of termination and add 8% simple interest per annum
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9612445