K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says she was mis-sold a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
background
 
Mrs T applied for a credit card in 1996,  and at the same time bought a regular premium PPI 
policy. The policy  cost 71p per every £100 of the outstanding monthly balance on her credit 
card. 
This policy covered  Mrs T in the event  of accident, sickness or unemployment,  and in the 
event of a successful claim wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding last statement balance. 
And it would have done so for up to 12 months  per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld  because he thought  she 
made it clear  in her credit card application she wanted to take out the policy  and thought it 
wouldve provided a useful benefit. 
Mrs T disagreed. She says she didnt know the policy  was optional and didnt need it. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint.
Lloyds had to make it clear Mrs T had a choice in taking the policy. Lloyds have given me a 
copy of Mrs Ts credit  agreement. I can see that theres a separate  section  on the application  
form that deals with PPI titled TSB Credit  Card Payments Insurance.  Within  the section it 
recommends taking the insurance and gives a brief description of the benefits  and cost and 
gives the option to select PPI with a tick next to the words I wish to apply for TSB Credit  
Card Payments Insurance. I can see on Mrs Ts application form a tick has been placed  
next to this. 
I think there is enough there for Mrs T to understand she didnt need to take PPI because 
she couldve  just left the section blank. So I think Mrs T selected  to take PPI with a tick 
because she wanted the cover. 
To be fair to Mrs T I am treating the sale of PPI as if it was an advised sale.  What this means  
is that Lloyds  not only had to provide information  about PPI in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way so that Mrs T could make an informed choice about buying PPI. It also had 
to make sure that if it were to recommend PPI that the policy was suitable  to her needs and 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN98762292I dont know if Lloyds  did take all the steps it shouldve.  But from what  I know about the 
policies Lloyds sold at the time I think the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs T 
for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she wouldve been  caught by any 
of the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve made it 
difficult to make  a successful claim. 
Mrs T says she wouldve been entitled  to a generous level of sick pay but had no other 
means of making her credit card payments if she couldnt work. But the policy wouldve 
paid out on top of any work benefits  and for potentially longer covering her credit  card 
payments for up to 12 months if she was unable to work due to accident  or sickness or 
lost her job. So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mrs T in her 
circumstances. 
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to her at the time and if 
she decided she no longer wanted the policy she couldve  cancelled  it.
I also need to consider  whether Lloyds  gave Mrs T information in a way which  was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that she could make  a proper choice about whether or not she wanted 
to take the policy  out. I dont know if Lloyds did give all of the information as it shouldve.  
But for the same reasons  that the policy was suitable  and based  on what  Mrs T has told us 
about her circumstances at the time,  I think  she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  if 
shed been given all the proper information on the policy.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T because: 
When the policy was sold, Lloyds  expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs T about that. 
Because Lloyds  didnt  tell Mrs T, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN98762293my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs T any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9876229