K820x#14complaint
Mrs O says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background
AXA told us that Mrs O bought the policy in October  1993 over the telephone, with the store 
card set up before this. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me. I issued  my provisional  decision in respect of this 
complaint on 16 June 2021,  a copy of which is attached to, and forms part of, this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold 
Mrs Os complaint about the miss-sale  of the PPI. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 16 July 2021. Both AXA and Mrs Os representatives have  
acknowledged receiving  the decision and told us they have nothing  further to add. So, I am 
proceeding to my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Os case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
AXA told us that Mrs O bought the policy in October  1993 over the telephone, with the store 
card set up before this. 
 
Mrs O told us that at the time of the sale she was employed as a community care assistant 
for a borough council and had been with her employer for a little over 6 months. Mrs O told 
us that she was entitled to full pay for at least 12 months in the event she was too ill to work. 
AXA told us that in bringing her initial complaint to them Mrs O said she was entitled to about  
three months of full pay as company sick pay. My understanding of council sick pay is that 
someone with a little more  than six months  of service would be unlikely to receive  full pay for 
a full year as sick pay. The more generous sick pay arrangements I have seen for such 
employment would be six months full pay followed by six months  at her half pay rate, most 
likely. So, I have used this as the sick pay I think most likely applied  to Mrs O in assessing 
her complaint, and this is the same  approach  the adjudicator took when issuing their initial  
assessment of the case. However,  If Mrs O has some evidence of a different sick pay 
amount, Id be grateful if shed provide it for me to consider before I progress the case to any 
further decision. 
Mrs O told us she didnt have any other means  of repaying her store  card should  she be 
unable to work. Mrs O has said she was in good health at the time of the sale but that she 
had had a medical  condition  many  few years prior to the sale.  I will say more  about this later 
in the decision.  
Ref: DRN98899782The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, involuntary unemployment and life cover  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 15% of Mrs Os store  card 
balance in the event of Mrs O being  unable to work due to accident, sickness and 
unemployment. 
At the time,  the policy cost no more than £1 per £100 of the monthly  outstanding  balance. 
The premium would  continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  
interest. 
Mrs Os representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Os representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs O wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Os 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means AXA should have told 
Mrs O about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs O and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Mrs O received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my provisional findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN98899783relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Os. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Os complaint.
This sale took place  in 1993 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992,  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, the insurer was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements. The seller  but not the insurer  was a member of the FLA 
and subscribed  to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller  (as a 
Ref: DRN98899784member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of the insurer.  
So, Im satisfied it is right that I should  take these  codes into account when deciding what  is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Mrs Os case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so AXA 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Os complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs O with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether AXA gave  Mrs O sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs O, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs O suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs O and AXA, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Os complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs O know she had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Ref: DRN98899785Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when there are no documents  available  
from the time of the sale. Its maybe not surprising that neither party  has been able to 
provide any documentation as these  events happened over 27 years  ago. 
AXA told us the PPI was added to the store card during  a telephone call on 4 October 1993, 
and that the store card had been  set up some  time before this. Weve  been given no 
recording of the sales call and seen no telephone  scripts  from the time of the sale.  We have 
seen telephone scripts from 2003  which show that Mrs O would have, most likely, been 
given a choice  about taking cover. But the distance  in time from the time of this sale must be 
borne in mind  when  thinking about how much weight to attach to them.  
In any event, considering  how long ago the sale was and in the absence  of any detailed 
testimony from Ms C in the matter, I havent seen sufficient evidence to uphold the complaint 
in this matter. 
So, considering all the submissions made in this case about these issues,  and in the 
absence of any detailed  testimony from Mrs O to the contrary, taking everything into 
account, I think its more  likely  that Mrs O knew the policy  was optional and she agreed to 
take it out without  undue pressure. 
did AXA provide advice?
AXA told us that advice wasnt provided during this sale. Mrs O has provided no testimony  
about whether  she felt advice was given or not. I have seen no evidence of a bespoke formal 
recommendation having been made to Mrs O. So, considering all the submissions in this 
case, and in the absence  of any detailed testimony from Mrs O to the contrary, it seems 
more likely that the policy was sold without advice.
This means  AXA didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs O. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Mrs O to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
AXA has referred us to a copy  of the paperwork it says Mrs O wouldve  received, including  
the policy terms and conditions document  which I accept on a balance of probabilities  
applied to policies  like Mrs Os. 
Looking at the information provided to Mrs O at the time, I dont think AXA gave Mrs O the 
information she fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether 
or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  over the phone. I dont know what AXA told Mrs O about the PPI, but I 
think its unlikely she would have  agreed to take it out without at least  having a broad 
understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. life, accident,  sickness  and involuntary 
unemployment cover. And I think its unlikely Mrs O would have thought  it was free.
Ref: DRN98899786But it was AXAs responsibility  to draw to Mrs Os attention the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
I dont think its likely  AXA did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Mrs O, including the need to maintain premiums  during 
a claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition, its unlikely AXA adequately  
drew to her attention  the main  provisions of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions.
So, I dont think AXA gave  Mrs O sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Os representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Os. I have 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Os representative considers to be poor 
value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs O about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Os representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Mrs O has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and 
standards of good industry practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair 
or reasonable to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mrs O? To what extent did Mrs O suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs O. So, 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs O 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs O 
would have still taken  out the policy, had AXA done  things properly. 
Mrs O says she would not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
Ref: DRN98899787As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs O had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mrs O chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its reasonable 
to conclude she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So, what  Mrs O thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mrs O has suffered  any loss or detriment.  
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs O ought  reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But I accept that AXA didnt make clear  on the application form and they didnt make clear 
the on-going cost information. So, while Mrs O didnt know some things, the ultimate position 
in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar  to what she would reasonably have 
thought from the information she based  her decision  to take out the policy on and found  
acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs O thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that required medical or 
surgical treatment or consultation within the twelve months  before you Mrs O applied  
for the policy; and
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs O 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mrs O pause for thought   and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the 
policy was not as good as she thought  and she might  have  decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs O from taking out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Os circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. The policy could have  paid out in addition  to 
her sick pay and for longer than her employer would have paid her at her full rate of pay, 
most likely. And Mrs O told us she had no other means she could rely if she couldnt work. 
 
Mrs O was employed at the time of the sale and so wouldnt  have been  caught by any 
significant exclusions that pertain to people with different  employment  status.  And although 
Mrs O says she had a medical condition three years before the PPI was taken out and the 
policy may not have  provided cover had she needed time off work because of this condition, 
I dont think better information  about  this exclusion would have put her off agreeing to it. Ill 
explain why I say this. 
Mrs O has told us she had a medical  condition in 1990 and that it caused her to take non-
prescription medication and to take two weeks off work. The sale of PPI happened  in 1993. 
Mrs O has not provided any further  detailed testimony  about  the condition  and no testimony 
Ref: DRN98899788that the condition had caused her any ongoing  issues or caused  her to take a single day off 
work in the intervening years  before  the sale.  
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs O would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mrs O had known she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable  to do her 
job but also any similar job, it might have played into her thinking about what  she would do. 
And I accept  it may have  given her pause for thought  although its possible she may not 
have been overly concerned given that if Mrs O was unable (through disability) to carry on 
her own occupation  the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation 
would also, in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs O would  still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her employment  benefits. And in those circumstances, I 
consider it more likely  than not that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Mrs Os representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs O would not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Os 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs O 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs O believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN98899789Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs O in the position  she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible that she would not have  taken out the policy, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, it is more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude that AXA should pay Mrs O compensation, as that would put her 
in a better position  than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs O thinks AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
AXAs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Mrs O, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1993 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Os representative  says a court might take if it 
were to find AXA negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs O and about  the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that AXA had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs O in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my provisional decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
I have considered afresh all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of 
any further points  for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as 
set out in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN988997810my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not uphold  Mrs Os 
complaint and I intend to make no award against  AXA France IARD.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs O either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  26 August 2021.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9889978