K821x#15complaint
Ms B has complained that Admiral  Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited caused  delay when it dealt
with a claim she made under her home insurance  policy. Shes unhappy with the service  she
received.
All references to Admiral  include its agents.
background
Ms B bought a home insurance policy with Admiral.  In January 2018 she made a claim as a
leak was identified in her bathroom  which was affecting both the bathroom and her dining
room. Admiral sent a loss adjuster out to Ms Bs home to assess  the damage. Admiral 
accepted the claim and in April 2018 accepted a schedule of works.
In June 2018 - unforeseen  by Admiral  the contractor dealing with the repairs  went into
administration. So Admiral appointed a new contractor later that month.
In June 2018 Ms B complained to Admiral as the works hadnt been  completed. She said
Admiral failed to keep her updated and she had to chase its agents continually.  Ms B wanted
compensation for the wear  and tear to her bedroom  and ensuite bathroom as this was being
used instead of her main  bathroom. She said she wasnt  able to enjoy the dining room
either.
In August  2018  Admiral upheld Ms Bs complaint and paid her £150 compensation, saying
that its loss adjuster hadnt managed the claim properly.  In October 2018 Ms B asked us to
look at her complaint.
In November 2018 Admiral settled Ms Bs claim by paying her a cash settlement for the
repair works.
Our investigator thought Admiral should  increase the compensation it paid Ms B by £500,
bringing the total to £650. He thought  Admiral  had caused avoidable delays. He also
recommended Admiral consider compensating Ms B for the increase in utility  costs as a
result of the works  subject to proof.
Admiral didnt agree as it thought the recommended award was excessive. It said Ms B
hadnt made many contacts to pursue her claim. Ms B didnt agree. She asked for the
following to resolve  her complaint:
£40 per week for loss of use from January 2018  to November 2018. This relates 
to the areas of her property she was unable  to use (£1,680)
wear and tear to the ensuite bedroom  (£250)
excess payment to be refunded (£500) and;
acknowledgement of the delays by way of financial  compensation (£200)
The investigator issued  a second  view.  He said the drying company decided  to allow  the
home to dry naturally  which took eight weeks. He thought it should have used methods to
complete drying  time within four weeks, which is what we consider reasonable for a 
noncomplex repair.  Overall the investigator  thought it was reasonable to expect the repairs  
in this case to have taken a total of around eight to ten weeks.  But it took ten months  before
Admiral issued a settlement payment  to Ms B.
Ref: DRN98037462So the investigator felt Admiral was responsible for a delay of six months. He recognised
that during this time Ms B had limited use of her kitchen and no use of her rear garden (due
to debris) and the bathroom. He therefore  recommended compensation of £600  for loss of
use of three  areas and an additional  £150  for the delays  caused.
In his findings he also recommended Admiral pay Ms B £250  compensation for the
additional wear  and tear to Ms Bs bedroom as a result of guests and family  having to go
through the bedroom to use the only bathroom in the home for such  a long time. However, in
error he recommended in his view that this award should be £500.
He didnt think Admiral  should refund Ms Bs excess as  although it caused  delays  it did
settle Ms Bs claim and so the excess was due.
Ms B explained why the drying  companys lack of knowledge meant the method they applied
wasnt correct and the subsequent delay caused was unnecessary.
Ms B accepted the investigators view about the refund of the excess. But she doesnt agree
that the compensation award he recommended  is enough to reflect the distress and
inconvenience caused by poor communication, workmanship and management of her claim.
She said Admirals handling  of a standard claim for an escape of water was poor.  Ms B said 
she would  accept £500 compensation for wear and tear to their bedroom.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 January 2020. I intended to award a global 
compensation figure of £750  in total.  
Admiral accepted my provisional decision.  Ms B hasnt replied. So the case  has been 
passed back to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I havent received any new comments  
or information to consider, my final decision  is along  the same  lines as my provisional  
decision.
Ms B says she has applied a loss of use rate of £40 a week.  She says the investigators
recommendation equates to a total of approximately £8 a week per room.
We look at each case on its own merits. We dont  have a standard  loss of use rate per room
when considering a fair compensation award. We consider the impact and the level of
distress and inconvenience overall.  Examples of awards which we give can be found on our
website.
Theres no dispute that Ms Bs claim was one that Admiral covered. And its clear that there
were considerable delays  which were  avoidable. So Im in no doubt that Ms B was
inconvenienced for far longer than she would have been  had Admiral dealt with the claim
promptly.
However, I think its reasonable to expect a degree of inconvenience  when dealing with any
claim. Unfortunately its inevitable. And I agree with the investigator that overall Admiral
should have settled this claim within eight to ten weeks.  
Ref: DRN98037463It paid Ms B a cash settlement in November 2018.  I think Admirals delay was unreasonable 
and caused by a failure  by its agents to actively progress the claim  although part of this 
delay was caused by the unforeseen  failure  of its contractor.
The amount  of compensation Ms B is seeking is for a much greater amount than we would
award and she is effectively seeking  damages.  We do not award damages as this is a
function of the courts  and we are an alternative service.  Should Ms B wish to pursue her
claim she can reject this decision  and take legal action. Ms Bs policy doesnt provide cover
for wear and tear. And while  I appreciate  that other areas of her home  were  subject to
increased wear and tear, the areas  that werent used were subject to less.
So I think the fairest outcome is for Admiral to pay a total compensation award of £750 for
the delay and poor service it provided. And as Admiral has already paid Ms B £150, I think  it
should pay Ms B a further £600. This award is consistent with others  we have made  in
similar circumstances to Ms Bs.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to do the following:
Pay Ms B £600 compensation in addition to the £150 its already paid her for
the distress and inconvenience  its delay  in dealing with her claim caused.
Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar) Limited  must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date
on which we tell it Ms B accepts my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it must also pay
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar) Limited  considers that its required  by HM Revenue &
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms B how much  its taken off.
It should also give Ms B a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9803746