K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Canada Square Operations Limited, trading at the time of sale as Egg, mis-sold 
her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
For consistency Ill refer mainly to CSOL.
background
CSOL says its records show Mrs P bought the PPI in 2003 over the internet with a new 
credit card. 
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. But Mrs P has already  received some  money  back for the commission 
CSOL received  from selling her the PPI.
Mrs P still thinks she was mis-sold the PPI in the first place and so disagrees with the 
adjudicator. Her complaint has been  passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint about  the mis-sale.
Weve been asked to look at a number of very similar PPI sales  in relation to CSOL, trading 
as Egg and as a result of this weve  obtained a lot of information about  how it normally  sold 
PPI over the internet. It isnt unusual that we dont  have access to Mrs Ps original 
paperwork after such a long time, but we asked to see screen shots of the web-based  form 
that she would have used when completing her application back in 2003. Ive looked at 
these images and they correspond with the many others that Ive seen. 
I think when she was completing her on-line  application  Mrs P would have been given two 
choices in relation  to the PPI. I think she would  have had to make a choice  before  being 
allowed to progress to the next stage of the form. Consumers were usually given two 
options - one choosing to buy PPI, the other choosing not to. I believe that Mrs P probably 
selected the yes option for the PPI to be added and I therefore think  that she made an 
active selection to buy the policy.
So I think the evidence  shows  Mrs P asked for the PPI to be added,  even thought she might  
not remember this now.
This was an internet application and so I think Mrs P wouldve  made  her way through the on-
line process without  any advice from CSOL. But CSOL still needed to provide information  
that was clear, fair and not misleading  so Mrs P could  make an informed choice about 
whether or not to go ahead  and buy the PPI.
I note that before making the on-line selection, the application web-page  contained brief 
details about the cost of the cover. I also think there was a link to view the policys  terms 
Ref: DRN90683592and conditions. I acknowledge that CSOL could have possibly provided more  information at 
the point of sale, but I dont think this would have changed anything Mrs P actually did.
This is because Ive looked at Mrs Ps situation.  I think she was eligible for the cover and not 
caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.  She told us 
that she already  had some sickness protection with her job.
Ive thought carefully about this and her wider circumstances but Im afraid it doesnt 
necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. It would have paid out 10% of her outstanding credit  
card balance for up to a year if shed needed to claim. This wouldve been in addition to any 
other means  she had at that time. So I think this policy was probably  of use.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs P but I think the evidence shows  she chose the policy  herself and 
would have known  it wasnt something  she needed  to have. And this means Im not 
upholding her mis-sale complaint.
CSOL has already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because when the policy 
was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of 
the PPI premium)  so it should  have told her about that. Because  it didnt, that was unfair.  
To put that right, CSOL has already paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  has already paid her for the commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9068359