K822xcomplaint
Mrs T has complained that Great Lakes  Insurance SE has unfairly declined a claim she 
made on her home insurance policy for damage  to her front porch  caused  by subsidence.
background
I issued a provisional decision in October  2020 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mrs Ts complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
There have been  other  businesses  involved in this complaint who acted on behalf of 
Great Lakes.  For ease  of reference, Ill refer only to Great Lakes by name in this 
decision, even  when referring to the actions of its agents. Similarly, Mrs T has 
brought her complaint  through  a representative.  But Ill only refer to Mrs T in this 
decision, even  when referring to arguments  put forward  by her representative.
Great Lakes is the underwriter for Mrs Ts home  insurance. In 2018 Mrs T contacted  
Great Lakes to report damage to her front porch. It was showing signs of cracking  
and pulling away from the main property. Great Lakes appointed a loss adjuster, 
specialising in subsidence, to visit the property and assess the damage.
Following the loss adjusters initial visit further  investigations were undertaken, in the 
form of a trial hole excavation, to establish the depths of the foundations of the porch. 
These showed the ground the porch  was founded  on was clay, and the depth  of the 
porch foundations was 300mm. The presence  of tree roots at a depth of 1200mm 
was also noted.  Based on this Great Lakes declined Mrs Ts claim,  relying  on an 
exclusion in her policy for damage  occurring as a result of defective design  or 
workmanship. To support  its position,  Great Lakes pointed to building regulations, 
and guidance  from an industry recognised warranty provider and building  control 
specialist, as examples  of how deep  the foundations  ought  to have been.
Mrs T has complained about the decision to decline her claim.  She says the porch 
has stood for 30 years  without any issues, and that damage only occurred after the 
long, dry summer  of 2018.  She says her porch wasnt subject to building  regulations 
or the requirements of the warranty  provider,  so a judgement cannot not be made  
beyond a reasonable doubt that the damage  is due to faulty workmanship.
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs Ts complaint. She didnt think  Great Lakes  
had acted unfairly by declining  the claim. She accepted that Mrs Ts porch  didnt 
need to adhere  to building regulations  or the requirements of the warranty  provider. 
But she said these were  examples of what  would  be considered good industry 
practice at the time  and that Mrs Ts porch foundations were  significantly shallower 
than this. She agreed that nearby trees and the hot summer likely contributed to the 
damage. But she didnt think it was most likely the primary  cause. 
Mrs T didnt  accept our investigators opinion.  So, because no agreement has been 
reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN97385522my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im currently 
intending to uphold it. Ill explain why.
My role here isnt to establish the cause of damage to Mrs Ts porch beyond a 
reasonable doubt. What I need to decide  is whether Great Lakes has reached a 
claim decision that is both in line with the terms and conditions of Mrs Ts policy  and 
is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of her claim. 
To do this, Ive considered the evidence  and arguments provided  by both sides,  
including any expert reports or opinions. Ive also considered the information which 
Great Lakes suggests  amounts to good  industry practice for the construction of the 
foundations, and the terms and conditions of Mrs Ts policy.
Great Lakes has declined Mrs Ts claim based on an exclusion in her policy  which 
states:
WHAT IS NOT INSURED
..
Loss or damage arising from defective design, defective materials  or faulty 
workmanship.
Great Lakes established that the foundations for the porch are 300mm deep. Its 
subsidence expert says placing  the foundations  at such a depth  exposes  them  to the 
effects of frost and climactic/volumetric changes in the soil  which can damage the 
building/structure. Great Lakes has pointed to technical requirements  set by an 
industry recognised  warranty provider and building control specialist which state that 
foundations on low shrinkability clay should be at least 750mm.  Another  of Great 
Lakes subsidence experts  a Chartered  Engineer  states that this would increase 
for medium and high shrinkability clays and if there are nearby trees  which  there 
are in this case.  Based on this, Great Lakes position is that the foundations of the 
porch are clearly defective and that while the hot summer has contributed, the 
damage to Mrs Ts porch has occurred primarily due to the defective design of the 
foundations.
I understand why Great Lakes has highlighted the technical  requirements  of the 
warranty provider.  But theres nothing to show that Mrs Ts porch was subject to 
these standards at the time it was built. I say this because it wasnt built as part of a 
new home  and Ive seen  nothing else to suggest that the builder  was required to 
follow these standards. So, I dont think its fair to judge  the construction  of the 
foundations of the porch against standards which do not apply.
Ref: DRN97385523Great Lakes has also accepted that Mrs Ts porch was exempt from building  
regulations. But again,  it suggests  that these  offer an example of good industry 
practice. Ive thought carefully  about  this point. I think it would be reasonable to 
consider the relevant  guidance/best  practice available  at the time the foundations 
were constructed. I should  be clear, that this doesnt mean there  was a requirement 
to meet building  regulations. But I think the regulations do offer a good indication  of 
the foundation depth that would have  been  appropriate  even though the regulations 
themselves do not apply.
At the time the porch was built, building regulations generally  required a minimum 
foundation depth of 900mm when building on clay. So, arguably, the foundations of 
the porch should have been built to a greater depth  than 300mm.
Mrs T has argued  that the porch  has stood  for 30 years without issues. She says the 
problems only started  after the long, hot summer of 2018. Shes also highlighted that 
the nearby trees were  already fully mature at the time the porch  was constructed.
Ive thought carefully about everything both sides have said and provided. I accept 
Great Lakes argument that the nearby  trees  should have been taken into account 
when designing  and building the porch foundations. But I think its worth highlighting 
that between construction  of the porch  and 2018,  there have been several 
subsidence event  years. So, logically,  if defective foundations were the dominant 
cause of the damage, it would likely have occurred sooner  than it did. In my view, it 
doesnt seem fair or reasonable to suggest  that foundations  which have been 
effective for around 30 years have suddenly become defective.  
More importantly, the tree roots, which are thought to be causing  the subsidence, 
were discovered at 1200mm. That means that even  if building regulations (which 
dont apply here) had been followed,  the roots would still be at a significant depth  
below the foundations of the porch. This suggests to me that there would likely have 
still been a subsidence problem with the porch, even if the foundations had been built 
to 900mm.
The policy term Great Lakes relied on to decline the claim is about damage arising 
from defective design, materials or workmanship.  But Ive established the standards  
Great Lakes took into account when declining the claim arent applicable  to the 
porch. And Great Lakes  hasnt provided any alternative standards  which the 
foundation should have  complied with. 
Great Lakes also accepts  the porch  wasnt subject  to building regulations, although it 
suggests the regulations (as examples of good  industry practice) should have been 
considered and then followed.  But even if the porch foundation had met those 
regulations, I think its likely  the porch would still have  suffered  a subsidence 
problem. And Ive not heard any arguments,  or seen any evidence,  to the contrary  
from Great Lakes. 
Based on the evidence  available, I think its likely  that designing  the foundation to a 
depth more in line with good industry practice  wouldnt  have prevented  the 
subsidence problem.  So, I dont think its fair to say the damage has arisen from 
defective design  and that means its not fair for Great Lakes to decline the claim by 
relying on the defective design  policy term.
Ref: DRN97385524I said I was intending  to uphold Mrs Ts complaint and to direct  Great  Lakes to deal with the 
subsidence claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
I asked both sides to send me any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to 
consider before I reached my final decision. 
Both sides have since responded to say they have nothing further to add to my provisional 
decision. So, Im moving forward with this, my final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And in the absence  of any new 
evidence or arguments,  Ive reached  the same conclusions I reached in my provisional  
decision, for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Ts 
complaint.
Great Lakes Insurance SE must  deal with the subsidence claim, subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 November  2020.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9738552