K821x#15complaint
Mrs P is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) refused to pay for repairs after she made 
a subsidence  claim under her home insurance  policy.
background
In 2009 Mrs P made a subsidence  claim to UKI. It appointed a loss adjuster to investigate. 
The loss adjuster said there was minor  subsidence  damage around her front door and porch. 
It thought tree roots had caused the clay soil to shrink. It recommended that she cut down a 
wisteria growing near the door.
UKI said the cost of repairing  the damage wasnt covered by the policy  because  the repairs 
would cost less than the policy excess of £1,000.
Mrs P says she had the wisteria cut down and repairs  carried out. But the cracks 
reappeared. She says she had further  work carried out in 2011.
In 2013 Mrs P made a claim to her new insurer for subsidence in the same  part of her 
property. Its loss adjuster  thought a tree near the road outside Mrs Ps garden had caused 
the damage. That tree was cut down.
Mrs Ps new insurer  told her to refer back to UKI for the cost of the repairs  shed had carried  
out in 2011. She asked UKI to pay the £2,382  plus VAT shed been quoted at that time. She 
believes UKI should have realised in 2009 that the tree near the road rather than the wisteria  
was the cause of the problem. And because it didnt realise this when it should have, shed 
spent money unnecessarily having  the doorway  and cracks repaired.
UKI said it wouldnt pay for the repairs unless Mrs P could provide evidence  to support her 
claim that it was liable for the cost of these works. It said it had destroyed Mrs Ps file from 
2009. 
Mrs P complained to this service. Our investigator thought UKI should pay the cost of repairs 
carried out to Mrs Ps property, less the £1,000 excess  which  would have applied under her 
policy plus interest from the date of payment  to the date of settlement.
As UKI didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ps provided evidence that UKI was her insurer in 2009 and that she was given incorrect 
advice by its loss adjuster.
UKI has queried why Mrs P didnt contact it in 2011.  I expect that Mrs P would have done so 
if shed realised that the subsidence was ongoing at that point. But since  her claim had been  
turned down by UKI previously and the cost of the works might not have seemed excessive, 
I can understand why Mrs P might have decided not to go back to UKI but to have the works 
carried out at her own expense.
Ref: DRN96625662Unfortunately for Mrs P she cant provide evidence that the works quoted  by her builder were 
actually carried out. She only has a copy  of the builders quote. Ive looked  at the quote. In 
summary the builder  quotes for replacing  the front door, repairing  various cracks and 
redecorating.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mrs P had the wisteria removed. So I think its more  
likely than not that Mrs P had the repair works quoted for by the builder  carried  out as well.
I think in order to treat Mrs P fairly  UKI should  pay what  it would have been liable to pay 
under her policy for the cost of the repairs in 2011.  Since I cant  say whether VAT would 
have been charged on the amount quoted,  I dont  think it would be fair to require UKI to 
reimburse the amount of VAT.
The quote  is dated 11 November 2011.  Mrs P says the works were carried  out shortly  
afterwards. I think it would be reasonable to require UKI to pay interest on the amount due 
from 1 December 2011.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mrs P the sum of £1,382 
(being the amount quoted of £2,382 less the £1,000  policy excess) plus simple interest* at a 
rate of 8% from 1 December 2011 to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*If U K Insurance Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs P how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs P a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN9662566