K820x#14complaint
Mr Y says that as Nationwide  Building Society  didnt tell him about the implications of having  
an arrangement to pay marker on his credit file it should remove  it.
background
Mr Y entered into an agreement with Nationwide to reduce his overdraft by £70 a month. 
This was discussed on a call and Nationwide  confirmed this would be recorded on Mr Ys 
credit file. It then sent him a letter after the call outlining what it would be obliged  to report to 
the Credit Reference  Agencies. After the arrangement  lapsed  and was re-instated, it sent a 
second letter  which also confirmed  this.
Mr Y then found it difficult to get finance for a car and thought the marker was affecting  his 
ability to get credit elsewhere. He complained saying Nationwide  never  told him it would be 
on his credit file.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said Mr Y 
agreed to the arrangement after Nationwide wrote  giving notice that it was going to reduce 
Mr Ys overdraft,  something the terms of the account allowed it to do. And it had told Mr Y 
that the arrangement would appear on his credit file, both on the initial  call and by letter.  She 
concluded that there was no fair reason to ask Nationwide to remove the marker.
Mr Y said he still didnt  think  Nationwide had properly advised  him of the implications of the 
marker on his file and it has left him and his family  financially paralysed. So the complaint  
was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for largely  the same reasons.
Ive listened to the call and reviewed  all relevant letters  and find that Nationwide  made clear 
that the arrangement would be reported to the credit  reference agencies.  I think  the adviser 
on the call was helpful throughout. Mr Y could  have asked for further  information  if he was 
unsure of the potential implications of having the marker on his file, either on the call or on 
receipt of the letter. 
So whilst I understand why Mr Y is frustrated  that the marker is on his file it would be wrong 
to tell Nationwide to remove it. It is an accurate reflection of how Mr Y managed his account  
 and thats what Nationwide is obliged to report.  And I think  Nationwide  made clear that this 
is what would be reflected on his credit  file. So he had the opportunity to consider this, and 
raise any concerns at the time.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Ref: DRN96453622Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9645362