K820x#14complaint 
Ms B says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance policy (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out to protect a Kwikfit branded 
card in 1993.
The PPI was sold to Ms B by a third party  but FICL have  accepted  responsibility for this 
complaint. Ill refer to FICL as the seller to keep  things  simple. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Bs complaint  Ill explain why.
FICL have  given me a copy of Ms Bs signed  credit agreement. And on it I can see theres a 
separate section  for PPI on it. After  a broad description of the PPI, theres some wording 
which starts with Yes,  I want my Account covered by Payment Protection  . And next to 
this theres a handwritten tick. Theres also an option to tick no, but this has been  left blank.  
So because of this, I think its most  likely FICL made  it clear  that Ms B didnt have to take out 
the PPI, and that she chose to take it out. The sale happened some  25 years ago, and 
memories can fade with time.  And I have to make my decision based  on the evidence I do 
have, which  is what Ive done here.  
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms B so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to provide clear  information about  it.   
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But its unlikely  Ms B wouldve  been affected  by any of the main  things  the policy didnt 
cover. And based on what I know about  her circumstances   including  what shes  said about 
her employer sick pay and savings  it looks like the policy couldve been useful to her. So I 
dont think better information  wouldve stopped her buying it.
Ive taken into account Ms Bs comments, including that shes said her friends and family 
wouldve have helped  her financially if needed.  But help from others cant safely  be relied on. 
So these points dont  change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.   
Ref: DRN91022092Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9102209