K820x#14Complaint
Mrs G, representing the Estate of Mrs B, has complained about  a life protection policy  Mrs B 
held, provided  by Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited  (Aviva). She has said the payment 
under the policy  is far less than expected.
Background
Mrs B took out a life protection policy in 1998.  Very little information  has been provided  by 
both parties so I cant confirm what type of life protection  this policy  provided. The only 
information Aviva has been  able to provide is a screenshot  which  sets out some information  
about the policy information at the time of Mrs Bs death. This shows  the premium was £6 
per month. It also shows the death benefit  of the policy was £1,650 but I cant  be sure 
whether this was the benefit from the start or if this is only what  was due at the end. 
Mrs B sadly  passed away in January 2019. When Aviva paid the death  benefit of the policy  
to Mrs G (£1,650) she complained explaining  that Mrs B had told her before  she had passed 
away that the death benefit amount was around £18,000.
When Aviva  investigated  the matter,  it found that it had been sending letters about the policy  
to Mrs B when she was alive that were intended  for someone else with a similar name.  Aviva  
found this had happened between the years 2009  and 2015.  So, for all this time Mrs B was 
being told that the policys death benefit  was far higher than it actually was.
Aviva also found that the error  was discovered  in 2016 and while  it contacted the other  party 
involved whose data had been breached, Aviva didnt contact Mrs B to tell her of the 
mistake.
So because of this, the loss of expectation and for the trouble and upset this had caused 
Aviva offered Mrs G £1,000.
Mrs G was unhappy with this offer and brought the complaint to this Service. She felt that 
she should be paid an amount closer  to what she thought she was going to receive.  She 
also said that if Mrs B had known of the true value of the policy earlier, she would  have 
increased her cover  or done  something  different.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt  be upheld.  He 
was of the view the amount Aviva had offered was reasonable and that the incorrect amount 
of around £18,000  could  never have been paid, as this wasnt  how the policy  was set up. 
However, he also explained that the complaint has been brought  by Mrs Bs estate as Mrs G 
couldnt bring the complaint herself  as she wasnt an eligible complainant and therefore this 
Service couldnt award any money  to recognise  trouble  or upset  caused  to the estate.
Mrs G. on behalf of the estate, didnt  agree  with the outcome.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN93478462My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint should  be upheld.
I appreciate this has been a difficult time for Mrs G and I understand why the situation has 
distressed her. However,  I am obliged to follow the Dispute Resolution  (DISP) Rules  set out 
in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  handbook,  that guide this service.
Paraphrased for ease of interpretation these rules state under, DISP  Rule 2.7, that 
a complaint  may only be dealt with by this Service  if it is brought by or on behalf of 
an eligible complainant.
An eligible  complainant must be, amongst other  things that dont  apply to this complaint, a 
consumer. And a consumer is defined in the rules  as any natural person acting for its 
purposes outside his/her trade, business or profession. 
As well as this, an eligible  complainant  must  have a complaint  which  arises  from a certain 
type of relationship with the responding business (Aviva in this case) . The definition of this 
relationship is broad  but really focuses  on the eligible complainant having some sort of 
financial relationship  with the business.
 
Therefore, with this in mind, I cant say that Mrs G is an eligible complainant. Mrs G doesnt  
have a relationship with Aviva, as she has just received the proceeds  of a policy,  which  
insured the life of someone else. 
There is an exception in the Rules to the above  which would allow  a person who had the 
legal right to benefit  from a claim against  a business under a contract  of insurance. This 
does include  long term life protection but excludes  funeral plans. However,  because  of the 
little details provided about this policy I cant be sure this isnt a funeral plan  given the low 
death benefit it may well be. I would also need  to see that the death benefit of the policy had 
been legally  set up to be paid to Mrs G rather than the fact that Mrs G seems to have 
received the payment as executor of Mrs Bs estate.
Therefore, I cant make  a decision  about  the amount that has been offered directly to Mrs G. 
And as this complaint has been  set up as being made by the estate  of Mrs B (because 
Mrs G isnt an eligible complainant) and this Service  can only tell a business to pay an award 
for trouble and upset if it is experienced by its customer and not a third party (Mrs G) I cant 
make any award to the estate because I cant justify it has suffered any trouble or any upset.
However, it may help Mrs G to know what my decision would be if she was able to bring the 
complaint to us herself. 
While the wrong information was given to Mrs B for a number of years, for the most recent  
three years the correct  information had been  provided. Also,  such  a mistake  doesnt mean 
that the incorrect amount should  be paid under  the policy. There  simply isnt enough value in 
the policy for that to happen  and there  would never be that amount because of how much 
Mrs B was paying into it via premiums.  And while I know  Mrs G has said Mrs B would have 
increased her cover  had she known  I think this is unlikely. Mrs B should have been aware 
how much  was due to be paid under the policy because  as I have already said the last three  
Ref: DRN93478463years statements would  have shown the correct  value and she didnt increase her cover or 
do something different  then.
Overall, therefore, while I know Aviva gave Mrs B the wrong information over the course of 
six years  about the value  of the policy this doesnt  mean that Aviva has to pay the wrong 
amount. The policy  can only pay out what it was set up to pay and nothing more.  In my view 
Aviva has recognised the mistake by offering a financial  award that sufficiently recognises 
this. And if this was a complaint I could look at, with Mrs G as an eligible complainant, this is 
the level I would award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the Estate of 
Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 1 June  2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9347846