K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about the time Virgin Money  plc took to switch their interest  rate 
product on their mortgage. Their mortgage moved  onto the standard variable  rate (SVR), 
which they say could have been  avoided. Theyre not happy  Virgin  Moneys website doesnt 
clearly state the timescales involved when applying to switch  a product.
background
Mr and Mrs P have  an interest only mortgage with Virgin Money. They  were  paying a fixed 
interest rate on their mortgage,  which expired on 1 September  2018.
Mr P told us that in April 2018, he looked at Virgin Moneys website.  He told us this said 
switching a mortgage deal would be quick and easy. Mr and Mrs P were looking to sell their 
house, and so didnt want to tie themselves into a new deal too early in case  they managed  
to complete a purchase. As a result, they didnt take any further action at the time.
Virgin Money wrote to Mr and Mrs P in May and August 2018 to tell them  when their interest  
rate product  was due to expire, and what their new monthly payment would be. These  letters 
gave Mr and Mrs P a number to call if they wanted to discuss this with them.
On 17 August 2018, Mr P applied to switch  their interest rate product online, but wasnt able 
to. He called  Virgin Money the same day, and they told him hed have to speak to an advisor 
before they agreed to a new product. Mr P wasnt happy about this and so complained.
Virgin Money didnt  uphold the complaint. They said that their lending  policy  required them to 
review Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances  before making  a change.  They also said that 
regardless of this, contacting them on 17 August 2018 would not have allowed enough time 
for them to have set up a new fixed  rate product before 1 September  2018, so the mortgage 
would always have  been on the SVR from 1 September anyway. Mr and Mrs P did switch to 
a new interest rate product,  which completed on 21 September 2018.
Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to our service.  They said that Virgin Moneys  website 
was misleading, and didnt comply  with the Financial  Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principle 7. 
They said the information on the website  was not clear, fair and it was misleading - as Mr P 
was led to believe the application to switch was going to be quick. Our investigator looked 
into things, including  what Virgin Moneys  website said. He explained that in his view, Virgin 
Money hadnt acted  unfairly.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed so the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P have  said that if theyd known  how long it would have  taken to set up a new 
interest rate product,  they would have applied for one earlier than they did. As it was, they 
only applied  two weeks before their existing product was due to expire, which  meant the 
mortgage moved onto the SVR.
Ref: DRN95539852Mr and Mrs P looked for information about  switching  on Virgin  Moneys website. Ive looked 
at the website, and agree  it does say that switching your mortgage deal is quick and easy. It 
also lists the criteria for being able to switch online, and Mr and Mrs P seem to meet  this 
criteria. So I can appreciate why Mr P was surprised to discover he needed to speak with an 
advisor about the mortgage before Virgin Money  would agree to a switch.
However, Virgin Money have confirmed  that even if Mr and Mrs P had successfully  applied  
to switch online on 17 August 2018, without the need to speak to an advisor, the switch still 
wouldnt have completed before  their product was due to expire. Without the need  for 
advice, the switch may well have  completed  slightly earlier than it did. But I consider  it 
reasonable for Virgin Money to want to discuss things with Mr and Mrs P, to ensure their 
plans for their repayment strategy were  still in place, and there werent  any changes to their 
circumstances that Virgin  Money needed  to know about. After receiving this information  
Virgin Money did complete the switch and Im satisfied  they didnt cause any unnecessary  
delays during the process.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P may have  interpreted quick and easy to mean that a switch  
could be completed  in two weeks. But I consider this a subjective  term, and is open  to 
interpretation. There are no assurances  on the website  that Virgin Money  could set up a 
switch within  two weeks, and so I think Mr and Mrs P were relying on their own 
interpretation, and taking a risk by leaving it as late as they did to apply. 
Mr and Mrs P said that Virgin Moneys website  doesnt comply with FCA rules, as the 
information isnt clear or fair, and its misleading.  As Ive said, I dont  think the term quick  
and easy is particularly clear, and as it has been  here, is open  to interpretation. But this isnt 
the only information on the website  about product switches. 
There is a mortgages  questions and answers page,  which contains a whole  section on 
switching to a new mortgage deal. Under the heading how long does it take to get my new 
deal? It quite clearly  states that you should  allow 3-4 weeks for your new deal to be set up, 
and encourages  customers  not to leave it too late if they want to avoid paying the SVR. So 
whilst this information may not be on the front page  of the website, Im satisfied its 
sufficiently clear and provides enough information  for mortgage  customers  to make an 
informed choice about when to apply  for a product  switch. Because  of this, I dont consider 
Virgin Moneys website  is misleading.
Virgin Money had also sent Mr and Mrs P letters in May and August 2018 reminding them of 
the expiry date of their existing product, and what would happen after that date. They  also 
gave a number  to call if they wanted  to discuss things, which Mr and Mrs P did not act on at 
the time.
So considering everything,  Im satisfied the information Virgin Money provided was clear  
enough for Mr and Mrs P to decide when they needed to apply for their product switch,  if 
they wanted to avoid  paying the SVR on their mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 June 2019.
Ref: DRN95539853Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9553985