K821x#15complaint
Mrs G has complained about esure Insurance Limiteds service following a claim on her 
motor insurance policy.
background
In August  2018  Mrs Gs car was hit and damaged by another  car when the driver  was being 
chased by the police.  She claimed  on her policy and paid her £500 excess. esure told her it 
would keep her updated  with developments in its attempts  to recover its outlay  what it had 
paid to settle her claim  and to close the claim.  Mrs G wasn't happy with esures service 
and complained. In two complaints responses  esure acknowledged  its service hadnt been 
as good as it would wish and paid Mrs G a total of £150 compensation to address the impact  
of that.
Mrs G didn't think that had gone far enough and brought  her complaint to us. Our 
investigator didn't  think that esure  had dealt with Mrs G fairly and said it should pay her 
further compensation of £150.  esure didn't reply so the complaints  been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
After she made her claim  esure told Mrs G it would keep her informed of events. But from 
the limited information  its given  us it seems it didn't do so. And it acknowledged that in its 
complaints responses  and paid Mrs G a total of £150 compensation. But esure then failed  to 
move the case on again promptly, until it referred the matter to solicitors in March  2019. But 
theres very little evidence  of it taking meaningful or prompt action to progress the claim 
before then and I understand that this has been  a source of distress and inconvenience  for 
Mrs G. So to address that I think it should pay her a further £150 compensation.
Mrs G's recently asked us to provide some reassurance that her claim will be closed and 
that she will receive her excess back.  And given that her insurance premiums  have  
increased while the claim remains open,  and shes still out of pocket because she hasn't 
recovered her excess. I can see why shed want that reassurance. But thats not something  
that I can do. Were not the industry  regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is. And 
that means I'm not empowered to instruct a business like esure as to how it must conduct  its 
business. Instead my role is to consider whether a business has dealt with a consumer like 
Mrs G fairly and reasonably. 
Also esure has put the matter into the hands of its solicitors.  And it's not uncommon for such  
proceedings to take many  months if not years  to conclude. So while I have great sympathy  
for the position  Mrs G finds  herself in, I'm not in a position to provide  the reassurance  shes 
seeking.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to 
pay Mrs G a further £150 compensation to address her distress  and inconvenience  arising  
from its poor handling of her claim.  It should  pay the compensation within  28 days of us 
Ref: DRN99818612telling it that Mrs G has accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
rate of 8% a year simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If esure considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs G how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs G a certificate showing  
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN9981861