K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc gave her incorrect  information about an exchange 
rate.
background
Miss S needed to transfer a significant  amount of money abroad to buy a house. She said 
she had paid close attention to the currency market as she wanted  to get the best possible 
exchange rate. She had also contacted a third party to explore the exchange rates that were 
available.
On Friday 8 March 2019, Miss S spoke to HSBC. it offered  her an exchange rate of 0.8576p 
for 1 Euro. As this was about the same as offered by the third party, she decided  to go 
ahead with HSBC.  Because  of the size of the transactions  she was told that she needed to 
go to an HSBC branch  to provide identification. HSBC told her that she should make the 
branch aware  of the rate she was quoted and if possible for the rate to remain  the same. 
When Miss S went to her local branch  on the same day, she was told that she could only 
transfer the money using the live exchange rate. But the value  of Sterling had dropped  since  
she spoke to HSBC   so the transaction would cost her over £5,000 more. Miss S says that 
due to trying  to resolve this matter, she wasnt able to complete the transfer in time that day.
On the following Monday,  11 March, Miss S instructed an international payment to be made  
online from her online  bonus  saver account  to her currency account.  But when she spoke to 
HSBC it was unable  to confirm when the transfer  would be made.  She then went  and carried 
out another transfer from her online  bonus  saver account at an HSBC branch. That transfer 
was successful. But when  the initial transaction was processed there wasnt enough money 
in Miss Ss account.  So HSBC reversed the transaction  and took the exchange rate loss of 
over £9,000 from her account.
HSBC accepted that it had misinformed  Miss S that the rate could be fixed when she took it 
to a branch.  It said that Miss S instructed an international  payment to be made  online.  But 
the funds for that transfer were later transferred out of the account. HSBC says that although  
it hadnt debited  the funds  from Miss Ss account,  it had already bought the currency to go 
ahead with the transfer. So when  the funds werent available in Miss Ss account, it 
transferred the funds  back to sterling   and took the resulting loss from her account. 
My provisional decision was to uphold the complaint in part. I have attached it below and it 
forms part of this decision. In summary, I found:
HSBC gave Miss S unclear and misleading  information that it would honour  the 
exchange rate in the branch. But if it had given her the correct information,  there  isnt 
enough evidence  to say that Miss S could have done anything differently. So I couldnt 
say she had suffered  a financial  loss in respect  of that part of her complaint. I didnt 
consider HSBCs offer of £50 was sufficient to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Miss S.
HSBC drew my attention to a number of online warnings that appear when the 
instruction is made  both that there may be an exchange rate loss and that immediate 
payments might not leave the account straight  away. I accepted that. Although I also 
saw some weight in Miss Ss argument that it isnt clear  how long the transfer would  
Ref: DRN92242642take. HSBC refers to it as an immediate  payment. It isnt clear that the transfer might  
not reach the intended destination the same day.
While  I noted the online  warnings,  Miss S spoke  to at least six members  of staff at HSBC 
on 11 March. My finding is that all of them  knew what was happening. But only one set 
out in a clear way that cancelling the transaction would likely  result in an exchange rate 
loss and that if cancelled the funds might not reach the account that day.
HSBC had an overriding duty to communicate in a way that was clear,  fair and not 
misleading. Im not persuaded the online warnings were sufficient in regard to how long 
the transfer would take. It was reasonable in this case  for Miss S to understand it would 
be made the same day  the warning refers  to an immediate payment. If it had set out 
more clearly the timescales involved,  Im satisfied Miss S would not have gone ahead 
with the first transaction.
Miss S made reasonable  enquiries when she couldnt see what had happened to the 
funds HSBC struggled to give her clear information about what  had happened.  I could 
see that the final member of staff she spoke to on the phone did so  but Miss S had 
understandably lost trust in HSBC by that point. She had received contradictory  
information on a number of occasions.  And there was a substantial amount of money  
involved for a house purchase.  HSBC  should have taken more care to give her accurate 
information.
After listening to all the phone calls she had with HSBC that day (more than two hours) 
and bearing in mind  the discussion she had at the branch the previous Friday, I find it 
unlikely that Miss S would not have  told HSBC what had happened  when she instructed 
the second payment from the branch.
The statement from the member  of staff at HSBC recalls a conversation  about  the 
transfer  I dont see how Miss S would have omitted  everything  that happened  that day 
from that conversation. Even  if Miss S had misunderstood the correct  position (which is a 
possibility bearing in mind the service she had received  up to that point)  a reasonable 
bank acting fairly ought to have taken steps to establish what the correct position  was 
and guide her through what should  have been a relatively straightforward process.
It was more likely that HSBC was aware that Miss S had instructed (or attempted) a 
transfer already.  I dont  consider it made appropriate checks  before effectively instructing 
a duplicate transfer.
If HSBC had given  Miss S clear information  she would have made one transfer  from the 
branch. So she wouldnt have made  the online transfer herself. So she wouldnt have 
incurred the exchange  rate loss of over £9,000. HSBC should refund that with interest at 
8% simple per year to date of settlement.
HSBC should  pay Miss S £600  for all the trouble upset  and stress  it had caused  her.
HSBC didnt accept  what I said. It made  a number of comments, including:
International payments are processed  by its staff on a regular basis  and they know  if one 
is reversed then it will incur an exchange rate loss. If staff didnt know HSBC would 
receive a lot more  complaints. 
Ref: DRN92242643The staff member at the branch didnt know Miss S had already instructed an online 
payment.
It wanted clarity why I felt the staff member  had given [me] incorrect information .
It cant give a specific time when the payment  will be made as there are too many 
variables.
The warning quite  clearly states  it will not debit your account immediately and to not 
make the payment  again. HSBC does  not feel that could  be any clearer.  It understood 
my point  in relation  to the word immediate, but it did not think  that invalidates the 
warning.
It was unsure why my provisional decision was different  to the adjudicators opinion.
I hadnt mentioned  the other  warning  where it says that exchange rate losses would be 
passed to the consumer.
It agreed to pay £600 for poor service.
HSBC believes the customer  knew she had already made  the initial payment, and 
purposefully did not inform the branch she had made the payment, as she had been 
monitoring the market  rate. HSBC believes she wanted to gain from the movement in 
exchange rate but had clearly not read the warnings when making the initial  payment 
online. 
If the customer had mentioned she had already done the payment online,  this absolutely 
would not have occurred. The telephone banking team do not process international 
payments of this value,  so their lack of understanding  on the procedure does not reflect  
to the branch as this is not something HSBCs telephone team have experience  in.
Miss S responded to make a number of points,  including:
When she spoke to HSBC on 8 March she was given the impression that the exchange 
rate had been held for her at the branch.
She didnt see the relevance of the rates she was quoted  by a third party  her complaint 
was about the rate she was quoted on the phone and the rate she actually got.
Although she spoke to another provider  she doesnt have any evidence of that now 
because of the passage of time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
wrong information
I still dont consider that HSBC gave a guarantee to Miss S that it would hold the exchange 
rate at the branch  although I accept it gave her the misleading impression that it might be 
possible.
Ref: DRN92242644But even if HSBC had told Miss S it would match the rate  it doesnt  make any difference  to 
the outcome.  That is because  where  a business gives incorrect  information, I would not ask 
a business to honour the incorrect information. Rather, I would ask it to put the consumer  
back in the position they would have been  in had they been given the correct information in 
the first place.
I am satisfied that HSBC  cant  hold an exchange rate in the way that Miss S understood. So 
I cant say that it should pay her the difference between the rate it quoted  and the rate she 
got. I accept  that Miss S might have been exploring other options. But unfortunately  we dont 
have evidence to support  what  rates  were  available. 
I accept that HSBC caused upset and confusion by giving Miss S misleading information. I 
have taken that into account  in my award of compensation. But I cant see that it has caused  
a loss.
exchange rate loss
There are two main conclusions here:
1.That it was reasonable for Miss S to understand that the payment that incurred the loss 
would be in a timeframe that would meet her needs.  Although the warning  said the 
payment might not leave the account straight  away it goes on to refer to it as an 
immediate payment. HSBC has an obligation to communicate in a way that is clear,  fair 
and not misleading.  In its response  to me it outlines a number of scenarios where the 
payment might not be made immediately. If that is the case,  then I think  it would be 
reasonable to set that out more clearly before a transfer is made. If it had done so, I 
consider it unlikely that Miss S would have instructed a transfer by this method  time 
was clearly of the essence to her. It follows, that she would not have incurred the 
exchange rate loss.
2.That HSBC didnt  act fairly or reasonably in allowing the second  transfer  to go ahead. It 
ought reasonably  to have known that Miss S had already made  a transfer and was 
potentially exposing  herself to a significant  exchange rate loss. I say this because I 
consider it likely that Miss S told HSBC what had happened   that is what  she says in 
her recollection. The member of staff doesnt  recall being told that. But after listening to 
all of the phone calls between Miss S and HSBC and the timeline of what happened, I 
consider it likely that Miss S would have told HSBC about  what happened.  And HSBC 
accepts that the member  of staff was aware  of the events  of the previous week.  It would 
have been reasonable  for HSBC to do more to establish what  had happened, before  
instructing the second transfer to go ahead in view of the potential loss to Miss S on an 
aborted transfer of this amount. It was the expert  here and it should  have been able to 
guide Miss S to make  a straightforward  payment abroad in the first place, albeit for a 
relatively large sum of money   but also to check that a payment had not already been 
made in view of what it ought  reasonably to have  known about Miss Ss circumstances. 
Obviously, if HSBC had acted fairly in the first place the first payment would not have been 
made and there would be no exchange rate loss. But I also think  it missed  an opportunity to 
prevent the loss when the second transfer was made. And this is all against a background of 
very poor service from HSBC during the phone calls between it and Miss S. I am surprised 
that HSBC accepts that its staff have a lack of understanding  about the transaction that Miss 
S was talking to them about. If they didnt  have any understanding then it would have been 
Ref: DRN92242645reasonable to tell Miss S that. Instead,  it added greatly to the confusion around  this matter. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  Miss S spoke to six members of staff  but only one was 
able to set out the correct position.  And I could see by that point how her trust in what  she 
was being told had been eroded.
HSBC says that Miss S knew that she was making  two transfers  and that made the second  
one to benefit from changes in the exchange rate. It hasnt supplied  or pointed to any 
evidence to support  this allegation. Or even  shown that there was a gain. The evidence  it 
has supplied  says that Miss S was confused  about what  was going on. Looking at all of the 
evidence I find it very unlikely that Miss S wasnt acting in good faith when  she made the 
second transaction.
Overall, I dont  consider  that HSBC has acted fairly and reasonably  in this matter  for the 
reasons set out above. I think if HSBC had given Miss S clear information  she would have 
made one transfer  from the branch. So she wouldnt have made the online transfer  herself. 
And she wouldnt have  incurred the exchange  rate loss of over £9,000. HSBC should refund  
that with interest  at 8% simple per year to date of settlement.
Miss S has been caused a considerable amount of stress, worry and upset over a space of 
four days. The transfer was eventually made in time. But HSBC  made  it very difficult  for her. 
The level of service  provided and the handling  of the phone calls on both 8 and 11 March  
was poor.  The sum involved here was large  and the transfer was to complete a property 
purchase by a deadline. HSBC will understand the emotional investment that goes into that. 
So Miss S had a legitimate worry that wouldnt go ahead  and that the funds had gone 
missing  and that was compounded when  she later found out that she had suffered a 
significant exchange rate loss because of the (avoidable) confusion. Overall, I think that 
HSBC should  pay her £600 for all the trouble, worry, stress and upset it has caused  her.
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc should:
Refund the exchange rate loss of £9,649.82.
Pay interest at 8% simple per year from the date the above  amount was debited from 
Miss Ss account to date of settlement.
Pay Miss S £600 for any trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before  15 June 2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN92242646provisional decision
complaint
Miss S complains  that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave her incorrect  information about an exchange rate.
background
Miss S needed to transfer a significant amount of money abroad to buy a house. She said she had 
paid close attention to the currency market as she wanted to get the best possible exchange rate. She 
had also contacted a third party to explore the exchange rates that were available.
On Friday 8 March 2019,  Miss S spoke to HSBC. it offered her an exchange rate of 0.8576p for 1 
Euro. As this was about the same as offered by the third party, she decided  to go ahead  with HSBC.  
Because of the size of the transactions she was told that she needed to go to an HSBC branch  to 
provide identification. HSBC told her that she should make the branch  aware  of the rate she was 
quoted and if possible for the rate to remain the same. 
When Miss S went to her local branch on the same day, she was told that she could only transfer the 
money using  the live exchange rate. But the value  of Sterling had dropped since she spoke  to HSBC 
 so the transaction would cost her over £5,000 more. Miss S says that due to trying to resolve this 
matter, she wasnt able to complete the transfer in time that day.
On the following Monday, 11 March, Miss S instructed an international payment to be made online 
from her online bonus saver account to her currency account. But when she spoke to HSBC it was 
unable to confirm when the transfer would be made. She then went  and carried out another transfer 
from her online bonus saver account at an HSBC branch.  That transfer was successful.  But when the 
initial transaction was processed there wasnt enough money  in Miss Ss account.  So HSBC reversed 
the transaction and took the exchange rate loss of over £9,000 from her account.
HSBC accepted that it had misinformed Miss S that the rate could be fixed  when she took it to a 
branch. It said that Miss S instructed an international  payment to be made  online.  But the funds for 
that transfer were later transferred out of the account. HSBC says that although  it hadnt debited  the 
funds from Miss Ss account, it had already bought the currency to go ahead with the transfer. So 
when the funds werent available in Miss Ss account, it transferred the funds  back to sterling   and 
took the resulting  loss from her account. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. He said that HSBC didnt  guarantee the 
exchange rate would be available when  she went to the branch and that it hadnt done anything 
wrong in debiting  the exchange rate loss from Miss Ss account.
Miss S didnt accept what  the investigator said.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
wrong information
Ive listened very carefully to the phone conversation that Miss S had with HSBC on 8 March. It was 
entirely reasonable for her to come away with the impression  that HSBC would honour the rate she 
had been given on the phone. I accept that the information it gave wasnt clear, fair and not 
misleading. I accept that HSBC would  not honour the rate in this way. But I dont think  HSBC  gave a 
guarantee that it would honour the exchange rate at the branch.
Ref: DRN92242647Taking all of that into account, I think it is difficult to say that HSBC was responsible  for any exchange 
rate loss that Miss S suffered. Even if it had given  her the correct information in a clear  way, I dont 
have sufficient  evidence to show that Miss S would  have been able to transfer the funds from HSBC 
to a third party at a better exchange rate in time.
In saying  that the level of service provided  by HSBC to Miss S was very poor. The first two members 
of staff didnt  know what its procedures were.  The second member of staff had to check  with a third 
person  but then incorrectly gave  the impression  that the exchange  rate would be honoured. That 
meant that Miss S quite reasonably went to the branch,  but then found  out she couldnt do what  she 
wanted after all.
The £50 offered  by HSBC to say sorry  is insufficient in the circumstances here. Miss S was caused 
inconvenience in attending the branch because of an avoidable misunderstanding. I have to take into 
account that she was transferring a substantial amount of money  so that a house  purchase could go 
ahead. When she couldnt do what she was told, that caused her a great deal of upset, stress and 
worry over the weekend.  That was all completely avoidable if HSBC had met its obligations to 
communicate in way that was clear, fair and not misleading. So I am proposing  an increased amount 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience she experienced as a result of this part of the complaint.  I 
will set out what I think is fair below   after I have given my findings  on what  happened next.
exchange rate loss
HSBC does  not have the time that Miss S instructed  a payment online from her online bonus saver to 
her HSBC currency account  on 11 March. But I cant see that Miss S contacted  HSBC on that day 
before the transfer  was made. 
HSBC has drawn my attention to a number of warnings that appear when the instruction is made  
both that there  may be an exchange rate loss and that immediate payments might not leave  the 
account straight away. I accept that. Although I also see some weight in Miss Ss argument that it isnt 
clear how long the transfer  will take.  HSBC refers to it as an immediate payment.  It isnt clear that 
the transfer might  not reach the intended  destination the same day. 
We have  a recording  of a phone call between Miss S and HSBC on 11 March. She says the transfer 
isnt showing on her online account. HSBC first says that it cant  access  that information  and then that 
it cant see the transfer. Bearing in mind that HSBC knew what Miss S had done and how much she 
was transferring, it must have known  that it would  cause  a great deal of shock in saying that. It also 
showed a lack of understanding of the banks own procedures. So I dont consider this was a 
reasonable response  from HSBC.
HSBC then says that it can take a couple of hours for the transfer to show,  but it will check with 
another department. That department  says that Miss S needs to contact another department at HSBC 
to authorise the payment.  Miss S asks to cancel the payment but is told she cant. Miss S stresses the 
urgency of the payment. She is then told the funds  will be released once she authorises it.
The next phone call we have  begins with Miss S being transferred from one HSBC department to 
another. It appears she had called the phone number she had been given by HSBC,  but that 
department wasnt able to help her. The payment wasnt in fact waiting for the checks  HSBC  said 
were needed in the previous call.
Miss S explains  the circumstances and details of the transaction  to HSBC again. HSBC does not 
handle this very well  it ought to have carried  out a more  professional handover  to spare  Miss S the 
inconvenience and worry of going over what had happened. This was avoidable. 
After being on hold for some  time, Miss S is told the payment should  reach  her account by the end of 
the day. Miss S explains this will be too late and that she is running  out of time to go to the branch  if 
she needs to transfer the money again. HSBC offers to cancel the payment  but then says it needs  
Ref: DRN92242648to check  if it can do that. HSBC then says the payment  has already left Miss Ss account and cant  be 
reversed. 
Miss S speaks to a supervisor at HSBC and sets out the position  again. Miss S is noticeably 
frustrated and upset by this point. She is transferred to a floor  supervisor and explains what has 
happened and the urgency  of the transfer going ahead. HSBC says it can check with a different 
department if the transfer can be reversed, but there may be an exchange rate loss. That department 
says that the reason the transfer  hasnt reached the account is because yet another department 
needs to carry out fraud checks. While Miss S is on hold for some time  HSBC attempts  
unsuccessfully to contact the other department. HSBC says it cant do anything without speaking to 
the other department  but offers to phone Miss S back. 
Miss S reiterates strongly that she wants the payment  cancelled. HSBC  says it can do that, but it 
doesnt know  when the funds will be transferred back to her account and there will be an exchange 
rate loss as the exchange  rate would be different.
The only time HSBC gave Miss S clear information  was in the final phone call on 11 March.  By that 
time Miss S was understandably very upset  and that made the phone  call very difficult for both sides 
 but HSBC  did set out the correct position. The call ends with Miss S saying that she is cancelling  
her travel plans  in connection with the house purchase and that HSBC  will call her back. HSBC  has 
no record of a call back.
Miss S then goes to an HSBC branch and transfers the funds from her online bonus saver account.  
She says that she explained everything that happened  but HSBC told her that the money  was 
available in her online  bonus  saver account was available  and no transaction was pending.  She said 
she was told if a transaction was pending then another transfer  would not go through. But it was made  
successfully.
I asked HSBC  to get the member of staffs recollections.  They said that Miss S didnt tell [it] she had 
done the payment. HSBC  says it doesnt believe that such an experienced member of staff would not 
made any errors in respect of this transaction.
There is a dispute about what happened in the branch. So I have to decide on balance what  is most 
likely to have happened.  Miss S has provided a detailed and clear account of what  was said in the 
branch. After listening  to all the phone calls she had with HSBC that day (more than two hours) and 
bearing in mind the discussion she had at the branch the previous Friday, I find it unlikely that Miss S 
would not have told HSBC  what had happened.
The statement from the member of staff at HSBC  recalls  a conversation about the transfer  I dont 
see how Miss S would have omitted  everything that happened that day from that conversation.  Even if 
Miss S had misunderstood the correct position (which is a possibility bearing in mind  the service  she 
had received up to that point)  a reasonable bank  acting fairly ought to have taken  steps to establish 
what the correct position was and guide her through  what should  have been a relatively 
straightforward process. 
So I think it was more likely  that HSBC was aware  that Miss S had instructed (or attempted) a transfer 
already. I dont consider  it made appropriate  checks  before  effectively instructing  a duplicate transfer.
While I note the online warnings, Miss S spoke to at least  six members  of staff at HSBC on 11 March.  
My finding is that all of them knew what was happening.  But only one set out in a clear  way that 
cancelling the transaction would likely result in an exchange rate loss and that if cancelled  the funds 
might not reach the account  that day. 
As Ive said,  HSBC had an overriding duty to communicate in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. Im not persuaded  the online warnings were sufficient in regard to how long the transfer 
would take. It was reasonable in this case for Miss S to understand  it would  be made the same day  
Ref: DRN92242649the warning refers to an immediate payment. If it had set out more clearly the timescales involved, 
Im satisfied Miss S would not have gone ahead with the first transaction.
Miss S made reasonable  enquiries when  she couldnt see what  had happened to the funds HSBC  
struggled to give her clear information about  what  had happened.  I can see that the final member of 
staff she spoke to on the phone did so  but Miss S had understandably  lost trust in HSBC by that 
point. She had received contradictory information on a number of occasions. And there was a 
substantial amount of money involved for a house purchase. HSBC  should  have taken  more care to 
give her accurate information.
I think  if HSBC  had given Miss S clear information she would have made  one transfer  from the 
branch. So she wouldnt have made the online transfer herself. So she wouldnt have incurred the 
exchange rate loss of over £9,000. HSBC should refund that with interest  at 8% simple per year to 
date of settlement.
Miss S has been caused  a considerable amount of stress, worry and upset  over a space of four days. 
The transfer  was eventually made in time. But HSBC made it very difficult  for her. The level of service 
provided and the handling of the phone calls of 11 March was poor. The sum involved here was large 
and the transfer was to complete a property purchase by a deadline. HSBC will understand the 
emotional investment that goes into that. So Miss S had a legitimate worry that wouldnt go ahead  and 
that the funds had gone  missing  and that was compounded  when she later found out that she had 
suffered a significant  exchange rate loss because of the (avoidable) confusion. Overall, I think  that 
HSBC should pay her £600  for all the trouble, worry, stress  and upset it has caused her.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions, my provisional  decision is to uphold  this complaint.  I propose that 
HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
Refund the exchange  rate loss of £9,649.82.
Pay interest at 8% simple per year from the date the above amount was debited  from Miss Ss 
account to date of settlement.
Pay Miss S £600  for any trouble  and upset.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9224264