K822xcomplaint
Miss B complains  about the service  she received  from Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited (Littlewoods) in relation to her catalogue  shopping account  with it.
background
Miss B opened an account with Littlewoods in November  2017.
Miss B experienced a number of issues over the management of her account during 2018.
Littlewoods accepted that it had provided Miss B with a poor level of service  during 2018 and 
in recognition of this it credited her account  with:
£100 in April 2018 
£12 in April 2018 (refund of late payment fee debited  in March 2018) 
£40 in May 2018 
£78.29 in October 2018 (to settle two items  purchased in March  2018)
It also amended Miss Bs credit file to ensure no late payment for March 2018 was recorded.
Miss Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that Littlewoods  
had done enough to fairly compensate her and so it didnt  need do anything  further.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I can confirm that 
Ive come to the same  overall outcome as the investigator for broadly  the same  reasons. 
There is also very little I can usefully add to what  has already been  said.
I dont underestimate  Miss Bs strength of feeling  about this matter. I also accept that she 
was given, on more  than one occasion, incorrect or conflicting information, that she had to 
spend a number of hours  on the phone and had a number of calls that werent  transferred to 
the correct department or person, or were disconnected. 
But taking everything  into account, including that Miss B appears to have suffered no direct 
financial loss and the awards made by our service in complaints of a similar  nature  to this 
one, Im satisfied that what Littlewoods  has already  credited to Miss Bs account  constitutes 
appropriate compensation and it need do nothing further.
For the sake of completeness I would add that if Miss B has any concerns about the 
management of her account  by Littlewoods in 2019, which it appears she might  have, then 
Miss B would need to raise these  with Littlewoods and then our service (if appropriate)  as a 
new and separate  complaint.
Ref: DRN96655742my final decision
My final decision is that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited  need  do nothing further in 
respect of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9665574