K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about charges that Santander UK Plc applied  to his account,  and what it did 
when he asked it to pay these back. 
background
As the facts underlying this case  are in dispute,  I will summarise  the background briefly here, 
before I set out in my findings what I think is most  likely to have happened  in this case. 
Mr W said that Santander had repeatedly  applied  unjustified  charges onto his account. He 
said that hed visited the branch three times  to try to get this sorted out. This involved a 
round trip of 60 miles  each time. He said that Santander had now paid him back three  sums, 
of £95, £60 and £78. He said Santander  hadnt explained what  those refunds were for.
Mr W also said that Santander said hed been  aggressive and threatening on his last branch 
visit. He wanted  Santander to provide its evidence of that, because  he said it was an 
extremely serious allegation against  him. 
Santander said that a refund of fees it had made in September 2017 hadnt  been  done 
correctly. And that mistake was still having an effect in early  2018. But it said that all fees 
charged to Mr Ws account since September 2017  had now been refunded. 
Santander had also written to Mr W at the start of February 2018,  about the visit hed paid to 
a branch in very early  February. It said that threats had been made against its staff, and the 
police were called.  The letter  said that as a result of this unacceptable  behaviour,  Santander 
was giving Mr W 40 days notice that it would be closing his account. And in the meantime, 
he wasnt allowed to enter any Santander  branch. 
Santander wrote to Mr W again on 21 February.  It listed the specific  behaviours that it had 
objected to, and which it was asking him not to repeat. It said it wouldnt close his account on 
this occasion,  but f this behaviour was repeated  in future,  then it would close his account.
Mr W said that he was unhappy with these allegations. He specifically denied  threatening 
staff, and asked for evidence of what Santander  had said. Santander replied  to that email  
stating that no police report was made, and it wouldnt  give him a copy  of any CCTV footage, 
in order to respect the privacy of other persons shown in that footage. 
Santander paid Mr W £100 for the errors  made in reversing bank charges, and the 
inconvenience this had caused him. But Mr W said that the actual cost to him was £366.60. 
He broke  that down  into travel costs for three  branch visits of £180 and parking fees of 
£3.60. He also said Santander should  pay for his time at £12 per hour,  and £15 per letter. 
And Mr W said that his February  visit to the branch, when the police were called, had been 
very badly  handled by Santander. 
Mr W said that some of the problems hed had in resolving this issue  were because hes 
dyslexic, and needs to have things explained  to him verbally rather than in writing. But he 
said that Santanders branch staff didnt do that. The branch staff say that they simply didnt 
know that Mr W was dyslexic.  They say he hadnt told them.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that Santander had now refunded all of 
the extra charges that were added on to Mr Ws account after September  2017, and which 
Ref: DRN90104572happened because  that refund wasnt done  properly. Our investigator  said that Santander 
was under no obligation to refund these charges to Mr W, but it had paid back  all the money  
hed been charged in fees between May 2017  and March  2018. He said that the payment of 
£100 that Santander had made was enough  to make up for the inconvenience of 
Santanders earlier mistake.
He said that Santander didnt have  to pay Mr W a fixed amount for his time, or for each letter 
hed sent. And he said that there  was nothing further  he could add to the allegations  about  
Mr Ws behaviour  in the branch. There was no agreement about what  had happened.  
Overall our investigator thought that Santander had acted fairly by refunding charges and by 
paying £100 to recognise the trouble and upset  caused to Mr W. He didnt think  it needed to 
do more than that. 
Mr W showed us that hed written to Santander again, asking for a tape of the meeting in 
branch in February, so that it could be transcribed, and some clarity could be provided over 
what was said. He repeated that he hadnt threatened anyone.  He wanted our service  to 
endorse this request for an audio  recording, so we could  be sure what  was said at the time. 
And he wanted us to wait until Santander had provided this, before we made a final decision 
in this case.
Mr W also said that Santander had made  repeated mistakes over the fees on his account. 
And that was only sorted out after the head  office intervened. He set out for us the mistakes  
that he said Santander had made. He said hed previously asked the branch to sort this out 
for him, and stop money from just leaving his account. He said that hed been  to the branch 
three separate times  about this. He still said that his costs added  up to £366.60.
Mr W also said that our investigator had mentioned a discrepancy  in his account,  so he 
wanted Santander to explain that too. He asked  our service to share with him the documents  
that Santander had sent to us. With the agreement of Santander, our investigator  forwarded 
a large amount of documentation to Mr W. 
Mr W copied us in to a request for a detailed account of transactions  on his bank account 
which he sent to Santander at the end of November  2018. And he repeated  his request for 
an audio recording of what  happened in branch at the start of February. 
Mr W wrote  to us to say that the statements Santander had sent missed out the most 
relevant period. He didnt say when  that was. He listed further  documentation  and evidence 
that he had requested from Santander.  And he said that hed been told Santander  hadnt  
reported this issue to the police, but had since found  out that the police had offered to have 
a word with him, either in town or once he got home.  He repeated that he didnt want us to 
make a decision just yet, not until Santander  had provided further  evidence  and explanations 
of what had happened. 
Our investigator wrote about a month after this, to say that Santander had sent its evidence 
to our service. It said it has no more evidence to offer, and our investigator  thought  it had 
acted fairly.  He said that as Mr W hadnt  agreed with him, he would pass  this case to an 
ombudsman to consider.  
Mr W wrote  to ask if wed seen a number of other documents he considered to be relevant  to 
this case. He sent us further  letters that he was concerned we might  not have  considered. 
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN90104573my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-I started  by saying that our service is an informal dispute  resolution service, and we have 
to balance the requirement for a detailed  investigation  into a complaint against  a need to 
bring closure to an issue for both sides. In this case, I considered  that I had sufficient 
documentation to provide a fair decision.
-First, I said I would deal with what happened in September 2017. Santander had 
accepted that it made a mistake then,  which caused  problems for a long time after that. 
-Santander decided  to make a goodwill  gesture to Mr W in September  2017, to refund  
some fees. What it normally does in that situation is to refund any fees shown on the 
account, and waive any fees that are pending. Santander doesnt charge fees for an 
overdraft straight  away, so if Mr W had recently  used his overdraft,  then there would also 
be fees due on his account  which werent  showing up yet, but were  waiting  to be 
charged. 
-In this case, Santander didnt waive those pending fees. And when those pending  fees 
were charged, Mr W went back into unauthorised  overdraft. Over the next months, I 
could see that Mr W was repeatedly being  charged for using an unauthorised  overdraft.  
That unauthorised  overdraft only seemed to be in use because of the previous  fees. 
-I thought that Santander made  a series of mistakes here. But I thought that Santander 
had now accepted that. 
-Santander didnt  seem to have realised what was going wrong on Mr W's account until 
late February 2018. So although hed already  been into the branch a number of times, 
the problem kept happening.  
-Mr W said he went into the branch three  times, and tried to get the branch to fix what had 
gone wrong. As Mr W was still asking  us to tell him what had happened  when he brought  
his complaint to us, I didnt think he knew then what was wrong. And from the evidence 
Id seen, it didnt  look like the branch staff identified  the problem for him either. 
-This all seemed to have come to a head during a branch  visit Mr W made  at the very 
start of February. Mr W says hed explained  to staff that he was dyslexic,  and they just 
passed him large bundles of paper. Santander's staff said Mr W was threatening, and he 
didnt tell them about his dyslexia.
-Mr W wanted Santander  to provide the CCTV, or an audio recording of that visit. 
Santander told Mr W that it couldnt  do that without  infringing the privacy of the other 
people who were  in the branch at the time. I wouldnt normally  expect a branch to be 
able to provide  either CCTV or an audio recording for a visit, so I wasnt surprised that 
Santander hadnt done that in this case.  
-I knew that meant that I couldnt see or hear what happened.  But I didnt think  that meant 
that I couldnt draw  any conclusions about  what was likely  to have happened.  
Ref: DRN90104574-I thought that it wasnt likely that the branch staff had understood that Mr W was dyslexic.  
Theyd told us they just didnt  know that. I thought that if they had understood this, they 
wouldve been likely to offer Mr W different support. 
-But I also thought  that it wasnt likely that the branch staff had understood what was 
going wrong on Mr Ws account, and what he was complaining  about. They said that 
Santander wouldnt refund any more fees.  But Santander did make  further  refunds later 
in the month,  when  its head office  realised the mistake that had been  made on Mr Ws 
account. 
-I also thought  it was likely that Mr W did use behaviour that Santanders staff found 
threatening. I thought this because, although  Mr W had repeatedly denied  making direct  
threats, he didnt  seem  to have denied doing  a number of other things that Santander  
said he'd done  when  it wrote  to him. Because Mr W hadnt  denied those things, and 
because Santanders  staff stated that they found this behaviour threatening, I didnt think 
that Santander did anything wrong when it said that such  behaviour  wouldnt be tolerated 
in future. 
-But I did think that Santander was right to change  its mind, and not close  Mr Ws 
account. Thats because witness statements  from the branch suggested  that Mr W was 
told there wasnt a problem with his account, and he wasnt  due any refunds. We now 
knew that there was a problem  with his account,  and Santander made further refunds. 
-I also noted that Mr W told us this was the third time hed been  into the branch to try to 
sort out the problem on his account,  without any success. So, without condoning Mr Ws 
behaviour, I could understand why he would  be both frustrated and upset on that 
occasion. I thought that Santander  had responded  appropriately by deciding  to issue  a 
warning, and not closing his account  on this occasion. 
-I checked Mr Ws account, and I didnt think that Santander owed  him any further refunds 
of fees charged  on his account.  I was satisfied  that it had sorted out the problem that 
was caused when it didnt waive pending fees in September  2017.  
-But I did think it should pay him a little more  compensation.  He made three  long journeys 
to the branch to try to sort this out. And the problem  did run on from September 2017 
until it was finally sorted out at the start of March 2018. 
-I didnt think that Santander had to pay Mr W £366.60. It wouldnt be fair to insist that it 
paid him a fixed fee for his time or letters hes sent. But, bearing in mind the number of 
visits he made to the branch, and the time that this problem persisted for, I thought that 
Santander should pay Mr W a total of £200  in compensation. I said that Santander could 
include in that amount  any compensation that Mr W had already been paid for this 
complaint. (I understood it had already  paid him £100 if that was right,  my decision 
would mean Mr W would  get a further  £100.) Santander couldnt  include refunds it has 
made of fees he was charged.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr W didnt respond  to the provisional  decision. Santander contacted  us to say that it 
accepted my proposal.
my findings
Ref: DRN90104575Even though  neither side has offered any further arguments, Ive still reconsidered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed  my mind.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must  pay Mr W a total of £200 in compensation. 
Santander UK Plc can include  in that amount any compensation  that Mr W has already been 
paid for this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9010457