K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained about Skyfire Insurance Company Limiteds handling  of her car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Skyfire include their agents.
background
Mrs Hs car insurance policy with Skyfire started in August  2018.  In November 2018, another 
car backed into her car causing damage. Skyfire said Mrs Hs car was a total loss because it 
was uneconomical to repair it. 
Skyfire said they looked  at the industry  accepted  car valuation guides to determine what  
Mrs Hs cars  pre-accident  market value was. Having done so, Skyfire  valued the car at 
£2,600. Mrs H felt that was too low so she complained.
Skyfire didnt uphold  Mrs Hs complaint saying their valuation was fair. Mrs H didn't think that 
was reasonable  so she brought  her complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked into it. 
He felt that Skyfires  decision was reasonable.  As Mrs H didnt agree with our adjudicator,  
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mrs H, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
In her complaint, Mrs H has made a number of detailed  points and Ive considered  all those  
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Skyfire have dealt with Mrs H in a fair and reasonable way.
Mrs Hs policy says that where her car is a total loss, Skyfire must  pay her the pre-accident 
market value of it. I feel that the starting  point  when trying to establish the market value of a 
car is to look at the industry trade guides, and that is what  Skyfire did. The guides  are based 
on extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices. Our adjudicator independently 
checked the guides and also reached the same valuation as Skyfire. 
Mrs H said Skyfires valuation was inaccurate  as it was based  on a manual  car whereas hers 
was automatic. She also didnt think Skyfire used the correct mileage of 75,000  miles. Mrs H 
also felt her cars extras werent  taken into consideration and as Skyfires  engineer  didnt 
physically examine her car, the deduction for its condition  was unreasonable.  But from the 
information Ive seen, both Skyfire and our adjudicator took into consideration the mileage  
being 75,000 miles;  its extras; and the car being  an automatic. The documents  provided  by 
Skyfire said the car was manual. But Skyfire  explained that due to an error  with the system, 
manual was wrongly showing. Skyfire confirmed the valuation  was done on the basis of the 
car being automatic. And given the valuation results  our adjudicator obtained  were  
consistent with Skyfires, I accept what they have said.
The valuations Skyfire  got from the three guides they used  were:  £2,185;  £2,426; and 
£2,730. The valuations took into account the low mileage Mrs Hs car had which  increased 
its value. Its normal industry practice to use an average of the three  guides to value a car. 
Ref: DRN94561612But Skyfire  disregarded  the lowest one and averaged the other two which came to £2,578. 
But Skyfire  rounded that up to £2,600, which  was reasonable.  Had they averaged  the three 
valuations, which they were entitled  to do, the final valuation would have been £2,447.
And from the information Ive seen, both Skyfire  and our adjudicator got valuations on the 
basis of the car being in either good  or retail condition, meaning  it was valued as though  it 
was in showroom  condition. So, I dont think Skyfire made any deductions  for the cars 
condition. I think some confusion has arisen because in a letter to Mrs H, Skyfire said: The 
engineer reviewed the condition of the vehicle before damage and appropriate allowances  
have been taken to account  for mileage, enhancements, wear  and tear and for any pre-
existing damage.  Im aware  that an adjustment was made  for the cars  low mileage which  
increased its value. I think Skyfire used a standard sentence that covered all potential  factors  
that could have affected the valuation. But I cant see that any deduction  was made because 
of the cars condition.  
What may have also caused misunderstanding  is another sentence Skyfire used in that 
same letter that said:  Our engineers are qualified to establish what  damage is structural  or 
superficial using the photographs. This is standard industry practice. The panel  at the front of 
the car where  the bonnet latches in, is twisted and as this panel  is structural,  it would need  
replacing. I understand that was Skyfires engineers comment when explaining  why the car 
was a total loss and describing the damage that was caused as a result of the accident.  I 
think that was in response to a comment made by Mrs H that Skyfire said the car was a total 
loss without anyone  even seeing or examining  the car. I dont think  Skyfires comment was 
about pre-existing damage that devalued the car. Engineers are qualified to make  certain 
decisions based on photos and other information without having to physically inspect a car. 
And thats what happened in this case.  The estimated  cost of repair was over £5,000, which  
is why the car was deemed a total loss because it was uneconomical to repair.
Finally, Ive seen a number of adverts Mrs H provided in support of her argument that 
Skyfires valuation was too low. Often advertised prices  are inflated to allow  for negotiation. 
So its unlikely a cars advertised  price is the actual  price  it was sold for. Thats  why the 
insurance industry and our service think the trade  guides are more accurate. Ive considered  
the adverts Mrs H provided.  Some of them arent  identical to her car. Some are a different 
age and some have lower  mileage, both which can make a difference to the value.  But     
Mrs H has provided some  examples  of cars that are similar to her car. But there  is a great  
variance in the advertised prices of those cars, which I think goes to show  why advertised  
prices arent an accurate  reflection of a cars value. Some dealerships may add a higher 
profit margin  to a car which will result  in the advertised price being  higher. Some  may have a 
reduced price to effect a quick sale. But we think that in most cases the trade guides are 
more accurate than advertised prices.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9456161