K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited  will not reopen his account.
background
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 28 December 2018. A copy of this is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  In it I set out the background to this complaint  
and my findings. I explained why I thought this complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  
Mr G has responded to my provisional  decision. Hes said that he thinks  Starling shouldnt  
be allowed to have  a policy  in place that prevents  customers from opening another account 
within a year of leaving  the bank. He thinks this is designed to prevent people from switching 
their account  away from Starling. And that this isnt a fair policy  to have  as it restricts a key 
consumer behaviour.
Starling have not responded to my provisional decision so I will only consider how Mr Gs 
comments impact  my final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not going to
change the findings I reached  in my provisional decision.
I appreciate this has been a frustrating experience for Mr G. He didnt know when he chose  
to move his account  that Starling would not accept him back as a customer  within the first 
year. I explained in my provisional decision why I felt Starling  were  entitled to have this 
policy. And why I thought  they didnt have  to make it public knowledge.
I understand Mr G doesnt think its a fair policy to have, and that there should be regulations  
in place to prevent banks from having this kind of policy. But its not the role of this service to 
decide that, or to tell banks what their internal policy  should be. That is the role of the 
regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority. Its my role to consider  whether the bank have 
treated Mr G, as an individual, fairly and reasonably. As Starling followed their policy 
correctly, and it is a policy  they are entitled  to make, I cant say that they have acted  
incorrectly or unfairly in this situation.  
So whilst I appreciate  Mr G will be disappointed,  he hasnt given me any new information 
which makes me reach a different decision to the one I reached in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN98722002my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN98722003Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited will not reopen his account.
Background
In May 2017  Mr G opened a current account with Starling. In April 2018 he initiated a switch out to 
another bank  using the current  account switch  service.
This switch  was completed on 1 May 2018, and Starling  closed his account  after receiving instructions  
from Mr Gs new bank.
On 30 May 2018 Mr G contacted Starling asking  to reopen  his account with them. Starling  told him 
that accounts cannot be reopened. They also said that they were not currently accepting new 
applications within 12 months  of an account being closed  or switched out.
Mr G complained that he didnt  know about this policy.  He says if he had he wouldnt have switched 
his account.  Our adjudicator felt that Starling should have made Mr G aware of their policy, and 
recommended they pay him £100 compensation.
Starling disagree with our adjudicators view. They say that its an internal policy they had chosen not 
to share for commercial  reasons. They feel they were entitled to make  this decision, and dont think  
they treated Mr G unfairly. So Ive been asked to review  the case.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I know Mr G will be disappointed, but I dont think  that Starling 
have acted unreasonably towards him. Ill explain why.
Mr G is unhappy that Starling wouldnt reopen his account. Ive looked at the terms and conditions for 
his account,  and its not mentioned here that Starling wont reopen it after closure.  But it also doesnt 
state that they will. Ultimately, by switching  his account,  Mr G was telling  Starling that he didnt want  
to continue to do business  with them. And, when  the switch was processed, he stopped being  a 
customer of Starling.
So when he told them  hed like to reopen his account,  I think Starling were  then entitled to consider 
whether they still wished  to offer him an account,  given what had happened. I dont think  they 
shouldve automatically given him an account and I dont think  they have done anything  wrong by 
declining to reopen Mr Gs account.
Starling told Mr G that he cannot open  a new account with them  within 12 months of switching  his old 
account. This policy is not mentioned in Starlings terms and conditions.  It is now on their website, but 
theyve told us this was published after Mr G closed  his account. Mr G says that he couldnt have 
known about this policy before he initiated the switch. Our adjudicator  agreed and felt that without 
knowledge of this policy Mr G couldnt make a fully informed decision when he chose to switch  his 
account.
Starling consider  this to be an internal  policy, and said they took the decision at the time of Mr Gs 
account closure  not to publish it externally for a number  of reasons. Theyve  also told us that they 
would have disclosed this policy to Mr G if he had spoken to them  prior to switching  his account. But 
he made the switch  through the current  account switching service  via his new bank.  So Starling  had 
no direct communication  with him during  the process.
Ref: DRN98722004I accept that Mr G didnt know when he switched his account that he wouldnt be able to open a new 
one with Starling  for 12 months.  And that there was no way he could reasonably have found out about  
this policy in the circumstances,  as there is nothing to say he should contact Starling before switching 
his account.  I also appreciate that he expected the bank would accept him back  as a customer  given  
he had held an account  with them until very recently. However I dont think that there were  ever any 
guarantees this would  be the case. Mr G stopped being an existing customer  of the bank when his 
account was closed. And its common for banks to review  and change  their criteria for new customer  
acceptance on a regular basis.
Starling are entitled  to choose who they do business with. And I wouldnt reasonably  expect a bank to 
publish their criteria for how they decide this publically  either to potential new customers, or to 
existing customers. Ive looked at the guidance given  to banks  about providing appropriate 
information to customers. Ive also looked at the guidance they have  to follow  when a customer closes 
their account.  And Im satisfied that this doesnt compel banks to advise customers  if choosing to end 
their relationship with the bank will prohibit  them from starting a new one with them.
So I dont think Starling did have an obligation to make Mr G aware  of their policy. I note they have 
chosen to publish  it on their website  now, but this doesnt change  my view. While I appreciate Mr G 
regrets switching his account from Starling, I dont feel he was treated unreasonably  here.
Mr G has told us he didnt receive a closure notice from Starling when they closed  his account.  Mr G 
initiated the account switch  himself through his new provider, who should  have made  him aware his 
Starling account  would be closed as part of the process. Hes also confirmed he saw a message from 
Starling telling  him his account was in the process of being closed when he logged in to his online 
banking after initiating the switch.
So again I dont think Starling have  treated him unfairly  here. Mr G had knowledge that his account  
was being closed. And I dont think it was unreasonable that the message  he saw on his online 
banking didnt  tell him he wouldnt be eligible for a new account  for 12 months,  for the reasons Ive 
explained above.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint against Starling Bank Limited.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9872200