K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that they were mis-sold an HSBC Advance Account by HSBC UK 
Bank Plc (HSBC).
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a joint HSBC Advance Account  (HAA) in June 2011.
They downgraded to a joint fee free account  in May 2015.
Prior to June  2011, Mr C had held a fee free bank  account and Mrs C had held a fee paying  
packaged bank  account.
Mr and Mrs C say that HSBC mis-sold  the HAA to them in June 2011. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagree  with that 
outcome so the case has come to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Mr and Mrs C say they took out the joint HAA in June  2011 because they were not offered a 
joint fee free account and didnt know one was available.
Mr and Mrs C are clear  that they knew theyd  taken out the joint HAA, and that they were  
paying a fee for it. They say they did use some of the benefits of the account they held over 
the years. But they say they would never  have  taken out the HAA in the first place if theyd 
been offered a joint fee free account.
So I will consider first if Mr and Mrs C knew they had a choice whether to take out the HAA or 
not and whether they chose to do so.
In my view I think they did. I say this for the following  reasons. 
Mr C had previously held a fee free account so he knew  it wasnt  always necessary to pay for 
a bank account. Mrs C had previously held a fee paying bank account, so I think she wouldve 
been aware of the type of benefits in a packaged bank account and why you would pay for 
them. And fee free accounts of all types were widely advertised and available  from HSBC  and 
other financial institutions.
So although  I dont  doubt their honest recollections,  I think  their memory is mistaken and I 
think its more likely  than that they would have  been  aware they couldve had a joint fee free 
account with HSBC or elsewhere if they wanted  one. Ive also seen a copy of the declaration 
forms which they have  both signed  and dated  at the time acknowledging they received the 
information about the HAA.
Ref: DRN96925352So overall I dont  think I can say that Mr and Mrs C didnt know they had a choice or that they 
didnt choose  to take it out, as I would  have to in order to uphold their complaint  on this point.
Next I will consider what HSBC was required to do when it sold the HAA to Mr and Mrs C.
 
Mr and Mrs C say that HSBC recommended the HAA to them.  HSBC  says that this was a non-
advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the HAA to Mr and Mrs C personally 
or advise  them to take it. 
I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ill assume that this was an advised sale as it is 
to Mr and Mrs Cs advantage and doesnt affect  the outcome  of my decision.
This means  HSBC had to ensure that the HAA was suitable for Mr and Mrs C and provide 
them with good  enough information  about  the account  so they could make  an informed 
decision about whether to have it or not.
The HAA contained  a range of benefits including  worldwide travel insurance;  roadside 
breakdown assistance;  life cover;  and preferential rates on overdrafts, loans and mortgages.
I dont know exactly what HSBC said or what information it gave Mr and Mrs C about  the 
HAA. But I think its more  likely than not that HSBC  described the HAA at some  length as it 
was trying to sell the account to them. And as I said above Mr and Mrs C signed the 
declaration to say theyd  received the welcome pack and other information.
In my view the HAA was also suitable  for Mr and Mrs C. I say this because theyve said they 
travelled regularly and both had cars.   They also had the option to take advantage of the 
financial products. And I can see nothing  in their circumstances that would  have stopped 
them using any of the benefits.  Once theyd taken out the account  it was for them to decide 
what they would use, and circumstances  would have determined  if they needed  to make a 
claim or not.
So, although  I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs C, in my view they knew they 
had a choice whether  to take out the HAA or not and they chose to do so. I think the HAA 
was suitable for them  and there was no information that Mr and Mrs C didnt receive from 
HSBC that would likely have put them off taking it out. So I dont think  Mr and Mrs C lost out 
as a result  of anything  HSBC may have done  wrong  when it sold them  the HAA.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9692535