K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy in 2004  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The PPI policy was part of a packaged insurance product called Total Mortgage Protection 
Plan (TMPP). The TMPP included  separate  insurance policies for life cover, critical illness  
and PPI. In this decision I am only looking  at the sale of the PPI element of the TMPP.
The PPI element of the policy provided joint cover  for Mr and Mrs M for accident, sickness, 
and unemployment   subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £514.18 a 
month towards Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage  balance in the event of a successful claim  with 
the cover  split 80:20  between them.  At the time,  it cost £17.79  a month.  
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a panel fitter.  He has told us he was not entitled to any 
sick pay but had some joint savings with his wife they could have used  as a means of 
repaying their mortgage should he be unable to work. Mr M has said he had suffered a 
serious accident in 2000 which had caused  him to take a significant period off work at the 
time. 
Mrs M was employed as a nurse. She has told us she was not entitled to any sick pay but 
could have used  the joint savings she had with her husband as a means of repaying their 
mortgage should she be unable to work. Mrs M has said she had a medical  condition  at the 
time of the sale and that she was also pregnant then. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2005 and that a 
further mortgage was taken out with BoS at that time which closed in 2006. 
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ms representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs M 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  believe  there to be no evidence to rebut  that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN99045582claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr and Mrs M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs M and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement relating to the second  mortgage itself concluded in 2006. That means 
the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer  Credit  Act, the Supreme 
Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the 
FCA about the handling of complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
Ref: DRN99045583complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take these codes  into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ms case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN99045584-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BoS gave  Mr and Mrs M sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs M, I must  then go on to consider whether and to what  extent 
Mr and Mrs M suffered loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs M 
and BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs M know they had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
BoS doesnt have copies  of all Mr and Mrs Ms paperwork from the time of the sale. This isnt 
that surprising  as this sale happened some 15 years ago and businesses  arent  required to 
keep such records for this period of time. But Ive seen examples of the paperwork BoS says 
Mr and Mrs M would  have  seen when they took out his policy. And these show that a 
customer would reasonably have understood they had a choice about PPI, and that they 
would have given  their agreement to taking  it. Ive also seen  a copy of the mortgage  
declaration which Mr and Mrs M signed,  which refers to this policy in terms that suggest it is 
separate from the mortgage and optional.  
From what  Ive seen, and in the absence of persuasive evidence that something very 
different happened in Mr and Mrs Ms case,  I think its more likely than not they knew  the 
policy was optional and agreed to take it out. 
Mr and Mrs M say that they only took out the policy because they felt pressurised and 
rushed into doing  so. But Mr and Mrs Ms recall of the sale doesnt seem particularly strong 
or vivid,  and I dont  think it would  be fair for me to conclude  that BoS unfairly pushed them 
into taking the policy, based only on what Mr and Mrs M think  they remember happening  in a 
meeting which  happened  so long ago. 
So, taking everything  into account, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs M knew the policy 
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide  advice?
Both BoS and Mr and Mrs M agree that advice was provided during this sale.  
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN99045585the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the evidence Ive seen suggests  that 
BoS took some steps to establish whether  the policy was a suitable  recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs M. The adviser is also likely  to have had information about  some of 
Mr and Mrs Ms financial circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  it 
appears some questions were asked  by the adviser about their wider circumstances, such 
as certain health  issues, I dont think Ive seen anything to demonstrate to me that BoS did 
enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. 
So, overall and on the balance of probabilities,  Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs M given their 
circumstances. Which  means Im not persuaded BoS advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs M met the eligibility  criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs M had a need for the policy  they have told us they would  not have 
received any sick pay if they were  unable to work due to illness,  their redundancy 
benefits are likely to be limited and they only had limited savings to fall back  on. So 
the policy would have helped Mr and Mrs M manage the consequences  if one of 
them was unable  to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs M.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs M. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ms employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, I 
dont think the injuries  from an accident  in 2000  which Mr M sustained  would have  
made him think these  would be likely  to cause him to take time off work in the future. 
And Mrs Ms pre-existing medical condition occurred some  7 years before the start of 
the policy and doesnt seem to have caused  her to take any time off work. Mrs M also 
says she was pregnant at the time of the sale, but I dont  think  this would have 
precluded her from claiming  in general  for accidents,  sickness or unemployment. The 
policy only precluded  claims  for certain  very specific conditions  directly related to 
pregnancy. So I dont think this would have  put Mr and Mrs M off taking out the 
policy. 
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mr or Mrs M be disabled or 
unemployed for 30 days before  they could make  a claim and the fact the policy would 
only pay benefits for a maximum of 24 months  for each claim), the policy still 
provided valuable  cover given:
Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, including their savings  (which  they might 
expect to provide  an income during the policys 30-day qualification period) 
and the limits to those  provisions, which mean the policy  could play an 
important role after those  provisions  were exhausted; and
Ref: DRN99045586The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs M be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their home.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BoS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
one of them was unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs M 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs M agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs M, Im not persuaded 
BoS did enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded BoS gave  Mr and Mrs M all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ms. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ms representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs M about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to Mr and Mrs M. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
Ref: DRN99045587and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs M have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs M? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs M suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs M. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mr and Mrs M suffered loss and damage  as a result.  To answer this, I must decide whether  
or not Mr and Mrs M would  have  still taken out the policy,  had BoS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs M, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs M have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if BoS had explained  things properly, 
Mr and Mrs M would  have  acted differently, or whether they would have  taken out the policy  
in any event.
Mr and Mrs M say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe  I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs M had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BoS advised them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  one 
of them  was unable  to work  because  of accident,  sickness and unemployment,  they 
concluded they wanted that product. But they made that decision based  on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances  
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, BoS hasnt provided  evidence that satisfies me that it told them  the 
exact premium at the point Mr and Mrs M applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems 
likely Mr and Mrs M would have been told the cost before the policy  started. And they paid 
for the policy for over a year, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  
at the point of sale, its possible they might have raised that with BoS at the time or 
reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs M would  have  found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
Ref: DRN99045588In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs M would get back in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ms 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr and Mrs M had 
consulted a doctor about or received treatment for in the 12 months  before the policy 
started and which returned  in the 12 months  following the start date.
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if 
Mr or Mrs M werent permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs M be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs M pause for thought  and may well have  caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs M from taking out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable  
to them  should  the insured risks have  become  a reality. Although Mr and Mrs M say they 
had pre-existing medical conditions when the PPI was taken out and the policy  wouldnt 
have provided  cover  had they needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think 
better information about this exclusion would have put them off agreeing to it for the reasons 
Ive already explained.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  they would have been caught by any of the 
other significant exclusions. So I still think they had some good  reasons to take the policy 
out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than 
Mr and Mrs M might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would  have expected to 
be able to make a disability claim without  having  to provide some evidence  to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs M from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs M, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs M had known they could only claim for disability if they were unable to do both 
their job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view they might  
Ref: DRN99045589reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if they were unable  (through 
disability) to carry on their own occupation the chances that they would be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
BoS may not have told Mr and Mrs M that any claim they made would be limited to a 24-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for, 
but they had limited other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs M would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr or Mrs M be unable to work  in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensuring their home was 
not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr or Mrs M was made 
redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not Mr and Mrs M would have taken out the policy in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs M would not have bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs M found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same  position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs M believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN990455810Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs M in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr and Mrs M compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs M think BoS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mr and Mrs M, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2004  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ms representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find BoS negligently  misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs M and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs M in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 December 2020.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9904558