K820x#14complaint
Mr N says Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS)  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr N bought the policy in 2006 at a different time to taking out a mortgage.  He applied  for 
the PPI policy  in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr N for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £409.64 a month towards  Mr Ns mortgage 
repayments in the event  of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £24.33 a month. 
At the time,  Mr N was employed  as a Social Care  Worker. He has told us he was not entitled  
to any sick pay or redundancy pay and didnt have  any other means of repaying his 
mortgage should he be unable to work. Mr N has said he had a medical condition at the time 
of the sale. 
Mr N didnt take out or have his mortgage  with BOS at this time when the PPI was taken out 
and running, this was a standalone PPI policy.  
 
Mr Ns representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ns representative says:
BOS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr N wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ns representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOS should  have told 
Mr N about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr N and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN95155002The information Mr N received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr N disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ns. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ns complaint.
Mr N didnt take out his mortgage with BOS, this was a standalone  policy  and the mortgage 
arrangement was with another business.  That means the unfair relationship  provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable as these rules are about what lenders need to do. And BOS was not the lender 
during the time the PPI was active. 
I note Mr N states his mortgage was with BOS but the evidence  obtained indicates this was 
not the case and the mortgage was taken out earlier in 2006 with another mortgage provider.
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
Ref: DRN95155003In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BOS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so BOS was required  to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr Ns complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
If BOS gave advice, whether it advised  Mr N with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
Whether BOS gave Mr N sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
Ref: DRN95155004his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr N, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr N suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr N and BOS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ns complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr N know  he had a choice?
BOS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
As Mr N took out this PPI policy with a different business to that with which his mortgage 
was, the policy was taken out at a different time, in a meeting specifically about  the PPI 
policy. I also not Mr N made choices about the type of cover and level of benefit he wanted, 
as he didnt take out the life and critical injury cover that was also available. 
Taking everything into account,  I think Mr N knew the policy was optional and he agreed to 
take it out without  undue pressure. 
did BOS provide  advice?
BOS says that advice  was given during the branch meeting when the policy was sold.  Mr N 
has indicated no advice  was given. But looking at the information  BOS obtained from Mr N 
relating to taking  out the policy I think that advice was provided during this sale.  
This means  BOS had to advise Mr N with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given his needs  and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that BOS took some  steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr N. The letter  sent to Mr N after the sale summarises the information  that was collected 
during the meeting. And I can see the adviser had some information  about Mr Ns financial 
circumstances and a demands and needs  statement was completed to try and establish  
whether Mr N had a need for the policy  by asking questions about his wider  circumstances 
such as any health  issues and existing means.  But I cannot be sure BOS  did enough to 
ensure the PPI was suitable as the records available only reflect basic  responses, not if the 
detail about Mr Ns circumstances  were discussed  and assessed.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BOS  did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr N given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BOS  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BOS did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr N, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
Ref: DRN95155005Mr N met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
Mr N had a need for the policy  he would not have received any sick pay if he was 
unable to work due to illness, his redundancy benefits are likely to be limited and he 
didnt have any savings he could fall back on. The policy  would have helped  Mr N 
manage the consequences  if he was unable to work.
The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr N. 
The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr N. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ns employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  
for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mr N has told us about a 
liver problem he had around 2001. But there is no information or evidence this was 
an ongoing condition  and I note he told BOS when applying for the PPI he had no 
kidney or liver disorders which he was aware of or still under regular supervision for. 
So this doesnt  appear to be caught  by the policy limitations and exclusions.
While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr Ns 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BOS gave Mr N sufficient information  
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what BOS was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr N was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if he was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr N would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be. I 
also have to take into account  that Mr N was taking out this policy separately to his mortgage  
so its likely he knew some  basic information  about the policy.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BOS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr N agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr N Im not persuaded BOS  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded BOS gave Mr N all of the information he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN95155006In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ns representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ns. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ns representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr N about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ns representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr N has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BOS ought to have done  either. 
what effect did BOSs shortcomings have  on Mr N? To what extent did Mr N suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOS  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr N. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr N suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr N would have 
still taken out the policy,  had BOS  done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BOS took the steps it should  have done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr N, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr N has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BOS had explained things properly, 
Mr N would have acted  differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr N says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr N had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance  it seems he went into the branch to discuss  just a policy of this sort. 
Ref: DRN95155007And when  BOS advised him that there  was a suitable product he could buy that would  
protect his mortgage  payments in the event he was unable to work because  of accident, 
sickness and unemployment, he concluded  he wanted that product. But he made that 
decision based on incomplete information,  meaning  what he thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ns circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr N knew  he would have to pay something 
for the policy, I cannot be certain BOS  told him the exact premium  at the point Mr N applied  
for the policy. However, Mr N was sent a letter  on 18 December 2006 setting out the costs  
and benefit in full so, it seems Mr N was told the cost before the first payment for the policy  
was taken and he paid for the policy for a number of years.  So if the costs were significantly 
at odds with his expectations at the point of sale, its possible he might  have  raised that with 
BOS at the time, or reconsidered his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr N would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, I cannot be certain BOS made  clear  exactly what Mr N would get back  in return  
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Ns expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his mortgage  
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did  if anything, it is more 
likely than not that the policy actually  paid more in the event of a claim than he would have 
expected as there was an additional  cash payment. His mortgage repayment  was £308 but 
the benefit paid would  have been £409.64.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr N thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr N knew  about or 
was being investigated  before the start date of the policy,  if they reoccurred in the 24 
months of a claim being made;
 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr N 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr N must be 
unable to do his own job, a similar job or any paid work which his experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr N pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the cover,  
Ref: DRN95155008when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr N from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ns circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr N was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr N wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  as I have already indicated  
the medical condition he referred to would not appear to have reoccurred in the 24 months 
he took out the policy so wasnt caught  by the restrictions and he was in permanent  
employment. So, I still think  he had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr N might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr N 
from taking out the policy,  Mr N, in his circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr N had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar job or other paid work  which in the insurers view he might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into his thinking about what  he would  have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although its possible he may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr N was unable (through  disability) to carry on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
BOS may not have  told Mr N that any claim he made would be limited to a 12-month period.  
This may have differed  from what he expected and might have hoped for  but he didnt 
have any other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr N would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr N be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure his home  was not placed  at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr N would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if he was made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr N 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ns representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN95155009the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr N would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ns 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr N 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr N believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr N in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BOS should  pay Mr N compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr N thinks BOS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BOSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why BOS  failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BOS gave Mr N, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
December 2006  when providing  information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ns representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find BOS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr N and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that BOS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr N in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Ref: DRN951550010my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2021.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9515500