K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
BOS has provided a copy of Mrs Ms signed  credit card application. It has a box ticked 
in a separate section  of the form to request PPI. Mrs M didnt have to this box if she 
didnt want the cover. So overall  I think its most likely  BOS made it clear Mrs M didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although as Im looking at events 
approaching seventeen years  ago I can understand why she cant  remember this.
BOS didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make sure Mrs M got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible  the information BOS gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something  went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  
And while  Mrs M mightve been entitled  to some  sick pay from her employer, the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer. So I dont think better  
information about  the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said  including what shes said about  her 
employer. But Im afraid that this doesnt  change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything  
Mrs M paid for it. But BOS has already offered to give Mrs M back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand BOS  has already paid this to Mrs M. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN97834492
Ref: DRN9783449