K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that his motor insurance  policy with BISL  Limited was cancelled  
unfairly as he never received the terms and conditions which defined a black  event.
 
background
Mr S has asked  his mother (Mrs S) to be the representative on this case. 
Mr S purchased his motor  insurance  policy on 15 August 2018 through a comparison 
website. The policy required a telematics box to be fitted to the car within 14 days  of the 
policy starting. Once the box had been  fitted Mr S would receive a unique password in order 
to access information  about his driving.
On 13 November 2018 Mr S received correspondence (dated 9 November)  advising him that 
his policy  would be cancelled  within  seven  days. Mr S has said he didnt know the reasons 
why the policy was going to be cancelled  so Mrs S contacted BISL to discuss the matter. 
During the call she was told that Mr S had been  driving between  53mph and 58mph on a 
30mph road. As this amounted to excessive  speeding and was categorised as a black  
event the policy would  be cancelled in line with the terms of the policy.  
Mrs S has said her son had never  received the telematics terms and conditions. So he was 
unaware of what a black event meant or that the policy would be cancelled  due to 
excessive speeding.  She says if he had been  made aware of this condition he wouldnt  have  
taken the policy out as they live in a rural area where most  of the roads  have the national 
speed limit. Mr S wants the cancellation notice to be removed from the national  insurance 
database.
BISL cant be certain that Mr S received the terms and conditions relating to the telematics 
box. But it says the welcome pack was sent to Mr S. It went on to explain that the 
comparison website explains the impacts of speeding and black  events.  And it says its 
website clearly says black  events will be triggered  where excessive speeds are identified by 
the telematics box. It goes on to say if you trigger a black event your policy may be 
cancelled. So its satisfied  during the online journey  Mr S was aware of black  events  and the 
fact if one was triggered  it could result  in the policy being cancelled.
Mr S didnt agree. So his representative brought the case to our service. Our investigator  
looked into the case but she didnt  recommend  it be upheld. She said while she accepts    
Mr S may not have received the terms and conditions relating to the telematics box she was 
aware that in the terms and conditions he did receive it told him to check  the Advance 
Telematics Car Insurance terms and conditions which together formed  part of his contract. 
So she felt it was clear  both terms and conditions needed to be read. And if Mr S hadnt 
received them, she felt it was reasonable he requested them. She also agreed that the 
online journey  clarified  what  a black  event  was, how they are triggered and the potential 
consequences of receiving one. So she didnt think BISL had acted unfairly in cancelling the 
policy.
Mr S representative still didnt agree. She said the investigator hadnt considered the 
implications of having a cancellation on the national insurance database,  especially when he 
had no knowledge  of the terms  and conditions. She didnt agree that it was foreseeable that 
there could  be ramifications due to speeding. She also said she had disabled  pop ups on 
her computer and therefore  couldnt  be sure Mr S had seen the black  event information 
Ref: DRN93378272during the online journey. Because Mrs S didnt agree, the case  has been passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will explain why.
Mr S says he didnt receive  the telematics  terms and conditions in his welcome pack. Ive 
seen evidence to show the pack was sent to Mr S, but I cant be certain the telematics terms 
and conditions were  included. But having reviewed  the welcome letter, I can see that it asks 
Mr S to check  the policy documentation  and the telematics terms and conditions.  This is 
highlighted in bold.  It also provided a contact  number to call if any information is missing  
from the welcome pack. 
Throughout the welcome pack and key facts documents it refers to the telematics car 
insurance terms and conditions. And under  the important notes section (of the statement of 
insurance) it encourages Mr S to read the telematics  documents alongside the schedule  of 
insurance, certificate of motor insurance and motor  policy wording. All these documents  are 
listed and included in the welcome  pack.  So with that in mind,  I think  its clear  the telematics 
terms and conditions was a document in its own right which  needed to be considered in 
conjunction with all other policy documentation. And if Mr S hadnt  received it as part of the 
welcome pack, I dont  think it is unreasonable to assume he could have asked BISL  to 
provide it especially considering he would  be bound by those terms.
Ive reviewed the online journey Mr S would have  followed  in order for him to purchase  his 
insurance policy. Having  done so, I can see that Mr S would have seen the brief summary 
outlined on the webpage after he had retrieved his quote. This summary outlines  what  a 
black event is and what is classed  as excessive speeding. I appreciate  that Mr S 
representative has said that pop ups are deactivated on their computer. But in order  to 
continue with the quotation  and purchase  the insurance Mr S would have needed to click 
continue at the bottom of the pop up. With that in mind, I am satisfied  Mr S would have had 
access to that red alerts and black event information during the online journey. And it was 
his responsibility  to ensure he had read and understood those terms before continuing with 
the policy. 
Mr S representative has said that due to Mr S living in a rural area where  most of the roads  
are the national speed limit, he wouldnt have purchased the policy if hed been aware his 
policy could be cancelled  if he exceeded  the speed  limit (as this could quite easily  happen) 
and it wasnt foreseeable that cancellation could be a possibility. But she has said,  it was 
foreseeable that their premiums could be affected the following year if the telematics box 
recorded Mr S exceeding the speed limit. 
A telematics  box collects information in order to assess how a car is driven. The driver 
obtains a score which is gathered using different measurements such  as speed, braking 
frequency and force,  acceleration, routes time of travel and location. And considering this 
can play a part in determining  future insurance  premiums, I think  its reasonable  to assume 
most drivers  would want to review the criteria  in which they were being  assessed. So when 
Mr S received the policy  documentation and established it didnt include anything  about how 
to calculate the drivers score, I think it would be reasonable to assume he would  have 
contacted BISL  to check how this would be calculated.
Ref: DRN93378273Mr S representative has also said that there is nothing on the website regarding  red alerts,  
black events and cancellation. But I disagree. On the telematics providers website  under  
your driver score and alerts it has a section called  how do you calculate  my driver score. It 
goes on to say:
Speeding will have  a negative effect on your Driver Score  and if you continue to do it, we 
have the right to cancel  your policy. After all, your black  box policy is about driving safely  and 
sensibly.
I appreciate that Mr S feels the cancellation of the policy was unfair and extreme given the 
other scenarios in which a cancellation of an insurance policy  can occur. But as I said 
earlier, I cant be certain whether or not the telematics terms and conditions were included  in 
the welcome pack. But even if they werent included, Mr S would have had an opportunity to 
read about black events  and red alerts during the online process.  He couldnt have obtained 
the insurance without  clicking  the continue button on the pop up. And as I have said above, 
the welcome pack makes  reference to the telematics information  throughout and encourages 
Mr S to read those terms and conditions in conjunction with the other documents  where  it 
makes it clear cancellation is possible if a black event is triggered.  There is also information 
on the website.  So with that in mind, I dont think it is unfair that BISL cancelled Mr S policy 
after driving up to 58mph  in a 30mph zone. 
I can see that Mr S paid £1,383.64 for his insurance  policy. Once he received the 
cancellation notice,  BISL refunded £894.72. So Mr C has only paid for the time he was 
covered under the policy. Therefore, I wont be asking BISL to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Jade Rowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9337827