K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies, taken out 
in 1999 and 2004. The policies  covered  Mr S only. Mr and Mrs S say Hanley Economic 
Building Society (HEBS) mis-sold  them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, HEBS had to make  it clear to Mr and Mrs S that they had a choice 
about it. But Mr and Mrs S say they were told they had to have the PPI in order  to get the 
mortgage.
1999 sale
Mr and Mrs S initially took out PPI with their mortgage in 1999.
HEBS has sent us a copy of Mr and Mrs Ss application  form for the mortgage.  This included 
a section on PPI, with spaces for them to sign to say either  yes or no to it. And Mr and 
Mrs S have signed in the yes space.
HEBS has also sent us a copy of a separate PPI application form, which  shows the cost and 
benefit of the policy  and that Mr S is to be covered.
I understand Mr and Mrs S have  said they only filled in the forms for PPI because  they were  
told they had to have it. But I dont think theres enough evidence for me to say that they 
were told this. I think the mortgage  application  form makes it clear that they can say no to 
the PPI if they dont  want it. And so, based  on the evidence I have, I think its likely that 
HEBS did make it clear  to Mr and Mrs S that they had a choice about the PPI and that Mr 
and Mrs S chose to take it.
2004 sale
Mr and Mrs S then took out a replacement PPI policy  in 2004.
HEBS has sent us a copy of a letter it sent to Mr and Mrs S at the time about the advice it 
had given them. And this says that HEBS offered a number of different cover options but that 
Mr and Mrs S chose  to just take a replacement PPI policy.
This suggests there was some discussion between HEBS and Mr and Mrs S about the PPI. 
And I dont  think theres enough evidence for me to say that HEBS  told Mr and Mrs S they 
had to have the PPI. So I think  its likely HEBS made it clear in this discussion that Mr and 
Mrs S had a choice about it. And that Mr and Mrs S chose to take it, knowing they didnt 
have to.
Ref: DRN98948362both sales
HEBS recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, so it had to check  that it was right for them.  
And, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time of the sales, I think that it 
was. For example, Mr S doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the exclusions  to or 
limits on the PPI cover. The policies couldve paid out for longer than Mr and Mrs S have  told 
us Mr S wouldve been entitled to sick pay. And they wouldve meant Mr and Mrs S didnt 
need to rely on their savings to make  their mortgage repayments if Mr S wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for them, HEBS had to give Mr and Mrs S clear information  
about the PPI. Its possible  the information  it gave them wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. 
But a mortgage is a serious  financial commitment, and Mr and Mrs Ss property couldve 
been at risk if theyd  failed  to make their repayments. So I think  they couldve found  the 
protection the policies offered appealing.  And, for the same reasons I think it was right for 
them, it seems  like the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs S if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put Mr and Mr S off taking it out.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs S paid on their PPI  and whether HEBS  
treated them  unfairly.
HEBS has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ss PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how HEBS has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ss commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  HEBS treated  them unfairly. This means  it doesnt  need to pay 
Mr and Mrs S back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9894836