K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Domestic & General  Insurance Plc (D&G) declined  his mobile phone 
insurance claim and wouldnt refund his premium payments.
background
In April 2018 Mr R bought a phone. In November 2018 he made a claim on his mobile phone 
insurance policy. He told D&G, the insurer, there  had been no accidental  damage to the 
phone but the screen  had gone  yellow  and the volume wasnt  working.
D&G declined the claim. It said the policy only covered breakdown,  not due to accidental  
damage, if the phone  was outside the manufacturers guarantee. The phone was still under  
the manufacturers guarantee at the time of the claim. D&G  told Mr R to contact the 
manufacturer.
Mr R complained to us. He thinks D&G acted unfairly and his claim should be covered as he 
paid his policy premiums.
Our investigator thought D&G had fairly  declined  the claim and it didnt need to refund the 
premiums.
Mr R disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
claim
Mr Rs policy  is clear that it covers:
breakdown of the phone after the end of the manufacturers guarantee
accidental damage
theft with force  or break in.
Under the breakdown section the policy says:
If your product suffers a mechanical or electrical  breakdown after the end of the 
manufacturers parts and labour guarantee  period,  we will (at our option)  do one of the 
following: arrange a repair, arrange  a replacement or pay the cost of replacing  your product 
in vouchers.
As Mr R bought his phone in April 2018 it was still within the 12 months manufacturers 
guarantee when  he made  a claim. D&G  acted  fairly  and reasonably  in saying the claim 
wasnt covered by the policy  and in telling him to contact the manufacturer.
Mr R has told us he had to pay for the phone to be repaired. He hasnt told us why the 
manufacturer wouldnt repair the phone  under  the guarantee. But D&G  fairly declined Mr Rs 
Ref: DRN95170812claim because  the fault with his phone wasnt covered under his policy at the time the fault 
happened.
policy premiums
D&G says when it tried to collect some of the policy premium payments the direct debit was 
rejected. The non-payment  meant it cancelled the original policy but restarted the policy 
(under another  reference number)  out of goodwill. From its records  I see Mr R did pay some 
of the monthly  premium  payments.
D&G acted  fairly and reasonably in not refunding the policy premiums that Mr R did pay. 
During the time policy cover was in place Mr Rs phone was covered in line with the policy  
terms. D&G  doesnt need to refund any premiums Mr R paid just because his claim wasnt 
covered by the policy terms.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9517081