K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that the car he purchased  in part by using finance  provided by HSBC  UK 
Bank Plc was misrepresented to him.
He wants to reject the car and a full refund.
background
I set out the background  to Mr Rs complaint in my provisional decision.  Ill summarise it 
again here so that all the relevant information  is in this one decision. 
Mr R purchased a car in 2014. He paid for the car, in part, by using his credit  card provided 
by HSBC.
Several years later, Mr R found  out that his car and others like it, had been  fitted  with a 
device by the manufacturer. According  to the manufacturer, the device impacts on the 
characteristics of Nitrogen  Oxide (NOx) emissions during test conditions.  He has been 
offered a service action,  which  the manufacturer says will resolve  the issue,  without having  a 
negative impact on the performance of the car.
Mr R is unhappy with all of this. He suggested that the mere  presence of the device in the 
car means  it is not the car he agreed  to buy. From  his perspective the car was 
misrepresented to him. In addition, he explained that when he bought his car he was told 
certain things about the environmental  credentials  and the economic benefits  of his car. In 
particular, he was led to believe  the car would help him to minimise his familys carbon  
footprint. He was also told it would  be fuel efficient,  eco-friendly, and achieve the 
performance set out in the marketing materials. His position is that he relied on what  he was 
told. Now he suggests that the existence  of the device in the car means  that all of those 
statements were incorrect. 
Further, he is concerned  that his car has lost value  due to the presence of the device. In 
addition, it seems, he is worried that if he goes ahead  with the service action this will 
damage his car. Worse still he also suggests  it will perhaps even make the car dangerous to 
drive. Its a chance he was not prepared to take with the safety of his family. Mr R was upset 
with how his complaint  was handled  by HSBC.
Mr R relies on Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This provision says, amongst 
other things,  that if he has a claim against the supplier  for misrepresentation. Then  he has a 
like claim against HSBC.  On this basis he wants HSBC to put things right by giving him a full 
refund.
HSBC looked  into whether  it had responsibilities to Mr R under Section 75. But it concluded 
it does not have to meet  his claim. Its position is this is because it didnt agree that the car 
had been misrepresented  to him. As a result, it wasnt prepared to give him a refund. HSBC 
also didnt agree that he had made  any loss for which it ought to be responsible. However,  it 
agreed its complaint  handling had not been up to par and it offered him an award for this and 
it appears it made this payment already direct to his account.
Mr R did not accept HSBCs stance and came to us.
Ref: DRN96231242I looked at his complaint. I said did not intend to uphold it because I didnt agree that there 
had been a misrepresentation that he could fairly  and reasonably  hold HSBC  responsible  
for. I set out my reasons  for coming to this conclusion. I summarise  those reasons below.
I said Mr R is correct to point  out that for there to be misrepresentation there must have been 
a false statement of fact. But it is not enough  by itself, that there was incorrect  information for 
me to say there was misrepresentation which it would be fair and reasonable to hold HSBC  
to account for. It has to be material misrepresentation.  That is there has to be a false 
statement of fact that induced Mr R to enter into the contract.
Mr R told us that the mere  presence  of the device in the car means that what he was told 
about the car is incorrect and he relied on what he was told when he entered  into the 
contract.
There was no suggestion that Mr R ever discussed NOx emissions specifically with the 
dealership so it was clear  he had not been given incorrect  information about this specific  
point. 
However, the thrust of Mr Rs case was more that the existence of the device in the car 
meant it did not have  the environmental  credentials  that he thought  it had when he bought  it. 
Mr R suggested in particular, the existence  of the device in his car meant  what  he was told 
about the cars impact on his carbon footprint, the cars  performance  in real world  driving  
conditions, its fuel efficiency, environmental  impact, and performance standards was 
incorrect. I looked at each of these points.
carbon footprint and environmental impact
The information I have  seen suggests the device only has an impact on NOx emissions. Id 
not seen anything persuasive  to suggest this was incorrect or that it also had an impact on 
Carbon Dioxide emissions.
It followed that I concluded there is no persuasive information to suggest that the device has 
any impact on Carbon Dioxide emissions which is what I think Mr R was referring  to when he 
talks about his carbon footprint. 
Further, I said when most people talk about the environmental impact of their car they are 
again referring to the Carbon Dioxide emissions. They  are not generally  referring  to NOx 
emissions. Although  I accepted that testing authorities do apparently look at other  criteria  
too.
That said,  I think when Mr R asked the dealership  about the cars  environmental impact  he
didnt have NOx emissions in mind.  Neither do I think did the dealership. I said this because
NOx emissions are something  of an esoteric area. In the circumstances, it seems unlikely 
that Mr R and the dealer would have had this area in mind  while  discussing the cars 
environmental impact. 
As I had already  said, the information  I had seen suggested the device only seems  to impact 
on NOx emissions. 
For all of these reasons I did not agree  that Mr R had been given incorrect information about 
the cars  environmental  impact.
Ref: DRN96231243real world driving performance  
I pointed out that I have  not been  provided with information to show that the device has an 
impact on the cars performance in real world driving conditions.
I checked the manufacturers site it says:
This issue does not impact the fuel consumption  or any other aspect of the affected
vehicles performance  during  normal  use.
Mr R has not shown  that this statement is inaccurate.  In all of the circumstances, especially
given the public interest in the matter  I have no reason to think that the manufacturer  would
put incorrect information on its website about this point.
For all of these reasons I did not think Mr R had been given incorrect information  about how 
the car would perform  under  normal  driving  conditions either in his conversations  with the 
dealer or in the marketing  material he may have read prior to buying his car.
value of the car
Mr R has not sent in any information that persuaded me that his car had lost value due to 
anything that HSBC could fairly and reasonably be held responsible  for. Rather he sent 
general information about car values and the manufacturer that did not address the issue.
Even if I accepted that the device  in the car meant it was worth less, which  I did not, I also 
thought that the service action might  resolve  the issue.  If according to Mr R the presence of 
the device lowered the value of the car its removal should put this right. I thought  it 
reasonable that Mr R should take action  to lessen his own loss.
service action
I accepted that Mr R was reluctant to go ahead  with the service action. I could see he cited 
safety concerns.  He pointed out that some other customers  who have had the service action 
have said the service action has caused problems and made their cars unsafe.
Im aware of these reports. But as far as I am aware this is not a systemic issue in that the
majority of car owners have come  up against  this issue  or that it is always the same  thing
that goes wrong  with the cars after the service  action.
In any event, since I have  found there is no misrepresentation  I dont  agree  HSBC has any
responsibility here to put things right.
That said,  I suggested that I would expect HSBC  to assist Mr R and to look at this as a fresh 
complaint if he goes ahead with the service action  and finds that this indeed leads to a new 
problem.
For all these reasons I thought I had no proper basis to ask HSBC  to take any further action.
I invited Mr R and HSBC  to respond  to my provisional decision. I said I would  think about 
their responses before  I issued my next decision.  Im not aware that we have received any 
response from Mr R although we did both send him my provisional  decision and ask him if 
hed received it. HSBC  responded  to say it accepted my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN96231244my findings
I thank HSBC for its response  to my provisional decision. Ive re-considered  all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Ive not received anything in response to my provisional decision that makes  me think  that I 
ought to fairly and reasonably change  my decision. That being  so I see no reason to depart  
from the conclusions  I reached in the provisional  decision for the same reasons I set out in it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9623124