K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2003. Mr B says Nationwide Building Society (trading as Derbyshire Building Society) 
mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr B complained to this Service.  Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. 
Mr B disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.  
He said he was pressured to have a PPI policy which he did not need.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
 I think Nationwide made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose  
to take it out over a year after he took out his mortgage  although I can understand why 
he cant remember this.
 Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for him. But it did have  to make  sure Mr B got the information  he needed to decide if it 
was right for him. 
 Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including what he has said about being 
pressured to take cover  he did not need;  having other funds to call on and having  good 
employee benefits. But these points dont  change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr B paid on his PPI  and whether Nationwide  
treated him unfairly. 
Nationwide has told us that the commission for Mr Bs PPI was less than half of what  he paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how Nationwide has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Bs commission  was less than half the cost of the 
PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about the commission  so I dont 
think Nationwide treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr B  back any of 
the commission he paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN94081822my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9408182