K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that The GTI Centre  Limited  (GTI) has unfairly  declined  a claim hes made  
on a motor warranty policy.
background 
Mr B is represented by a third party in bringing this complaint. References I make  to Mr Bs 
actions also include those  of this third party. 
An administrator deals with claims on the warranty on behalf of GTI. But ultimately GTI is 
responsible for this complaint.
In July 2016, Mr B purchased a car from GTI with a 24 month motor warranty. This warranty 
provides cover for a number of risks including, in certain circumstances,  sudden  mechanical 
failure of certain  car components.
Some time later in September 2017, Mr B started  to experience problems  with the car. A 
warning light appeared  and the car started to sound  noisy. Mr B reported this to the 
administrator and let it know his repairer had said the faults were due to a leak from the 
intake manifold.
The administrator decided to arrange  an independent inspection of the car. It didnt  provide  a 
copy of this to Mr B but said,  in summary, the fault was due to a gradual deterioration of the 
manifold seal rather  than a sudden mechanical failure of the manifold. And it said this wasnt  
covered by the warranty.
Mr B wasnt  happy with this so he arranged his own inspection a copy of which he provided 
to the administrators.  This report, prepared by an expert witness,  concluded  that the fault 
was not due to normal  wear  and tear but to a mechanical failure/breaking of the retaining  
method for the drive  shaft to the swirl flap shaft. This inspector said,  because of this, he 
thought the claim  should be covered.
The administrator didnt agree and issued a final response explaining  that. So Mr B brought  
his complaint to this service.
Our investigator said, in summary, she didnt consider the administrators report  to be 
conclusive but noted Mr Bs expert report showed  there was a breakage  of the drive  shaft. 
She concluded that it was likely  the drive shaft  had snapped suddenly  and this was the 
cause of the mechanical breakdown and so the claim should be covered by GTI.
GTI didnt respond  to her opinion, so the case has come to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that this complaint relates  to the carrying out of a contract  of insurance by GTI, 
a regulated business.  
Ref: DRN97689232Ive looked at the wording of the warranty and consider the following to be of relevance in 
this case. This term explains  whats covered
What is covered?
The following  specifically listed components and labour costs are covered against  
Sudden Mechanical  Breakdown
Engine
inlet manifold
Driveline
open drive shafts
And this one explains what isnt
Any Mechanical Breakdown resulting from Wear  and Tear is specifically  excluded  
under this cover level
So the decision I need to make here is whether theres sufficient evidence to conclude  the 
problems with Mr Bs car were as a result  of wear and tear or sudden mechanical  breakdown  
and whether GTI fairly declined the claim.
I confirm Ive read the reports  in full but, for the purposes of this decision, will only refer to 
them in summary.
GTIs inspection
The administrator,  on behalf of GTI, arranged  an inspection by a well know  vehicle  
inspection firm. Its inspector was suitably qualified to undertake vehicle inspections and 
confirms hes complied  with the requirements expected by the courts.  The reports  provides  
some photos  and narrative. It isnt conclusive  but says, in summary
the intake  manifold seals and no 4 [cylinder]  was drawing air when under 
acceleration which could dilute the air mixture  which  in turn could account for the 
reported misfire.
This is the most plausible cause in our opinion and would not the result of a sudden 
or manufacturing defect.
From this I conclude that the inspector considered the problems to be as a result of wear 
and tear. I also note the inspector didnt identify any evidence of a crack in the inlet manifold.
The administrators  commented  about the inspection 
They have confirmed  that the sealing rings of the manifold have been responsible 
for the reported  fault and state that this is without doubt the reason for the condition  
described
And for this reason  they declined the claim saying the problems were as a result of wear  and 
tear and therefore not covered.
Mr Bs inspection
Ref: DRN97689233This was carried out on the failed components by a vehicle inspector with more than 30 
years experience and whos qualified as an expert  witness in the field of vehicle inspections. 
Additionally hes stated hes prepared his report as an independent  engineer and so it could 
be used by a court if the matter proceeded to a legal case. 
The report  is detailed and contains a number of photos clearly illustrating the points the 
inspectors made and reaches a more certain conclusion.  
The report  concludes that 
the inlet manifold has allowed  unregulated  air to enter the engine and lose control  of 
the swirl flaps due to a breakage of the retaining  method for the drive shaft
It goes on to say
This is not normal wear and tear and is a mechanical failure/breaking  of the 
retention fixing and therefore I feel this repair should be covered under the warranty 
conditions of a sudden mechanical failure
Taking everything into account,  I find this report more much  persuasive than the report  
provided by GTIs inspector. 
Mr Bs inspector also comments on the cause of the problems identified by GTIs inspector. 
He says their comments are not consistent with the evidence he saw and has provided in his 
report. He reiterated that there  is a breakage  in the drive shaft which  has caused the wear 
because of its detachment.
From this Im persuaded that sudden mechanical  failure - rather  than wear  and tear - is more 
likely than not the cause of the problems.
Mr B gave a copy of the report to the administrator and it passed  it to its inspector. The 
inspector pointed to one of the comments in the report and used this to say it thought  Mr Bs 
inspector agreed  the problems were caused  by wear and tear.
2.2however it was apparent there was excessive wear and burring  of the plastic 
round the edge of the housing of the manifold
But I dont think this comment can be taken  in isolation and needs to be considered in light of 
the rest of whats said. After this comment, the report goes on to explain that having seen 
the wear,  the inspector identified that the drive  shaft was not retained in the manifold and 
that was because the retaining method had broken. He explains this meant the shaft  had 
been moving out of its correct position  causing excessive side play.  It seems to me more 
likely than not, the sudden and unforeseen breakage  of the retaining  method is what caused  
the excessive  wear and burring  to the manifold and not that the wear and burring were  the 
cause of the problems.
So overall, taking  everything into account, Im satisfied its more likely than not that sudden 
mechanical failure was the cause of the problems with Mr Bs car. And so I dont think  it was 
fair or reasonable  for GTI to decline the claim.  And for that reason  I am going to uphold  
Mr Bs complaint and tell The GTI Centre  Limited to pay for the inlet manifold  and associated  
components to be replaced.
Ref: DRN97689234my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  The GTI Centre Limited  to pay 
Mr B
£606.36 (including VAT) being  the cost of the replacement inlet manifold  and 
associated components and their fitting. 
And if Mr B has already paid for this repair then The GTI Centre  Limited should also 
pay interest on this amount at the simple  rate of 8% per annum from the date he paid 
the invoice to the date it makes payment* 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
* If The GTI Centre Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should  also give
Mr B a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9768923