K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs V say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them two single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies with two loans.  
Background
Mr and Mrs V took out loans through Nationwide in 1997 (the first sale) and 2002 (the 
second sale). Nationwide sold PPI policies with each of the loans, the cost of which  was 
added to each  loan and attracted interest. They protected the loan repayments if Mr V 
suffered disablement or became unemployed. They also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr and Mrs V disagreed,  so 
the case was passed  to me to review  afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr and Mrs Vs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Due to the passage of time since the sales, its understandable  that there are gaps in the 
information thats still available. This makes it more difficult to determine with certainty what  
happened when  the PPI was sold. That said, the copy  loan agreements  for both sales show 
the PPI was clearly  set out as Optional  and explained that cover included disability, 
unemployment and life cover. Mr and Mrs V signed the agreements, indicating they were 
happy with them.
I cant say for sure how PPI came to be added in the first place. But Ive seen  little to show it 
was added without  Mr and Mrs Vs knowledge or consent. So, on balance,  I think it likely 
Mr and Mrs V agreed to go ahead with the PPI knowing they had a choice. 
I dont think Nationwide  recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs V. That still meant  it needed to 
provide Mr and Mrs V with enough  information to allow them  to make an informed choice 
about the suitability of the PPI. Ive looked at each  of the sales  with that in mind.
I cant be certain what information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs V about the PPI when it sold 
each policy. But, if there were problems with the sales, I dont believe better information 
would have made a difference  to their decisions.  
In particular, Im aware that Mr V was self-employed in both 1997  and 2002. He says the 
nature of his work meant hed have found  it more difficult  to claim on the PPI than if he was 
employed or in another line of work.
Ive carefully reviewed the policy terms and I dont think Mr Vs self-employment  would  have 
affected his ability to claim. The requirements   including that he be registered with the state 
as unemployed  and that the unemployment  shouldnt be seasonal   werent onerous or 
unusual and Ive seen no evidence to show hed have been adversely  affected by them in 
particular.
Ref: DRN95427662Regarding other aspects  of the sales:  
Mr V was eligible for the PPI. And although the PPI had other  exclusions  on or limits 
to the cover, for example  relating to claims for pre-existing medical  conditions,  I cant 
see that Mr V would have been affected  by them.    
The loan agreements  Mr and Mrs V signed made  it clear the PPI was an extra cost 
and set out what the costs were  both with and without interest. 
Mr and Mrs V could have got quite a lot more  back from the PPI in claims than it cost,  
as the benefits  were considerable despite there being a 30-day waiting period before 
the benefits became  payable.  So I think Mr and Mrs V would still have seen it as 
worth having,  especially given that Mr V wasnt entitled to enhanced sick pay and 
didnt have any other means of making the loan repayments if he wasnt  working.
Its possible Mr and Mrs V might not have wanted  PPI which  didnt give a proportional 
refund if the loans were repaid early, as that would have made cancelling  them more 
expensive. But I havent seen anything in the applicable policy terms that would have  
prevented Mr and Mrs V from getting a proportional refund in those circumstances.
So, taking everything  into account, I dont think Mr and Mrs V have lost out because  of how 
Nationwide sold them these PPI policies.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 December 2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9542766