K820x#14complaint
The representatives of the estate of Mr F complain about the level of service they received 
from The Prudential Assurance Company  Limited (Prudential) whilst dealing  with Mr Fs 
estate. They  complain that Prudential misled them by concealing  the existence of a valid 
policy and its failure to identify that Mr F held a policy  caused  unnecessary  delays in the 
policy being paid to the estate. 
To resolve  the complaint,  the representatives want compensation  for the lengthy process 
and distress caused. 
background
One of the executors (Mr B) of the late Mr Fs estate contacted Prudential on 
26 September 2017. He made  an enquiry about whether Mr F held any policies with 
Prudential, as hed found a letter from Prudential addressed to Mr F. 
Mr B provided Prudential with the reference number  stated  on the letter,  Mr Fs full name 
and date of birth. The person he spoke  to was unable to locate a policy,  based on the 
information he had provided.   
She explained it could be an old policy, that Mr F may have forgotten about and that 
Prudential was carrying out a tracing exercise to make  sure it had up to date customer  
contact details. She told Mr B to write  to the address on the letter,  providing  as much 
information about Mr F as possible,  and if anything further was needed, the tracing  team 
would be in touch.  
Prudential had conflicting information on record for Mr F; it had been  trying to trace him since  
February 2017. 
Prudential followed its tracing procedure; 
-It wrote to Mr F several times between February 2017 and September  2018, asking 
him to contact it, to confirm his valid postal address. 
-As it had not heard  back  from Mr F, It requested information from the Department  of 
Work and Pensions (DWP). 
-It was notified by DWP that according to their records a Mr F had passed away in 
May 2017.
-It paid a small fee and contacted General Office Registry (GRO) to obtain a copy of 
the death certificate. 
-It wrote to the named informant (Mr B) on Mr Fs death certificate. 
Prudential wrote to Mr B on 24 September 2018,  requesting information  about Mr F.
Mr B completed the paperwork and returned it, but the section relating to Mr Fs previous 
addresses had not been completed. So, Prudential was unable to verify if the policy  it held 
was for its customer. 
As there was still insufficient information to correctly identify Mr F, Prudential wrote  to Mr B 
again on 22 October 2018 specifically requesting  information about Mr Fs previous 
addresses or details  of any next of kin who may be able to confirm  this, to complete the 
verification process.
Ref: DRN94485582Mr B was unhappy and frustrated with the matter  and complained to Prudential on 
2 November 2018.  
Prudential issued its final response on 8 November 2018. It said it was sorry for any concern 
or confusion  the matter  had caused, but the details  provided by Mr B did not match  its 
records. Prudential had an obligation to protect its policyholders and would only be able to 
provide full details  of any policy and any potential claim  once  it had verified whether or not 
Mr F is its customer.  The executors didnt  agree  so they brought the complaint to us.
Since we accepted the complaint, Mr B had provided Prudential  with Mr Fs previous 
addresses and Prudential had wrote to him on 30 November 2018 confirming it had 
successfully verified Mr F and a lump  sum was payable.  By 6 December 2018 Prudential  
had been given Mr Fs executors details, along  with a redacted  copy  of his will. Following 
this Prudential made a BACS payment of £8,042.15 on 17 December 2018 to Mr Fs 
executors.    
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought Prudentials actions were  fair and 
reasonable. She said that Prudential has apologised for any confusion  that may have been 
caused but a business  making sure that they have got the right customer and are speaking 
to the correct person, is very important for Data Protection purposes and not necessarily 
something that our service would consider unreasonable. She said that we can only tell a 
financial business to pay compensation for trouble and upset experienced by their customer  
- not by a third party.  So, we cant award  or recommend compensation to executors who 
have brought  a complaint  on behalf  of an estate.
The executors didnt agree so the complaint  was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, codes  of practice and where appropriate, what  I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
And having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Its clear the representatives of Mr Fs estate have very strong  feelings  about this matter.  
They have provided detailed submissions in support of Mr Fs complaint which I can confirm  
Ive read and considered in their entirety. However,  I trust that they will not take the fact that 
my findings  focus  on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed  in 
considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  
point raised, but to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,  
I make  my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider is most  likely to 
have happened  given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN94485583eligibility
The rules  surrounding  our jurisdiction can be complex, but a key consideration is that in 
order for a complainant to be able to bring  a complaint to our service, they need to have a 
certain relationship  with the business  they want to complain about. 
We can only consider a complaint if it falls within certain criteria laid down in our case-
handling rules,  which are found in the Dispute Resolution  (DISP)  section of the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA) Handbook. The rules that apply here are: 
DISP 2.7.1 says that we can only consider  complaints brought by or on behalf  
of an eligible complainant 
DISP 2.7.2 says A complaint  may be brought on behalf of an eligible 
complainant  (or a deceased  person  who would have been an eligible 
complainant)  by a person  authorised  by the eligible complainant or authorised  
by law. It is immaterial whether the person  authorised to act on behalf of 
an eligible complainant  is himself an eligible complainant. 
Ive taken note of Mr Fs representatives  submissions  on this point but I still dont think I can 
fairly or reasonably ask Prudential  to pay any compensation for distress  and inconvenience;
to the estate as its not possible for an estate  to suffer distress, trouble or upset.
or to its representatives  in their own right, as they do not meet any of the criteria for 
an eligible complainant as set out in DISP 2.7. 
DISP 2.7.2 allows the estate to bring  a complaint to this service on behalf  of an eligible 
complainant; Mr F, he was Prudentials customer. And as such I couldve awarded him 
compensation for any trouble and upset Prudential caused him during his lifetime and that 
compensation would be paid to his estate after his subsequent death. But in this case  this 
isnt appropriate  as the award sought is for the trouble and upset experienced by the 
representatives after Mr F had unfortunately passed away.
I recognise the representatives  have been involved in a considerable amount of work on 
behalf of Mr Fs estate to resolve things including dealing with the grant of probate and 
Prudential. But that is part and parcel of an executor  and/or personal representatives duties. 
This was no doubt  frustrating and stressful at times. Im sympathetic to the distress,  trouble 
and upset experienced personally by the representatives of Mr Fs estate, as they were not 
only the estates  representatives and executors of Mr Fs will, but were  also close friends of 
his. But the simple fact is Im unable to award  any compensation for this.
delays
Whilst I cannot instruct Prudential to pay the representatives for any trouble and upset 
experienced by them  personally, it is my role to consider whether the estate  has lost out 
financially as a result  of any delays which were due to Prudentials actions or inactions.  So 
Ive considered how much of the delay, if any, was due to Prudential.
I understand the representatives frustrations. However, I have reviewed everything and 
havent found any evidence to support their concern  that Prudential withheld information  and 
caused any unnecessary delays. 
Ref: DRN94485584Prudential had an obligation to ensure it was paying  the policy benefit to its customer  and 
followed its tracing procedure, in an attempt to correctly identify Mr F. This services  role and 
remit is set out in the Financial Conduct  Authoritys  handbook, and it is clear  that we are not 
empowered to instruct businesses  how to do this. This is part of their overall right to run their 
businesses as they see fit within the regulatory  framework. 
I do not believe it was unfair or unreasonable for Prudential  to have carried out checks 
where it didnt hold accurate records, in the interest of protecting  its customer.  And I do not 
consider a request for basic information  such as full name,  date of birth and current  address  
and/or previous addresses,  to be excessive or unwarranted. 
I have found no grounds  to doubt  Prudentials explanation of what happened, and it has now 
evidenced where it obtained  the contact details for Mr F and his representatives.  I think  
Prudential made  reasonable efforts to ensure the policy  was paid to the correct beneficiaries.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  an award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the 
representatives of Mr Fs estate to accept  or reject  my decision before 14 July 2019. 
Sonal Matharu
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9448558