K820x#14complaint
Mrs A has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, wont refund the 
costs of a gastric band operation which she didnt  have.
background
In 2018 Mrs A decided  to look at options  for weight loss surgery.  Shed had a gastric band 
previously which had been removed. She was now looking at further options to help her lose 
weight and relieve pressure on her joints.
In April she met with a prospective surgeon, Mr S. She confirmed at that meeting that shed 
had previous surgery and the band  had since been removed. She then entered  into a 
contract with a company, who Ill call T, for the supply of mini gastric bypass surgery in June. 
A few days  later she paid the full invoice costs  (minus the deposit which had been paid a 
month earlier) of £9,300 using her Barclaycard.
In July Mrs A entered into a private  hospital for the surgery. She met Mr S the evening 
before. His notes show Mrs A told him shed had difficulties with the previous gastric band. 
He confirmed this could mean surgery  wouldnt be successful I have warned [Mrs A] (who 
has just told me it took 3 hours x to remove  her band) that surgery  may not be possible but 
we will obviously  divide the adhesions  and attempt the bypass, but would only proceed if 
safe. This note also confirms Mrs A was advised of the risks and consent was given to 
proceed.
The surgery  didnt prove successful. Mr S found  despite extensive dissection, the phlegmon 
was unyielding and there was a genuine concern that significant damage would be done 
either to the liver or the stomach and therefore  the decision to stop the operation at this 
point. Mr S had confirmed to Mrs A that he would treat her and follow up in his NHS clinic. 
This didnt  happen.
Mrs A complained to T, and subsequently  to Barclays, that thered been  a breach of contract 
and misrepresentation.  Shed never had the surgery shed paid for, nor had she been  able to 
make a claim under Ts insurance policy which she felt provided her with guarantees.
Barclays told Mrs A they didnt believe they were obliged to repay her under section 75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. They believed redress  and potentially  subsequent 
corrective surgery  was being provided  by Mr S through his NHS clinic.
Mrs A brought her complaint to the ombudsman  service.  This involved great  detail and 
complex evidence.  After consideration our investigator told Mrs A she didnt believe thered 
been a breach of contract and wouldnt be asking Barclays to refund her.
Mrs A was upset at this outcome. She remained concerned about the impact  of the surgery  
on her. She didnt  believe shed consented  to the surgery that took place. She asked an 
ombudsman to consider  her complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 10 May 2021.  I felt there  had been  a breach of contract 
sufficient to merit partial repayment to Mrs A. I explained why I felt a repayment  of 25% of 
her surgery  costs was fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN96150952In her response to the provisional  decision Mrs A insisted again shed informed Mr S of her 
previous surgery and the impact that had had. She also clarified that she wouldnt have gone 
ahead with the surgery if she hadnt believed  it was likely to be successful. Mrs A also said 
she was only offered surgery with the NHS  after shed had the operation and not before.
Barclays accepted  the outcome.
I now have all I need to complete  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill explain  why Ive reached the decision I have.  This is the same as the one I reached in my 
provisional decision. 
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  above in far less detail than either  of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words.  Im not going to respond  to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here. 
This simply  reflects  the informal nature of our service as a free alternative  to the courts. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument  to be able to reach  what I think is the 
right outcome.
Mrs A has provided us with detailed  submissions about what  happened  and why she 
believes T failed to provide what she was buying or supply her with the insurance  she felt 
was promised. Ive also seen the signed contract for her surgery and the consent  form she 
signed on 21 July 2019. Im also aware of the detail contained in our investigators  view of 
19 February 2021. This covers some of what happened which Im not intending  to repeat.
Ive also taken note of Mrs As response to the provisional decision.  Ive reiterated the main 
points she made above.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  allows a customer to submit a claim for breach 
of contract  or misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit provider. This applies when 
customers use certain types of credit  to buy goods  or services.  In this case Mrs A used her 
Barclaycard credit card to make a payment of £9,300 to T for gastric  band surgery.  
Its worth  clarifying Im not deciding Barclays liability under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act. We consider the relevant law and that includes section 75. But we decide cases  
by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires us to do. What  Im deciding  is 
whether Barclays did enough in considering Mrs As complaint. And if they didnt, what else 
should they now do.
If there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract in the supply of the goods then its fair 
to ask Barclays to put things right.  
Theres no dispute Mrs A didnt receive  the surgery she paid for. So the question Ive 
considered is whether  that in itself is a breach of contract. Or whether her consent to an 
operation  which she knew may not be successful  can be considered to complement the 
Ref: DRN96150953original contract.
To help my decision,  Ive considered the patient contract which  Mrs A signed on 25 June 
2018. This includes reference to a cancellation  policy. This states If you cancel within  7 
days of your date for surgery you will lose the full cost of your surgery. There  are refunds of 
only 25% or 50% offered  depending on the cancellation  date of 14 and 21 days prior to 
surgery.
Mr S has said Mrs A was informed of the risks that surgery may not be successful during the 
discussion she had with Mr S on the evening of 20 July. But Mr Ss note of that discussion 
doesnt provide  that much  detail and only refers to the general risks of surgery of this type (1 
in 300 risk of mortality). Ive also seen the later note completed after surgery  and what  
happened during that. Theres no obvious  sign that the possibility of cancellation  was 
discussed and the financial implications of that.
Ive reviewed the consent form Mrs A signed  the following morning prior to surgery. This 
provides no detail other than Mrs A consented  to mini gastric bypass surgery. I have to 
wonder whether Mrs A was properly informed about  the implications and likelihood  that 
surgery wouldnt be successful and that perhaps the way better option would have been to 
see Mr S in his HNS clinic.
Mr Ss note completed following surgery does state we did discuss  other options and says 
Mrs A did express  wishes  to be transferred  under my care within  the NHS. This doesnt 
contradict Mrs As testimony  that she was only offered the option of further surgery under the 
NHS afterwards.
When Mrs A was faced with the idea before her surgery that it may not prove successful, 
she consented to the surgery continuing  to go ahead. I suspect she may have come to a 
different conclusion if shed been  advised of this in advance and may even had one eye on 
the cancellation policy. Its unclear whether Mrs A was fully aware  at this stage that she 
would not receive  any refund.
Mrs A has stated  she had been upfront and told Mr S of the problems shed had with the 
removal of the gastric band when shed spoken  to him previously. This was in advance of 
the evening before surgery.  Mr Ss medical  notes  dont reflect this. Ive seen a note 
completed on 27 April after Mrs As first consultation  with Mr S. This took place on 13 April.  
This note does mention a previous gastric band had been removed but makes no reference 
to any medical complications. Im pretty certain that if this had been discussed then, this 
would have been included in the notes. 
I can also see that in the notes  from the pre-surgery discussion on 20 July that this 
complicated band removal is clearly referenced with the implication this was news to the 
surgeon. This backs up my conclusion that if itd been mentioned on 13 April, then it would 
have been reflected in the notes.  
Thats not to say that its impossible to believe a mistake could have been made  and 
something omitted in error from the earlier  notes  but overall I believe its unlikely. Its worth 
stating I only have  notes  of the first discussion and the pre-surgery discussion and dont  
have records of any other discussions between Mrs A and Mr S. I believe both parties 
accept there  were other  discussions.
Mrs A has been insistent that she wouldnt  not have confirmed what had happened 
previously. She was worried  about surgery and obviously full disclosure was in her own 
Ref: DRN96150954interests. This is an important aspect  and I can reassure her that Ive taken this into account.
Ive also considered Ts viewpoint  that the surgery undertaken  on 21 July lasted 
considerably longer  than any gastric bypass would  have (and therefore cost more).  This 
rather suggested Mrs A benefitted from the time spent by the surgeon which I dont  believe 
is the impression  they wished to provide. Overall I accept their argument  that everything was 
set up for surgery to take place and the appropriate consent was received from Mrs A. 
Its not my role to question any medical judgement. I can only really  accept that surgery was 
conducted with the necessary skill and care unless there is clear evidence  of this not being 
the case. Ive seen  nothing that would indicate this here.  
The surgery  proved more complex thats certainly  true. But I overall  believe  that the surgeon 
conducting Mrs As operation would have spent the time necessary to carry out the medical  
procedures which he felt were required at the time. I know Mrs A believes she didnt consent 
to the type of surgery which  was actually conducted.  Its not my role to make that decision. A 
medical regulator is the more appropriate body.
T has also stated theyre not responsible  for the provision  of surgery  as this is conducted by 
the surgeon. Its clear to me that Mrs As contract  was with T and not the individual surgeon. 
Its completely understandable that whether  surgery proceeds or not is a medical judgement.  
That must be left to the medical professionals. I think  thats  different from the provision of 
weight loss surgery which was a contract Mrs A entered into with T.
Having taken all these  aspects into consideration I do think there was a breach of contract. 
Ts contract doesnt allow for a refund following cancellation of surgery  with limited notice. 
Mrs A consented to the surgery going  ahead (otherwise it wouldnt have proceeded).  For 
medical reasons,  it proved impossible  to carry out the contracted surgery.  But Im not 
convinced Mrs A was fully aware  of the risks  specifically that there  was a high chance that 
her gastric  bypass surgery wouldnt be able to proceed. Her evidence backs  this up.
Id also add I dont  think Barclays  were correct in stating that just because Mrs A had the 
option of following up treatment through Mr Ss NHS clinic, then the contract had been 
fulfilled. I think its clear  Mrs A had paid for private weight loss surgery. Whatever was 
subsequently provided  or not as it happens  in the NHS  was or would have been a 
separate contract.  Ive seen nothing to suggest   in any of Ts terms and contract  that this 
would be in part fulfilment of Mrs As contract with T. 
I think whats most likely  is Mr S realised the severity of Mrs As situation  and counselled that 
further surgery  including anything that would lead to potential  weight loss surgery   was 
best conducted in an NHS  setting with the surgical  facilities the NHS had to offer. I dont  
know why Mrs A decided not to proceed  with that option. This may be related to the overall 
trauma of having  already  had surgery and knowing how much more  difficult subsequent 
surgery would be.
Ive also considered the issues Mrs A has brought to us about  potential  misrepresentation. 
She has told us she wouldnt have entered into a contract with T if it hadnt been for the 
potential guarantees she felt T offered. This included full insurance, and possible cashback.  
However from reviewing that information  I believe that only applies after weight loss surgery 
took place. As Ive stated above  theres no dispute here that Mrs A didnt have weight loss 
surgery. 
Ref: DRN96150955putting things  right
As I believe there was a breach  of contract, Ive considered whether Barclays should be 
required to refund all Mrs A paid. Or whether its fair and reasonable for it to make a refund  
based in some way on the patient contract.
Im aware this states:
Withholding any aspect  of the patient s medical  history could prove to be detrimental to the 
patient, could  seriously  put in jeopardy their health, well-being and recovery and could result  
in the cancellation of any procedure with no refund being given for any costs incurred by [T] 
trading as on the patients behalf
There isnt an exact formula  for working  out what would be fair here. I need to take mind  of 
the cancellation options in the contract  as well as the basic fact she didnt get the operation 
she had paid for. And this decision was based on proper  medical  reasons.
So in deciding whats  fair and reasonable Ive thought about when Mrs A may have informed 
T or Mr S of the impact  of her previous band  removal; and whether Mrs A would  have 
cancelled the operation  if shed been appraised of the detailed risks.
I believe Barclays will need to refund 25% of the cost of the surgery.  The evidence  shows 
this cost was £9,700  so this means a refund of £2,425.
Its unclear from the information Barclays has provided whether Mrs A has paid her credit 
card bill in full. If she has, Barclays will need to add 8% simple interest from the date the bill 
was paid in full until the date of settlement.
I cant imagine  how distressing this must all be for Mrs A. She was hoping  to have surgery  to 
improve other physical  conditions she had. This didnt prove possible. She then had the 
additional worry of knowing how complicated further  surgery may be. And thats apart  from 
paying out a considerable amount of money  for something which  she ended up not being 
able to have. I know  shell be disappointed in the overall outcome but I believe this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN96150956my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Barclays  Bank UK PLC,  trading as 
Barclaycard, to:
Refund £2,425 to Mrs A for the breach of her contract with T; and
Add 8% simple interest to that amount from the date Mrs A paid her credit card in full 
to the date of settlement; or
Rework her credit card account  to reflect a reduced payment of £6,875  being 
effective from 29 June  2018,  rather than £9,300, with the impact that would have on 
interest, fees and charges due.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9615095