K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK plc has unfairly applied charges to his account since  
2015. He also complains about  how it dealt  with an appointment he had with it.
background 
Mr H says the charges  amount to about  £990 and have  caused him financial difficulties. He 
says he has gambling  problems and has suffered with depression and Santanders actions 
have made  his situation far worse.  He also says he made an appointment at a Santander 
branch but it said it didnt  have a record of it. Mr H would like the charges refunded.
Santander says the charges have been correctly applied in line with the account terms and 
conditions. It says Mr H hadnt  previously told it about any financial problems but its 
prepared to help him. Santander accepts it made a mistake about the appointment and has 
offered Mr H £75 compensation. It has also refunded charges and offered Mr H an 
alternative type of account.
Mr H had brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator thought  Santander had dealt fairly 
with it. He thought  the charges had been  applied in line with the account terms and 
conditions and that Mr H hadnt made Santander  aware of his financial difficulties until 
October 2018. The adjudicator thought Santander  had acted fairly by refunding  charges  and 
by offering a fair and reasonable amount of compensation  for the branch visit mistake.
Mr H has asked that an ombudsman review that decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for the same  reasons. I realise Mr H will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions, which I think  Mr H wouldve agreed to when  
the account was opened.  And Ive not seen any evidence that the charges havent  been 
correctly applied in line with them. I can see that Mr H has been  given a document about  our 
approach to charges and that following a Supreme Court decision  those  charges  cant be 
challenged on the grounds they are too high and so unfair.
I appreciate Mr H says those charges caused him financial difficulties. And in those 
circumstances we would expect banks and building societies to treat its customers  positively  
and sympathetically. But I can see that Mr H didnt tell Santander about those difficulties until 
October 2018. So I wouldnt have expected Santander to be able to help Mr H until he told it 
about his position. Im satisfied that since Santander  was made aware  of the difficulties  its 
tried to support  and help Mr H. I can see its refunded some of the charges and offered an 
alternative type of account. I can also see that the adjudicator has provided information on 
organisations that could help Mr H.
There is no doubt here that Mr H was given an appointment that Santander didnt  have a 
record of. I accept Mr H was caused inconvenience.  But Im satisfied Santander  has made 
what I think is a fair and reasonable offer of £75 compensation. I think that offer fairly reflects 
the level of its mistake and the inconvenience Mr H was caused.
Ref: DRN93283212So for the reasons Ive explained  I cant fairly  order Santander to refund the charges since  
2015. I appreciate  in the circumstances Mr H may not wish to accept Santanders offer of 
compensation and so I will leave it to him to decide.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK plc has made a fair and reasonable offer of £75 
compensation. Mr Hs acceptance  of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9328321