K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that J D Williams & Company  Limited (JDW) didnt update its records with 
his new address and so he didnt receive  correspondence about a debt.
background
Mr B had an account with JDW, which trades as Ambrose Wilson, and he made  regular 
payments. He moved address  in 2013 and JDW says it was unaware of this and continued 
to send statements  to the old address. Payments werent received and in due course it sold 
the debt to a debt collection  agency  which traced  Mr B and he then paid the outstanding  sum 
due.
Mr B complained to this service and we referred  that to JDW.  It responded to say that as it 
no record of Mr Bs new address it continued  to use his old one and so it rejected  the 
complaint.
The matter  was considered by one of our investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. 
He said he had seen  no evidence that Mr B had told JDW of the new address and so he 
didnt believe it could  be held responsible  for sending statements  etc. to the old address.
Mr B didnt agree and confirmed he had paid the debt and wondered how the debt collection 
agency had traced him, but JDW hadnt.  He suggested JDW  pay him £75 for its errors. JDW 
said that the debt collection agency had its own tracing systems which it presumed had 
enabled it to find Mr B.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen no evidence  that Mr B told JDW  of he new address so it is difficult  for me to 
uphold his complaint. I presume  he was aware  of his account and he would have known  he 
had an outstanding debt at the time of his move. I am not aware that he sought to contact 
JDW at the point he realised he wasnt receiving statements. Ultimately it was his account 
and he was responsible for ensuring it was maintained, even if JDW  didnt send him 
statements.
In conclusion I can see no grounds  which would allow me to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
27 April 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9336330