K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Northern Bank  Limited  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive taken into account what Mr G remembers and what Northern Bank has told us about 
how the policy was sold. As this sale took place so long ago, I think its likely that Mr G 
mightve forgotten exactly what he discussed at the bank. So I cant be sure how the policy 
was presented to Mr G when he was making  his mortgage application. But Ive also looked  
at the loan paperwork that Mr G wouldve signed  at the time.
Northern Bank couldnt provide the original paperwork from the sale so Ive seen  nothing  
signed by Mr G from then. But Ive seen an example of the application  form Northern Bank 
says Mr G wouldve completed. And I think its likely  this represents what Mr G wouldve 
filled in when he took out his mortgage  with PPI. I can see on the form that it explained cover 
was available  to protect  a borrowers monthly  repayments against accident, sickness or 
unemployment. There was a yes or no tick box available, so in my opinion  it was clear     
Mr G couldve  declined the policy if he didnt want  it. 
Based on the information Ive seen I think its more  likely that Northern Bank  did make Mr G 
aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to have it. I dont  think  its likely it 
wouldve been added to his account  otherwise.  
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mr G so it had to take reasonable steps  to ensure 
the policy was suitable for him. It looks  like it was suitable based on what Ive seen of Mr Gs 
circumstances at the time.
Ive taken into account what Mr G told us about  his sick pay entitlement through work and his 
savings. But, with PPI, hed have been able to claim benefits under the policy in addition  to 
workplace benefits. I think this wouldve been  useful  had Mr G been unable to work. And 
hed have been covered  if hed lost his job. Mr G couldve made repeated  claims on the 
policy,  giving  him long term protection for his mortgage. 
I dont know if Mr G wouldve always had savings he wouldve been able to rely on if hed 
needed to make a claim. And having the policy  in place  meant  he could keep his savings 
intact to provide financial security for the future. So I think  Mr G wouldve had some use for 
the policy in his situation. I dont  think his other means are enough for me reasonably to say 
that the policy wasnt suitable for him.
Ref: DRN95178022There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Mr Gs case. So, I dont  think  having  more information about things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve affected his decision  to have PPI.
I dont know if Northern  Bank properly explained  what the policy  would cost,  or what it might  
pay out if Mr G made a claim. But he chose to take out the policy  when he didnt  have to  
so he seems to have wanted  it. It seems to have been affordable  for him at the time and he 
couldve cancelled it if his circumstances  changed.  Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI 
offered him, I think it unlikely Mr G wouldve made a different  decision  if better advice or 
information had been provided.  On balance I think hed still have taken out the policy.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr G paid on his PPI  and whether Northern Bank 
treated him unfairly. 
Northern Bank has told us that the commission for Mr Gs PPI was less than half of what  he 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Northern Bank  has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Gs commission was less than half the 
cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about  the commission  
so I dont think Northern  Bank treated him unfairly.  This means it doesnt need  to pay Mr G 
back any of the commission he paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9517802