K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that an appointed representative  of NJ Associates Financial Services  Limited 
(NJA) failed  to provide  him with suitable  advice in regard to the transfer and investment of 
his pension benefits.
background
In May 2017  Mr J was provided with advice by an appointed representative of NJA.  So NJA 
is responsible for the advice that Mr J was given. And for simplicity I will refer to the 
appointed representative as NJA throughout this decision. Mr J has used a claims 
management company  (CMC)  to help make his complaint.  But for ease I will generally refer 
in this decision to all communication  as having  been  with, and from, Mr J.
Mr J held some pension  investments with a company I will refer to as R. NJA provided him 
with advice to transfer those  investments  into a SIPP. And it provided  him with investment 
advice for those transferred funds.
Mr J says that the advice  he received was inappropriate.  He says that he would have been  
better off leaving his pension investments with his previous provider. He says that he didnt 
need the flexibility of a SIPP, or a discretionary fund management service. And he says that 
he has paid increased  charges  for that service, and so seen a reduction in the value of his 
pension investments.
Mr Js complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He agreed with Mr J that the 
advice NJA had provided was inappropriate. So he recommended  that the complaint be 
upheld and asked  NJA to pay Mr J some  compensation.
In response NJA said it was unable to agree with the outcome and thought  it likely the 
business would be placed into administration. But to date that hasnt happened  and the 
business appears to be continuing to trade. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr J accepts  my decision it is legally binding on both parties.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Mr J and by NJA. Where the evidence is unclear, or there  are conflicts, I have  made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what 
evidence we do have,  and the surrounding  circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to have  happened.
It appears that before providing advice to Mr J NJA gathered some information from him. 
NJA concluded that Mr Js attitude  to risk should be considered to be balanced  that is he 
might be prepared to take a small to medium degree of risk with his financial decisions, more 
likely medium. And NJA also noted  that Mr Js capacity  for loss on his pension investment  
was poor.  He was dependent  on this plan for his retirement income and so NJA suggested  
he might  be better using a defensive  strategy  to preserve capital where  possible.
Ref: DRN94090282I would expect NJA to keep these two statements in mind when formulating its 
recommendation to Mr J.
The advice that NJA provided to Mr J recommended that he move  his pension  investments 
from his existing managed fund into a SIPP. And it provided him with a number of different 
investments that he should use within the SIPP wrapper. The recommendation considered 
the administration charges  that Mr J would need to pay to the SIPP  provider, and the fund 
managers, and compared these against  the management charge he was paying on his 
existing arrangement. As a result of that comparison NJA concluded  that Mr J would be 
better off moving his pension investments.
But I dont think that comparison  of charges went far enough, or provided Mr J with all the 
information that he needed  to make a reasonable comparison. For example it failed to note 
that Mr J would need to pay NJA an ongoing charge for it to provide  him with investment 
advice. It failed to sufficiently account  for the one off charge that Mr J would need to pay to 
NJA to facilitate the transfer of the funds. And it failed to account for the on-going investment 
charges that Mr J would  need to pay for the funds in which  his monies  were  invested.
So I dont  think that the recommendation that NJA provided fairly accounted for the 
additional charges that Mr J would need  to pay  charges that he wouldnt have incurred if 
he had left his funds with his previous provider. I think those charges, particularly when 
considering the size of Mr Js pension fund, would have meant  it unlikely that moving his 
funds into a SIPP would have been  beneficial for him.
I also have concerns about  the specific investments that were recommended  to Mr J. As 
I noted earlier, his risk profile  was assessed  as being medium. Almost  90% of Mr Js funds  
were placed  in investments that I would  consider  to be at the very top of a medium  risk 
range, if not higher. So overall I think the portfolio that was recommended  to Mr J was likely 
to have exceeded the level of risk he had said he was prepared  to take.
On balance I dont  think the overall  recommendation that NJA made  to Mr J was suitable. 
I havent seen  anything that makes  me think Mr J wouldnt have been better advised to 
simply leave his funds  with his existing provider.  So Im going to direct NJA to pay some 
compensation to Mr J. But in doing that Mr J will still be left with an unsuitable SIPP.  He will 
need to incur some trouble and upset  in correcting that situation. So Im also going  to direct 
NJA to pay him a further £250 in recognition of that.
putting things right
My aim is that Mr J should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think  that most  likely means  that Mr J 
wouldnt have agreed to transfer  his pension from his previous  provider.
what should  NJA do?
To compensate Mr J fairly, NJA must:
Compare the performance of Mr J's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Ref: DRN94090283If there is a loss, NJA should pay into Mr J's pension plan to increase its value by the 
total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should  allow  for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If NJA is unable to pay the total amount into Mr J's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr J's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr J is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr J would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr J £250 for the trouble  and upset caused to him by the inappropriate advice.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsReassure 
Personal 
Pension (as 
previously  
invested)date of 
investmentdate of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
This means  the actual value of the investment at the settlement date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the settlement date had it produced  a 
return using the benchmark.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that NJ Associates Financial Services  Limited should 
pay the amount  calculated as set out above.
NJ Associates Financial Services Limited should  provide details  of its calculation to Mr J in a 
clear, simple  format.
Ref: DRN94090284Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 September 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9409028