K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a credit card account sometime between 
March 1995 and January 2000. 
As theres  only limited  information available now, neither Lloyds nor Mr D can say how or 
when PPI was sold to Mr D.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagrees with our adjudicators view. He 
says, in summary, when  he took out the card he was told his application  would only be 
progressed if he took PPI. He says this was because the advisers  were  commission driven.  
He doesnt think  it right that we make a decision based on what was likely, when Lloyds 
doesnt have the paperwork or information  to show what happened in his particular case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Mr D is most concerned that we decide cases based  on whats  likely to have happened at 
the time.  Ill try to explain  why we do.
This policy was sold over 20 years ago.  Ive taken into account  what  Mr D remembers from 
the time of sale. But, I can see that Mr D has mis-remembered some things - for example he 
thought this policy was taken out in joint names, covering his wife too, and that it was 
cancelled at a different  time. Memories  can fade over time,  so its understandable why Mr D 
may remember things differently.
 
Equally, its not surprising  that Lloyds doesnt  have all the paperwork now from the time of 
sale. Banks often only keep records for six years. Where the paperwork is no longer 
available, as has been the situation  in a number  of the cases Ive seen, I have to consider 
what I think is most likely  to have happened  based  on whats available. So, as well as 
looking at the information the bank still holds about Mr Ds credit card account,  Ive looked at 
the wider circumstances, and what we know  about  Lloyds sales practices from around this 
time from dealing with other cases.  As Mr D says, I cant know  what  he discussed with 
Lloyds at the time of sale  so to decide  this case I have to reach  a conclusion based on 
what  I think more likely  than not happened.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds no longer has a copy of Mr Ds credit  card application from the time of sale. Its sent 
in a sample copy of the type of application form it says was being used around that time to 
sell PPI to customers.  I havent seen  anything to make me think  that Lloyds wasnt  following 
its usual sales process  in Mr Ds case.
Ref: DRN91372752Looking at the credit card application, I think it likely that Mr D wouldve had to select  a box 
on the application form for PPI to be added. The paperwork made  it clear  that PPI was 
optional. I havent  seen enough  to lead me to the conclusion that Mr D was pressurised into 
taking out PPI.  So, based on the limited information  now available,  I think it more likely  that 
PPI was added because Mr D said he wanted  it, knowing he didnt have to take it. I can 
understand why he may not recall  it this way now, particularly given how much time has 
passed. I can see from Mr Ds 2002 credit card application, which  Lloyds still has, that he 
ticked the box to apply for PPI when he took out that card.
Ive treated this as an advised sale. This means  Lloyds not only had to give Mr D policy  
information in a clear, fair and not misleading  way. Importantly, it also had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommended  was suitable for his needs. 
Ive looked carefully  at whether I think the policy was suitable for Mr D. I think it was. I say 
this because looking at the policy terms that likely  applied over this period:
he appeared eligible to take out the policy;
Mr D was self-employed. But looking at the terms and conditions that applied  around 
this time, I dont think it wouldve been any more  difficult for him to make  a successful 
claim than it wouldve been for an employed person. So, I dont think  having more,  or 
better, information  about the things the policy didnt cover  wouldve led him not to 
take out PPI. I think he couldve benefitted  from everything the policy  offered;
the policy appeared affordable and Mr D couldve cancelled  it at any time. I havent 
seen anything to make me think that Lloyds led Mr D to believe that he had to have 
PPI the whole time he had the card;
Mr D said he didnt have any savings and his wife wasnt working. So, I think  the PPI 
couldve provided him with a useful benefit  if he wasnt  working.
So, I cant see that the policy was unsuitable  for him, in his circumstances. 
Based on what weve  learnt  about  these sales, some of the information  Lloyds gave  Mr D 
about the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. For example, I dont know  if 
Lloyds properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might  pay out if Mr D made  a 
claim. But, as Ive said, it seems to have been affordable  for him and suitable. And Mr D 
couldve cancelled the policy  at any time if his circumstances changed or he no longer 
wanted to pay for it. It also seems  likely  that he opted to take out the cover. 
Taking everything into account,  I havent seen enough to make me think that its likely Mr D 
wouldve made a different  decision,  if better information had been  provided. On balance,  
I think hed still have  taken out the policy. Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr D. But Lloyds has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr D 
because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN91372753my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9137275