K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that he acquired goods  in February  2018, using his American Express 
Services Europe Limited (Amex) credit card, but that he never received these goods. He 
wants Amex to remove from his credit card account the two payments he made  to acquire 
these goods.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 11 November 2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained why I agreed with our adjudicators view that 
the complaint  should be upheld  but my reasons for doing so are somewhat different.
Neither Amex nor Mr A responded to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
In the absence of other arguments or evidence to the contrary,  I continue  to think  that the 
conclusions reached  in my provisional decision are correct.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2021.  
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN97672962COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
11 November 2020
complaint
Mr A complains that he acquired  goods in February 2018, using his American Express Services 
Europe Limited  (Amex) credit card, but that he never received  these goods.  He wants Amex to 
remove from his credit  card account the two payments he made  to acquire these  goods.
background
In December 2018, Mr A raised a dispute with Amex about  his two payments. Amex  used its cards 
charge back  scheme  to take forward this dispute with the business to which Mr As payments were  
made. 
The business  responded  in January 2019, challenging the charge  back. It told Amex  that Mr A was a 
former employee. It stated  that the payments were not related to the acquisition of goods  but they 
were related to a financial  transaction  connected with Mr As employment. The business provided  
documentary evidence to Amex in support of its statements.
Amex had initially removed the payments from Mr As account, in line with its normal practice. When 
the businesss response  was received, Amex decided  to withdraw the charge back, and to reinstate 
the payments in Mr As account.
Mr A complained to Amex in April 2019, saying that his former employers statements were incorrect. 
He stated that his former employer had agreed to sell surplus items to him, for which he made two 
payments, but the goods were never delivered.  He provided documentary evidence  in support of his 
statements.
Mr A added that, because the payments  had been made using his Amex  credit card,  he believed that 
Amex had a responsibility to ensure goods of satisfactory quality, and corresponding to their 
description, were supplied  in this instance,  the goods had not been supplied.
Mr A also told Amex:
His part in the financial transaction with his former employer had been investigated by the 
police, but the investigation had been suspended 
He had not complained  earlier, while this police investigation was active
 ,
In the email to Mr A from the police,  which  told him that the investigation had been suspended,  his 
financial transaction  was described as a loan.
Amex made some administrative errors in its handling of Mr As complaint. It apologised for these 
mistakes, and it made a goodwill gesture  payment of £50 to Mr A. 
But Amex told Mr A:
It could  not reconsider  its earlier  charge back  decision, because the time period in which such  
decisions could be made had expired
It disagreed with Mr As view that it had a responsibility for the goods acquired using  his Amex  
credit card, because  the circumstances of his complaint  did not meet the required criteria  
This meant it was unable  to reverse its decision to reinstate the payments in Mr As account
In its view, Mr As dispute with his former employer should be decided  by the courts 
Mr A referred his complaint  to us, saying  it was unfair of Amex to tell him, in effect, to take the 
merchant to court  in pursuit of his claim   rather than to remove the payments from his account,  and 
to leave  the merchant to take him to court if it wished  to retain the payments.
Ref: DRN97672963Our investigator did not think the complaint should  be upheld.  He said:
He was unable to investigate or decide the dispute between Mr A and his former  employer
His role was to consider whether Amex had dealt with Mr As complaint properly, and had 
acted in the way expected of a credit provider
Our investigators conclusion was that the complaint had been handled fairly by Amex. He agreed 
with Amex that Mr As dispute with his former employer  should  be decided by the courts. Mr A 
disagreed, and so this complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence  is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as 
some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words,  what I 
consider most  likely to have happened in light of the available  evidence and wider  circumstances. 
There is a dispute between Mr A and the business (his former  employer) about  the purpose  of two 
credit card payments he made  to it:
On the one hand,  Mr A states  that the payments were to acquire surplus  items from the 
business, and he has provided  supporting documentary evidence
Mr A complains  that the cost of these surplus items has been charged to his Amex  account,  
and so he is rightfully  entitled to receive  these  goods, but the business  has withheld them
On the other hand,  the business  states that the payments  relate to a financial transaction  
between it and its former employee  this transaction is described by the police, who 
investigated it, as a loan
The businesss  evidence  (including a document signed by Mr A) indicates  that the payments  
completed this transaction,  and had the effect  of concluding the matter
When Mr A complained to Amex, it decided that it could not remove the payments from Mr As 
account, for two reasons.
Firstly, Mr A had initially  asked Amex  (10 months after the payments were made) to remove from his 
account the two payments he made for goods he did not receive. Amex had instigated a charge  back  
against the business. But, when the business  responded, Amex had decided to withdraw the charge 
back. 
Four months later (and 14 months after the payments were made), Mr A says the police emailed  to 
tell him that the police  investigation of his transaction with the business  had been suspended, and so 
he asked Amex  to reconsider its earlier decision. But Amex responded arguing that it could not do so, 
because the 120-day time period for disputing  transactions  had expired.
Secondly, Mr A argued that Amex had a responsibility for the goods acquired  using his credit card,  
and the goods had not been delivered.  But Amex argued that it did not have this responsibility, 
because the required  relationship criteria had not been satisfied.
did Amex  have a responsibility for the goods acquired?
The required  Debtor (Mr A), Creditor (Amex) and Supplier  (the business) relationship would  in theory 
have been in place, based on Mr As description  of this transaction. And, if such a relationship had 
been in place,  there  would have been  a clear  breach of contract.  
Conversely, based on the businesss description  of this transaction, no goods would have been 
supplied. And this would mean that Amex could not have any responsibility for their acquisition.
The police email  to Mr A, as well as telling him that the investigation against him had been 
suspended:
Ref: DRN97672964Describes the financial  transaction between him and the business as a loan
Indicates that the business was claiming money back from him
Says  the payments he made appeared  to mean the business had retrieved this money
Mr As evidence and that of the business are contradictory. But the police email appears  to support  
the businesss description  of the transaction. So, I find it is more likely  than not that the businesss 
description is correct   Mr A did not acquire  goods in the transaction, a contract  to deliver goods was 
not in place to be breached,  and Amex could not have a responsibility. 
should Amexs earlier decision have been reconsidered?
Amex operates its own charge back scheme for its credit cards. Amex  may have been acting outside 
its own timescales, when it instigated  Mr Ss charge  back request  in December 2018. But this does 
not appear to have been  unhelpful or unfair to Mr S, even though Amex subsequently decided to 
withdraw the charge back and to close  the dispute. 
Amexs unwillingness in April 2019 to reconsider  its decision is consistent with my finding  that, on 
balance, the businesss  description is correct  and so I am again unable to find that Amex acted 
unfairly. (Although it was unfortunate that Amex gave, as one of two reasons for not reconsidering  the 
decision, the 120-day timescale for disputing transactions  and this reason  appears to be 
inconsistent with Amexs  earlier actions.)
conclusion
On balance, I have come  to the same  conclusion as our investigator  although for a different reason  
to our investigators reasons. 
I agree (on balance) with our investigator  that Amex did not act unfairly, when it rejected Mr As 
complaint. But my main reason for doing so is that the debtor, creditor and supplier relationship  
(required for Amex to have some responsibility  in the transaction between Mr A and Amex) did not 
exist.
And I disagree with our investigator (and Amex) that Mr A should  be required to use the courts to 
resolve his dispute with the business,  if his complaint falls within our jurisdiction. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service offers  Mr A an alternative means of dispute  resolution.
Mr A can choose to accept our decision  but, if he chooses not to accept,  he can then choose 
whether to use the courts.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further  comments  or evidence I receive  from Mr 
A or American Express  Services  Europe  Limited  by 11 December 2020, my provisional  decision is 
that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9767296