K820x#14complaint
Mr M says he was mis-sold a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time - so it accepted responsibility for the sale.  Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA)  has taken on that responsibility.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
AXA told us Mr M had taken the store card on 7 December 1999. AXA told us Mr M bought 
the policy on 1 February  2002 by the telephone.  
Mr M told us that at the time of the sale he was employed as a paramedic and had been 
working for his employer  for 17 years. Mr M told us he was entitled to six months full pay 
followed by six months  half pay in the event he was too ill to work. Mr M told us he had some 
modest savings but he couldnt recall what they amounted to. Mr M told us he would have 
received a payment in the event of redundancy and that his estate would have received a 
payment if he died in service. Mr M has said he was in good health at the time of the sale.  
The policy provided  cover  for disability  and unemployment  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  15% of Mr Ms store card balance  in the event of Mr M being  
unable to work due to accident, sickness and unemployment. 
At the time,  the policy cost no more than £1.00  per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance.  
The premium would  continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  
interest. 
Mr Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ms representative  says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means AXA should have told 
Mr M about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN99278822The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr M and the impact 
they would  have had on his chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Mr M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The General  Insurance  Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC  Code. 
Ref: DRN99278823This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, the insurer was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements. The seller  but not the insurer  was a member of the FLA 
and subscribed  to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller  (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of the insurer.  
So, I am satisfied it is right that I should take these codes into account when deciding  what 
is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Mr Ms case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so AXA 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN99278824-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether AXA gave  Mr M sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and AXA,  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr M know he had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
AXA told us the PPI was added to the store card during  a telephone call on 1 February 2002. 
Weve seen telephone scripts from November 2003 which  all suggest  the optional  nature of 
the policy would have been  made clear. So, it seems more  likely that Mr M agreed to the PPI 
and did so knowing he did not have to take it. 
I have also considered that Mr M held the store card from 7 December 1999. So, it also 
seems unlikely that Mr M would have  thought  he had to take the PPI to get credit  he already 
had for over two years. 
So, considering all the submissions made in this case about these issues,  and in the 
absence of any detailed  testimony from Mr M to the contrary, taking everything into account,  
I think its more likely that Mr M knew the policy was optional and he agreed to take it out 
without undue pressure.  
did AXA provide advice?
AXA told us that advice wasnt provided during this sale. Mr M told us he couldnt recall if 
advice was provided. I have seen no evidence  that a personal  recommendation was made to 
Mr M in this sale.  So, considering everything in this case, and in the absence of any detailed 
testimony from Mr M to the contrary, it seems more  likely that this sale was made with no 
advice. 
So, considering all the submissions made in this case about these issues,  taking  everything  
into account, I think its more likely  that Mr M knew the policy was optional  and he agreed to 
take it out without  undue pressure.  
the information
Ref: DRN99278825AXA has referred us to a copy  of the paperwork it says Mr M wouldve received, including  
the policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance  of probabilities  applied to 
policies like Mr Ms. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr M at the time, I dont think  AXA gave Mr M the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  over the phone. I dont know what AXA told Mr M about  the PPI, but I 
think its unlikely he would  have  agreed to take it out without at least  having a broad 
understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. life, accident,  sickness  and involuntary 
unemployment cover. And I think its unlikely Mr M would have thought  it was free. 
The information provided would have given Mr M a broad sense of what  the policy covered. 
But it was AXAs responsibility  to draw to Mr Ms attention the important  information   i.e. the 
key information  about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and limitations  
which might  be relevant to his decision.  
Im not persuaded AXA did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Mr M, including the need to maintain premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that AXA adequately drew to 
his attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
So, I dont think AXA gave  Mr M sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ms. I have 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ms representative considers to be poor 
value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think it is unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Mr M has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards 
Ref: DRN99278826of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair or 
reasonable to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mr M? To what extent  did Mr M suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr M. So, 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr M 
would have still taken  out the policy, had AXA done  things properly. 
Mr M says he would not have taken  it out and believes  that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr M had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr M chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So, what  Mr M thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr M has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr M ought  reasonably to have known he would  have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But, I 
accept that AXA didnt make clear  the on-going cost information. So, while Mr M didnt know 
some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful  claim was not dissimilar to 
what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to take 
out the policy on and found  acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr M knew  about or 
ought to have known about  or had consulted a doctor about during  the 12 months  
before the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mr M pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude that the 
policy was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M from taking out the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN99278827But, the evidence  about Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. The policy would have  paid out in addition  to 
Mr Ms sick pay and would  have paid out for longer than his employer would have  paid him 
at his full rate of pay. And the policy would have reduced his reliance on any savings he may 
have had. 
 
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest Mr M wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  he didnt have any pre-existing medical  conditions  and was in 
permanent employment.  So, I still think he had some good  reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr M might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr M 
from taking out the policy,  Mr M, in his circumstances, still had some good reasons  to take it 
out.
If Mr M had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was not only unable  to do his job or 
any similar job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  
be qualified  for, it might  have played  into his thinking about what he would do. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  although  given Mr Ms circumstances, on balance,  I 
still think he would have  been interested in taking out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr M would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently close to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his employment  benefits and other  means. And in those 
circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
Mr Ms representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr M would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ms 
Ref: DRN99278828circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr M 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, it is more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So, Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, 
to conclude that AXA should  pay Mr M compensation, as that would put him in a better 
position than he would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr M thinks  AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
AXAs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Mr M, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2002 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ms representative says a court might take if it were 
to find AXA negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr M and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that AXA had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr M in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 May 2021.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99278829
Ref: DRN9927882