K821x#15complaint
In 2004, Mr W took out a loan with Welcome Financial Services Limited  (Welcome).  At the 
same time, Welcome  sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Mr W thinks that 
Welcome mis-sold this policy to him and wants it to refund the premium he paid for it, plus 
interest. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint. The adjudicator saw that Mr 
W would not have  been entitled  to a proportionate  refund for the cost of the policy if he 
repaid the loan early. The adjudicator thought  this meant the policy  was unsuitable  for Mr 
Ws circumstances and recommended Welcome uphold his complaint. Welcome  disagreed  
and asked for an ombudsman to review the case, so it has come to me to make a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. Ive taken this into account here and Ive 
decided to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. I explain why below. 
Welcome has accepted that it recommended  the PPI policy  to Mr W and advised him to buy 
it. This meant that Welcome had to check the policy was right for Mr W and tell him about it 
fairly and clearly so he could decide  if he wanted it.
Mr W has complained about several  aspects  of the way Welcome sold him PPI. He has told 
us that it may have  added  PPI to his loan automatically  without his permission, that it didnt 
tell him anything about the policy and that he didnt need PPI as his employer would have 
provided him with good sick pay if was off work ill. 
Although Welcome may not have  got as many  things wrong as Mr W has suggested, Im not 
satisfied that it checked  the policy it recommended to Mr W was right for him. 
Mr W paid for the policy by borrowing extra money  over and above  his main loan. He was 
charged interest on the extra  loan and then paid the cost back  each month  alongside his 
repayments for the main loan. Welcome  arranged the main loan and the policy  to run for the 
same length  of time, but if Mr W repaid the main loan early, he wouldnt receive a 
proportionate refund on the PPI policy. 
Mr W had taken three previous loans  with Welcome. The first two had run for their expected  
terms, but Mr W used  some of the money he borrowed  for this final loan to repay a sizeable 
part of the third loan early.  This made it quite possible that he would also repay  the final loan 
before it had run to its full term. Welcome should  have told Mr W that this could well have 
made the policy unsuitable for him and should  not have recommended  it to him. 
Welcome has argued that when  it sold the policy to Mr W it didnt have any reason to believe 
that Mr W would wish to repay his new loan early.  It has pointed out that the main  reason for 
Mr W taking the loan was to pay for a holiday and that no one has proved that he had a 
propensity to refinance. I accept that there was no definitive proof that Mr W would repay 
the loan early. But he had an established record of lending  from Welcome and had repaid 
Ref: DRN99645322his most recent loan before  the due date,  so I think Welcome should have recognised that 
Mr W may have needed flexibility to repay the loan early. I think it failed to do this and 
recommended an unsuitable policy to Mr W, so I agree  with Mr W that Welcome mis-sold 
PPI to him.
Welcome should now put things  right by paying  Mr W fair compensation. I explain how it 
should work this out below. 
putting things right  fair compensation 
I understand that Mr W paid off the loan early  and cancelled the PPI policy  at that time. He 
borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should have been. He paid 
more than he should have each month and it cost him more to repay  the loan than it would 
have done without PPI.
To put thinks right, Welcome needs  to give Mr W back the extra hes paid. So it should:
Work  out and pay Mr W the difference between what  he paid each month  for the loan 
and what he would  have  paid without PPI. 
Work  out and pay Mr W the difference between what  it cost him to pay off the loan 
and what it would  have cost him to pay off the loan without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr W paid from when  he paid it until he gets 
it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Welcome can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Welcome to take off tax from this interest.  Welcome  must 
give Mr W a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold Mr Ws complaint against  Welcome Financial 
Services Limited. It should put things right by paying him the compensation I have already 
described. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2019.  
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9964532