K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited didnt deal with his motor  
insurance claim properly following an accident.
background
Mr I had an accident while driving,  caused by a third party.  So he made a claim on his 
insurance. The policy is underwritten by Acromas, which is therefore responsible for all 
claims made. Mr I dealt  with the company he arranged the policy through,  though as 
Acromas is ultimately responsible Ill use Acromas in this decision to refer to both 
companies. 
The day after the accident, Mr I spoke to Acromas to give it some details about the accident 
and his claim. He said there was damage  to the car and he had hurt his back. Acromas 
arranged for a solicitor  to investigate his possible personal injury claim. And it said it would 
arrange for an approved repairer  to look at the car  but Mr I said hed already arranged for 
his local dealer to look at it.
Acromas explained  that the terms of the policy meant that he could choose to use Acromas  
approved repairer,  or his own repairer. But if he used his own repairer, he would have to pay 
the policy excess and wouldnt  be entitled  to a courtesy car.
In another call a couple of days later, Acromas explained that it would need to send an 
engineer to look at the car and approve the repairs before Mr Is repairer could  start work. 
Mr I wasnt happy he hadnt been  told that before  and thought  Acromas  was delaying 
matters.
Mr I complained that the repairs were being delayed. He said Acromas wasnt responding to 
emails he sent about his complaint. He said Acromas  was being rude, obstructive and 
difficult and tried to bully him into using  its own repairer. He said he was accused of breaking 
the law. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  the complaint, so Mr I asked  for an 
ombudsman to look at it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to much  the 
same conclusions as the adjudicator. I think Acromas handled Mr Is claim fairly and didnt 
treat him in a rude or unreasonable way.
The terms of Mr Is policy set out what is to happen if his car is damaged. The terms say that 
the car can be repaired by Acromas  approved  repairer, or Mr I can have a cash  settlement 
to fund the repairs himself.
The terms also say that if Mr I chooses not to use the approved repairer, he wont  be entitled 
to a courtesy  car, or to having the car taken  to and from the repairer.
I think Acromas  made this clear  to Mr I. I dont think it did so in a way that was rude,  or 
obstructive, or bullying. It simply explained the options to him. Mr I wasnt  happy with the 
Ref: DRN97670222options put to him, and the calls were  difficult for Acromas call handlers  until Mr I 
terminated the calls  but I think  Acromas  handled them  reasonably in the circumstances.
In non-fault cases, the approved repair contractor will not charge Mr I the excess  instead, it 
will recover  it from the third party  but Mr I chose not to use the approved  repairer. Instead, 
he chose to use a credit hire company recommended by his car dealer, which also provided 
him with a replacement car. The excess may be refundable when the third party insurer  
settles the claim.
I think the policy clearly sets out how claims will be handled. The terms and conditions  arent  
unusual and Acromas  followed  them in this case  and explained that to Mr I. 
Ive listened to the call in which Mr I says he was accused of breaking  the law, a matter he 
particularly wants me to comment on. I dont think Acromas did anything  wrong in how it 
handled this call. Mr I was angry and insistent right from the start, wouldnt answer any 
questions from the call handler  including data protection  questions  and set out his 
version of events. Mr I explained  he was recording  calls and passing  them  to third parties, 
and the call handler said the company didnt  agree  to calls it was party to being released  to 
third parties. She didnt accuse Mr I of breaking  the law. I think she handled a difficult call as 
well as can be expected  and I dont agree that she attempted to bully Mr I. 
I do understand that Mr I was frustrated that things  hadnt been resolved immediately. But it 
was only five days since the accident  and Acromas had tried to explain what  was going on. It 
may be that Mr Is expectations of what could be done  especially as he had decided not to 
use the approved  repairer  were somewhat unrealistic.  But I dont think  he was treated 
unfairly and so I dont  uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9767022