K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complained to The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  about  information she 
was given during  the sale of her Teachers  Additional Voluntary Contribution (TAVC)  plan. 
She says the Prudential  representative told her that she wasnt  eligible to purchase added  
years. 
background
Mrs M met with an adviser from Prudential in 1991.  At the time she was 42 years old and 
had been a teacher for a year.  She was a member of the Teachers  Pension  Scheme (TPS)  
and her intended retirement  age was 60. Shed  previously been a member  of the Local 
Government Pension Scheme (LGPS)  and had transferred around 12 years  of the 
pensionable service shed accrued with the LGPS  to the TPS under the public  sector 
transfer club.
Mrs M says that she queried  with the Prudential representative whether it would be possible 
for her to purchase added years within the TPS.  But she was told this wouldnt be possible. 
So Mrs M started a TAVC plan. The plan started in 1991 with Mrs M contributing  5% of her 
salary to the plan. This was increased in 1996. 
In 2018, Mrs M complained to Prudential about  the sale of her plan. She said she asked the 
representative about purchasing past added years  in the TPS but she was told this wasnt 
possible. She now realises this was incorrect and feels shes lost out by taking the TAVC  
plan rather than added years. 
Prudential looked  into the complaint and didnt agree Mrs Ms plan had been mis-advised. It 
explained that it didnt think buying added years wouldve been a likely choice for her. And it 
advised that depending  on the information provided at the time its representative may have 
been able to give an indication on whether she wouldve been able to buy added  years,  but 
they wouldnt have  known for sure as they were only able to provide advice on Prudential 
products. 
Mrs M didnt  accept Prudentials final response  so she referred her complain to this service 
for an independent review. 
One of our investigators  reviewed matters but she didnt think Prudential had done anything  
wrong. She said it wasnt possible to know what was discussed  during the sale of the plan. 
But she didnt think Mrs M would have  bought  added  years in any event. 
The investigator explained that Mrs M had a shortfall  of 10 years to make  up in the TPS but 
she initially  only contributed 5% of her salary to the TAVC. The equivalent amount paid into 
the added  years arrangement wouldnt have been  enough to cover  the shortfall. And she felt 
that the projected benefits from the TAVC  wouldve likely looked more  attractive  than those 
provided by the added years arrangement. 
Mrs M didnt  agree with the investigators findings. In summary  she said that she wasnt 
made aware  that there  were any other  options  to increase her pension  income and the idea 
of the TAVC was an entirely new concept  to her. Shes always  been a low risk investor so 
the idea of choosing the possibility of a large  gain over a certain reliable gain, wouldnt have  
been her choice. Prudential had a trusted and privileged status within  schools and being the 
sole pension  top up provider invited into the work  place, and endorsed by the Teachers 
Ref: DRN99538342Union, she trusted what the representative told her. And shes said that had she been aware 
that commission was paid when she took the policy out she would have questioned the 
information the representative gave  her. 
The complaint has been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with conclusion 
reached by the investigator, and for mostly the same  reasons. 
It appears from the information Ive seen that Prudential  provided Mrs M with advice when  
the TAVC  plan was taken out. However,  the representative was only authorised to provide 
advice on Prudential products; they couldnt have advised Mrs M on the added years option.  
All the representative  had to do was make  Mrs M aware that there was an alternative option 
- other than the TAVC - for topping  up her pension, and to direct  her to the TPS or her 
employer for further information, should  she wish to investigate this further. 
In this case, its not in dispute that Mrs M was aware of the added  years options. But she 
says she was told by Prudentials representative  that it wasnt  possible for her to buy added 
years within the TPS. Theres  no documentary  evidence  to support this conversation but I 
dont doubt Mrs Ms recollection that there  was a discussion around added  years.  As the 
representative was only able to advise on products offered  by Prudential, it wasnt for them 
to confirm whether  it was possible to buy added years; they shouldve directed Mrs M to the 
TPS to check this. Although I acknowledge that its possible  the representative failed to 
follow the correct  process.
Having said that Mrs M has said that if shed  known Prudential  received commission,  she 
wouldve questioned  what she was told. But instead she felt Prudential was in a position of 
trust. However, I think  it shouldve  been clear at the time that Prudential  wasnt only offering 
products to members of the TPS and so was likely  to be receiving commission. 
I say this because  Mrs Ms husband   who wasnt  a member of the TPS - was also party to 
the advice. And although its not clear  if he took any products out, it does appear from the 
paperwork Ive seen  that there was a conversation around his pension provisions and other 
insurance policies.  In my view this shouldve alerted  Mrs M to the fact that the representative  
was working on behalf  of Prudential rather than acting for the TPS and that it would need to 
be reimbursed for the service it was offering. 
In any event, as its not possible to know for certain  what was discussed and whether the 
representative gave  incorrect information,  Ive gone on to think about  whether Mrs M 
wouldve acted differently if shed been correctly informed of all her options.  
Ref: DRN99538343I have to think about this as it was at the time of advice.  I appreciate  that now, with the 
benefit of hindsight, many individuals wouldve rather taken the more expensive  option with 
the guarantees that came with it. But, as the investigator explained, at the time it would 
probably have  been  shown that the projected benefits from the TAVC - based on the same  
contribution rate of 5% - would be greater than the benefits of using this same  contribution  
rate to purchase  added  years. This is because  the cost of added  years of service  in the TPS 
was determined by the Government Actuary using conservative assumptions of likely future  
investment experience. This made them more expensive than if a less conservative (or more 
optimistic) set of assumptions had been  used. The aim was to make sure,  as far as possible,  
that the cost of added  years would be met by the members. The intention  was that this 
would mean  there would be no shortfall that would have to be picked up by the employer.
The initial contribution that Mrs M started  paying wouldnt have been enough to buy all the 
added years she needed to cover  the shortfall she had in the TPS. I note she increased her 
contributions in 1996 but by this time there was less time to cover the cost of additional  
years, so any added  years bought  at this point wouldve  been  even more expensive. This 
means that its difficult to say now that Mrs M would definitely have  considered added years  
a cost effective option when  compared to the TAVC  plan.  
In addition, the added years  option  was generally only considered  suitable  for individuals 
that were risk adverse. The TAVC wasnt considered high risk but unlike added  years,  it 
wasnt possible to guarantee at the outset the benefits that would  be received in retirement 
from the TAVC plan.  
Mrs Ms TAVC  was invested  in the with-profits fund, which  was low risk. This was in line with 
her attitude  to risk. Im also conscious  that the TAVC only formed  part of Mrs Ms overall 
pension provision. And Ive not seen  anything to suggest she couldnt  or wouldnt have  
been willing   to take a small  degree of risk with this plan. 
Its unfortunate that the investments returns that were predicted in the early  1990s havent 
been achieved.  But overall, Im not satisfied that Mrs M wouldve purchased  added  years,  
even if shed been told to check with the TPS about the possibility of buying them. Instead, I 
think its most likely  she wouldve still opted  to contribute to the TAVC plan. I appreciate  
Mrs M will be disappointed but given  the above  Im not upholding the complaint.
my final decision
For the reason  set out above, Im not upholding the complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 20 January 2020.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9953834