K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) hasnt fulfilled its duty as a 
trustee of the trusts set up by his parents and for his benefit, by failing to recognise he was a 
US connected person and adapting  its investment  strategy  accordingly.  This has meant he 
incurred adverse US tax obligations.
background
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint  should  be upheld.
Shed not seen any provisions that meant NatWest ought to have considered the 
beneficiaries circumstances or given tax advice when acting as a trustee. She also didnt  
accept that it should  have  done more under its general duty of care in law, the issue of 
where someone was born not being an issue when the trust was set up or even when the 
funds began being distributed.
She said that by 2014 NatWest was obliged  to report on US connections, but not to offer 
advice. Further, it remained the settlers responsibility to pay tax. She also felt that even if 
NatWest or Mr M had realised FACTA might have consequences for him, nothing could 
have been done to change the make-up of the investments within the trusts by that point;  
and a lot of the funds had already been paid out to the beneficiaries.
She noted that these were discretionary trusts  meaning that while the Settlors  had
indicated that Mr M was one of their intended  beneficiaries, he had no formal entitlement to
the funds. Payments to beneficiaries were at NatWests  absolute discretion, as the trustees.
The trusts were also intended  to run for the foreseeable future when set up. To adapt any 
investment strategy  to suit only one of the intended/potential  beneficiaries wouldnt have 
been appropriate, particularly given he may well not have ended  up benefitting from the 
trusts.
She noted that Mr M suggested that the last distributions could have been paid to his 
brothers instead,  and an arrangement made  within the family to pass  on some inheritance to 
him. Bearing in mind  this wouldve been at NatWests  discretion, and that it wouldve been  
for the purpose  of avoiding tax in the US, its unlikely this would have been agreed to by the 
trustees (especially given that it would contravene the 2013  letters  of wishes).
She said shed also considered  whether  there might have been  other options for Mr M, like 
disclaiming his interest in the trust assets (though I dont think NatWest were  obliged to 
advise him on that matter). When disclaiming (renouncing) an interest the beneficiary  is 
treated as if they had never  held the interest disclaimed at all, as any successful  disclaimer  
acts retrospectively.  Given Mr M had already received some benefit from the trust (the 
previous distributions)  its unlikely hed have been able to disclaim  his interest at that point  
and so couldnt have avoided the tax implications.
She also explained why she didnt believe NatWest  should have changed its investment 
strategy, investing  solely in US assets/equities, once aware of the problem.
Mr M did not agree, saying:
When the trusts were  set up NatWest should  have identified  him as beneficiary, 
established his place of birth and further  enquired about possible US implications
Ref: DRN99003652By 2010  FACTA issues were being  publicised and he believes NatWest  should have 
made more enquiries about his US status before distributing any monies  from the 
trusts, and considered  limiting  his distributions
Overall, it should have been far more diligent,  inquiring into his US status
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. This is why I have 
outlined most, by not all of her detailed reasoning, when explaining why she did not feel the 
complaint should  be upheld.
In this context I am not sure what more  I can usefully add. The key question is whether 
NatWest clearly did something wrong, either  by failing to adhere  to its regulatory 
responsibilities or by breaching its general duty of care. Ive seen no persuasive  evidence to 
indicate that it failed either  of these tests.
It was not required  to take any of the actions  which  Mr M feels it ought to have done, and I 
cant therefore reasonably make  it responsible  for the financial consequences  of these 
distributions being subject to US tax.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9900365