K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that The Co-operative Bank  Plc changed his student account  to a standard 
account without  warning and that this caused  him to incur charges on his overdraft.
background
Mr H took out a student account with the Co-op in 2015. This included a free overdraft that 
would last for 12 months after the end of his studies. In 2019 he realised  his account had 
been changed to a standard account  and he was paying overdraft  charges. So he 
complained to the Co-op.
The Co-op looked into his complaint but rejected  it because it said it had sent him two letters 
to inform him the account would change. Mr H wasnt  satisfied  with this as he said he never 
received the letters. So he came to this service but our investigator didnt think  the complaint 
should succeed. So Mr H asked for review  by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Co-ops provided information it gives on overdrafts when a student account is opened. 
This information states:
This arranged overdraft  will expire on the first anniversary of the completion date of 
your final year of study (the expiry  date).
We will treat the completion  date of your final year of study as the end date of your 
full-time education course that was detailed in your application for a Student Current  
Account. If your circumstances  change, e.g. you extend your studies, or cease 
studying, you must tell us as soon as possible and provide us with such evidence of 
the change as we reasonably request.
I can see this was included in the welcome letter sent to Mr H in March 2015. I havent  seen  
any evidence that Mr H informed the Co-op  his studies would be extended.
The Co-ops also provided letters it sent in November  2017 and November 2018 informing 
Mr H that the account would  be changing  to a standard account. I understand that Mr H 
moved house in November  2017  and he says he didnt receive  those letters.  But I can see 
the Co-op only registered a change of address in early 2019. Mr H says he tried to change 
the address earlier  but was unable to. Unfortunately,  theres no record  of this. However I 
note that, in his call to the Co-op  in January  2019 he said hed only just moved. So I think the 
Co-op did make an effort to inform Mr H of the change based  on the information hed given 
it.
Mr H says the Co-op shouldve sent the letters by email because hed signed up for 
paperless correspondence. But the Co-op  says it only provides  paperless  statements, not 
other account correspondence.  Mr H provided evidence  of the emails hes received  from Co-
op but as far as I can see, those dont  include letters  about his account,  only statements and 
general notifications.  This is a legitimate commercial decision by the Co-op and I dont  think 
it was unreasonable for it to correspond with Mr H at the address it had on record  for him.
I realise this will be a disappointment for Mr H, but based on what  Ive seen, I dont think the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Theres no record of Mr H informing the Co-op that his study 
Ref: DRN92472242had been extended or that hed changed  address in 2017. So I dont think the Co-ops done 
anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9247224