K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about six loans he took out with Western  Circle Limited,  trading as
Cashfloat, (WCL). Mr R says that WCL shouldnt have  given  him the loans because  they
were unaffordable.
background
Mr R was given six loans  by WCL between April 2016 and November 2017. Each of the
loans was repayable by three monthly  instalments. All of the loans have been repaid. A
summary of Mr Rs borrowing  from WCL is as follows:
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount Monthly 
Loan 
Repayments
1 27/04/2016 31/05/2016 £ 3503 repayments 
of around 
£159.11
2 31/05/2016 16/07/2016 £ 5503 repayments 
of around 
£247.72
3 16/07/2016 14/10/2016 £ 6003 repayments 
of around 
£296.16
4 26/10/2016 21/11/2016 £ 7003 repayments 
of around 
£324.95
5 1/09/2017 15/11/2017 £ 5003 repayments 
of around 
£271.39
6 15/11/2017 21/01/2018 £ 6003 repayments 
of around 
£298.99
Mr R said that he had multiple other payday loans and other  loans at the time.  He was also
gambling heavily.  In 2011 Mr R had been  on a debt management plan and had numerous
defaults on his credit file. Mr R said that WCL would have  seen  all this if proper checks had
been carried out. His income was also less than his expenditure at the time. And the loans
were provided on the same day as, or soon after, the previous loan was repaid.
WCL said in its final response  letter that it had conducted a creditworthiness and affordability
assessment on each loan application. Its calculations  were based on the income and
expenditure information that Mr R provided in each of his loan applications, together with
real-time data on the level of his monthly  credit commitments received from credit  reference
agencies. This demonstrated  that Mr Rs net monthly household income of between  £4400
and £5200 (as included by Mr R in his applications)  left him with sufficient funds to
comfortably cover the agreed repayments  on each of his loans,  without jeopardising his
existing credit commitments and priority living expenses.
WCL provided this service with more  information about its assessment process. It said it
tests a consumers  monthly  outgoings against  statistical data. If this results in higher
expense figures than those provided by the consumer, it uses  the higher figures in its
Ref: DRN97948342affordability assessment.  WCL  said that its credit check  before Loan  1 showed that Mr R had
only taken out two short term loans in 2016.  According to the credit agencies,  Mr R was
required to make total repayments  of approximately £650 on all of his outstanding credit. So
it included this figure in its affordability assessment.
WCL also noted that Mr R had no debt management plans, bankruptcies, or individual
voluntary arrangements  registered on his record. And he had no defaults in the previous
twelve months.
WCL also said that five out of Mr Rs six loans were  paid considerably earlier  than
necessary, demonstrating  that Mr R had sufficient funds available  to make discretionary
payments to clear his balance more quickly.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  He concluded that
WCL had made sufficient checks and that Mr R had sufficient disposable income to repay all
the loans.
Mr R disagreed. He responded to say in summary that WCLs basic  checks should have
highlighted that he had a poor credit score, many other payday loans, missed  repayments
and maxed out credit  cards.  Before Loan  2 Mr R had 11 other  payday  loans and other loans.
He said that a credit check should have shown this. Mr R was taking loans from WCL to
repay its previous  loans.  Mr R said that his loan amounts increased, he was borrowing as
soon as hed repaid  his previous loan, his expenditure was more  than his income, he had
multiple other payday loans and other credit and he had a gambling addiction.  Mr R said that
if WCL had checked  his credit file, it would have seen this.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R 
and to WCL on 15 April 2019.  I summarise my findings:
Id noted that WCL was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make  checks  to make sure 
Mr R could afford to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr R was borrowing, the length of the agreement  
and his lending  history. But there was no set list of checks  WCL had to do.
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator at the time Mr R borrowed from WCL. Its
regulations require lenders to take reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to
meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement  in a sustainable manner without the
customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
The regulations define sustainable  as being able to make repayments  without undue
difficulty, and that this meant borrowers should  be able to make  their repayments on time
and out of their income and savings without  having to borrow  to meet these repayments.
Loans 1 to 4
Loans 1 to 4 were repayable by three  monthly instalments ranging from around  £159 to
around £325.
Id thought about whether  WCLs  checks were  proportionate before Loans  1 to 4. WCL told
Ref: DRN97948343us that before lending to Mr R, it had asked him about his income and outgoings. Before
Loans 1 to 4, Mr R had declared a monthly income of £3,900 and living  costs  of £2,425. So it
appeared he had a disposable income  of £1,475.The  outgoings  amounts provided  by Mr R
included rent, utilities, travel, food, loan repayments and other credit commitments.  Mr R had
declared loan repayments of £275 and other credit commitments of £25. 
WCL told this service  that its credit check showed that Mr R had total credit commitments  of 
£650. So it had increased Mr Rs declared outgoings  to reflect  these. On the face of it, I 
could see that the loan repayment amounts for Loans 1 to 4 appeared to be relatively 
modest compared to Mr Rs adjusted disposable income.
But WCL had also provided us with information about Mr Rs other monthly  credit
repayments before each  loan. I could see from this that Mr R appeared to have  significantly
higher credit  repayments  than hed declared  to WCL. So Id thought WCL might have been
concerned about  Mr R omitting most  of his credit commitments in his declaration  to it of his
outgoings.
Id also thought that WCL would have been  aware that when a lender carried  out a credit 
check, the information it would see didnt usually provide the same level of detail that a 
consumers credit report would and it wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see 
a small portion of a borrowers credit  file, or some  data might be missing or anonymised. I 
was also aware that not all payday  and short term lenders reported to the same  credit 
reference agencies.  So, it was possible that not all of Mr Rs loans might have been  
identified by WCLs credit  checks.
WCL had told us that it had performed a number  of assessment checks  including  a credit  
check. Id thought it was reasonable for WCL to have  relied  on the information  Mr R had 
declared to it about his income and normal living costs for Loans  1 to 4. But I also thought  
WCL should have  been concerned about  the results of its credit checks  before Loans 1 to 4 
especially as Mr R had declared a substantially smaller total amount of credit  commitments 
to it than revealed by its own credit  checks.  And in view of the total amount  of Mr Rs credit 
commitments shown  in WCLs credit checks,  I thought WCL should  have  been  on notice that 
it was unlikely Mr Rs financial situation was as good as hed declared.  So I thought it 
needed to do more here. I thought  WCL should  have  additionally asked Mr R some very 
specific questions about what  its credit checks had shown before all these  loans. I couldnt  
see that it had done  this.
Loan 5
Id noted that there was a gap of just over nine months between  the repayment  of
Loan 4 and Mr R taking out Loan 5. I thought it might have been reasonable for WCL to have
seen this gap as an indication that Mr Rs finances had moved on from whatever situation
had required  his previous loans. I noted  that Mr Rs declared disposable income remained at
£1,475 with total credit commitments  of £300. WCL had again carried out a credit check
before Loan 5 and sent us details of Mr Rs monthly  credit commitments. Id noted that these
appeared to total around £1,000. So again Id thought WCL might have been concerned 
about Mr R omitting most of his credit commitments in his declaration to it of his normal  
outgoings. And again I thought WCL should  have been on notice that it was unlikely Mr Rs 
financial situation was as good  as hed declared and it needed  to again ask Mr R some very
specific questions about what  its credit checks had shown. I couldnt  see that it had done 
this.
Ref: DRN97948344Loan 6
Loan 6 was taken out on the day Loan  5 was repaid. I noted  that Mr R had told us that he 
had to take out further loans to repay  his previous loans which  appeared to be the case  
here. Mr R had increased his declared total credit  commitments to £350. But I noted that 
WCLs credit  check showed monthly credit  commitments totalling  more than £1,800. So 
again Id thought WCL needed to ask Mr R more about what the credit  checks had shown 
and I couldnt  see it had done this.
Although I didnt think the checks WCL had done  on all the loans were sufficient, that in itself
didnt mean  that Mr Rs complaint should  have  succeeded. I also needed to see whether 
what I considered to be proportionate checks would have shown WCL that Mr R couldnt 
have sustainably afforded the loans.
Loan 1
I explained that I would have expected WCL to ask Mr R some  questions about what  its
credit check  had shown, whilst  taking  account of Mr Rs declared disposable income of 
£1,475.
So Id tried to find out more about  this by looking  at Mr Rs bank statements for the month
prior to the loan,  to see what better checks would have  suggested  to WCL. I noted from the
statements that Mr R had received seven short term loans totalling around £2,380 which
would have been repayable around the same time as Loan 1. I also noted that he was 
paying regular  financial commitments totalling around £730. Taking account of all these and 
Mr Rs declared  disposable income  suggested that any new borrowing was unlikely to be 
repaid sustainably. So if WCL had carried out what Id considered to be proportionate checks  
before Loan 1, Id thought  it was likely that it would have concluded that Loan  1 wasnt  
sustainable.
Loans 2 to 4
Id again looked at the bank statements for the month before Loans 2 to 4 to see what
better checks would  have suggested to WCL. Before Loan 2, Id noted from the statements 
that Mr R had received  six short term loans totalling around £2,701 which  would have been
repayable around  the same time as Loan  2. He was repaying regular financial commitments
of around £1,000.
Before Loan 3, Id noted  from the statements that Mr R had received four short  term loans
totalling around £785 which would  have been  repayable around the same time as Loan 3.
He was repaying regular financial commitments  totalling over £1,000.
And before Loan 4, Id noted from the statements  that Mr R had received three short  term 
loans totalling  around £236.  He had also received two other short  term loans totalling £1,800 
which were repaid quickly. He was also repaying regular financial commitments totalling  
around £1,770.
Taking account of Mr Rs additional borrowing and Mr Rs declared  disposable  income
before Loans  2 to 4 suggested that any new borrowing was unlikely to be repaid sustainably.
So if WCL had carried out what I considered  to be proportionate checks before Loans  2 to 4, 
Id thought it was likely that it would have concluded that these  loans werent sustainable.
Ref: DRN97948345Loans 5 and 6
Id again looked at the bank statements for the month before Loans 5 and 6 to see what
better checks would  have suggested to WCL. I could see that Mr Rs financial situation 
hadnt improved.  Before Loan  5, I noted from the statements that Mr R had received three 
short term loans totalling around £1,763 which would have been repayable around the same 
time as Loan  5. He was repaying regular financial commitments of around £1,470.
Before Loan 6, I noted from the statements that Mr R had received two short term loans
totalling around £550 and another two loans (which  hed repaid quickly) which would  have
been repayable around the same  time as Loan 6. He was repaying regular financial
commitments totalling around £1,400.
Taking account of Mr Rs additional borrowing and Mr Rs declared  disposable  income
before Loans  5 and 6 suggested  that any new borrowing was unlikely to be repaid
sustainably. So if WCL had carried out what I considered to be proportionate checks before
Loans 5 and 6, I thought it was likely that it would also have concluded that these  loans 
werent sustainable.
So, Id thought if WCL had done  what I considered  to be proportionate checks, it would  have 
seen the problems with Mr Rs financial situation. And so, as a responsible  lender, I didnt 
think it would  have  agreed to lend Loans 1 to 6 to him. So, I thought that WCL needed  to pay 
Mr R some compensation relating to Loans  1 to 6.
Subject to any further representations by Mr R or WCL my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order Western  Circle Limited, trading as 
Cashfloat, to:
1. Refund all interest and charges that Mr R paid on Loans 1 to 6;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the date
    of settlement;
3. Remove any adverse  information about Loans  1 to 6 from Mr Rs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WCL to take off tax from this interest. WCL must give
Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax it had taken off if he asks for one.
Mr R responded to say that he had nothing further  to add.
WCL responded to my provisional decision to say, in summary, that:
-Colleagues  at this service had acknowledged that less rigorous checking was 
needed in earlier  stages of the loan cycle where  there was no reason to assume  a 
consumer was in financial difficulties;
-In this case Mr R had a higher than average  net income;
-A full financial audit wasnt a proportionate  check;
-The result  of its credit check showed  that Mr R wasnt borrowing excessively and was 
required to repay  a monthly amount  of £658 on his outstanding credit.  It noted  that 
Mr R had said his monthly expenses were £300 and it thought it was likely that Mr R 
Ref: DRN97948346was sharing expenses with his partner. But even if Mr R was paying £658, he would 
have had a disposable income  of £1,017;
-It had tested Mr Rs living costs with statistical data which confirmed  they were  
reasonable;
-It had carried out a further credit check before Loan 5. Even  though Mr Rs credit 
commitments had increased, his partners  income had also increased. So it said that 
Mr R had sufficient disposable income; 
-Mr Rs credit repayments of £2,380 were likely to be discretionary;
-I had double counted the capital element of the loans  and the outgoings. It said that 
the loans would have been  used to pay the regular outgoings, so I couldnt include  
both amounts.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered WCLs responses  to my provisional decision. I note that it had said that 
this service had acknowledged that less rigorous checks  were  required for earlier loans  in a 
loan chain. But this isnt the case where a business  has information about  a consumers 
finances which might  indicate  he is in financial difficulties. So where  a lender is aware of 
such things, and even  in the case of early loans in a chain with relatively moderate monthly 
repayments, I dont  think its unreasonable or disproportionate to expect a lender to carry out 
further enquiries to find out whether a consumer is going to be able to sustainably  repay  his 
loan.
In this case WCL had information which appeared to show that Mr R had significantly higher 
credit repayments than hed declared  to WCL. I also note that WCL said that the results of its 
credit check  didnt suggest that Mr R was borrowing  excessively. But I think  they certainly 
suggested that WCL couldnt rely on the information  Mr R provided, and I think these should 
have been a significant red flag for the lender. 
So, I thought WCL might have been  concerned about Mr R omitting most of his credit 
commitments in his declaration to it of his outgoings.  And I was also aware that not all 
borrowing might  have  been revealed by WCLs credit checks. So I said that WCL needed to 
do more here. I thought  WCL should  have additionally asked Mr R some very specific 
questions about  what its credit checks had shown. I didnt say that a full financial audit  was 
required. WCL could  have used whatever means  it thought appropriate to satisfy  itself that it 
had an accurate picture of Mr Rs circumstances. 
I note that WCL thought  it likely that Mr R was sharing his outgoings  with his partner. But I 
dont think it is reasonable for WCL to have assumed that this was the case. And I dont  think  
that its reasonable for WCL to have assumed that Mr Rs other  credit  commitments, which 
are the responsibility  of the borrower, would be shared with his partner in the same  way that 
household expenses might be.
I also dont think its reasonable for WCL to have assumed  that that the other  credit  Mr R 
borrowed was used  to pay for regular outgoings and that the repayments  on Mr Rs other 
Ref: DRN97948347borrowing were likely  to be discretionary.  Mr R said that he borrowed to repay previous 
borrowing and that he had a gambling  addiction. And I think that the amounts and number of 
Mr Rs other  short term loans  and other  financial commitments would have suggested  to 
WCL that any new borrowing was unlikely to be repaid sustainably if it had done  
proportionate checks. 
So overall, I am satisfied  that the proposed resolution in my provisional decision is fair in all 
the circumstances, and I find no basis to depart from my earlier conclusions.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Western Circle Limited, trading as Cashfloat,  to:
1. Refund all interest and charges that Mr R paid on Loans 1 to 6;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the date
    of settlement;
3. Remove any adverse  information about Loans  1 to 6 from Mr Rs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WCL to take off tax from this interest. WCL must give
Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax it had taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9794834