K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited added an additional  premium  to 
his policy. He also said that he was spoken to rudely  when he complained  about  this. He 
wants a refund and compensation.
background
Mr B applied online for a policy with Advantage. It validated his details and found that hed 
provided the wrong date of birth and wrong length of time a licence was held for the named 
driver on the policy. Advantage then asked  Mr B to pay an additional premium but he was 
unhappy with that. Mr B also said Advantages agent spoke to him rudely. Mr B paid the 
additional premium  and kept his policy.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought that 
Advantage hadnt acted correctly under the relevant legislation in response to Mr Bs 
misrepresentations. She also thought  it hadnt asked Mr B a clear question  about the length 
of time a licence was held. So she thought  it should keep the policy  in force,  apply an 
additional premium  for the correct date of birth only, and pay Mr B £50 compensation for his 
trouble and upset.  She didnt think Advantage had treated Mr B unfairly  in telephone calls.
Mr B replied  that Advantage should  increase its offer of compensation because of the stress 
the matter had caused him. Advantage replied that it thought its question about the length of 
time the licence had been held was clear. It asked for an ombudsmans  review. So the 
complaint has come  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a complaint  arises  from misrepresentation of information important to an insurer, we 
take into account the relevant legislation. We look to see that it asked a clear question  when 
the policy was taken out. We check  that the information given would affect whether a policy 
was offered. And we check whether the informant  has acted carelessly or deliberately in 
making the misrepresentation. 
Mr B applied for his policy through an online comparison site. I think he was asked a clear  
question about  the dates  of birth of the parties to be insured. But he made  an error in this for 
the named driver. I think this was careless misrepresentation. 
The question Mr B was asked about  their licences was How long have you held your 
licence? And Mr B had to select the number of years from a drop down  menu. The named 
driver had held her licence for 3 years and 10 months, so Mr B chose 4 years as closest. 
Advantage said Mr B should have chosen  3 years and he would have then been  asked to 
select the number  months  in addition to this. But there was no guidance to say that he 
should choose full years. There was no drop down menu for months when he selected  4 
years. So I agree with the investigator that this question was unclear. 
Ref: DRN99805282Advantage would  still have  offered a policy if the questions had been answered correctly.  So 
the options it gave to Mr B were to pay an increased premium or to cancel the policy.  But I 
dont think this was sufficient under the relevant legislation, and I can see that Advantage 
now agrees. 
Under the relevant legislation, where  there  has been careless misrepresentation, then an 
insurer can cancel the policy, it can offer proportionate cover  or allow  the consumer to 
cancel. It cant simply  increase the premium without the consumers consent and without 
giving the consumer his options. 
In Mr Bs case, Advantage doesnt provide proportionate cover. So the option left is for it to 
cancel the policy.  But I agree with the investigator that this wouldnt be fair for Mr B. He paid 
the additional premium and wanted to keep his policy. Also, Mr B was denied the opportunity 
to decide how to proceed as Advantage didnt outline his options under the relevant 
legislation. 
So I think its fair and reasonable for the policy to be kept in force.  And I think Advantage 
should refund the proportion of the additional  premium that it applied  because of the 
incorrect information about the licence  duration. Mr B has been  without his money for some 
time, so I think interest should be added to this refund. 
I also think Mr B has been caused trouble and upset  by this. And so I think Advantage 
should offer him compensation. Its offered £50 and I think thats fair and reasonable as its 
what Id require in similar circumstances. Mr B thought this should be increased  because of 
the stress  he has been caused. But I think some of this could  have been  avoided if Mr B had 
answered the date of birth question more carefully. So I dont  think Advantage needs to 
increase its offer.
Like the investigator, Ive listened  to some of the calls between  Mr B and Advantage about  
the premium increase.  I can understand that it was a difficult  experience.  But I dont think  
Advantage acted  unreasonably. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  to do the following:
1.Keep  the policy in place.
2.Refund Mr B the proportion of additional  premium added relating to the date the named 
drivers licence was issued, adding interest  at 8% simple per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
3.HM Revenue & Customs  requires Advantage to withhold income tax from that interest.  It 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much its taken  off if he asks for one.
4.Pay Mr B £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9980528