K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 
2001. Ms P says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Ms Ps case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
From  a copy  of the postal credit card application form Ms P signed, I can see Capital 
One made it clear  that Ms P didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose  to take it out  
although I can understand why she might not remember  this now.
I dont believe Capital  One recommended the PPI to Ms P, so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for her. But it did have to make sure Ms P got the information she needed  to 
decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Ms P about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But she chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover   so it would  
have been useful for her to have, in addition to her employment benefits, if something 
went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.  
Overall, I dont  believe Ms Ps lost out because of how Capital One sold her the PPI.
Ive thought carefully about everything Ms Ps said, including that she had no need for the PPI 
because her job was secure. But the PPI was designed to protect against unforeseen 
circumstances and, although Ms Ps situation appeared stable, there  was no guaranteed  it would 
remain so. So this doesnt change my mind.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9432677