K822xcomplaint
Mr M has complained about the way Everest  Limited  brokered  a credit agreement  he took 
out to pay for new windows. 
background 
In 2017, Mr M decided to purchase windows using a credit  agreement brokered by Everest.  
Mr M says he had the means  to pay for the windows using cash, but Everests sales person 
convinced him it would be more effective to use a credit agreement.  He says he was told 
that hed receive  a discount on the price of the windows  by paying for them using a credit  
agreement  providing he kept it open  for a minimum of three months. He says he was led to 
believe he could continue  paying the credit  agreement  on a monthly interest-free basis if he 
wanted to. 
 
Around a year after taking out the credit  agreement,  he says he found out it wouldve been  
more economical to pay for the windows with cash after he received a statement. 
The relevant  figures,  from what I can see are:
Cash price of the windows      £11,002
Total discounts                                 £6,951
Total payable on finance        £4,051
Discount for taking finance     £376
Payable without finance  discount  £4,427
Interest Mr M paid                  £708.51
Mr M complained because he thinks hes lost out as a result of the way the credit  agreement 
was brokered  by Everest. It seems as though Mr M would have been  £332.51  better off had 
he paid for the goods by cash.  This is calculated by deducting the discount for taking finance 
(£376) from the interest he paid (£708.51).
Everest responded to Mr Ms complaint and said the salesperson  would have explained how 
the credit  agreement could be paid off. It also reviewed the sales documentation and 
acknowledged the application checklist wasnt completed properly, but it said Mr M signed a 
credit agreement that clearly set out the interest  payable. It also said that Mr M wouldve 
been sent a copy of the credit agreement  in the post, which  had a 14-day cooling off period. 
Based on this, it felt the interest  and terms of the loan were properly presented  and didnt 
think the credit agreement was mis-sold. 
Mr M was unhappy with the response and brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into things, and felt that Mr M had sufficient funds to buy the 
windows with cash. She thought Mr M had benefitted by paying for the goods by a credit 
agreement, but thought Everest  likely  made some mistakes when selling it. So she 
recommended it pay Mr M £150 compensation. 
Everest accepted the investigators  recommendation, but Mr M didnt. Mr M says he was 
misled by Everest and wanted a refund of all interest  paid. 
The case  was been passed to me to make  a final decision. 
Ref: DRN91603872I reviewed the complaint,  contacted both parties, and set out my thoughts  on the matter. I 
said clearly well never know  what was spoken  about at the point of sale,  and explained its 
my role to decide what I think is most likely to have happened. 
I thought about  Everests  main  arguments  Mr M electronically signed a copy  of the credit  
agreement, and he didnt highlight his complaint  shortly after taking out the finance when 
sent a copy of it. 
I thought about  Mr Ms main arguments  including  his consistent account  of the sales  
discussion. He explained clearly and in great  detail  the advice the sales  person gave him 
about having the finance interest-free, and having to keep it open for a minimum of three 
months.
I explained that, as a credit broker, Everest is meant to make sure it clearly explained to 
Mr M the nature of the financial  arrangement he was entering into. I felt, on balance, that 
isnt what happened  here.
The point of sale documentation wasnt completed  properly. The agent didnt complete the 
required documentation  that indicated Mr M wouldve been given information about  the 
agreement. The only signed copy of the credit agreement we were able to obtain  has come 
from the finance company  and it is electronically  signed. The documentation  signed by 
hand doesnt set out the interest that Mr M was due to pay. 
It seems  that as soon  as Mr M received the annual statement  showing the interest being 
charged, he complained about it. He says he missed the original paperwork, but this 
mightve been down to the fact that the installation  wasnt  due to take place until a few 
months after he entered into the agreement. I said I thought his actions  following  on from 
receiving the statement  are consistent with someone who was given wrong  information  at 
the point of sale. 
Furthermore, based on the evidence Mr M provided,  I explained that I thought  he did have 
the means to pay for the windows outright. Indeed  - he did this when he realised he was 
paying interest. 
I weighed things up, and I thought that, on balance,  Mr M was led to believe that he would 
not lose out by taking  out a credit  agreement.  I thought he had lost out £332.51 as a result of 
doing so, because if the credit agreement was brokered properly, I thought hed likely have 
paid for the windows  in cash. 
Everest already  agreed to compensate Mr M £150  to settle the complaint. 
As I thought that Mr Ms financial loss as a result of the mis-brokering  is £332.51, I asked 
Everest to reimburse  this to him as well.
 
Ref: DRN91603873Everest didnt  agree. In summary,  it said that Mr M benefitted by paying for the windows 
using a credit agreement because he didnt have  to pay the whole cost straight  away. It 
provided a copy of a brochure about  the finance  that it said was probably left with Mr M to 
review. Everest also reiterated that Mr M was sent information by the finance company 
shortly after entering into the credit  agreement.  So it questions why he didnt query things at 
the time.  
Mr M, however, reiterated he was told he wouldnt have  to pay any interest. He described a 
bit more  about what he remembered from the sales meeting  and explained that he wasnt  
left with a brochure. And he questioned why Everest didnt speak to the sales representative 
about what happened. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  Ive based  my decision on the balance  of probabilities, or 
what I think is most likely  to have happened. 
Everest is a regulated credit broker and it brokered  a credit agreement  for Mr M to buy the 
windows. Our service is able to consider  complaints relating to credit  broking. Everest  is 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  and its required to treat Mr M fairly. The 
FCAs handbook  refers to whats expected of a firm when arranging  a regulated credit 
agreement. The relevant  rules say that firms  must provide customers  with an adequate 
explanation of the features of the credit agreement.
Ive thought about what both parties  have  said since I sent my initial  thoughts on the 
complaint. Im still of the view that the complaint should be upheld  in line with my initial 
recommendations. 
I think Mr M had the means  to pay for the windows outright, and that the only reason he took 
out the credit agreement  is because he was led to believe  it would save  him money. 
As Ive pointed out, in my mind, Mr M has provided  a detailed and credible account of what  
happened when  Everest sold him the credit  agreement. His correspondence  with Everest 
concerning the sale has remained constant.  Weve been unable  to get a statement from 
Everests sales person, but Mr M has been very specific in setting out the detail of the sales 
discussion. He has consistently argued  that he was told he wouldnt lose out by paying 
interest if he were to take out a credit agreement. And while Mr M didnt contact Everest or 
the finance company straight away, his actions after receiving the annual statement are 
consistent with someone  who was mis-sold a credit  agreement. 
Ref: DRN91603874I accept that Mr M electronically  signed  the credit  agreement that sets out the interest  
payable. I dont think this should be ignored. But as I said in my initial  findings,  Im mindful 
that some  of the other  documentation was not completed properly  at the point  of sale  
suggesting there were  mistakes in the sales process.  From what  Ive seen, none of the 
documentation Mr M signed by hand  had details of the interest  payable.  And none  of the 
documentation Mr M says he was left at the point of sale have details of the interest payable 
either.
Ive weighed up the evidence that we do have. Having very carefully considered  all that the 
parties have said and provided in this case,  on balance,  I think  Everest didnt ensure that 
Mr M was made fully aware  of all the features and costs of the credit  agreement.  I dont think  
it is enough for Everest to simply rely on the documentation when the relevant  rules say that 
it should be providing customers an adequate explanation about  the credit  agreement as 
well. 
Given that I dont think  Mr M would have entered into the credit agreement had things gone 
properly, I think he should be put in the position hed have been in had he paid for the 
windows in cash. This means he wouldnt have benefited from the discount for taking out 
finance. But in the long run, I think hed be better off by £332.51,  which is the amount I think  
Everest should return to Mr M. 
I also appreciate that Mr M has been caused  some  distress and inconvenience as a result of 
the mistakes when Everest  brokered the credit agreement. Hes had to arrange to pay it off 
unexpectedly and he would have been  concerned to hear he was paying interest on an 
agreement he thought was interest-free. I think the £150 compensation recommended  by 
our investigator is a fair award in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Everest Limited  should:
Reimburse Mr M £332.51.
Interest should  be added to the above  amount at a rate of 8% simple per year, from 
the date Mr M settled his credit agreement to the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr M £150 compensation. 
If Everest Limited considers it necessary to deduct tax from the interest part of this award 
then it should  provide  Mr M with a certificate of tax deduction if he asks for one so he might  
claim the amount  back from HMRC  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1May 2020.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9160387