K820x#14complaint
Miss Ks unhappy with how Monument Insurance dacs dealt with her claims  made under 
single premium payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss K made disability claims with Monument after suffering an injury  in 2002. Monument  
accepted the claims and paid them for the periods May 2002 to November 2003  and 
November 2006  to September 2007. 
The adjudicator didnt think Miss Ks complaint should be upheld.  Miss K disagreed  with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss Ks unhappy with some  of the actions of the financial business  that 
provided the loan she took out with the PPI. But, as that financial business was separate  to 
Monument, and was responsible for the lending rather than for providing the insurance or 
handling claims made on it, Im not able to deal with those matters in this decision.
Im also not able to deal with the matters  Miss Ks raised about  her treating doctors as their 
actions dont fall within the scope of this service.
Turning to Monument, I cant see that the medical  evidence available  suggests that it 
stopped Miss Ks claims  early or that it should have paid them  for longer, as she argues. For 
example, although  the letter Miss K provided  from the Department for Work  and Pensions 
showed she was incapacitated between  November 2006 and September 2007, I cant  see 
enough evidence  to show she was disabled beyond that time.
In terms of the monthly benefit Monument  paid Miss K, my understandings that this was 
based on the amount she owed the lender  each  month in repayments. Miss K says she 
believes this amounted to £5,000 a month. I dont think thats the case. Instead, I can see 
from the policy terms that £5,000 is the maximum Monument would  pay in monthly benefits 
depending on the loan  that wasnt the amount it was promising to pay for any claim. 
Miss K also says Monument should  have paid her benefit for permanent total disability. 
Thats defined in the policy as:
a permanent injury caused by an accident  where 2 doctors or consultants confirm 12 
months after the accident that it is likely to continue for the rest of your life and 
prevent you from doing any work.
The definition makes  it clear that the requirement  isnt just that Miss K should be prevented  
from working. She would  also need to provide medical evidence  showing that her 
disablement was likely to continue for the rest of her life.
Having carefully considered the medical  evidence available,  I dont  think  it shows  Miss K 
was permanently disabled  as required. For example, the information from her GPs been  
Ref: DRN94154172consistent in that they expected her condition to improve to the extent she could return to 
work  although for a time they were  uncertain  as to exactly when that would be. Overall, 
they felt the prognosis was good.
In December 2002, Miss Ks consultant orthopaedic and hand surgeon  explained  what the 
treatment plan was. He concluded  that her symptoms were commonly found with the type of 
injury shed suffered  and they expected those symptoms to improve  over time.
By 2005, Miss K had been referred  to a rheumatology clinic. But theres nothing  in the letters  
from the clinic Ive seen  that would indicate her disablement was considered to be 
permanent. 
So, taking everything  into account, I think Monuments dealt with Miss Ks claims fairly.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9415417