K820x#14complaint
Miss A says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, Allianz  has taken on that responsibility. To keep things simple,  Ill only refer to 
Allianz in this decision, rather  than any other  business.
background and summary to complaint
Miss A bought  the policy  in 1999  at the same time as taking  out a charge  card.  She applied 
for the store card and PPI policy through the post.  
At the time,  Miss A was working in administration. She told us she was entitled  to more than 
three months sick pay, but less than six months. Apart from her work benefits, she didnt 
have any other means of repaying her store  card should she be unable to work. Miss A has 
said she was in good health  at the time the cover  was sold.  
The policy provided  cover  for life, disability and unemployment  subject to its exclusions 
and limitations. It offered  to repay 15% of Miss As store  card balance in the event of Miss A 
being unable  to work due to accident, sickness  and unemployment. 
The policy also provided benefit for los of Miss As account card. Miss A hasnt  complained 
about this element of the insurance policy so I will not consider  it further  in this decision. 
At the time,  the policy cost 66p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance.  The premium 
would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract interest.  
Miss As representatives made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss As representative says:
Allianz failed to meet the sales standards  which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss A wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss As 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Allianz should have 
told Miss A about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN92322352The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Allianz should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss A and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Miss A received was misleading. These  policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss As. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss As complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not Allianz. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
Ref: DRN92322353The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
So Im satisfied it is right that I should  take these  codes into account when deciding what is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Miss As case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Allianz was required  to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Miss As complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Allianz gave advice, whether it advised Miss A with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Allianz gave  Miss A sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN92322354-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss A, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss A suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss A and 
Allianz, Ive decided not to uphold Miss As complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Miss A know  she had a choice?
Allianz had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
I note that it wasnt specifically argued by those representing Miss A that PPI wasnt  
presented as optional. But for the avoidance  of doubt, I can see that Miss A applied for the 
charge card and the cover by filling  out a leaflet. I think  she would have been able to 
complete that document in her own time and at her own pace. 
I can see that PPI was set out in a separately  on the application form. Miss A had ticked  a 
box to say she wanted her account  to be covered. She also gave her details as the person to 
be insured, along  with her date of birth. So I think she would have known shed applied for 
PPI and if she didnt  want the cover, she could have  left that section blank. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Miss A knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Allianz provide  advice?
Those representing Miss A didnt say whether  Allianz had advised  her to buy the cover.  
Allianz said it didnt.  Upon considering all of the information before me, I think its unlikely 
that that this was an advised sale. I say this because  I havent seen anything to suggest that 
Allianz provided a tailored recommendation to Miss A after considering her personal 
circumstances. 
This means  Allianz didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Miss A. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Miss A to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Allianz has provided us with Miss As application form showing that PPI had been  selected. 
It has also referred us to a copy of the paperwork it says she wouldve received, including  
the certificate of insurance, which I accept on a balance of probabilities applied to policies 
like Miss As. 
Looking at the information provided to Miss A at the time, I dont think Allianz gave Miss A 
the information she fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post.  I can see the application form described the PPI policy as 
providing cover against sickness,  accident  unemployment or death. It also informed Miss A 
Ref: DRN92322355that the policy cost 66p per £100 of her outstanding balance. And that the insured person 
had to be aged 18 years or over and under 65 and be permanently  employed for at least  16 
hours per week. 
The information provided would have given Miss A a broad sense of what the policy  
covered. But it was Allianzs  responsibility to draw  to Miss As attention the important 
information  i.e. the key information  about  the nature  of the cover and any significant  
exclusions and limitations which  might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded Allianz did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Miss A, including the need to maintain premiums during a claim 
or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that Allianz adequately 
drew to her attention  the main  provisions of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
So I dont  think Allianz gave Miss A sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss As representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss As. I have 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss As representative considers to be poor  
value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss A about the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss As representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Miss A has suggested.  And taking into account the law, industry codes  and 
standards of good industry practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair 
or reasonable to impose such requirements on ALLIANZ. 
what effect did Allianzs shortcomings have on Miss A? To what extent  did Miss A 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
I have found that Allianz did not do all it should have  done when it sold this policy  to Miss A. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude she 
Ref: DRN92322356suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss A 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Allianz  done things  properly. 
Miss A says she would not have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Miss A had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Miss A chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable 
to conclude she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Miss A thought shewas getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Miss A has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Miss A ought reasonably  to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance   
this was set out on the application form. But, I accept that Allianz didnt make clear the on-
going cost information. So while Miss A didnt know some things, the ultimate position in the 
event of a successful claim was not dissimilar  to what she would reasonably have thought  
from the information she based her decision to take out the policy  on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss A thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any physical defect, infirmity, disease or 
previously diagnosed conditions and any subsequent associated complaint  for which  
she was treated within the 12 months  prior to the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss A 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
A claim  for disability  would have been  paid if Miss A was unable to do her normal 
paid work. 
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Miss A pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the 
policy was not as good as she thought  and she might  have  decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss A from taking out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss As circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Miss A didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
Ref: DRN92322357would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Miss A would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Miss A needed to be unable to do her normal paid work. I dont 
think this is likely to be too different to what she would have expected to make a claim. After 
all, the application form says the policy protected payments in respect of sickness, accident 
or unemployment. So it seems unlikely she would  have thought shed been able to make a 
successful claim  if she was still working.  
 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Miss A would still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what she thought  she was getting. It would  have lasted for longer than her full sick pay and 
she didnt have any means of meeting her card repayments if she was unable to work due to 
accident or sickness. And in those circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that she 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event.  
Miss As representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss A would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss As 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss A 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss A believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss A in the position she would have been in if she  had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible that she would not have  taken out the policy, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, it is more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had shebeen  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
Ref: DRN92322358policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude that Allianz should  pay Miss A compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Miss A thinks Allianz misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Allianzs statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason why Allianz failed  
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Allianz gave Miss A, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss As representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find Allianz negligently  misrepresented  the contract to Miss A and about the remedy 
a court  might award if it were to find that Allianz  had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss A in a better position  than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2021.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9232235