K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy about  their roof claim being declined and the claims handling 
delays they encountered. The home insurance  policy was provided  by Legal & General 
Insurance Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs B made two separate claims within a short period of time for damage to their 
roof. L&G appointed a professional repair  service  but both claims were eventually declined.  
Unhappy with this Mr and Mrs B brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. In relation to the first claim a temporary fix was 
provided by L&G but it confirmed  a new roof was required. The expert findings were  that the 
roof wasnt  correctly fitted and L&G declined it due to poor workmanship. Our investigator 
accepted that this was reasonable and in line with the policy exclusion.
In relation to the second claim our investigator  accepted what L&G said in that no insured 
event had occurred.  L&G said the damage  was caused by faulty  workmanship and wear  and 
tear, not by storm  or any other insured event. Our investigator considered the complaint 
against our approach to storm claims and said there were no storm conditions  and no one-
off event. She said the policy  doesnt cover damage  caused over a period  of time or general  
wear and tear. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt  accept this and asked  for their complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first claim  was raised under the home  emergency section of the policy. An internal 
ceiling collapsed and a temporary  repair was arranged.  During  the temporary work it was 
confirmed that Mr and Mrs Bs property needed  a new roof. This claim was declined due to 
poor workmanship. The poor workmanship exclusion is included  within  the policy  so I think  
L&G acted  reasonably when it declined to deal with this claim.
Unfortunately, as only a temporary repair had been done and due to the problems with the 
roof a further  claim occurred. In relation to the second claim when this service looks at storm 
damage cases we ask three questions:
were there storm conditions on or around  the date of the claim?
is the damage consistent with storm damage?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer  to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
Ive checked the weather reports and the answer  to question one is no. So I think  L&G 
acted fairly  when it said no storm event had occurred. Without  the storm conditions  theres  
no need for me to go into detail about  the specific storm definitions within the L&G policy.
Ref: DRN93804462I know that Mr and Mrs B want L&G to replace the whole roof but it has provided  reasons 
why the damage  isnt covered and Ive no evidence to outweigh  the expert opinion.  The 
relevant expert opinion  came in a report confirming  descriptions of the cause, nature and 
extent of the damage. It said:
we cannot confirm  that there  has been any storm damage to the property, we are of the 
opinion that the water ingress is through and around  the stack  and while the internal ceiling 
to the bedroom is in a state of collapse  we do not think  this is due to a one off incident. So I 
think L&G acted reasonably when it declined to deal with the claim.
I understand the point made  by Mr and Mrs B about how long it took for them  to be informed 
about the claim being declined. It did take a few weeks longer than it shouldve  done but I 
can see L&G apologised for the delay.
There was also a claim for some contents  items. But again it would need  to be accepted  that 
there was a storm that led to the water  getting  into the property for me to think  L&G acted 
unfairly. L&G has been clear that there  was no one-off event and no storm. So I think  L&G 
acted reasonably when it declined to deal with the contents items  too. A point  was raised  
about accidental  damage to contents,  but this policy only had the standard cover,  so I dont 
think it extended to full accidental damage  cover. So I think  L&G acted fairly when it declined 
to deal with this part of the claim too.
Mr and Mrs B have  recently emailed in and asked for several other factors  to be considered. 
But some of the points  theyve  made  arent linked to this complaint and some of them are 
wider concerns theyve  got about  roof construction.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against Legal & General  Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9380446