K820x#14complaint
Miss C says that Canada  Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in April 2019, a copy  of which is attached  and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Miss Cs complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Miss C sent some further information about her employment circumstances around the 
time of sale.       
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  
Miss C sent us some information that she says shows  she was working  2 part time jobs at the time 
of sale. The information  was, an overview  of her National Insurance  contributions and some pay 
slips. The pay slip that is most legible is dated a number of months prior to the sale of the PPI.  
As theres  been  some ambiguity about her employment circumstances, our adjudicator  asked 
Miss C for any information for the date of sale (September 2001), that would  definitively show  her 
employment circumstances  but nothing  further  has been provided. 
Based on the available evidence thats been provided, I still think that Miss C was eligible for the 
PPI policy  and I cant fairly say that she wouldnt have been able to claim  on it if needed.
Which means Canada Square doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss C because:  
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Miss C about that. Because Canada  
Square didnt  tell Miss C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
So Ive reached  the same outcome as my provisional decision and I dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Miss C any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  If it has already done  this, I dont 
award any further redress
Ref: DRN97115862Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
copy of provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken  out in 2001. 
Miss C says Canada Square  Operations Limited (trading  at the time as Egg banking) mis-sold  her the 
PPI.
Ref: DRN97115863my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Ive currently decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Canada Square  made  it clear that Miss C didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she might not remember  this.
I say this because Ive considered  internet screenshots that Canada  Square say are reflective 
of what  Miss C would have  seen at the time of sale alongside  what we know more widely 
about how they sold PPI online around the time this policy  was taken  out. I think its more 
likely than not that Canada Square followed its normal online sale process  during this sale 
and that the PPI was presented as optional before  Miss C chose to take it out.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss C so it didnt have  to check if it was right 
for her. But it did have to make sure Miss C got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible  the information Canada  Square gave Miss C about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. 
Miss C has said that the policy  wasnt  right for her because of her employment 
circumstances. When Miss C initially complained she said that she couldnt remember  when 
the sale took place but that shed  been employed  for 3 months,  for 10-15  hours per week 
doing bar work. 
The application report - which is a summary of the data entered during the online application 
recorded that Miss C had been employed since January  2000  earning £9,000 per year in 
retail. 
When our adjudicator tried to clarify Miss Cs employment she confirmed  that she did work in 
retail but that it was for around 12 hours per week. 
So it seems  Miss C was employed in retail, possibly on a part time basis, but when Ive 
considered her income alongside the minimum  wage  in 2000, I think that its more likely than 
not that she was working for more than 16 hours  per week. 
To be eligible  for this policy, in relation to employment, Miss C had to be working  for 
remuneration under a contract  of employment and paying Class 1 National  Insurance  
Contributions. To make  a claim  under this policy, Miss C had to be employed for at least  6 
months at the time of sale  which she was. 
On balance, I dont think that it would have been very difficult for Miss C to be able to make a 
claim on this policy given what Ive seen of her employment  circumstances so far. 
She chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover.  Based on what 
Ive seen of her wider  circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for her if something 
went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN97115864Which means  Canada  Square doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss C because: 
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should  have told Miss C about that. Because Canada Square didnt tell Miss 
C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss C has said - including  what  shes said about  her existing means of 
making her repayments if she was unwell  and unable to work or if she was made unemployed. 
Miss C has told us that she had some  savings.  But this policy could have paid out for longer than her 
savings likely  would have lasted  for up to 12 months per each successful claim. 
Ive also noted what Miss C has said about being  able to rely on her parents for support. But although 
her parents may have  wanted to help, circumstances  can change  and they may not have been  in a 
positon to help when  needed.
So I still think  that Miss C could have found the PPI useful  and these points  dont change  my decision.
Ive noted that Miss C made reference in 2014 follow our adjudicators assessment about  having  more 
than one part time job at the time of sale. Whilst the details of her employment and income recorded 
on her application doesnt support this, she now has another opportunity to provide  evidence that she 
was working two part time jobs at the time of sale and I can reconsider  the complaint. 
To clarify, Miss C has said she was working in retail at the time of sale for around 12 hours per week 
(which Ive already considered).  But shes then said she was also working in another  part time job for 
around 8 hours  per week. So, shes told us she had 2 part time jobs at the point  of sale. As Ive not 
seen any supporting evidence of a second part time job, Ive currently only considered  that she had 
one part time job at the time of sale. 
my provisional  decision
I currently dont intend to uphold  this complaint. The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square 
Operations Limited does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But Canada Square Operations Limited  does have  to pay back to Miss C any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  If it has already done this, I dont intend to 
award any further compensation. 
If either Miss C or Canada Square Operations Limited have  anything further to add, they should do so 
by 29 May 2019 and I will then reconsider all of the evidence.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9711586