K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2009. Mrs H says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs H says that she was unaware of the PPI policy, and that it must  have  been  added 
without her knowledge or consent.  She says that if shes been made aware  of the PPI, 
she wouldve declined it. Capital One has said that Mrs H applied for her card online  
and then completed a credit agreement that was sent to her in the post.  It has provided a 
copy of this paperwork. On this, I can see that the PPI is presented as an optional 
product, and has been selected with a tick. Mrs H has signed to confirm  this selection   
this is separate  to her signature  for the card. So I think  Capital One made it clear that 
Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant  remember  this as it was so long ago.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs H got the information she needed  to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means Capital  One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell 
Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said - including  what shes  said about having good  
sick pay from her employer and also having  a car and jewellery she couldve sold if she 
needed to. But the PPI couldve paid out on top of her existing sick pay, and for longer than 
shed have received full pay for  it could  also have prevented her from needing  to sell her 
Ref: DRN95995342possessions. So these  points dont change my decision, and for the reasons set out above, I 
dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mrs H any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9599534