K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the information that he was given by MBNA Limited when  he 
contacted it about his financial  difficulties.
background
Mr C has a credit card account with MBNA. He contacted it in November 2017  to ask for 
help with the interest as he was struggling to bring  the outstanding balance  down  as more 
than half of his monthly  payment was going  on interest. MBNA sent its final response letter 
to Mr C in December 2017  but he says that he didnt receive  it. He contacted  MBNA  again 
in August 2018 and it sent another final response  letter to Mr C in September  2018. He says 
that the advice  that he was given was wrong so he complained  to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that 
MBNA had offered appropriate support through Mr Cs financial difficulties and that it hadnt 
unfairly withheld any information. So she concluded  that she wouldnt be recommending  that 
any further action  be taken.
Mr C has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that its completely  unacceptable that someone should decide  which  facts  hes allowed to 
know and which hes not. And he says that he wasnt  told that it was possible to overpay on 
a repayment plan and avoid negative  financial  reporting.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A banks  required  to respond  to a customers financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. That doesnt mean that its obliged to refund charges, or to take any other 
particular action, as whats  appropriate  in each  case will depend on the customers  individual 
circumstances.
Mr C clearly feels strongly that MBNA gave him incorrect  information when he asked it for 
help with his interest  payment  and that it shouldve told him that he could make 
overpayments when  he was on a repayment  plan and avoid negative financial reporting.
MBNA says that it sent letters to Mr C in January 2017 and January 2018  to inform him that, 
as he was only making minimum payments to his account, he would pay more  interest and it 
would take longer to clear his balance.  And it says that it restricted his account to stop his 
balance increasing.  It also says that the income  and expenditure  information that it was 
given by Mr C showed that he could only afford a monthly payment of £32 - which  was less 
than the minimum monthly  payment required.  So it offered to waive  interest and charges but 
said that that would impact  his credit file. Mr C said that he didnt want to adversely  affect  his 
credit score but MBNA  said that it was obliged to report factual information  to credit 
reference agencies.  
MBNA also said in its September 2018  final response letter to Mr C that it had listened to its 
calls with Mr C and he was informed that interest  and fees would stop but a minimum 
payment would still be generated and, as he was unable to afford it, the account would fall 
Ref: DRN92390512into arrears which would  be reflected on his credit  file. And it said that Mr C had been 
provided with correct information  on each  call.
MBNA had assessed  Mr Cs income  and expenditure and it had offered him a reduced 
repayment arrangement  under which income and charges would be suspended  but it had 
said that the plan would  have to be reported to the credit reference  agencies.  Mr C didnt  
want that to happen  but he did want MBNA to suspend interest and charges but not report  
any adverse information  to the credit reference  agencies. Credit card providers are required 
to report true and accurate information  to the credit  reference agencies.  
If Mr C was able to afford to pay more  each month  than the reduced  payment that was 
required under  the repayment arrangement, I see no reason why MBNA would continue  to 
accept reduced payments  from him  or to continue  to suspend interest and charges on his 
account. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that MBNA has provided 
incorrect information to Mr C or that it has dealt with his account unfairly or unreasonably. So 
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require MBNA to 
refund to Mr C any of the interest and charges  that it has applied to his account  or to take 
any other action in response  to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9239051