K820x#14complaint
A, a limited  company, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc said it was going to 
restrict its account and that this caused  a loss of business income.
background
A received a letter from RBS saying that it needed to verify information  about its business. 
And A arranged for the identification of one of the shareholders to be confirmed in a branch. 
Unfortunately the branch did not note that this was verified before sending this to a central 
team. RBS contacted A about this and wrote to it saying that unless  it received  the verified 
information the account would be restricted.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. A said it had lost business 
as the director  suffered  worry  and did not work as much for it during this period. A is claiming  
£1,000 but she did not think  any loss due to this was foreseeable.
A did not agree and wanted  the complaint to be reviewed.  The director  said that RBS sent a 
threatening letter after he had spoken  to it. A had not received a copy  of the final response  
letter. And it thinks it has been punished  for RBS mistake.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that RBS had written to A on 7 March 2018 to ask for this information. It had been 
provided in branch. But by 27 March 2018 the central team had noted that this was not 
verified. A did not want to have to go back to a branch as RBS requested.  A letter  was sent 
to A on 9 April 2018 stating that if the information  was not provided the account would be 
restricted from 9 May 2018.  The director complained about this on 10 April 2018 and RBS 
issued a letter saying  that this had been resolved.
I appreciate that the director of A was upset and frustrated about this. But Im looking at a 
complaint by A which is a separate legal entity  and cannot suffer  distress.  A reasonably 
knew that it had the information required and that it had already provided it. Although it 
would have been inconvenient to have to visit a branch again  it could  have done  so as one 
option to mitigate  any potential  loss. But instead  it quickly pursued this with RBS, made a 
complaint and this was resolved. 
All the letters were  correctly addressed  to A and RBS cannot be responsible for any issues  
with the postal system.  There  was never  any restriction placed on As account and its not 
shown to me that it instead say had to open  an account elsewhere to continue trading.
RBS issued an apology  in the final response letter and said it had given feedback  to the 
branch staff involved.  Its clarified to me that it does not think that there  was an impact on A. 
Im afraid I think on balance that in this case the apology is a proportionate  response to what  
happened due to the administrative  error made here by RBS.  I dont think  that in the 
circumstances RBS was fairly responsible for any loss to A. So I dont  find it needs to do 
anything more to resolve  this complaint.
Ref: DRN98695962my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9869596