K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2000. Mr B says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
The card and policy were  originally sold by Egg, but Canada Square  has taken 
responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint, so Ill refer to Canada  Square in my 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr B applied  for his credit card and PPI online  he says that he thought that if he took 
PPI, he would be approved for the card, but if he didnt, his application would be 
declined. Canada  Square has shown that Mr B wouldve been presented with two 
options - to take PPI or to decline it. Both were  equally prominent, and Mr B wouldve 
had to select an option before he could complete his application. Neither option was 
presented in a way that would suggest  that taking or not taking PPI would influence  
being approved for the credit  card. And I havent  seen  anything  to show that Canada 
Square wouldve  sold Mr B his card and policy  in a different way to its usual process. So 
with this in mind,  I think Canada Square  made  it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out 
the PPI and he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he doesnt 
remember this as it was so long ago.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for him. But it did have  to make  sure Mr B got the information  he needed to decide if it 
was right for him.
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave  Mr B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been. But as I think he chose to take out the PPI - it looks like he wanted  this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it could 
have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put him off taking 
out the cover. 
This means Canada  Square doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:  
When the policy was sold,  Canada Square  expected to get a high level of commission  
and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr B about 
that. Because Canada Square didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN98750112To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B and his representatives have said, but these points dont 
change my decision, and for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold think  the PPI was mis-
sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9875011