K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that MBNA Limited  didnt  give him a reasonable opportunity to respond to its 
intention to raise the minimum monthly  repayment on his credit card.
background
MBNA wrote to its customers  to explain  it was going  to change the way it calculated  their 
monthly minimum repayments. It set a deadline  for them to reply. Mr S said he missed the 
deadline because  he was travelling. He wants it to return the minimum payment to its 
previous level.
MBNA said it wrote to Mr S on 23 August  2018  to tell him about  the change  in minimum 
payments. It told him if he didnt respond  by 26 September  it would take that to mean hed 
accepted the change. It also sent a text message and an email  on 6 September to remind 
him. It said it would  consider Mr Ss request to opt out at this late stage but asked if he could 
supply evidence he was travelling abroad. But Mr S wasnt able to supply this because his 
trip was paid for by someone else. And he didnt think  he should have to provide this 
evidence to support  his inability to make the call to MBNA. 
Our investigator didnt  think MBNA had done anything  wrong.  It gave Mr S sufficient notice to 
make the change in line with its terms and conditions.
Mr S wasnt  happy with this. He said hed given a valid reason for not contacting MBNA until 
a day after the cut off date.  So he wanted this Service to tell it to roll back the minimum 
payment to what it was before.  And he was upset  at the suggestion he was in financial 
difficulty.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for very similar reasons.
Mr S is unhappy MBNA changed the way it calculates the minimum monthly  repayment  on 
his credit card. But thats a commercial decision and not something we can look at. As our 
investigator explained, our role is limited. We try to sort out individual  complaints between 
consumers and financial institutions where the consumer thinks  he or she has lost out. We 
cant comment on processes which apply to all its customers. Thats the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  But we can look at Mr Ss experience with those processes and see if 
anything has gone wrong that has caused  him to lose out.
In line with its terms and conditions MBNA wrote to Mr S giving him the required notice it 
was going to change the way his minimum repayment on his credit card was to be calculated 
in the future. It told him to contact it by 26 September  2018  if he didnt accept this change. It 
sent him reminders  by text and email.
Ref: DRN99689202Mr S said he couldnt reply before the deadline because he was travelling. But he hasnt 
provided sufficient information  for me to conclude this prevented  him from contacting  MBNA 
before the deadline. I appreciate this was an all expenses paid trip so documentation was 
limited and that he shredded his boarding cards. But he hasnt explained  why he couldnt  ask 
the person or organisation who paid for his travelling to provide some  of the relevant 
documentation. He says he doesnt understand why he should have to provide this. But 
without any more information I dont have sufficient  evidence to conclude  that MBNA wasnt 
acting fairly  or unreasonably when it said it couldnt change the way it now calculates his 
minimum monthly repayment. So I dont think its done anything  wrong.
Our investigator gave  some options to Mr S if he was having financial difficulties. Mr S was 
upset by that suggestion so it seems that the new payment isnt causing him any problems. 
So Im not going to ask MBNA  to do anything further.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9968920