K821x#15complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain  about how Covea Insurance plc handled and settled a claim they 
made under their home insurance policy after they suffered an escape  of water. 
background
Mrs and Mr M have  buildings  and contents  insurance with Covea, which  they took out on 25 
April 2017. On 6 April 2018 they contacted Covea to report  water damage to their bathroom 
from a leak coming from a pipe, which was located behind their bath. Prior to this they had 
arranged their own plumber to attend their property due to issues  they were  having with their 
heating. 
Their plumber removed  part of the bath panel and noticed a leak in the pipe, which had 
caused significant water damage.  Mrs and Mr M said stagnant  water  had pooled under the 
bath, which  had caused the floor to decay and rot. And when part of the bath panel was 
removed the water leaked out onto the carpeted floor. They  said this damaged the carpet. 
So, it had to be uplifted and disposed of.
Mrs and Mr M provided Covea with a cause  of damage report, which included photographs 
of the damage  and an estimate for the likely repair costs. After  Covea received this it 
instructed a buildings inspector, which Ill refer to as B in this decision, to inspect the 
damage sustained  to Mrs and Mr Ms property and scope  the repair works.
B told Covea  that the damage  in Mrs and Mr Bs bathroom had been caused  by two 
separate issues; the first was due to a lack of sealant and grout on the tiles around the bath 
and shower area and the second was the leaking pipe that had been repaired by Mrs and Mr 
Ms plumber. 
Covea thought the sealant and grout issues had caused water to penetrate the tiles 
gradually over a period of time. And due to the extent of damage  to the floorboards Covea 
felt the leak had also been  occurring  gradually  over a period of time. Covea told Mrs and Mr 
M that their insurance policy excluded any damage that had been  caused gradually over a 
period of time or due to a lack of sealant  or grout.  
Mrs and Mr M werent happy about how Covea was intending to resolve their claim or how B 
had investigated  and assessed the damage their property had sustained. They  thought the 
space around their bath was well sealed. And they said they were unaware of the damaged 
pipe because the pipework had been concealed by a wooden box, which  had been present 
since theyd bought their house many years ago. They said it was only when part of the bath 
panel had been cut away that they were  made  aware of the damage.  
Covea didnt uphold  Mrs and Mr Ms complaint  about  the way it had settled their claim for 
water damage. But it did uphold  their complaint about the service theyd experienced from B. 
And it sent them a cheque  for £100 in recognition of the trouble and upset theyd been 
caused.
Being dissatisfied with Coveas refusal  to meet  their claim Mrs and Mr M referred their 
complaint to our service. Our investigator  looked into what had happened and didnt think  
Covea had acted  fairly.  She was persuaded Mrs and Mr M were unaware of the damage 
occurring and she didnt  think  an issue  with the grouting was the main  cause  of the damage 
sustained.  So, she thought Covea  should  honour  their claim and pay £200  compensation for 
Ref: DRN94736342the delays they experienced  because their claim had been declined.  But Covea disagreed 
and asked for this complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that water damage  occurred to Mrs and Mr Ms property and that their 
bathroom incurred  significant damage. However,  theres a dispute between Mrs and Mr M, 
Covea and its appointed agents about  the correct outcome of this claim.  
First of all, Ill address whether I think Covea acted fairly in declining  to cover this claim due 
to problems with the bathroom  grout.
Its clear that Covea thinks the damage  caused  to Mrs and Mr Ms bathroom was the result  
of poor and absent sealant or grout.  So it declined to cover this claim because, under the 
terms of Mrs and Mr Ms policy, water  damage  that has been caused by the inadequacy or 
absence of appropriate sealant or grout is excluded.
Ive carefully considered  the reasons why Covea thinks  the water damage  was caused by 
grout and sealant  issues. It says photographs of Mrs and Mr Ms bathroom  show  rust from 
both bath taps, which has stained the bath. But our investigator thought rust isnt always an 
indication of a leak as it can occur in circumstances where no leak is present, and I agree.
Covea also said theres grout missing  above the sink and theres also a very large  gap in the 
tiles under the shower, which has missing bits of grout. It says a panel  on the wall where the 
shower is located isnt flush to the side of the wall. And it says the tiles above the bath arent  
level as some appear to have moved  forward. But none of this was commented on by B in its 
report. And if B had thought this had caused  damage to the joists and floorboards  under the 
bath I would have  expected this to be mentioned.
Im not persuaded that the photographs of Mrs and Mr Ms bathroom that Ive seen show a 
gap in the grouting. There are some  colour  changes. But as our investigators already  
explained this could be due to dirt or mould, which isnt unusual in a bathroom. Mould can 
occur without any leak being present. And I dont  think  the presence  of mould ought to have 
made Mrs and Mr M think there was a leak. 
Overall, Im not satisfied  that Covea has shown that a grout or sealant issue  is responsible  
for the water damage that was found underneath  the bath. And Ive seen nothing to 
demonstrate that Mrs and Mr M ought  to have suspected  a leak based  on what  they could 
immediately see. With that in mind I think its unfair  for Covea to rely on a clause that allows 
it refuse to meet a claim due to the absence of sealant or grout.
Ill turn now to whether Covea acted fairly in declining to cover this claim under the gradual 
damage exclusion clause.  
The terms of Mrs and Mr Ms policy outline  the circumstances  in which  loss or damage 
caused by an escape of water will be covered. Covea seek to rely on a general  exclusion 
that avoids it covering  loss or damage  caused  by wear and tear, wet or dry rot or anything 
which happens gradually.
Ref: DRN94736343Its not disputed  that the floorboards and joists near to the bath and sink are decayed by wet 
rot. Rot isnt something  that happens  suddenly; instead it happens over a period of time. So I 
can understand why Covea  has referred Mrs and Mr M and our service to the policy  clause 
that excludes gradual damage.  However,  where damage has been caused gradually  our 
approach would be to determine  whether Mrs and Mr M ought reasonably to have been 
aware of the damage occurring. 
Im satisfied the leaking pipe was located behind the bath. This is where Mrs and Mr M said 
the leak originated  and its also what B wrote in its report. The photographs Ive seen show  
that the pipework  and flooring underneath  the bath is concealed by a wooden bath panel. So 
this area could only be seen if the bath panel was removed. Mrs and Mr M said the 
bathroom carpet didnt  look or feel wet. And this all goes  to explain why they only became 
aware of the leak and water damage when  their plumber removed part of the bath panel.
In those circumstances I cant fairly  find that Mrs and Mr M ought to have been reasonably  
aware of either the leaking pipe or the damage  before it was pointed out to them  by their 
plumber. They had no reason to suspect  that the pipe was leaking and theres no evidence 
to suggest they had reason to remove the bath panel until their plumber attended their 
home. Mrs and Mr M couldnt have taken  any steps to prevent the damage becoming  worse 
if they werent aware of it. With that mind Im not persuaded that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Covea to rely on a gradual  damage exclusion clause here.
I can understand how upsetting and inconvenient it must have been to Mrs and Mr M when 
Covea declined their claim. Our investigator recommended that Covea  pay compensation to 
them of £200  for the delays they experienced because their claim was declined. Mr and Mrs 
M were  happy with this amount  and Im satisfied this it fairly reflects the inconvenience they 
were caused  here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to: 
Pay the claim Mrs and Mr M made  in connection with the water  damage to their 
home;
Pay £200 compensation to recognise  the delays Mrs and Mr M experienced while  
their claim was not met. This compensation  must  be paid within 28 days  of the date 
on which we tell it Mrs and Mr M accept my final decision. If Covea Insurance plc 
pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my 
final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 February  2020
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9473634