K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about Equifax Limited  - that an incorrect address is showing within his 
credit report.  Mr W has said that hes never  lived at the address.
background
I issued my provisional decision in October 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mr W or Equifax sent me anything further to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions    
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
Neither party has provided more information,  so for the reasons Ive explained in my provisional  
decision, I dont  uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject 
my decision  before 12 December 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Copy of provisional decision
Ref: DRN98533592complaint
Mr W has complained that an incorrect  address is showing within his credit report. Mr W has said that 
hes never lived at the address.
background
An address is showing on a third party credit report  (B1)  that Mr W says isnt an address hes 
previously lived at. Mr W asked Equifax to delete the address but theyve said that they cant do so as 
the information was provided by another business  which Ill refer to as B2. 
B2 had reported there was a credit agreement registered to that address  in Mr Ws name.  
Mr W accepts that he had a credit agreement linked to the address  in question. 
Equifax tried to clarify the address information with B2. They responded  to say; The address noted  is 
the property  address on our systems . Equifax  at a later date asked B2 to confirm whether or not Mr 
W lived at the address. But, as of yet B2 hasnt responded. Equifax  have said that for as long as B2 
doesnt respond, the address wont  appear on Mr Ws file.  
Equifax have provided an example to show what lenders see when the address is on Mr Ws file and 
lenders view his Equifax credit report. Theyve also said this address isnt affecting  Mr Ws credit  
score and have provided both our service  and Mr W with a copy of his credit report. 
In summary, our investigator concluded that they wouldnt  be asking Equifax  to change  their report  
database or change the record of the address. Mr W didnt accept our investigators findings so the 
complaint has been passed  to me for a decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In this case Mr W has complained about  a type of report generated by a third party - B1. 
B1 is not a credit reference  agency   it provides credit  information  services  by searching a customers 
credit file and then presents  this information back in its own format. The type of report  generated by 
B1 is not relied  on by lenders when they are making  a lending decision.  
To be clear,  Equifax  is not responsible for the report generated by B1. Equifax as a credit reference 
agency has a duty to accurately report data. 
Equifax relies on financial  businesses providing  it with up to date and accurate information. But its not 
responsible for creating  that information. In turn, Equifax has a responsibility  to accurately report  the 
information provided  to it by credit providers.
So, my decision will consider  whether  Equifax have accurately reported Mr Ws data, but not how the 
third party, B1 have in turn presented Mr Ws data in their own report. If Mr W is unhappy with what 
B1 has done, he has the option of making  a complaint directly to them. 
Mr W has said that the version of the information  available online  to him is different to the information 
that is seen  by lenders  who read his credit report. This isnt particularly unusual as lenders will all 
have their own lending criteria and not all of the information contained  in the version available  for 
lenders will be relevant for Mr W. 
Equifax has taken positive steps such as:
Removing the B2 entry and address from Mr Ws credit report  until they get a reply from them;
Ref: DRN98533593They  offered Mr W the opportunity to add a notice of correction to his credit report - hes said 
no; 
Theyve provided examples of what the information looks  like to lenders and
Theyve shown us and Mr W a copy of his credit report.  
In this case I cant say that Equifax has acted unfairly or unreasonably as theyre  accurately reporting 
Mr Ws data and taken reasonable steps to clarify  the address in question  with B2.
I wont be asking Equifax to permanently remove the address that Mr W has questioned as its an 
address linked to Mr W. I also dont think Mr W has lost out because  of how Equifax have reported the 
address information as theyve told us that the address  information in question is not a negative  on Mr 
Ws credit report. 
The address is not currently showing on Mr Ws report and this wont change until B2 respond to 
Equifax and clarify whether or not the address is one Mr W lived at. Equifax have said that this entry 
is a positive on Mr Ws credit report so he should bear this in mind as it currently wont appear to 
lenders. 
Whilst Mr W wants Equifax to change  its system, Im not the industry  regulator  so its not for me to 
determine if its for Equifax  to change its system to accommodate the data provided to it by financial 
businesses. 
Whilst I appreciate  that this situation has been very frustrating for Mr W, I dont think that hes lost out 
or been unfairly or unreasonably treated by Equifax. So, I dont currently require  Equifax to do 
anything further. 
Mr W has referred to making a subject access request  to Equifax to check  that the information  being  
held about him is correct.  Mr W still has this option available if he so wishes. But I hope that by asking 
Equifax to provide  Mr W with a copy of his credit report,
it has put his mind  at ease.
my provisional  decision
I currently dont intend to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. But if Mr W or Equifax Limited  have anything 
further they wish to add, they should do so by 5 November 2019  and Ill then reconsider  the 
complaint. 
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9853359