K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
From what  we know of how Halifax normally sold PPI policies like Mr Rs, I think its likely 
Halifax asked whether Mr R wanted  the PPI  and added it to his application only after hed 
said that he wanted it.
Mr R doesnt think this happened in his case.  He says that at no point was it clear  to him that 
the PPI was optional. But from what hes told us, he doesnt remember  much about the sale.  
Thats not surprising,  given how long ago it was. But with this in mind,  what  Mr R has said 
about this isnt enough on its own to make me think Halifax didnt give him a choice about 
the PPI like I think it normally  wouldve. And Ive not seen anything else that makes me think  
Halifax didnt give Mr R a choice.
So, on balance, I think its likely Halifax made  it clear  that Mr R didnt have to take the PPI 
and he chose to take it  but I can understand why he might not remember this now.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr R, so it had to check  the PPI was right for him. And from 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was right for him. For 
example, he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover   so he 
couldve claimed the PPI benefit if the circumstances arose.  And he seems to have had a 
need for the cover.
For example, the PPI benefit wouldve been  paid out on top of Mr Rs work benefits. From 
what Mr R has told us, his work sick pay wouldve halved after six months. For a successful  
disability or unemployment claim, the PPI wouldve paid out for longer - and until the card 
balance was cleared. And Mr R didnt have anything else to help with his card payments.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr R about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think its likely he chose to take it - so it looks  to me like he wanted this type of 
cover. And, for the reasons  Ive already given above, it seems like the cover would have 
been useful for Mr R if something went wrong.  It also looks  like the PPI was affordable. So, 
taking everything into account, I dont think  better information about the PPI would  have put 
Mr R off taking  out the cover.
What Ive said above means Halifax  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr R. But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because:
Ref: DRN92413502When the PPI was sold, Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr R about that. Because  Halifax 
didnt tell Mr R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about all Mr Rs points - including what hes said about his work  benefits and the 
costs and benefits of the PPI policy not having  been made  clear.  But, for the reasons Ive 
already given above, these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr R.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr R any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9241350