K820x#14complaint
Mr As unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) withdrew a 0% 
instalment plan without  notice  on the basis of affordability. He says he doesnt understand 
why this happened as he regularly significantly overpays his account.  He wants  the offer 
reinstated. 
background
Barclays has acknowledged  that its automated systems decision felt unfair. And its agreed 
to freeze  Mr As account  for four months  and pay him £50 compensation as a goodwill 
gesture. But Mr A didnt  think this was fair.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Barclays has said the decision  about  whether to approve an instalment plan is an 
automated action on its systems. When a customer calls to take advantage of the 
instalment plan offer its system decides if any transactions can be applied to a plan 
and if so for how long.  Unfortunately Barclays cannot provide any more information 
as to why it system  decided it couldnt approve the instalment plan based on 
affordability.
Barclays says instalment plans are usually for periods  of three  to twelve months and 
it made its offer of four months interest  free to assist Mr A with his repayments.  
We cant make Barclays  agree to offer an instalment plan as it will be subject to 
terms and conditions.  But it has acknowledged  why its automated decision felt unfair 
and made a reasonable offer to make  up for Mr As disappointment.  There isnt any 
more she can fairly  ask Barclays to do.
Mr A remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review. He says Barclays needs to 
explain why the system  decided  it couldnt approve the instalment plan on affordability. Its 
offer isnt enough  as an instalment plan can extend  for up to 24 months. Its offer isnt good  
enough. The instalment plan should  be reinstated for the product  he purchased in good faith 
solely on their offer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has pointed out that it cant guarantee eligibility for the instalment offer as this is 
judged by its system. It says instalment offers are refreshed  every month and are not 
guaranteed permanently on an account. Even if an offer has been  made  available to a 
customer its still subject to a check based on account usage and the amount of the 
purchase intended for the plan. Eligibility  is determined automatically by its system and not 
manually by agents.
Here Barclays system considered Mr A ineligible for the instalment offer on this occasion  
despite him paying into his account multiple  times  over the course of a month. 
Ref: DRN91427592I can understand Mr As disappointment when he wasnt  given the instalment offer on this 
basis. And Barclays has acknowledged that basing  its decision on affordability seems  
incorrect.
Mr A would like the original plan reinstated. Its unfortunate Barclays  cannot  give any further  
detail on the reason for its system declining Mr As application. But as Barclays  has said its 
check takes account of account usage  and the amount of the purchase intended for the 
plan. It also says acceptance for the instalment plan isnt guaranteed and the plans normally  
run for up to 12 months.  It also points out that plans arent guaranteed permanently  on an 
account.
As such I dont think its possible for me to now say exactly what instalment plan the system  
wouldve likely approved  for Mr A if it had deemed it affordable  for him. And as result I dont 
think I can fairly or reasonably ask Barclays to institute a plan for Mr A as hed like.
In this case Barclays has offered Mr A four months  interest free and £50 compensation as a 
goodwill gesture.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think Barclays  has 
made a fair attempt  to try to put things right and I think its offer is reasonable. And although I 
understand Mr As frustration and strength of feeling, I dont think  I can fairly or reasonably 
require it to do or offer any more including putting in place an instalment plan as hed like. I 
simply leave it to Mr A to decide  if he now wants to accept Barclays  offer.
Overall, I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9142759