K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BOS) took too long to communicate new rules 
about customers in persistent  credit card debt. 
background
Mr H has a credit card account with BOS.  He received letters  from BOS  in 2018 about the 
level of his debt and the repayments he was making  towards  the account. He was upset by 
the content of this correspondence and he thinks BOS failed to comply with relevant FCA 
rules. 
Mr H says BOS  should have told him about  the effect of the new rules earlier  - in which  case  
he would  have had the chance to change the way he managed  the account. He thinks BOS 
should have provided details of his new minimum payment amount in a letter it sent in 
September 2018 - or been able to provide  this information when he got in touch after 
receiving the letter.  Mr H is also unhappy that BOS  offered to increase his credit limit just 
before the new rules  came into force. Hes concerned about the potential impact  of all of this 
on his credit status and he would like BOS to apologise and pay more  compensation.  
BOS says new FCA regulations meant it had to provide certain information to customers  
who met the definition of being in persistent debt. It wrote to Mr H in May 2018 to let him 
know that hed been paying  the minimum monthly amount (or just over) for a number of 
consecutive months which meant  it would  it would take longer to repay what  he owed and 
hed pay more interest. Then it wrote again in September  2018 to let him know  more  about 
the new rules and options available. In December the same  year BOS told Mr H that his 
minimum payment would increase from 1% to 2.5%  of the outstanding balance from January 
2019 so his monthly minimum  repayment would probably go up to around  £450. 
BOS considers the content of this correspondence  was correct and in keeping  with the 
account terms and FCA rules. It has no record of a call from Mr H about  his new minimum 
payment in September - but says that would have to be calculated  based on the account 
balance when the new payment was due. 
BOS accepts it increased Mr Hs credit limit in March 2018 but says that was done  in 
accordance with its usual  lending  criteria.  It acknowledges  Mr H should have received better 
service at times - he should have been  told his complaint would be closed in December 
2018, for example - and apologised for any upset  or inconvenience caused. It offered  to pay 
Mr H £100 compensation  for distress and inconvenience, before he referred the complaint to 
this service.    
Our adjudicator reviewed  the letters BOS sent to Mr H. Hes satisfied they provide 
information required by the FCA and he doesnt think it was wrong of BOS to write to Mr H in 
this way. He appreciates Mr H says he would have increased his payments if BOS had 
communicated this information sooner and avoided receiving this upsetting  correspondence.  
But our adjudicator thinks BOS is likely to have presented  the information in the same  way 
even if it had contacted Mr H earlier - and its likely  Mr H would still have been unhappy 
about that. 
Our adjudicator accepts  it might have been useful if BOS had included  a link to the FCAs 
new rules in correspondence. But hes says it was for BOS to decide  what information to 
include in its letters. Hes not persuaded it was wrong of BOS  to increase Mr Hs credit limit. 
Ref: DRN96111032Hes satisfied Mr H was maintaining his monthly  repayments at the time and he had the 
option to keep his existing  credit  limit if he wanted  to.
Our adjudicator thinks its understandable that Mr H is concerned  about his credit status. But 
Mr H has confirmed theres  been no adverse impact on his credit file yet - and he hasnt 
been incurred  any financial  loss because of the banks  actions.  Our adjudicator  thinks  the 
offer BOS  made seems fair overall and he doesnt  recommend it should have to do anything 
further.
Mr H disagrees.  In summary, he says our adjudicator didnt take the lack of advance notice 
about the new rules  into account - or consider the letter dated 24 September 2018 properly. 
He thinks this letter was sent outside the FCA deadline and contains threats. He says it 
should have included a website link to new rules  and there was a further  two months  delay 
from receiving  this in calculating his new minimum monthly payment. 
Mr H considers BOS had the chance to communicate the new rules at a much earlier stage. 
He says the fact that it didnt meant he was deprived  of the opportunity to make  
amendments to his account. And he asked BOS what  the monthly payment should be in 
September 2018 - but it took nearly  three  months to provide this information, causing more  
worry and upset. 
Mr H wants BOS to pay compensation  consisting  of either 
repayment of the difference between  his new monthly payment and his previous 
payment which  amounts  to £200  a month  for six months from June to November 
2018 -  £1200.00 with interest;  or 
repayment of interest charged on his account  from June until November 2018 along  
with the £100.00 offered already.
He asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have reached much the same 
conclusions as our adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the wider  circumstances. 
new FCA rules  
In February 2018  the FCA announced  new rules  about credit  cards and persistent debt. 
These are quite detailed  and may be found in the FCA Handbook at CONC 6.7.27  so Im not 
going to reproduce them here.  I have  considered  the rules and the FCAs transitional  
arrangements carefully.
The rules  came into effect on 1 March  2018 and financial businesses were  given six months  
to fully comply. But this doesnt mean  that financial businesses had to do everything by 1 
September 2018. They are required instead to take a series  of escalating steps in 
accordance with the timeframe set out in the rules. 
Ref: DRN96111033A customer who may be considered to be in persistent debt is one who has paid more in 
charges, interest  and fees in the past 18 months  than theyve paid off their borrowing. I am 
satisfied that BOS was required  (insofar as its relevant  here) to 
help customers making low repayments  over a long period by getting in touch to 
prompt changes in their repayment pattern;
let customers know that they may be considered to be in persistent debt and explain 
that increasing payments will reduce the cost of any borrowing and repay the balance  
sooner;
encourage customers to get in touch to discuss their finances and see if the 
customer could afford  to increase payments without an adversely affecting their 
financial situation;
provide information  on free debt counselling  services; and 
tell customers about the implications of getting  to 36 months in persistent debt which 
might include  card suspension and other steps as well as and possible impact on 
their credit file. 
I have considered the letters BOS  sent Mr H in 2018. Like our adjudicator, I am satisfied that 
BOS complied with its obligations  under the new rules and I think the correspondence it sent 
is in line with the FCA guidance.  
Mr H has explained that he is a long standing customer of BOS and he has always made  his 
payments on time. I realise it was probably upsetting for him to receive these letters - which 
refer to persistent debt.  But, I am not persuaded that it was wrong of BOS to let Mr H know  
that he could be considered to be in persistent debt under the new rules - and this might  
eventually be recorded on his credit history - in this situation. 
I appreciate Mr H feels some of the phrasing  in these letters  sounded a bit threatening or 
unfair. But I dont think  that was the intention - and I dont consider  the content  was abusive. 
The letters BOS sent here were  generic  and some of the wording used reflects  that set out 
by the FCA. I cant fairly find it was wrong  of BOS to use similar terminology, in these 
circumstances. 
I understand Mr H feels BOS should  have been more transparent about the impact of the 
new rules earlier - and included a link to the FCA website in correspondence  it sent.  I 
appreciate he might  have  found this helpful. But BOS wasnt  required to contact Mr H sooner 
or write to him in the way that he might have preferred - or include a web-link. So, Im unable  
to reasonably say it has done something  wrong. 
Mr H told our adjudicator recently that he has changed the way he makes payments now 
and no longer considers himself to be a persistent debtor. I understand hes unhappy that he 
didnt receive a letter from BOS thanking him for that. But, as our adjudicator  has explained, 
BOS wasnt required to acknowledge this change - and we wouldnt generally expect it to do 
so in this situation. 
Mr H has told us that hes also unhappy  about some  of the wording in his monthly 
statements - about  possible default  charges. I realise this probably feels unnecessary as 
hes never missed a payment. But, financial businesses like BOS  need  to let customers  
know when default  charges may be applied. I am satisfied this wording is not intended to 
upset or threaten and I cant reasonably say its wrong of BOS to include it in monthly 
statements. 
Ref: DRN96111034credit limits
BOS wrote to Mr H in February 2018 offering to increase his credit limit the following month. 
I can see why this feels inconsistent to Mr H - when BOS went  on to class him as a 
persistent debtor not long after. BOS  says the increase was offered in line with its usual  
lending criteria - which Mr H met at the relevant time. This increase was offered before the 
new rules came into force.  Im satisfied Mr H had the option to refuse it then if he wanted to. 
And Im unable to say it was wrong  of BOS to increase his credit  limit.  
credit history
Mr H has confirmed that theres been  no adverse  impact on his credit file so far. I understand 
hes worried  about what may be recorded in the future - but that will depend  on how the 
account is managed.  When  BOS  reports to credit reference agencies  it is required to do so 
accurately. If Mr H has concerns about  any of the information BOS  records  going  forward  he 
should raise that with the business.  And, if hes unhappy with the response he receives  then, 
he may be able to bring another  complaint to this service. 
From the information I have seen, I cant fairly  find that BOS  has acted inappropriately here 
and I am not persuaded that it has treated Mr H unfairly overall. BOS accepts Mr H could 
have received better customer service at times and offered to pay him £100 compensation 
for any inconvenience and distress  this caused. I find this is fair in all of the circumstances  
and I do not think  it would be reasonable to order BOS to do anything  further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is Bank Of Scotland plc should  pay Mr H £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  (if it hasnt already done  so). I do not require it 
to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9611103