K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained that the Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies alongside  two loans.
background
Mrs M complained about the way RBS sold PPI alongside two loans. RBS investigated the 
complaint, and agreed it should be upheld. It worked out it needed to pay £2,273.30,  which  
was a refund  of the PPI premiums and interest Mrs M had paid,  and simple  interest  to 
compensate her for the time Mrs M had been  out of pocket.
But in 2009 Mrs M granted a trust deed, conveying her estate  to a trustee for the benefit of 
her creditors  generally. This trust became protected under Scottish insolvency law, and she 
was discharged from the deed in October 2012.
RBS says that at the point she granted the trust deed, Mrs M had another  loan with an 
outstanding balance of £8,515.61. RBS says that following discharge from the trust deed, 
Mrs M never  had to pay back the amount she owed. And so RBS has used  the 
compensation to reduce the amount that wasnt repaid after Mrs M was discharged from the 
trust deed.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 September 2019. My provisional decision explained why, 
based on what Id seen, what RBS proposed to do was fair. And I said Id consider any 
further information I received by 3 October  2019. A copy  of the provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
RBS said it has nothing  further to add. 
Mrs M didnt  agree. She says that the PPI related to previous loans that shed paid in full, 
and doesnt relate to the loan that she had when she entered the trust deed. So she feels  
that regardless of what she didnt repay  because  of the trust deed,  the PPI wasnt included  in 
that debt  and so she should get the money directly.
Ive now looked  at the complaint again.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the relevant law and regulations,  regulators  rules, guidance and 
standards; codes  of practice and  where  appropriate  what  I consider to have been  good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
RBS has agreed that Mrs Ms complaint should  be upheld.  So I now need to decide  whether 
or not its fair for RBS to deduct  the compensation for mis-selling PPI from the amount Mrs M 
didnt have to repay  after she was discharged from the trust deed.
Ive carefully considered  Mrs Ms response  to my provisional findings. She points out that the 
debt the PPI was attached to wasnt included in the trust deed.
Ref: DRN90122672But Im not persuaded that this makes a difference in Mrs Ms case.
The compensation RBS has worked out for mis-selling  PPI is a lot less than the amount 
Mrs M hasnt  had to repay because  of the trust deed. The trust deed means that RBS cannot 
now chase Mrs M for the amount she didnt  repay.  I dont see how it would be fair to tell RBS 
to pay the PPI compensation to Mrs M directly when she didnt have to pay a far greater debt 
thanks to the trust deed.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, and in my provisional  decision, I think its fair for 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to use Mrs Ms compensation to reduce  the moneys owed 
and left unpaid  when her trust deed  came  to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M accept  or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN90122673copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs M has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  mis-sold  her payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies alongside two loans.
background
Mrs M complained about  the way RBS sold PPI alongside two loans.
RBS investigated the complaint, and agreed it should be upheld.  It worked out it needed to pay 
£2,273.30  which was a refund of the PPI premiums and interest Mrs M had paid, and simple interest 
to compensate her for the time Mrs M had been out of pocket.
But in 2009, Mrs M granted a trust deed, conveying her estate to a trustee  for the benefit of her 
creditors generally. This trust became  protected under Scottish  insolvency law, and she was 
discharged from the deed in October 2012.
RBS says that at the point  she granted the trust deed, she had another  loan with an outstanding  
balance of £8,515.61.  RBS says that following  discharge from the trust deed,  she never  had to pay 
back the amount  she owed. And so RBS has used the compensation  to reduce the amount that 
wasnt repaid  after Mrs M was discharged from the trust deed.
Our adjudicator looked  at the complaint. At first, she thought what  RBS had done is fair. 
Mrs M didnt agree  she said the PPI policies  werent connected  to the debt in the trust deed,  that 
discharge from the deed  meant that RBS couldnt pursue her for any debts, and that, in any case, it 
had been more  than six years since shed  had the debt.
In the meantime, we were contacted by the trustee of Mrs Ms trust deed,  who said he had an interest 
in Mrs Ms redress.
The adjudicator then said that RBS should pay the compensation to the trustee  for the benefit  of Mrs 
Ms other creditors.
RBS didnt  agree. It thinks it should first use the compensation to reduce what Mrs M owed it  and 
only if there was an excess would it pay this to the trustee.
As neither  side agreed with the adjudicator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
When deciding what, in my opinion, is fair and reasonable, the rules say I must  take into account  the 
relevant law and regulations;  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice; and  
where appropriate   what I consider to have  been  good industry practice at the relevant time.  This is 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) rule 3.6.4, which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook.
When I decide   or a business agrees  that a complaint about the sale of PPI should  be upheld, Id 
expect the business to try to put the complainant in the position theyd be in if they hadnt bought the 
policy.
Ref: DRN90122674RBS has agreed that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. And Mrs M agreed with the amount RBS 
worked out. So all I need to decide is whether or not its fair for RBS to deduct the compensation for 
mis-selling PPI from the amount Mrs M didnt have to repay after she was discharged  from the trust 
deed.
Mrs M granted the trust deed  in 2009, and thanks to this her creditors only got back part of what  she 
owed them. RBS has sent me records of a loan Mrs M had with them that started in 2008.  She 
borrowed £4,930.24  to repay existing  debt, and a further £5,069.76 in new borrowing   or £10,000.  
£8,426.74 of this remained to be repaid when  she was discharged from the trust deed.
RBS has worked  out that it would need to pay £2,273.30 because  of the mis-sold PPI. This is a lot 
less than Mrs M owed and didnt repay because of the trust deed.  And so RBS proposes to pay the 
compensation towards the amount that wasnt repaid. 
Having taken  into account all the relevant factors, I think that what RBS has done is fair. Ill explain 
why.
Ive first considered what  the courts  might  do. I recognise  that in some cases the Scottish courts  have 
said that someone whos been discharged  from a trust deed could be paid PPI compensation. In 
Dooneen Ltd v Mond  [2018]  UKSC 54, the UK Supreme Court considered  the effect  of a discharge  
following a final distribution by the trustee.  In that case, the discharge was held to return  any 
unrealised assets to the debtor  and that included  unclaimed PPI compensation.
In Donnelly v The Royal Bank of Scotland [2017] SAC (Civ) 1, the Sheriff Appeal Court considered 
whether RBS could offset PPI compensation against the amount that hadnt been repaid  when the 
trust deed came to an end. The terms of the trust deed in that case  meant RBS had, in effect, agreed 
the debt would be extinguished  and it couldnt  later revive  the debt to offset the PPI compensation. 
(I note RBS has appealed this, so the outcome may change.)
I dont know if the terms of Mrs Ms trust deed were the same as in the cases  above,  though I 
understand those terms were used widely  but are no longer used today. So I acknowledge that in 
some cases the Scottish  courts might  say that a business needs to pay PPI compensation to a 
consumer, notwithstanding any amounts that might have gone unpaid  when the trust deed ended.
But regardless of the terms of Mrs Ms trust deed, I dont think such an outcome would  be fair.
The law and our rules  dont require me to make decisions  in accordance  with Scots law. I dont have  
to make the same award that a court would  make if I dont think it would  be fair to do so.
In this case, the amount RBS has worked  out it needs to pay Mrs M is a lot less than the amount she 
didnt have to pay because of the trust deed. RBS can no longer pursue Mrs M for the money  she 
didnt have to repay. 
Its also clear that, if Mrs M  or her trustee  had realised  shed been mis-sold PPI before the trust 
deed ended, RBS would  have been able to use the compensation to reduce what she owed  it  or, 
alternatively, it could have  been paid to the trustee  for the benefit  of all her creditors.  She wouldnt 
have got this money  directly.
Im also mindful  that the loan that Mrs M didnt  need to repay because of the trust deed repaid an 
existing loan she had with RBS. I think its possible  that, if RBS hadnt sold Mrs M the PPI policies to 
begin with, shed still have  ended  up in a protected trust deed   but owed less. And thats the position 
RBSs offer puts her in. Id also normally  say it was fair, where a debt hasnt been repaid, for RBS to 
deduct the value of any arrears from any compensation it offered.
So in all the circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint,  I dont  think it would  be fair to tell RBS to pay the 
compensation to Mrs M directly.
Ref: DRN90122675Ive considered Mrs Ms other comments. She says that the PPI policies werent connected to any of 
the debts included in her trust deed. Shes also suggested that as the debt is over six years old, and 
part of a protected  trust deed, no further action should be taken against her for the recovery of this 
money. But this doesnt  change my conclusion:  RBS isnt chasing Mrs M for this money, but I think  its 
fair for them to take it into account when it works  out if it needs  to pay her any compensation  directly 
for PPI mis-selling.
Finally, the former trustee of Mrs Ms trust deed has told us he has an interest in any redress payable. 
But I think whether RBS should instead pay the redress to the trustee  for the benefit  of Mrs Ms other 
creditors is a separate matter between the trustee and RBS,  so I dont propose to look at this in my 
decision.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, I think  its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use Mrs Ms 
compensation for mis-sold  PPI to reduce the amount she owed and didnt repay  when  her trust deed 
came to an end. So subject to anything  else Mrs M or RBS tell me, I dont propose to make a further 
award.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9012267