K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that when  he applied  for a loan online National Westminster Bank Plc 
quoted an interest  rate that was significantly lower than the one it eventually  gave him.
background
Mr S made an application online for a consolidation loan. He saw that NatWest was 
advertising a rate of 3.4% and clicked through the website without realising  the interest rate 
being offered  was 9.9%. It was then too late. He phoned the Lending Centre at NatWest to 
ask why this had happened  but was told to go to a local branch to discuss  this. He did that 
but the local branch didnt have anywhere private. And it told him it couldnt help him and 
directed him back to the Lending  Centre.
NatWest said its website  makes it clear that 3.4%  is a representative rate for loans between 
£7,500 and £19,950. Other loan amounts  are available at different rates. And it said all rates  
are dependant on a customers  individual  circumstances.  But it agreed it shouldnt  have told 
him to visit his local branch to discuss the interest rate. So it paid him £80 compensation and 
reimbursed him £11.80  for his parking  and fuel. 
Our investigator didnt  think NatWest  should  do anything more.  He looked at NatWests 
website and could  see the interest  rate itd quoted was not applicable for the amount of 
money Mr S wanted to borrow.  And it said the rate was dependant  on his personal 
circumstances. He didnt  think  the amount of compensation NatWest paid Mr S was 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
Mr S wasnt  happy with this. He said hed been  a loyal customer and hadnt had a proper 
explanation about why NatWest wanted  to charge him more than another  bank. He was also 
concerned that the search was on his credit profile and he wanted  it removed.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator for very similar reasons.
I know Mr S wont agree  with me but I think NatWest made it clear on its website  that the 
3.4% interest rate wasnt applicable for the amount  of money  he wanted to borrow. And I 
think it made it clear that any rate was dependant on his personal circumstances. Mr S said 
he clicked through the website until it was too late but I cant fairly  find NatWest  was 
responsible for that.
Once Mr S realised what the interest  rate was going  to be he phoned the Lending Centre. 
But it told him it couldnt help him and redirected him to a local branch. NatWest  said it 
shouldnt have done that. Its reimbursed  him the cost of his journey and its paid him £80 
compensation for the inconvenience its caused  him. I know  he wont  agree with me but I 
think thats fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN91028082Mr S said hes upset  NatWest wanted  to charge  him more than another  bank even  though 
hed been a loyal customer for a number of years. But interest rates are a commercial  
decision made by individual banks and organisations. As our investigator explained we cant  
make a bank change those rates and we cant ask it to explain why its rate is higher than 
another bank.   
Mr S is concerned about his credit profile. But I dont think NatWest did anything wrong 
during his application for a loan.  So I cant  fairly  ask it to alter his credit  file.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9102808