K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC refused to transfer money from his current  account to 
an account he held elsewhere.
background
On 16 July 2018 Mr W attended a Lloyds branch to transfer £30,000 out of his current 
account. Mr W said he told Lloyds he wanted  to transfer this money to an external account 
he held with another bank. And he said he took proof of identification with him, which Lloyds 
verified and photocopied.  But after he and the cashier signed a transfer  form Mr W said the 
branch manager  told him that they werent prepared to authorise his payment request 
without knowing what the transfer was for. Mr W said he provided some information  about 
this to the manager. But they declined to authorise his payment request.  So he left the 
branch without making the transfer and the funds  were subsequently transferred out of his 
current account on 15 August 2018.
When Mr W complained to Lloyds about what happened it didnt uphold his complaint. It said 
the branch manager had queried the purpose of the funds transfer, which  they had been 
entitled to do. And it said when Mr W hadnt wanted to discuss  the reason he wanted  to 
make such  a large transfer  the manager  decided to exercise their discretion  not to authorise 
Mr Ws payment.  Lloyds  felt it had acted fairly and didnt think it had made  an error in 
refusing to authorise Mr Ws transfer  request.
Being dissatisfied with Lloyds response to his complaint Mr W referred it to our service.  Our 
adjudicator looked into this and, while they empathised with Mr W, didnt think that Lloyds 
had made  an error or needed  to do anything more here. But Mr W disagreed and asked for 
his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr W feels very strongly about this 
matter, which is understandable. He feels this experience prevented  him from having  control  
over his own money. And I appreciate the reasons why he has brought his complaint to us. 
But what  I must determine here is whether  Lloyds  acted fairly and reasonably in refusing to 
transfer his money .
I understand that Mr W has raised queries about  what documents  our service has 
considered to assess his complaint. This is being  dealt with separately by our service. But, 
for the purposes  of determining whats fair and reasonable Im satisfied Ive got access  to all 
the information from both Mr W and Lloyds that I need. And Im also satisfied our adjudicator 
has looked into this matter properly on Mr Ws behalf. 
I think its important to say at the outset that, based on what Ive seen, I dont think it was 
wrong of Lloyds to refuse to authorise  the transfer Mr W had wanted to make in branch on 
16 July 2018.  Ill explain why.
A bank  should  generally follow the instructions of its customers unless theres  good  reason 
for it not to. In this case Mr W wanted branch staff to transfer £30,000  from his current  
account to an account he held elsewhere. Lloyds says it has a policy to help with this 
process. This policy says that certain transactions have  to be authorised by management 
Ref: DRN99499522and Lloyds policy and procedures for cash transfers differ depending on the amount a 
customer wants to transfer and method of transfer they want to use.
Lloyds policy requires  branch staff to complete a payment transfer  form and verify a 
customers identification. Here Mr W provided Lloyds with his driving  licence to assist with 
this task. Lloyds copied  and verified  that identification document.  He said he told Lloyds he 
wanted to transfer  the funds to an account he held elsewhere. So he thinks  Lloyds had no 
reason to either doubt that he was Mr W or that he wanted to transfer money to an account 
elsewhere in his name.  And on this basis he questions whether Lloyds was entitled to 
refuse his transfer  request. But being  satisfied with identification is only part of Lloyds 
transfer check process. 
In circumstances  where such a large  transfer  is being requested,  its branch policy for the 
cashier to refer the transfer request to their manager for authorisation. This is what Lloyds 
did here. As part of Lloyds process, once a transfer request has been  referred  to the branch 
manager theyre entitled to request further  information from a customer   such  as the 
purpose of the transaction. And if a customer declines to disclose requested  information,  or 
the manager is unhappy with information  provided  by them, they can exercise their 
discretion to refuse to process the payment. 
Mr W feels that when the cashier signed the transfer  form he had signed this meant  the 
transfer had been authorised on a no questions asked basis. And he thinks this form is a 
legally binding document, which creates an obligation on Lloyds to authorise the transfer. 
But Im not persuaded by this argument because Lloyds said a decision to decline to transfer 
a customers funds  can be made at any point during the transaction  even after a customer  
has signed the payment transfer  form. And it also explained that a customers  signature is 
requested so branch staff can check it as part of the authorisation process. 
Lloyds said it followed its policy here but it couldnt  act on Mr Ws instructions to transfer a 
large sum of money from his account  because he didnt provide the information  it requested 
about the purpose of the transaction. So, this policy prevented Mr W from being able to 
transfer his funds out of Lloyds. Mr W may disagree  with that policy.  But Lloyds is entitled to 
set its own policy. And this isnt something our service can interfere with. Were  not the 
regulator of banks and building societies.  So, we cant comment on whether a business 
policy is right or tell it that its policy should be changed. 
But we can look at whether Lloyds followed its process fairly here. Lloyds was satisfied with 
the identification Mr W provided. But it wanted to know why he wanted to transfer such  a 
large sum out of his current account. As Lloyds  explained to Mr W in its final response  letter  
it has a duty to protect its customers and their finances. To do so its required to ensure its 
acting in a customers  best interests  and this can mean it needs to ask questions about  
matters such as the purpose of a bank transfer  request.
Lloyds said asking these  questions is part of its security process and, when Mr W wouldnt 
answer questions  he was asked, the branch manager wasnt able to process  or authorise 
the payment request. But Mr W told our service he told Lloyds he needed to transfer the 
funds to an account he held elsewhere  and he didnt elaborate any further. He feels  he 
provided the information that Lloyds requested in branch and he disputes  the reason the 
manager refused  to agree to the transfer.  
But Banks are required to verify the identity of individuals, the source of funds and the 
reason for transfer to comply with their regulatory  requirements and the legislative 
Ref: DRN99499523framework within  which  they operate. So, Im satisfied that Lloyds  legitimately questioned Mr 
W about the purpose  of the transfer.  Whilst it was, of course, up to Mr W to choose not to tell 
Lloyds the specifics  about why he wanted  to transfer  such a large  sum of money Im satisfied 
Lloyds was entitled to request this information  from him before deciding whether to proceed 
with this payment  request. And when Mr W chose not to provide this information Im 
persuaded that Lloyds acted fairly in declining to authorise the transfer.
This transfer  involved a very large sum of money  and I can understand why Lloyds wanted 
to know what the transfer  was for and ask further  questions about it. Im not persuaded the 
limited information that Mr W gave was sufficient  for Lloyds purposes.  So, I think there was 
good reason why the branch manager felt unable to exercise their discretion to allow the 
transfer to take place.  Its clear that Mr W doesnt  think Lloyds branch manager exercised 
their discretion fairly.  But based on what Ive seen  I dont  think they used their discretion in 
an arbitrary way. And, taking everything into account, Im satisfied  that Lloyds followed its 
policy properly and acted  fairly and reasonably here. 
Ive also looked  at the terms  and conditions of Mr Ws account, which clearly outline  that 
Lloyds is entitled  to refuse to act on a payment instructions when there is a regulatory 
requirement that tells [it] to. In this case it felt it didnt the information it needed about the 
purpose of the transfer. So, I cant fairly  conclude  that Lloyds acted outside the terms of his 
account in refusing to authorise  Mr Ws transfer  request.
I understand that Lloyds suggested  an alternative transfer method to Mr W so he could move  
his money using other methods,  which  I think  demonstrates  that it was trying  to assist  him. 
And I note that Mr W was subsequently able to transfer his funds out of his current account  a 
month later. Mr W told our service  that the delay in transferring  his funds cost him money on 
a currency transaction.  But I havent seen any evidence that Mr W incurred a loss due to 
Lloyds refusal to transfer his money in July. And even if Mr W produced evidence to show  
that he had suffered a loss here I wouldnt be minded to ask Lloyds to compensate him for 
this because I cant fairly find that it made  an error when it decided not to authorise his 
payment request.
The final part of Mr Ws complaint is about  how Lloyds responded to his concerns. 
Specifically, he said he contacted Lloyds  on 16 July 2018 but the line disconnected. And 
hes unhappy that no one called him back.  But Lloyds said Mr W contacted its telephone 
banking team which isnt able to return calls because its an inbound only team and doesnt  
have the facility to make  outbound calls.  So, this explains why no one called him back. 
I understand that Mr W contacted Lloyds again  approximately three weeks  later and was 
able to speak  with call centre staff about his concerns.  And I can see that he received final 
response letters, dated 9 and 16 August, following the complaint he raised. As Lloyds was 
able to investigate  and respond to Mr Ws complaint within the eight weeks  its entitled to 
take I cant fairly find its done anything wrong  or caused delay here.  
So, while I acknowledge Mr Ws strength of feelings about what happened, I dont think  
Lloyds has done  anything wrong here and, because of this, I wont be asking  it to do any 
more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN99499524Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9949952