K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest)  changed  a standing order  
hed set up to be paid each fortnight, to a weekly arrangement. He says he wasnt notified 
about the change and this has caused  him to have lost £650  in overpayments. He also 
complains that this matter  has caused him a great  deal of upset  and would like 
compensation.
background
In March 2018 Mr C contacted  NatWest to ask it to set up a standing order  from his account 
to a friends account. He says he asked for it to be made every fortnight but says NatWest 
set it up to be paid weekly.
Some months later Mr C says his friend told him she was receiving weekly payments, so he 
contacted NatWest to dispute the matter.  NatWest refunded Mr C the money he said hed 
overpaid by making  weekly payments but said it would investigate what  had happened.  
Subsequently NatWest  said that, having listened  to the relevant telephone call, it could 
confirm that Mr C had requested the standing order to be paid weekly.  It said it would 
recover the refund of £650 it had previously  returned to him. But it said it wouldnt be 
requesting some charges it had previously refunded to be returned.
Mr C said that wasnt  fair and that NatWest had made a mistake.  So as he remained  
unhappy he brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and said it shouldnt be upheld. He said 
he was satisfied that the standing order was set up on a weekly  basis and the reason it 
hadnt been taken every week  was because on a number of occasions there wasnt  sufficient 
funds in the account to make the payments. He also said NatWest  had acted reasonably in 
taking back the overpayments  it had initially refunded.
Mr C didnt agree. He disputed that the payment had been arranged on a weekly  basis but 
he said even if it was, there was no evidence in his account of any attempts to take the 
money each week or any bank charges  being applied  which  he thought there  would be if 
an attempt to make a payment had been  rejected.
Mr C wanted his complaint referred to an ombudsman so its been referred to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see how strongly Mr C feels about 
this matter and I have some sympathy  for his position as I can see why he believes the 
frequency of the standing order was changed.  But I dont think  NatWest has done  anything 
wrong here,  which I know isnt the outcome Mr C wanted  to hear  so Ill explain why.
Ive listened carefully  to the call recording from 14 March  2018 and Ive heard that Mr C 
asked to set up a standing order of £50 from his account, so that it goes out weekly .  It was 
agreed that the first payment would be sent across that day and thereafter to go out every 
Ref: DRN93062832Friday. Ive also heard how the details were repeated  back to Mr C, so I think it was clear 
that a weekly  arrangement had been  agreed  by both parties. 
Mr Cs account had an overdraft limit of £250  so the standing order  payment could be made 
as long as the account  was within its overdraft limit. And Ive seen a copy  of the bank 
statements which show that the payment did go out each week except for the occasions 
when the balance on the account was over £250.
However, it would  seem  the way Mr Cs account was managed had the unfortunate  
consequence of meaning that every other week his account exceeded the £250  overdraft  
limit so that the standing order couldnt be paid. This made it look as though payments were 
only being made fortnightly but Im satisfied payments would have been made weekly if the 
account balance  had allowed that, and theres no evidence to suggest NatWest  didnt set the 
standing order up on the basis that was agreed  with Mr C in March 2018   namely on a 
weekly basis.
However, by the end of June 2018 Mr Cs account started to remain  within  its overdraft limit 
and therefore  payments  were able to be made each week  as previously requested.  I can 
understand how this must have looked to Mr C and his friend, because  on the surface  it 
seemed as though payments had been  made fortnightly and were now being made weekly,  
but that was just a consequence of Mr Cs account being over its overdraft limit every  two 
weeks or so. 
So theres no evidence  that NatWest did anything  wrong here because it set up the weekly 
standing order  as agreed with Mr C  and then tried to make payments on that basis  
whenever the account balance permitted. So I dont NatWest has made any errors.
And when  Mr C did complain I can see that NatWests first reaction was to refund the 
overpayments while it investigated  the matter. 
Ive listened very carefully to the telephone  call with NatWest which  explained that it would 
initially refund the money. It also confirmed in a verbal disclaimer that the bank will provide 
you with a refund from one of our internal accounts to your account by 6pm today whilst our 
investigations continue. Our investigations  department will be contacting the beneficiary to 
reclaim the mistaken payment and may need to speak to you further about this matter.  
Should our findings show this transaction to be genuine, we reserve  the right to debit your 
account with the full amount. 
So I think NatWest made  it clear that if it hadnt  made an error it would recover  the refund 
back from the account. 
I think NatWest  was clear what would happen in that event and I think it acted reasonably  
and in line with what it said it would do  when it completed its investigation.
I can also see that NatWest refunded and waived a number of charges on Mr Cs account 
because of this matter, which it has decided not to ask to be returned  as a gesture of 
goodwill. I think thats a fair and reasonable offer from NatWest  in the circumstances. 
Mr C says that NatWest couldnt  have  set up the standing order  on a weekly basis because 
theres no evidence  on his account to show it had been rejected on the dates that NatWest 
says it couldnt  make the payment, and he says theres no evidence of any unpaid charges  
either. 
Ref: DRN93062833Standing orders arent like direct debits  where an instruction  is given to allow  payments to be 
claimed from an account. A standing order simply instructs the bank to send the money  from 
an account. If theres not sufficient money in the account then the money  doesnt  get sent. 
So there wouldnt be any evidence on a statement that a standing order  had failed.  And 
NatWest has confirmed  that in this case  the transaction would have appeared on Mr Cs 
account to alert him to deposit funds  if necessary for the standing order  to be paid  but this 
would have disappeared at the end of the day the payment was due to be sent. And 
NatWest has also confirmed that no charges would have been  applied to a standing order  
that wasnt made. 
So I cant safely say NatWest has made any errors with regards  to what  Mr Cs account 
shows regarding an unpaid standing order, as its acted in line with its own process. 
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mr Cs complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019. 
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9306283