K820x#14complaint
Miss K says Ferratum UK Ltd lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Miss K had two loans  with Ferratum. Ive included some of the information Ferratum  
provided about the loans  in the table below.
Loan 
No.Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountMax 
Repayment
1 14/06/2017 30/06/2017 1 £150 £169
2 30/06/2017 20/7/2017 1 £300 £348
An adjudicator considered  the complaint but didnt  think it should be upheld. He said that the 
loan repayments  were small compared  to Miss Ks declared income, so Ferratums  checks  
asking for Miss Ks income were  proportionate.  And he said it was reasonable for Ferratum 
to decide that the information  it obtained about  Miss Ks income and circumstances was 
enough to decide that Miss K was in the position to sustainably make her repayments  on the 
loans. 
Miss K disagreed. She said that her expenditure was more  than her income and she had to 
increase her borrowed amounts to keep up her repayments. She could  only repay Loan 2 as 
a relative took out a loan to help her pay off her outstanding debts.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss K 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Miss Ks income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Ferratum  should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss K. These factors  include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN94357762There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Miss K could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly 
and reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  
sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ks complaint.
I note that Ferratum obtained information about  Miss Ks income and it carried out a credit  
check. Its credit checks included information  that might have suggested that Miss K was 
making several credit repayments including a monthly mortgage repayment of £677  which  
might have caused Ferratum some  concerns.  But Ive seen Miss Ks bank statement at the 
time which showed she was actually paying substantially less for her mortgage.  So I think its 
likely Miss K would have provided the amount of the reduced mortgage  repayment to 
Ferratum if asked about it. 
Otherwise, the repayments  on Miss Ks two loans were relatively modest  compared  to the 
income that she declared to Ferratum. So given Miss Ks repayment  amounts, and that 
these were her first two loans with the lender,  I dont  think it wouldve been  proportionate  for 
Ferratum to ask her for the amount of information that would be needed to show this lending  
was unsustainable.   
So I dont  think Ferratum  did anything  wrong when it agreed to give these loans to Miss K.  
And so it follows that I dont uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9435776