K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Arrow Global  Limited  added interest  and charges to his account and that 
his calls and letters were  ignored.
background
Mr L says that at the time he was made aware  of this account  he was being wrongly 
harassed for a different  debt that wasnt his. He says this caused  confusion and that had this 
not been the situation he would have taken  the action required on the account to prevent the 
issues that have  now arisen.
Arrow Global  acquired Mr Ls account  in November 2012 and says that it related to a credit 
card opened  in February 2010. Since acquisition the account  has been managed by a 
number of different  companies on its behalf.  It says that it hasnt added  any interest to the 
account but that as legal action was taken  the fees associated with this have been added.
Arrow says that it holds  accurate contact information  for Mr L and that correspondence has 
been sent.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She looked at the charges that had been 
applied to Mr Ls account and said these related to the CCJ or the charge  that was added to 
Mr Ls property. She didnt find these unreasonable. In regard to Mr Ls complaint that he 
hadnt had response to his contact she found that there had been contact between  Mr L and 
the company acting  on behalf of Arrow on numerous occasions to discuss  different points. 
She didnt  find that Mr Ls calls and letters had been  ignored.
Mr L accepted  that the debt was his and said he was paying this back through  the 
agreement that had been made. He reiterated  that at the time of the issues he was being 
wrongly pursued for another debt which had caused stress and confusion. He said the 
issues had led to a charge  being applied to his house and his credit file being  adversely 
affected meaning he couldnt  get a better mortgage  or consider  selling his home. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr L is upset.  I am aware  of the circumstances surrounding  the debt 
he was wrongly chased  for and this has been dealt with in a separate  complaint. I can 
understand that confusion was caused by the situation Mr L was in and I note his comment 
that had he not had the other ongoing issues he would have dealt with this debt.
However, this complaint  is about  Arrow Global and my role is to assess  its actions and 
whether I think it has done  anything wrong  in regard  to Mr Ls account.
Mr L has accepted  that the debt is his and it has been  subject  to a CCJ. Therefore I accept 
that Mr L is liable for this debt.
The outstanding issue is whether unfair interest  and charges were added to his account. 
Arrow has confirmed that since it acquired the account no interest  has been added. It says 
that the charges that have  been  added relate to the legal  proceedings that have taken place. 
Ref: DRN94849572I have looked  through  the charges and the explanations provided and accept that these 
relate to the legal action taken. While I understand why Mr L feels  that charges shouldnt  
have been applied, I find that as these costs were  incurred  due to the legal proceedings it is 
fair they are added to his account.
I understand that Mr L feels that legal proceedings may have been avoided  had he not been 
trying to deal with contact  about a debt that wasnt his. But based  on what I have seen, 
particularly from the contact notes providing  by the company acting on behalf of Arrow 
Global, Mr L was contacted about the status  of the account and told how legal proceedings 
could be avoided. I note the mention that post wasnt  being  delivered. However, as the 
contact was correctly  addressed and Mr L was sent letters setting out the situation, I dont 
find I can say that Arrow Global did anything wrong.
Mr L has also complained  that his contact was ignored. However having looked through the 
contact notes I dont  find that I have  enough  to say Mr L was ignored. There  is evidence  of 
contact being  made  and different issues being  discussed. Given  the situation on this account  
I would expect Mr L to be treated  positively and sympathetically. As a payment plan has 
been set up this suggest this has happened.
Overall, I do not find that I have  enough  evidence to say that Mr L has been treated unfairly.
Because of the above, I do not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9484957