K820x#14complaint
Miss S representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on her behalf 
that she was given unsuitable  investment advice by Phoenix Life Assurance  Limited  (the 
business). 
In short  the CMC says:
 
Too much  of her money  was invested in a single with-profits  fund.  
Miss S is a cautious  investor,  but its unclear how her attitude to risk was established.
She was unaware  of the Market Value Adjustment (MVA) and what could trigger  it 
from the point of sale documents. 
She wasnt advised about the past performance. 
She was the target of repeat business from 1998  to 2001. 
background
In August  1998,  Miss S invested £5,000 from her savings account into an Investment Plan. 
She was recorded  as a cautious/moderate risk investor. The plan was invested in the 
unitised with-profits fund,  which  was considered low risk, and suitable for her. Her priority 
was to invest a lump sum  for a minimum of five years and maximum ten years  for 
holidays, changing cars and future  personal spending. It was also recorded that she was 
single and living at home with her mother. She wasnt without investment experience. 
The Plan had no set term, although Miss S would  incur a surrender charge  if she cashed it in 
within five years. She surrendered the plan in January 2004 for £5,840. In July 1999, Miss S 
invested in an ISA Mini. Initially she contributed  £30 a month  which was increased to £50. 
She surrendered the ISA in December  2004 for £2,841. 
In June 2000, Miss S invested £10,000  from her savings account into another  Investment 
Plan which was surrendered in January 2004 for £10,500. And finally  in October 2001, she 
invested £2,000 in another  Plan which was surrendered in November 2006 for £2,274.  
The business rejected the complaint. In summary  it said:
None of the investments exposed Miss S capital to excessive risk and she was 
invested in a mix of assets such as company shares, property,  bonds,  cash  deposits 
and alternative investments. 
Although she invested  little over a 25% of her available capital, she retained a 
reasonable amount of funds for emergencies. The Illustrations made  clear  the returns  
on the policies  werent guaranteed  and were dependant on the future growth rates.   
Miss S also had some experience  of investing in with-profits funds, and held different 
types of savings plans and investments, including Personal  Equity  Plans (PEPs), 
stocks and shares, and bonds, with different levels of risk. 
The business offered £50 compensation for the time taken to deal with her complaint. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, she said:
On the face of the evidence the recommendations made between 1998 and 2001  
were suitable. 
Ref: DRN96092052The investments  generally met Miss S objectives to save up for holidays, changing 
cars and personal  future spending. At the time she was living  at home  with her 
mother and wasnt tied to any set period  of investment.  
The investments  were in unitised  with-profits funds which are generally considered 
low risk. In the circumstances the recommendation was suitable for Miss S who was 
established as a cautious risk investor,  even  though she had investment experience 
in with-profits funds.  Miss S also had sufficient money set aside for emergencies.   
She wasnt satisfied that Miss S lost any money.  
The CMC disagreed with the adjudicators view.  In summary it said:
Miss S was targeted by the firm and given advice that was an easy  sell. 
The recommendations were within with-profits funds and therefore lacked 
diversification. 
No clear evidence  of how Miss S attitude  to risk was arrived  at.
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for substantially the same 
reasons. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  the CMC  says,  Im not going  to 
uphold this complaint.  I cant  safely say that the recommendations were unsuitable. 
Im mindful of the CMCs comments, but other than what it says, Ive seen no evidence  that 
Miss S was targeted by the business, or made to do something against her interests. On 
the face of the evidence and on balance, it seems  she was content to reinvest  in a similar 
plan that broadly met her needs. 
On balance Im satisfied the recommendations generally met Miss S need to save  for future 
spending, without  being tied in to long term savings plans. And she was content  to generally 
save for a minimum of five years. 
I note around that time she was single and living at home with her mother, so was likely  to 
have lots of things she wanted  to save up for, such as a car/holiday, without having long 
term financial liabilities such  as dependents or a mortgage.    
I note the CMC says the recommendations lacked diversification, but in this instance Im not 
persuaded that they did. I appreciate the investments  were  in unitised with-profit funds, but I 
dont think Miss S was looking to take greater risks with her money. I note that she wasnt 
without investment experience, and appeared to know  what she wanted,  and was familiar 
with the with-profits  funds. I also note that the funds  were  invested in a mix of assets  such  as 
company shares,  property, bonds, cash deposits  and alternative investments, which  I dont 
consider unreasonable. 
Ref: DRN96092053If Miss S was unaware of how the MVA/MVR  worked from the points of sale documents,  she 
could have asked  the adviser for clarification. Despite this, she appears to have made  some  
gain on her investments,  in line with her objectives.  
In summary  she appears to have had a general tendency to invest in lower risk products, in 
this instance Im satisfied  she was in a good position  to do so. 
In the circumstances, I dont generally think the investments  carried any more  risk than she 
was willing  to accept  for this portion  of her capital and they had a reasonably mixed fund 
make up.
Taking all the above points  into account,  Im of the view that the recommendations were 
generally suitable for Miss S. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 February  2018.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9609205