K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. didnt  pay the whole of his claim under his travel policy when he had to 
cancel his holiday.
background
Mr K bought a holiday for himself and his partner to go abroad  over Christmas and New 
Year in 2018/19,  departing on 16 December.  He paid £9,187.87.  Unfortunately, his partner  
developed a severe back problem a few days before they were due to leave. This meant 
Mr K had to cancel his holiday.
He made  a claim to Mapfre. Mapfre said his claim was valid and paid him £4,418.44 
representing the cost of Mr Ks holiday but excluding the costs for his partner. Mapfre  said 
this was because  only Mr K was insured under its policy and that his partner  should  make 
her own claim  to her own insurers.
Mr K complained saying  he had paid for both of them but Mapfre  wouldnt change its stance, 
so he brought  his complaint to us. The investigator  didnt think  Mapfre  had done anything  
wrong. Mr K disagreed so his complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
I understand and appreciate Mr K will be disappointed with my decision as I can see he feels 
very strongly  about it.
However Mr K only insured himself on this annual multi-trip policy  and he didnt add his 
partner at the time or before he booked this holiday. Therefore, on the face of it Mapfre is 
entitled to deal with the issues pertaining  to Mr K only.  Mr K said as he paid the whole cost 
of the holiday  then Mapfre should refund him the same up to his policy limit.
However in common with many other policies on the market,  Mapfres policy excludes the 
full payment in situations like Mr K found  himself  in, where his partner wasnt insured  under 
the policy. I dont  consider  these exclusions unusual consequently. 
My view and the view of this service is if this exclusion or limitation is clear then Mapfre  has 
done nothing wrong in relying on it. My duty in making final decisions on complaints is to 
assess whether the business, Mapfre here,  did anything wrong  in accordance  with the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
In Mr Ks policy in the section dealing with cancelling the holiday, which  is section A, the 
exclusion is clearly listed under the special conditions. Its listed at number two and its on 
page 19 of the policy,  the preceding  pages dealing with definitions and the policy  summary.
It says the following:
Ref: DRN927696622. We will only consider  the unused expenses of a person who has taken out 
insurance cover with InsureandGo. For example, if you are travelling with someone 
who is not insured,  we only pay your proportion of costs, not theirs,  regardless  of who 
has paid for the booking.
This covers the precise situation in which Mr K found himself,  so its very clear only his 
proportion of the costs will be covered,  regardless  of whom else he might have paid for. 
What is insured here, are the costs of Mr Ks holiday, not the costs  of anyone  else. In the 
booking information  provided by the travel agent,  its clear the cost is for two people, Mr K 
and his partner.  
I also consider this is rational, as the rest of the policys cover would have only covered Mr K 
too. So if for example Mr Ks partner  developed  her serious back  problem on holiday,  this 
policy would have provided no assistance  to her either medically  or to get her home again 
because she wasnt insured under it. Mr K has acknowledged that would have been the 
case. 
Further as her medical condition was clearly  serious and accepted  by Mapfre as a valid 
reason for Mr K to have  a successful claim in cancelling  his holiday, it follows that his 
partner most  likely would have been  able to make a successful claim for the loss of her 
holiday under  her own insurance too. Therefore, its quite appropriate in my view that 
Mapfre, in common  with many other insurers, limits its claims to those who are covered  
under the policy.  
It would be unconceivable  that an insurer should take the risk for other peoples holidays 
when it hasnt received  a premium or indeed  underwritten  those  other people.  Insurance 
contracts work on the basis  of the insurer  asking  for the relevant information of those 
requiring the cover  and then the insurer deciding the price  of the premium based on that 
information given  by the persons requiring the cover. Once  the premium  is paid for those  
requiring to be covered, cover is then provided  to all those accepted  by the insurer. 
So as the exclusion  is very clear  and Mr Ks partner was not insured under this policy, I dont 
consider that Mapfre has done anything wrong in relying on its exclusion and simply 
refunding Mr K for the costs of his holiday as only person  insured  under this policy.  
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9276966