K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr C bought a regular premium MPPI policy in September 1995  at the same time as taking 
out a mortgage.  The mortgage and policy ended before April 2008.
Mr C says HSBC mis-sold the MPPI policy. He says the MPPI  policy  was not discussed  with 
him and it was added  without  his knowledge.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint.  As Mr C doesnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Mr Cs complaint because  of the following  reasons:
HSBC has been unable to provide much of the sales documentation that was used at 
the time of sale. There is little information available and so I cant be sure how the 
policy was presented by HSBC  to Mr C. Ive not been able to see most  of the original 
sales documentation (such as an application form or agreement). So its been difficult  
for me to consider  whether Mr C was given a choice or not as to whether he should  
have the MPPI policy (or whether  it was added  without his knowledge).
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way HSBC sold these policies  around  
this time. And due to the amount of years that have  passed since the sale, I have not 
been able to obtain a detailed  recollection of the sale either. This though is 
understandable as many  years have passed since the meeting took place. So with 
this in mind, I cannot fairly conclude on this occasion that Mr C wasnt  given a choice. 
I just havent seen  enough to make that conclusion. 
Moving on, I think its more likely HSBC recommended the MPPI to Mr C and so it 
had to ensure  during the sale that the policy was suitable for Mr Cs needs. 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy  was 
unsuitable for Mr C based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr C 
says he could have  relied on at least 3 months full sick pay along. But the benefit  
would have been of use to Mr C during a difficult time in addition  to these benefits. I 
think, on balance,  Mr C had a need for this cover  for any extended period of 
unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt  find any other reason such as a significant  
or limiting term that would make the policy  unsuitable for him either.
Ref: DRN95518192HSBC has provided some information  about the costs relating to the MPPI policy that 
Mr C took out but even  though it has provided information detailing  the cover and 
how much  it cost,  I cannot be sure that these costs were  disclosed to Mr C in a clear  
and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were  disclosed clearly I dont 
think Mr C would have done anything different and decided against having  the policy 
for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible HSBC didnt point  out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr C wouldve been affected by any of these.
In conclusion I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9551819