K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 
alongside a credit card. Mrs M says Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading  as Barclaycard, mis-sold 
her the policy. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs M says she the PPI was sold to her via post. Barclays has said the PPI was sold over 
the phone  when Mrs M called to activate her new card. Ive seen a copy of the credit  card 
application form Mrs M saw and signed and in this its clear  Mrs M chose to decline the 
policy at this point.  Ive also seen screen  shots  of Barclays internal system  which shows the 
PPI was added to the account a few days after the credit agreement  was signed but before 
the credit  facility had been used. So based  on this I think  its more likely that Mrs M called to 
activate her card and it was at this point that the PPI was sold.   
Mrs M also says the PPI wasnt discussed with her and she believes it was added to her 
account without  her knowledge  or consent.  Ive thought about what  Mrs M has said but Ive 
also not seen  any other  evidence  to support these allegations. 
Barclays has supplied a copy  of a call script  it says wouldve been used around the time for 
this type of call - and in the absence of a call recording  or any notes from the call this is the 
best evidence  available  of what is likely to have happened at the time. This shows  that the 
PPI wouldve  been presented as optional and Barclays wouldve  explicitly  asked Mrs M if 
she wanted the cover. As the PPI was then applied to her account I think  its likely  she said 
yes to the policy.
So while I appreciate what Mrs M has said, based on the evidence  Ive seen, and in the 
absence of any stronger  evidence to support what Mrs M has said,  I think  its likely  Barclays  
made it clear  Mrs M didnt  have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she cant remember this.
Mrs M says she wasnt given any advice or recommendation  to take out the PPI. Barclays 
said it did advice Mrs M. However, it is not necessary for me make  a conclusive 
determination on this point. This is because I have not found that the policy was unsuitable 
for Mrs M for the reasons set out below. So, even if I assume advice was given, it does not 
affect the outcome of this complaint.
As an advised sale Barclays had to take reasonable steps to ensure the policy  was right for 
Mrs M  and from what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time I think  it was.  I say this 
because Mrs M was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by anything  
which might  make it more difficult for her to make a claim, like having an existing medical  
condition or unusual employment  circumstances.  Ive also seen that Mrs M wasnt  entitled to 
any sick pay from her employer  at the time, neither did she have any savings or insurance to 
Ref: DRN93937382help her make her repayments had she suddenly been unable  to work. So I think she had a 
need for this cover. 
Mrs M says she wasnt given any information  about the PPI and the terms and conditions  of 
the policy werent sent to her after the sale. Barclays says it wouldve sent her the terms and 
conditions, but I accept its possible the information Barclays  gave  Mrs M about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen, and for all the reasons I 
think the policy wouldve  been suitable  for Mrs M, I think  the policy wouldve been useful for 
her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For all the reasons outlined above,  I dont think this policy was mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9393738