K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC unfairly  blocked a cheque  payment into his 
account.
background
Mr N paid a cheque into his account  in October  2018 for just over £9,200.  He says at the 
time he thought  the cheque was for a compensation payment  from a health board. Mr N 
says Barclays told him he needed poof of identity and details of where the money  had come  
from before  it would release the money.  He says he didnt  receive  his money  and that 
Barclays accused him of fraud and that decision was unfair.
Barclays says it asked  Mr N for information about where the money  came  from and was 
entitled to do that. It says Mr N told it the payment was for compensation from a health 
board. But in any event the other  bank  (from where the cheque came  from) asked  for the 
cheque to be returned. 
Mr N brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator thought Barclays  had acted fairly and 
hadnt made a mistake.  The adjudicator thought Barclays was entitled to ask Mr N questions  
about the cheque but in any event the decision to return that cheque  was made by a 
different bank. The adjudicator advised  Mr N to contact whoever had sent him the money to 
reissue the cheque.
Mr N doesnt accept  that view and has provided  further information about  his medical 
position and a college course  which suggests the money was for tuition fees.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Mr N will be disappointed by 
my decision.
Im satisfied Barclays acted reasonably by asking Mr N for further details  about  the money 
and where it came from. I think Mr N ought  to have been aware of where that money came 
from and how the cheque came to be deposited  in his account.  So I dont think  Barclays  
made a mistake by carrying  out further checks.
I can see that it was the bank that the cheque was issued from that made  the decision to ask 
for the cheque to be returned and that wasnt anything to do with Barclays.  So again  I cant  
fairly hold Barclays responsible for not processing  the cheque  in those circumstances. And 
Im satisfied that the money wasnt a compensation  payment in any event but was Mr Ns 
tuition fees. And I can see that Mr N has told us that he has withdrawn from his college 
course which leads  me to conclude he was unlikely to be entitled to that payment any longer. 
I think it likely that is why the cheque was returned.
I make  it clear  to Mr N that I have  not seen any evidence that Barclays has acted  
fraudulently or that he has been discriminated against.
Overall I dont think Barclays has made a mistake  or acted unfairly.
Ref: DRN96357892my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9635789