K820x#14complaint
Mr K says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr K bought the policy in 2001  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  He applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  at a meeting in a branch. 
At the time,  Mr K was employed as a driver  and had been working there for three years.  
He has said he was entitled to full sick pay and redundancy pay and has told us his sickness 
or redundancy pay was worth less than three  months pay. He has also told us he didnt  
have any other means of repaying his credit  card if he couldnt work. Mr K has said he was 
treated for health issues more than 50 years  before the sale. He hasnt told us of any other, 
or more  recent, health issues.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment, and also had life cover,  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. In the event of a successful  claim it offered  to repay 
5% of Mr Ks credit card balance for 11 months and clear his outstanding balance if the claim 
lasted 12 months. Lloyds has told us the policy at the time cost no more than 79p per £100  
of the monthly  outstanding balance. The premium would continue  to have to be paid during a 
successful claim  and it did attract interest.  The life cover would, subject to its terms, clear the 
account balance  on death.
Lloyds has sent us statements to show that the credit card account closed in 2003.
Mr Ks representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.  I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mr Ks representative says:
Lloyds failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance  for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should  be presumed Mr K wouldnt have taken out 
the policy  and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ks representatives believe there to 
be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common  reasons  people are off work. This significantly  reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs  including  interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Lloyds should have told 
Mr K about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost  good  faith also means  Lloyds should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions and limitations  of cover to Mr K and the impact  they 
would have  had on his chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Mr K received was misleading.  These policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue. 
Ref: DRN96448832Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ks. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgement  in Plevin about s.140 
of that Act and the rules  and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about 
the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgement, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice  for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees  of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance  on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN96448833The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone  Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ks case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority.
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ks complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave  advice, whether it advised  Mr K with reasonable care and skill  in particular,  
whether the policy was appropriate or suitable  for him, given his needs  and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr K sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable him to 
make an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr K, 
I must  then go on to consider whether and to what extent  Mr K suffered loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation  for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr K and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ks complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN96448834did Mr K know  he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Mr K has said he had no interest  
in PPI and it was just included  as part of the package with his card. But Mr Ks credit card 
application form, under the heading  Optional features, has boxes to tick to say Yes or No 
to the cover.  The Yes box is ticked, Mr K signed the form and I think  he wouldve  known  he 
couldve ticked No instead if he didnt want the cover. Taking everything into account, I think  
its more likely that Mr K knew the policy was optional  and he agreed to take it out without 
undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it provided advice during this sale. Mr K says Lloyds  didnt. But if Lloyds did give 
advice Lloyds had to do more. With all this in mind,  Im persuaded its fair and reasonable to 
proceed on the basis that Lloyds gave advice. This means Lloyds had to advise Mr K with 
reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given 
his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr K. There is no record of what  the adviser discussed in relation  to the 
policy. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some 
limited information about  Mr Ks financial circumstances,  but there is no specific  evidence  to 
show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr K would have been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet his 
needs. For example,  there is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered whether Mr K had any 
pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that Lloyds did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr K given his circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr K, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Although Mr K says he was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
 
-Mr K met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr K had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Ks ability  to continue  to meet his 
credit card repayments  would have  been  put under strain if he was not working  for an 
extended period of time  even allowing for the work redundancy benefit and sick pay 
he says he would have  been entitled to.
Ref: DRN96448835-The exclusions and limitations  didnt make the policy unsuitable for Mr K. There  was 
nothing about  his employment or occupation which  wouldve made it difficult for him to 
claim. Regarding pre-existing  medical conditions, Mr K has told us of infections hed had 
many decades  before the sale. But theres nothing to suggest those or anything  related 
to them had caused Mr K problems  since or had ever led him to take any time off work -  
and Ive nothing  to persuade me Mr K had reason to think  this might change  in future. 
Also there  were  no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back  problems.
-While  the policy would only pay benefits for a maximum  of 12 months for each claim for 
disability or unemployment,  it still provided  useful cover  given Mr Ks circumstances and 
the fact the policy could have cleared his outstanding card balance.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr K sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Lloyds was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr K was given a very broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect his card payments in the 
event he was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mr K would have been told this  at the very least   during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mr K would have taken out the policy without 
any sense of what the policy was. Also the application form he signed  said he could  take the 
PPI for the additional peace of mind that you can continue to meet your minimum credit  
card payments even  if you cant work due to accident, sickness  or unemployment - which 
would have given  Mr K some idea of what the policy was for. Im also satisfied Mr K would 
have realised the policy wasnt free and its likely he would  have  had some  understanding of 
how much  the policy cost before agreeing to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mr K 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary 
Mr K might have been given, I think its more likely than not that he based his decision on the 
things he was told, rather than on anything he was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr K, Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr K. Im not persuaded that Lloyds gave Mr K all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN96448836In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ks representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ks. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business should have explained 
the low claims ratio  what Mr Ks representative considers to be poor  value  and the 
fact that much  of the premium went to the business rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business shouldnt have just told 
Mr K about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ks representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr K has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr K? To what extent did Mr K suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr K. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr K suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr K would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Lloyds took the steps  it should  have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr K, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr K has suffered loss or damage 
in this case primarily depends on whether, if Lloyds had explained things properly, Mr K 
would have acted  differently,  or whether he would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr K says he would  not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully. Deciding whether to follow advice to 
take out insurance requires the consumer  to weigh up a number of factors before deciding  
whether to proceed. Effectively  the consumer  has to weigh up the advice to take out the 
policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits  offered in return and the potential 
consequences they will suffer if they do not have  insurance, should  the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr K had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  offered the PPI or advised him there was a 
suitable product  he could  buy that would protect  his credit card payments in the event he 
was unable to work  because  of accident,  sickness or unemployment, he concluded he 
wanted that product. But he made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what he thought  he was getting is not exactly what he got.
Ref: DRN96448837As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ks circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. In relation to the 
costs, Im satisfied Mr K ought reasonably to have known he would have to pay something 
for the PPI and that it would  cover  a portion of his outstanding  balance.  But I accept that 
Lloyds didnt make  clear the on-going  cost information. So while Mr K didnt know  some 
things, the ultimate  position in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar to what he 
would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to take the policy 
on and found  acceptable.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr K thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded disability occurring  within 12 months  of the start date relating to 
health issues  Mr K knew or shouldve  known about at the start date or for which hed 
seen or arranged to see a medical practitioner in the twelve  months before the start date;
The policy limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr K wasnt 
a permanent  employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible  for a disability claim Mr K be unable  to do his 
own job or any work which in the insurers view he was or might  become qualified for in 
view of his education,  training and ability; and
Disability  cover would end when Mr K turned 65. Unemployment cover would end when 
Mr K turned 65 or retired from work.
I do accept there is a possibility that the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mr K pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr K from taking out the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Ks circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. The policy wouldnt  have covered time off work related 
to health issues  hed had many decades  earlier. But theres nothing  to suggest those issues 
or anything  related to them had caused  him problems since  or ever caused him to take time 
off work. Im not persuaded Mr K had reason  to think this might change  in future. Bearing all 
this in mind,  I dont think better information  about  this exclusion would have put Mr K off the 
PPI. And I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  he wouldve been  caught by any of the 
other significant exclusions. So I think he still had some good reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr K 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
Ref: DRN96448838If Mr K had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable to do his job but 
also unable  to do any job which in the insurers view he was or might  become qualified for in 
view of his education,  training and ability, it might have played  into his thinking about what  to 
do. And I accept it may have given him pause  for thought  although given Mr Ks 
circumstances, on balance, I think he would  still have  been interested in taking the cover. 
Mr K has complained that he wouldve become  ineligible to claim on the policy at age 75. 
Ive thought about this and about the fact that once he reached 65 he wouldnt have been 
able to claim for disability  or unemployment.  But Mr K was 62 when  he took the PPI, so I 
think its more likely  than not hed have thought hed still get some value out of having it, as it 
would have covered him for a reasonable period of time before he turned 65.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr K would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think it couldve provided a useful benefit in a difficult 
time, notwithstanding Mr Ks employment  benefits and taking into account also his lack of 
other means. And in those circumstances  I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr K would 
have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ks representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr K would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ks 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr K 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr K believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr K in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN96448839That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Lloyds should pay Mr K compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr K thinks Lloyds misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr K, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2001 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ks representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr K and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr K in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9644883