K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with National House-Building  Councils (NHBC) proposed repair  
following a claim under their building  warranty.
background
Mr and Mrs T made a claim under Section Two of their building  warranty  as their bathroom 
floor wasnt  level. The builder who had a responsibility to fix the flooring didnt carry out 
repairs within the required timeframe, so NHBC  stepped in and took over the claim.
The flooring  was lowered in order to level it. But this resulted in there being a gap between  
the floor and wall tiles behind the toilet and sink.
NHBC said that the works completed  to the floor now meant it complied with its technical  
requirements. NHBC also said there  werent  any technical requirements  for joins between  
tiled floors  and walls so they didnt have an obligation to resolve the gap. But they accepted 
the finish could  have been better so they said that Mr and Mrs T could have skirting installed 
to cover the gap, initially offering £100 for this.
Mr and Mrs T were  unhappy with NHBCs proposals  and raised  a complaint. NHBC 
maintained that it had no obligation, but increased  the offer to £200 so Mr and Mrs T could 
arrange for a skirting  board  to be fitted. As Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy, they 
approached this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that NHBC had met its obligations 
under Mr and Mrs Ts building warranty as it had carried out works  to the floor,  so she didnt 
recommend they do anything  further.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed with our investigator  and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with our investigators view of the complaint, I decided  to issue  a 
provisional decision before I make  my final decision.  This allowed  both parties to comment 
on my thinking before  I make my final decision  which is the 
Financial Ombudsman  Services  last word on the case.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ts claim was made under Section Two of their building  warranty, and as 
the builder didnt carry out the repairs in the required timescale,  NHBC took over the 
claim in line with the terms of the policy.
Before the claim Mr and Mrs T had a bathroom which had a tiled floor (albeit  
uneven), which had sealant joining it to the tiled wall behind the sink and toilet. But as 
a result of the works to the flooring by NHBC,  its now not possible to close the gap 
with sealant due to the distance between the floor and wall tiles.
Ref: DRN98356912NHBC has said that the flooring now meets its technical requirements as the levelling 
is within acceptable tolerances. And they also say that there arent  any technical 
requirements for joins between tiled floors  and walls, so they dont have any 
obligation under  the policy  to resolve the gap which is now present.
Regardless of whether  there is or isnt a specific technical requirement for the join, I 
dont think this means NHBC can now leave Mr and Mrs T with a large gap and 
propose a cash settlement for skirting  to cover this. I will explain why below.
Whilst I take into account the terms and NHBCs obligations under the policy, my 
remit also extends to considering what is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of 
the case.
NHBC has proposed a skirting board to cover the gap and says that another wall in 
the bathroom has this already. They also say that it isnt unusual  to have gaps 
between walls and flooring around a property, and this would be likely if 
Mr and Mrs T were  to remove skirting which covers the join in other areas  of the 
home.
As NHBC  say, there may be gaps around Mr and Mrs Ts home if they were  to 
remove skirting  in other rooms. And Ive seen photos  of the bathroom, which  do show  
skirting on an adjoining  wall as NHBC has pointed out.
But the difference here is that the gap in question is on a tiled wall, where it joins a 
tiled floor.  The existing skirting in the bathroom is attached to an un-tiled painted wall 
so is of a different finish.
When a business  carries  out repair works,  I would expect  them  to be lasting and of 
importance here, effective. I dont  think needing to add skirting  which  wasnt there  
before means  an effective  repair has taken place. And I dont think  it would be a 
reasonable resolution to cover the gap.
In my view it would look unusual. And as Mr and Mrs T have pointed out to NHBC, it 
is questionable  how this would actually be attached to tiles. And from looking at the 
photos, it also looks like it could cause  issues with the bath panel and gaining access 
to underneath the bath in the future.
NHBCs own expert who inspected the bathroom and completed a report  after 
Mr and Mrs T raised concerns  said:
The gap is considered  to be too wide for the silicone based sealant to perform. 
Sealants have  a limit to their gap filling performance and elasticity, and it is inevitable  
that future  tearing of the sealant will occur if replaced again.
The best way to resolve it would be to reduce the gap to 2  3mm and re-seal.
To do this, the floor tiling to the bathroom would need to be replaced and re-levelled 
to remove the bump in the floor. This will leave the floor slightly  out of level but would 
not be noticeable, and would close the gap to acceptable limits for sealant gap 
filling.
And:
Ref: DRN98356913Simple re-sealing would  require fairly  regular maintenance and the gap is beyond 
the gap filling performance of the sealant.
So regardless of whether NHBC has an obligation under the policy  terms, in my view,  
a fair, reasonable and effective resolution  would be to ensure the gap between the 
tiled floor and wall is in a position where  it can be sealed. NHBCs own expert has 
outlined how this can be achieved  above, and as noted on the report, it appears  
Mr and Mrs T are happy with this proposal.
Its clear that not completing repairs effectively and proposing unsuitable remedies 
has caused Mr and Mrs T inconvenience. With this in mind, I also think Mr and Mrs T 
should be compensated £150.
On that basis, I was minded to uphold the complaint and direct NHBC to carry out repairs in 
line with its own expert  recommendations, and pay Mr and Mrs T compensation.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  broadly agreed  with my provisional decision. But they both proposed  exploring 
alternative remedies.  Mr and Mrs T said:
Myself and Mrs T accept  the provisional decision made by the Ombudsman.
We would  also consider other reasonable suggestions made by the NHBC that would 
reduce the gap between wall and floor. Any other suggestion provided by the NHBC 
would need to be in agreement with us before work  commences. If agreement is 
unable to be reached on other suggestions  provided  by the NHBC then the work  
carried out to reduce  the gap will be as directed in the Ombudsmans provisional  
decision.
I hope this gives  the NHBC more  flexibility  in achieving  the repair required.
And NHBC  also said:
I appreciate  and agree  that before the works were completed, the policyholders  had 
a tiled floor and a wall without a gap or without skirting on the wall in question.
I also agree  that whilst there is not a breach of requirements with regards to the join, 
the solution offered is not appropriate for the reasons mentioned  in the decision.
I can also see from the file that there is a report saying the gap is too wide for the 
silicone based  sealant to perform and therefore  to attempt  to reseal the gap would 
not be an appropriate solution.
However, having reviewed the case with a senior  technical expert and manager  from 
NHBC, whilst  the skirting board solution is not appropriate, the floor tiling 
replacement and relevelling is not the only solution available  and there other options 
such as work to the wall tiles rather than the floor. This would  be less intrusive and it 
would cause less inconvenient (sic). I would therefore ask that consideration is given 
to this fact and we are provided with the option  to explore alternative solutions in 
more depth. I would also confirm that there  would  also be an option  available for a 
Ref: DRN98356914cash settlement amount  for the cost of the rectification works rather than us 
appointing a contractor.
At the time I issued my provisional decision,  there was only one expert  recommendation 
(outlined above)  on the method of repairs to ensure the wall and floor tiles meet and can be 
sealed. But both parties are open to exploring  other  options. So rather  than issuing a further  
provisional decision, I asked our investigator to relay  both parties  responses to each other,  
and a change  I was proposing to make to the direction from that outlined  in my provisional 
decision: 
So both parties accept  that the experts suggested way is a way to ensure the join 
can be sealed, but both parties  are open to exploring other options.  And if these 
options are less intrusive, can resolve the problem and Mr and Mrs T are happy with 
this, then this could be a more appropriate  option than the extensive  works 
suggested by the expert.
But Im also mindful that an agreement  may not be reached by both parties around 
alternatives. 
So I am intending to issue  a decision, subject to further comments from both parties, 
which in effect  says NHBC should explore  other solutions to ensure the floor and wall 
can be sealed and reach an agreement with Mr and Mrs T. If Mr and Mrs T dont 
agree with other options put forward by NHBC, then they should follow the expert 
recommendations outlined in my provisional decision to ensure the floor and wall tiles 
can be sealed.
NHBC should also, as outlined in my provisional decision, pay Mr and Mrs T £150 
compensation.
NHBC agreed with this.
Mr and Mrs T agreed in principle, but also commented on the options of repair  NHBC had 
mentioned in their response to the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the responses from both parties, Im going to issue  a final decision along 
the lines of my revised direction  after the provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs T have  said in response that some of the repair options, such as retiling,  have 
already been discussed  before, but NHBC didnt agree  to it at that stage. They  also 
commented on the option of a cash settlement, and how this should only be agreed by both 
parties as they say it limits NHBCs further  responsibilities.
However, Im not considering the actual alternative  repairs at this stage, as that is for 
Mr and Mrs T to discuss with NHBC if they agree with and accept my final decision.  As whilst 
the options Mr and Mrs T have mentioned could be proposed  by NHBC as an alternative,  
there could  also be others which havent yet been  explored.
Ref: DRN98356915But whilst Im not commenting on the other repair options at this stage, Ive outlined  what  
should happen if Mr and Mrs T dont agree with the options presented by NHBC  that they 
should carry out the repairs  already recommended by their expert.
Mr and Mrs T have  also asked for a four-week  deadline to be placed  on this. But Im mindful 
that at this stage  it is unclear what further  investigations need  to be carried out in order to 
establish alternative remedies to resolve  the gap. Or that appointments can be mutually  
agreed, or how many different options may be proposed to Mr and Mrs T and how much 
time they need  to consider these and decide.  So, I dont think it would  be fair to either  party 
to say at this stage  it must be done  within four weeks.
However, having said that, the claim has been  ongoing  for some time, so NHBC need to 
take this into account  when  considering and proposing alternative options. And if 
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with the time taken  to do this, then they may be able to make a 
new complaint to NHBC about this.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  in my provisional  decision and above, it is my final decision that I 
uphold this complaint.  
National House-Building Council should explore  options to ensure the bathroom floor and 
wall tiles can be sealed and propose these to Mr and Mrs T. If Mr and Mrs T dont agree with 
the alternative options put forward, then National House-Building Council should  follow  the 
experts repair method  already recommended.
National House-Building Council should also pay Mr and Mrs T £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 April 2020.
Callum Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9835691