K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  with the way Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) handled  
a claim under their contents insurance policy  for fire damage.
background
Mr and Mrs D made  a claim to RSA after the contents in their home were damaged following 
a fire in a neighbouring property. There was a combination of smoke and water damage.  
RSA accepted the claim and appointed  a loss adjuster to manage it. RSA also appointed a 
supplier to assess the damaged contents  and restore those that were  capable of restoration.  
The supplier  removed various items from the property including  a wooden bed frame and a 
dining table.
Mr and Mrs D werent  happy with the way their claim was being  handled.  Amongst other 
things they said they were  missing parts of their dining table and there  was a ridge in the 
middle of their wooden  bed frame. They said a bedroom television hadnt been replaced  on 
a like for like basis  as the original television had a built in DVD player  unlike the replacement  
television. They complained to RSA about  damaged or missing  contents, poor customer 
service and claim handling. RSA didnt accept that it had treated them  unfairly or 
unreasonably.
Mr and Mrs D brought  their complaint to this service. Our investigator thought RSA should  
pay them  £450  for poor service. He didnt think there was enough evidence  to say that the 
bedframe had been damaged by the fire or by RSAs supplier. He also said RSA should 
arrange for a master  craftsman to repair the dining table if a repair  could be done and if not, 
it should replace  the table. Lastly he thought RSA should replace the bedroom television on 
a like for like basis  or offer a cash settlement for a like for like model. RSA accepted our 
investigators recommendation. After further  discussion with our investigator RSA agreed to 
increase the compensation to £500.
As Mr and Mrs D didnt  agree with our investigators view regarding  the damaged  bedframe, 
the matter has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I can see that there have 
been various service  failings in the way RSA has handled this claim and that has caused 
unnecessary trouble  and upset to Mr and Mrs D. But overall I think  the amount  of £500 is 
appropriate to compensate them  for that.
Since the only outstanding point Mr and Mrs D wish me to look at is the bedframe,  Ill 
consider that. RSAs  supplier had to remove the bedframe from the property  after the fire. In 
order to do so, it was dismantled  and thats also how it was returned  to Mr and Mrs D. Mr D 
says theres now a ridge in the middle  of the bedframe which  wasnt there before the incident  
and that causes a noticeable ridge  in the mattress. Mr D said the ridge  wasnt  present when 
the mattress was laid on the floor.  He thought  that smoke and/or water damage had caused  
the wood to warp. It seems to be agreed  that the wooden  slats have been fitted properly. 
RSA thought there wasnt a problem with the bedframe but an issue with the new mattress  
Mr and Mrs D had bought.
Ref: DRN97939022Whenever a policyholder makes a claim  under  an insurance policy,  its their responsibility  to 
prove their claim  in other words, the onus is initially on them to show that the damage  
being claimed for happened as a result of something covered under the terms and 
conditions of the insurance policy.  If they think damage has happened  due to fault on the 
part of the insurer  or its agents, its up to them to show that too. I dont think  Mr and Mrs D 
have done that in respect of the bedframe.  Unfortunately its not sufficiently clear from the 
photos Ive seen that there is a ridge in the bedframe and if there is, what caused  it. 
Neither party has obtained an expert  report on the cause of the damage. RSA said if Mr and 
Mrs D provided  a report from an expert  at their own cost and that report  confirmed that the 
bedframe had been damaged as part of the insured event, it would reimburse them.  In the 
circumstances I think thats a reasonable offer.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to:
pay Mr and Mrs D £500  compensation for trouble and upset;
arrange for a master craftsman  to repair the dining table if a satisfactory repair  can be 
done and if not, replace the table; and
replace the bedroom television on a like for like basis or offer a cash  settlement for a like 
for like model.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 October  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9793902