K820x#14complaint
Ms C says she was mis-sold payment  protection insurance (PPI) with a store  card in 2001. 
She says she wasnt ever given a choice about the PPI and didnt need it.
A company called Financial Insurance Company Limited is responsible for complaints about 
these sales. Ill therefore refer to FICL  throughout this final decision.  
background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this complaint  and already provided a view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. Ms C disagreed  with this and so its been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im not upholding Ms Cs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her.
The first thing Id like to say is that I certainly dont doubt Ms C now honestly  and genuinely  
believes the PPI was mis-sold to her. But weve seen  a number of very similar sales  to this 
one and weve spoken at length to the company involved  to gain an understanding  of the 
processes that were  generally used. So we now know, for example, that consumers were 
asked to fill out a form in the store which was part of a wider  leaflet-based application.  The 
terms and conditions of the PPI were included in what the applicant  was given to complete. 
I was also sent the agreement  Ms C filled out when  she took out the card and PPI. I can see 
there was a section  on the application  leaflet about  PPI. This invited her to either  sign her 
name inside - or leave blank - an option box to have  the PPI cover.  
Ms C signed  at this point  so I think this shows that she did want PPI when she applied  for 
her card. She also signed  elsewhere on the form to agree to the credit  conditions. Because  I 
also think she wouldve had access to the terms and conditions as Ive described above,  I 
think she consented to the PPI. She would have  been equally free to not have signed the 
section asking for the PPI. 
FICL therefore got Ms Cs agreement to add this cover.
FICL provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to provide enough  clear  
information for Ms C to decide for herself whether she wanted  the cover. I think FICL  could  
have set out the information about  the PPI on the leaflet in a better way, but overall I do think 
Ms C had access to enough  information  to allow her to make  an informed decision. 
She was also eligible  for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend 
to see in some of these  policies. The cost of the PPI was relatively expensive,  but the 
benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most credit  cards.  For example, if shed 
become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI wouldve paid off 15% of her outstanding 
store card balance each  month until she returned to work or until all the balance  was 
Ref: DRN99529512returned to zero. These benefits wouldve been  in addition to any other means Ms C had in 
place at the time.
I see that Ms C had some sickness  protection  with her job of that time, but I dont think  this 
changes whether the PPI policy was of use to her either. As Ive said,  the decision about PPI 
was hers to make.  And I think the PPI policy was something that would have been of use to 
her. I think this probably explains  why Ms C chose it on the application form.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint or require  
Financial Insurance  Company Limited to do anything. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
 
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9952951