K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that NewDay  Ltd (trading as Marbles) repeatedly increased his credit  limit to 
levels he could not afford.
background
Mr G has a Marbles credit card with NewDay. NewDay raised his credit  limit five times in 
2016 and 2017. Mr G complains that NewDay acted irresponsibly when it did so, because 
NewDay should have  known he could not afford  it. He makes the following points:
He had only been making minimum  payments,
He had been using his full credit limit,
He had been exceeding  his credit limit,
His outgoings had increased,
No affordability checks had been  done,
He already had another credit  card with NewDay (an Aqua card), and cards with 
other lenders.  (Mr Gs complaint about  his Aqua card is being  dealt  with separately.)
Mr G is not in arrears on either  of his NewDay cards, and he is still making  adequate 
repayments on his Marbles  card (the Aqua account is now closed). But he has pointed out 
that at his usual  rate of payment, it will take him over 30 years to repay  his Marbles card. He 
argues that NewDay permitted him to incur  an excessive  level of debt which he cannot  afford  
to repay  within  a reasonable time.
NewDay says it did do affordability checks, which included checking Mr Gs credit file, and 
the increases  had been affordable. Its cards were  marketed to people  who find it hard to get 
credit elsewhere. Mr G had only briefly exceeded  his credit limit and then brought his 
balance back within the limit, and this would  not prevent a limit increase. It had written to him 
before each increase and explained  that he could decline an increase,  but he had not done  
so. Mr G had asked  for further  increases, which  NewDay had declined.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He accepted that NewDay  had done proper 
checks. He said that NewDay had offered Mr G the opportunity to decline the increases but 
he hadnt. So he didnt  think NewDay  had done anything wrong.
Mr G asked for an ombudsmans  decision. He said NewDay had been more  focused on 
making money that on considering his financial circumstances.  So this complaint has been 
passed to me.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows:
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments (including  about the Aqua card) 
to decide what  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
In particular, I have  had regard to the UK Card Associations best practice guidelines, dated 
1 January 2011 and entitled Credit  Card Limit Increases. I recognise that the guidelines are 
advisory, not mandatory. But they reflect best practice in the industry, and so I think it is fair 
and reasonable for me to have regard to what  they say when evaluating this complaint.
Ref: DRN93409112The Marbles  credit  limit increases are summarised  in the following  table:
Date New credit  limit Amount of increase Offered / requested by
1 December 2015 £900 Account opened Mr G
11 March 2016 £1,900 £1,000 NewDay
26 July 2016 £2,500 £600 Mr G
23 November 2016 £3,500 £1,000 Mr G
10 February 2017 £4,750 £1,250 NewDay
21 November 2017 £5,500 £750 Mr G
To put that in context, Mr G also requested or accepted  six credit  limit increases on his Aqua 
card. I wont  list them all here, but three  of them  were in a month immediately  before  or after 
a Marbles limit increase.  These were in February 2016, October 2016 and March 2017,  
when his Aqua limit was increased by £1,000,  £1,250  and £1,800 respectively.
Adding together the consecutive credit  limit increases on the Marbles  and Aqua cards shows  
a clearer picture of how much Mr Gs borrowing actually increased  by:
February and March 2016: total increase = £2,000
October and November 2016:  total increase = £2,250
February and March 2017: total increase = £3,050
When a credit limit is increased  by the lender, unsolicited, the guidelines  say that the lender 
must write to its customer to tell him, and to give him the opportunity  to decline. This was 
done in March 2016 and February 2017. I have seen the letters  and they comply with the 
guidelines. Mr G did not decline  the increases. That does not necessarily get NewDay off the 
hook, because there are other guidelines to comply with too, but it does mean that Mr G 
wanted those  increases  and must  bear some responsibility for them.
The guidelines  say that a credit limit must not be increased where  the balance currently 
exceeds the credit limit. However  that was not the case at the time of any of the credit limit 
increases on the Marbles card.
When increasing a credit  limit, whether solicited or unsolicited, a lender must carry out 
creditworthiness checks, including  checking the customers credit file. NewDay  did this when 
it opened the account, and found that Mr G had no bankruptcies or county court judgements  
against him. It also found that he had no recent defaults, but this was actually incorrect. Mr G 
had had three defaults, as follows:
In September  2012, a default  balance of £787,  satisfied  in October 2015.
In May 2013, £324, satisfied in October 2015.
In September  2013, £3,611, satisfied in January 2016.
I dont know why these  were missed at the time. NewDay was aware  of them  later on, when 
it did credit  checks  again  with each credit  limit increase. However, as the defaults were  all 
satisfied before the first credit limit increase in March 2016,  this may explain why they did not 
prevent Mr G from receiving an increase. They were all over two years old, and paying them  
off could indicate that Mr G had got his finances back  under control.
In March Mr G had three other credit cards: the Aqua card with NewDay, and two cards with 
other lenders. NewDay took into account the total balance for these cards in the previous 
Ref: DRN93409113month (because information reported  to credit  reference agencies  takes about a month to 
show up on a credit file). That came to £5,337,  or less than two months income. I dont think 
thats excessive.
In May 2016  Mr Gs circumstances changed, as he got a mortgage and began  making  
payments of £705  a month. However  he had declared an income  of £40,000  a year,  or 
£3,333 a month, so this should  still have been affordable.  I can see that NewDay  took this 
into account when  it gave him the subsequent limit increases.
The UKCA  guidelines include a list of indicators that a customer  may be in financial difficulty. 
The ones I think are relevant to this complaint are:
Regular late or missed payments,
Paying the minimum payment over an extended  period,
A significant increase in overall  outstanding  balances over time,
Instances of exceeding  credit  limits,
Frequently using  cash advances.
On the Aqua  account between July 2014  and July 2015, Mr G was charged a £12 fee three 
times for being  over the limit, and two fees for late or missed  payments. In the next year,  he 
was charged one missed  payment fee, one returned payment fee, and one over-limit fee. No 
fees were charged  in the two years  after that (ending in July 2017  and July 2018). I cant see 
that he was charged  any such fees on the Marbles account. Overall, I dont think  that shows  
a history of regular late or missed payments.
Each time Mr G exceeded the Aqua credit limit, he brought his balance back within the limit 
again. That is still a risk indicator. But three  of those four occasions were  more than six 
months before he opened the Marbles account.  So taken on its own, I dont think this factor  
should have prevented any of the Marbles credit  limit increases.
Mr G made  minimum payments in some months, but that was not his usual habit  until 2018. 
Before 2018, he made  minimum  payments, or payments close to the minimum, four times on 
the Marbles card, and seven times  on the Aqua card (the Aqua account was opened  in 
July 2014). These were as follows:
Aqua Marbles
September 2014
December 2014
February 2015
May 2016
July 2016
October 2016
November 2016 November 2016
May 2017
July 2017
December 2017
I dont think that amounts  to paying the minimum payment over an extended period, 
because until 2018 (which was after the last of the credit limit increases on the NewDay  
cards) he was making more than the minimum payments most of the time.
Ref: DRN93409114Mr G made  some  cash advances, but not many, and I think  not enough to be considered  
frequent.
However, I do think that there was a significant increase in overall outstanding balances  
over time.  I will not include his mortgage  here. But not counting  his mortgage,  his total 
balance on all loans (including the Marbles card) at the time of the five Marbles credit limit 
increases were (according to NewDays records)  as follows:
Date Total balance
March 2016 £5,337
July 2016 £4,251
November 2016 £12,526
February 2017 £15,651
November 2017 £15,278
So Mr Gs borrowing had increased  significantly  tripled,  in fact  between July and 
November 2016.  He had acquired  two new credit cards with other  lenders in July and 
August 2016,  which NewDay  knew about. In November 2016,  as Ive said already, he made  
minimum payments on both his NewDay cards. In October that year,  he had requested  a 
credit limit increase of £1,000 on his Aqua card.  Then in November he requested a £1,000 
increase on his Marbles card (his third on that card) when he was only about  £60 short of his 
old credit  limit.
I think that all of these factors, taken together, should have alerted NewDay  to the risk that in 
November 2016  Mr G may have been in financial difficulties.
Further evidence that he was continuing  to experience financial difficulties is the fact that 
only three months later, he accepted another increase in February,  followed by another  one 
on his Aqua card in March.
The guidelines  do not explicitly say what should  happen if a customer  appears to be in 
financial difficulties. But regulations made  by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook, usually abbreviated to CONC, prohibit a lender increasing  a 
credit card limit or increasing the interest  rate where  a customer  is at risk of financial 
difficulties (paragraphs CONC 6.7.7 R and 6.7.10  R).1
However, financial difficulties  has a specific meaning in this context. It is defined in rule 
CONC 6.7.11 R as follows:
For the purposes of CONC 6.7.7 R and CONC  6.7.10  R a customer is at risk of 
financial difficulties if the customer:
(1) is two or more payments in arrears;  or
(2) has agreed a repayment plan with the firm in question; or
(3) is in serious discussion  with a firm which  carries  on debt counselling with a view 
to entering into a debt management plan and the firm has been notified of this fact.
1 In these rules, the letter  R indicates  a rule and G indicates a guideline. I am referring to the version  
of the rules which was in force at the relevant time (before  they were  changed  in 2018).
Ref: DRN93409115None of these  criteria  were met in relation  to the NewDay cards.  So NewDay  was not 
expressly prohibited  from increasing the Marbles credit limit on the third or subsequent 
occasions.
However, lending  must  be sustainable.  CONC 5.3.1 G (6)(b) says that sustainable means 
that a customer can make  payments without undue difficulties and within  a reasonable 
period. Sub-paragraph  (7) goes on to say that a credit card provider must:
(a) make  a reasonable  assessment of whether the customer  is able to meet the 
repayments in a sustainable  manner; and
(b) make the assessment based on reasonable  assumptions about the likely  
duration of the credit. [Emphasis added.]
Strictly speaking, CONC 5.3.1 G does  not apply directly to the increase of a credit limit  its 
only about making a credit agreement (i.e. opening  a credit card account). But I still consider 
it to be relevant to the increase of a credit  limit.2
So I think that CONC does require a credit limit increase to be sustainable (as defined by 
CONC 5.3.1 G (7)).
CONC 5.3.5 R says:
A firm must not advise or encourage  a customer to [get] an amount of credit higher  
than the customer initially requested if the creditworthiness assessment   indicates  
that repayment  of the higher  amount would not be sustainable or the firm ought  
reasonably to suspect that that is the case.
That rule doesnt  strictly apply to an increase  which is requested by a customer.  It only 
applies where the firm offers an increase  to a customer. But having  regard  to CONC 5.3.1 G, 
I think it would be fair and reasonable to apply  the same principle to a request by Mr G for an 
increase  that is, it should only be granted where  this is sustainable, taking into account 
how long it will take to repay the balance (assuming that the full credit limit is going to be 
used).
In October  2018 Mr G provided a screenshot from the Marbles  website which at first glance 
appears to show that  given his balance at the time and his typical  monthly payments  it 
would take until October  2051, or 33 years, to repay  his balance.
I dont accept that evidence, because it refers  to a representative APR of 39.94%,  when 
Mr Gs credit card statement for the same month  shows an interest rate of 34.08%. And a 
letter NewDay sent to him in the same month says that if he only made  minimum payments it 
would take him 21 years  to repay the balance.
2 I take that view because CONC  6.2.1  R says a creditworthiness assessment must  be done each 
time a credit  limit is increased, and CONC  6.2.2 R says this assessment must comply  with 
CONC 5.3.5  R (as well as four other paragraphs  of CONC 5.3, all of which  are rules, not guidelines). 
So I think that the five rules listed in CONC  6.2.2  R should still be interpreted  in the light of the 
guidelines in CONC 5.3.1 G. (The only reason the guidelines are not specifically listed in CONC 
6.2.2 R is because  that rule says a lender must comply  with the five rules  listed there, and that 
would be unsuitable  language for referring  to guidelines.)  Taking the contrary  view would imply that 
CONC 5.3.5  R means something  different depending on whether it applies by virtue of CONC  5.1 or 
CONC 6.1, and if that is what  the FCA intended then I would  expect it to have said so explicitly, and 
not just to have left it to inference by omitting to list CONC 5.3.1 G in CONC 6.2.2 R.
Ref: DRN93409116That is still an excessively long time, but in 2016  and 2017  Mr G generally wasnt  only 
making minimum payments. So when  he was given the third and fourth credit limit increases 
on the Marbles card, NewDay would have  expected  him to be able to repay  his balance in a 
considerably shorter  time.
Nevertheless, starting in January 2018  Mr G only made  minimum payments,  or payments 
close to the minimum, on his Marbles account.  From February 2018 he only made minimum 
or nearly  minimum payments on his Aqua account.
I think that change  in Mr Gs usual behaviour is likely to be the result of being over-stretched  
on his borrowing, leading  him into financial difficulties. This coming so soon after the last 
Marbles limit increase in November 2017 leads me to conclude  that it was a direct  result of 
that increase.  I must therefore decide  whether that was foreseeable by NewDay,  and also 
whether Mr Gs difficulties were caused (at least in part) by any of the earlier  limit increases 
by NewDay  that is, the third and fourth increases on the Marbles card (together with the 
almost contemporaneous increases on the Aqua card).
Although I had reservations  about NewDays decisions  to allow  Mr G to increase  his 
borrowing in late 2016 and early 2017,  Mr G was still able to make significant  repayments for 
some time after that. In the 13 months following November 2016 (from December to the end 
of 2017), he only made minimum or near-minimum payments on his NewDay cards three 
times, and then only on one card but not the other at the same  time  or on three  out of 26 
occasions. That suggests to me that his borrowing  up until November 2017 was still 
affordable.
Mr Gs credit files suggest the same  thing about his payment history  on his other cards. He 
appears to have had four credit  cards with third parties during this period,  and he was 
generally making more  than the minimum payments on them.  The exceptions are in October  
2017, when he failed to make any payment on one card (when  its balance  was £300), and in 
December 2017  when he made  a small payment (£21 towards a balance  of £483) which 
I infer was a minimum payment, or close to the minimum.
However, just because Mr Gs borrowing had been  affordable up to this point does not 
necessarily mean that it was safe for NewDay to conclude that he could afford to borrow  still 
more in November  2017. The more commitments a customer has, the more an application 
for further  lending should be scrutinised. Mr Gs total borrowing was nearly £3,000  higher 
than it had been twelve months earlier.  He had spent considerably more on purchases  than 
in previous months. He had used his first cash advance in over a year.
So on balance, given Mr Gs history, I think that NewDay ought  reasonably  to have  
suspected that repayment  of the higher  amount would not be sustainable.
I therefore propose to uphold this complaint, but only in relation to the last of the limit 
increases on the Marbles card.
I am currently minded  to order  NewDay to refund to Mr G all of the interest and charges  it 
has charged him on the Marbles  card since 21 November 2017, being  the date of the last 
limit increase on that card,  and to pay interest on those  refunds.
Although I am dealing  with the complaint about  the Aqua  card separately (and I am currently 
not minded to uphold it), I think that Mr Gs inability to maintain his usual level of payments 
Ref: DRN93409117on that card was the result of the credit limit increase  on the Marbles card. So I think it would 
be fair for the compensation in this (Marbles) complaint to include a similar refund, with 
interest, of the charges  and interest  on the Aqua  card as well.
So my provisional decision is that I am currently minded to uphold this complaint in part. 
Subject to any submissions I receive  from the parties by the date below, I intend to order 
NewDay Ltd (trading  as Marbles) to:
refund  to Mr G all of the interest and charges it has charged  him on both the Marbles 
card and the Aqua card since  21 November 2017, and
pay him interest on the refunds at eight per cent a year from that date to the date of 
settlement.
responses to my provisional  findings
Mr G accepted my decision.
NewDay did not. It provided further  evidence about  how it carries out its affordability checks.
NewDay also argued that increased spending after a customer takes out a mortgage  is 
normal, because a person who has bought a new house will have increased expenditure for 
a while  afterwards, from buying new furniture and so on. A new mortgage is therefore  not an 
indicator of increased risk. NewDay also argued that Mr G is not in arrears  on either of his 
accounts. Finally, NewDay reminded me of some new rules the FCA has made about 
persistent debt, which it said should  alleviate my concerns about sustainability.
my findings
I regret that it will come as a disappointment to Mr G that NewDays  new evidence has 
changed my mind. I also regret that because this evidence is commercially sensitive, 
I cannot share it with him, or describe  it in as much detail as I would like to. All I can really  
say is that how NewDay  calculated what it thought Mr G could afford to pay took into 
account the risk of unexpected further outgoings, and suggested that Mr G could still afford  
another limit increase.  I now think its checks were  adequate, and that I can no longer safely 
conclude that NewDay was irresponsible.
I do not accept NewDays  other arguments.  In my provisional decision I did not say that a 
mortgage was an increased indicator of risk; rather I said that NewDay  had properly taken it 
into account. I had proposed  to uphold this complaint  based  on a limit increase  in November 
2017, which is a year and a half after Mr G got his mortgage in May 2016,  so purchases of 
furniture and other expenses associated with buying a new home were unlikely to still be 
relevant. The fact that Mr G is not in arrears doesnt necessarily mean, by itself, that he is 
not struggling or that the limit increases were responsible.  And the new FCA rules  were not 
yet in force in 2017.
Nevertheless, as I now agree that proper creditworthiness  checks were carried  out, I no 
longer think that the limit increase in November 2017 was improper.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN93409118Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9340911