K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr S says American Express Services Europe  Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
American Express had to make Mr S aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent 
before adding it to his card. American  Express has provided a copy  of the application form 
Mr S signed  when he applied for his card and PPI. The option to take PPI has been selected 
on the form, and could have been left unselected.  So I think  American Express made  it clear  
that Mr S didnt have  to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he may not remember this now.
American Express didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for him. But it did have  to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information American Express gave  Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means he had available 
of making his repayments which included generous  sick pay and help from friends  and 
family. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Ss sick pay, and for longer than 
Mr S would have received  full pay. And while Mr Ss friends and family  would have  wanted  to 
help their ability to would have been dependent on their circumstances  at the time which  
could have changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ss circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means American Express  doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr S.
But American Express will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
American Express got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S about  that. Because American  Express didnt 
tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, American Express has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN90250522Ive thought about everything Mr S has said but these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
American Express has to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. American  Express should also pay back to Mr S any 
extra interest he paid because of that.
American Express should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr S the 
difference between  what  Mr S owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  
share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. American Express  should also pay 
Mr S 8%* simple interest  if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited does  not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Mr S any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9025052