K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc, (trading as Britannia Building Society   
Britannia), mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection  insurance,  (MPPI),  policy.
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision of 10 April 2019, a copy of which is attached to this final decision.
Neither Ms H nor Britannia has sent me any further information or commented  on my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  our general  approach  to complaints about the sale of payment protection  
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in deciding  Ms Hs complaint.
As neither party has sent us any further  information or comments since  receiving it, I see no 
reason to vary my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my decision is that I do not 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN93127912Copy Provisional Decision
complaint
Ms H complains that The Co-operative Bank  Plc, (trading as Britannia Building Society  
Britannia), mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance, (MPPI),  policy.
background
Britannia sold Ms H the monthly-premium MPPI during a meeting in 1993 at around the same time as 
she took out a mortgage with them. The policy covered Ms H for accident,  sickness and 
unemployment. The monthly premiums were just under £10. Following  a successful claim the MPPI 
would have paid out about  £165 a month for up to 12 months had she been off work for accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld. As Ms H disagreed, the 
matter has come to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection insurance  on 
our website. Ive followed  this in deciding  Ms Hs case.
Because of the time that has passed, Britannia  no longer has a copy of the policy  that it sold to Ms H. 
But it has sent us a summary of the cover  that it says was in use at the time. And I find that its 
reasonable to assume that this fairly sets out the material  terms and conditions  of her policy.
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold this complaint.  But this is on a slightly different basis from that 
set out by our adjudicator. So Im issuing  this provisional  decision to give both parties the opportunity 
to supply  further  evidence or to make further  comments before I issue my final decision.
The reasons why Ive made this provisional  decision  are as follows:
Ive seen Ms Hs mortgage offer which says that she must take out the MPPI  to get that 
mortgage. It further says that, if she allows the policy  to lapse  before the first anniversary of 
completion of the advance, Britannia reserves the right to withdraw all discounts and revert, 
during the first 12 month period,  the rate of interest to its standard variable  base rate. 
Ive also seen  Ms Hs signed mortgage  application  form. On this she had left unticked the box 
to ask for details of the MPPI. But she later signed an application form specifically for the 
MPPI. I dont  know  what  discussions she may have had with Britannia, but I think she must  
have changed her mind  in the meantime and decided  to take a mortgage product which  had a 
favourable rate of interest,  but which required the MPPI, (along with some other insurance), to 
be taken out, and continued  for at least 12 months, to get that rate.
Had Ms H not wanted the MPPI, she could have chosen a different mortgage product.
From the above Im satisfied  that Ms H knew that she didnt have to take MPPI for all the 
mortgage products offered by Britannia, but that she chose to take a mortgage product where 
it was a condition. And I dont think it was unreasonable for Britannia  to have made it one, as 
it gave her the benefit of lower monthly mortgage payments;
Britannia didnt recommend the policy  to Ms H, so it didnt have to take reasonable steps to 
ensure that it was suitable for her. (It was up to Ms H to decide whether she wanted it, in the 
Ref: DRN93127913light of her circumstances at the time.) But even though the insurance was compulsory  for the 
product Ms H took, Britannia still had to give Ms H clear,  fair and not-misleading information 
about it. This was so that she could make an informed  decision whether to proceed with the 
particular mortgage  product that required her to take it.
I dont know what information Britannia gave Ms H about the MPPI. But I find that it was 
potentially useful for her because:
oMs H was likely  to have been  eligible for the policy and was unlikely to have been 
adversely affected by any of its main  limitations and exclusions  such as those  affecting 
someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
oThe MPPI was competitively priced by reference to other similar policies available in the 
market at the time. 
oMs H has told us that she was entitled to sick pay from her employer. And she may have 
had some  savings. But the insurance would likely  have paid out in addition  to these  and 
any redundancy pay. Although she feels she was in a secure role in the public sector,  she 
couldnt be sure she wouldnt lose her job, and failing  to keep up the mortgage payments 
could have  had serious results for her. And, in the case of her being off work because of 
accident or sickness, the MPPI payments would  have  been for longer than her full sick pay 
entitlement from her work and would  have left any savings she had available for future 
expenses;
oI havent seen anything to suggest that Ms H couldnt  afford the premiums. In any event, 
as it was paid for monthly, Ms H could  have cancelled the policy at any time without extra 
cost, had she later felt that it had become unaffordable or she no longer wanted it. (Subject 
of course to the effect on her mortgage, referred to above.)
So from the above, on current  information  I find that if Britannia had given Ms H all the 
information about the MPPI  that it ought to have,  this wouldnt have changed  her mind  and 
stopped her taking it. So shes not lost out because of anything that Britannia  may have done  
wrong. This means that theres nothing I require  Britannia to put right.
my provisional  decision
For the above  reasons,  my provisional decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9312791