K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about short-term loans granted to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as QuickQuid. Mr H says he couldnt afford these loans and that QuickQuid didnt 
take appropriate steps to check whether he could afford them when he took them out. 
background
QuickQuid agreed five short-term loans and a flexible credit facility  (flex credit) for Mr H 
between July 2013 and November 2015. Each  loan was repayable over between one and 
three months, with the exception of the flex credit, which  allowed  him to drawdown money up 
to a pre-agreed  credit  limit, with a view to repaying it  potentially  over a period  of up to 
10 months. 
Mr H took out top-ups  on some of his loans. This is where he took out further  borrowing 
under the same agreement before paying back the initial amount borrowed. Ive set out a 
summary of lending below.
payday loan
loan no. applicationprincipal 
amount (£)no. of instalments 
duehighest monthly  
repayment  due (£)
1 16/07/2013 100 1 118
flex credit
loan no. application credit limitno. of instalments 
duehighest monthly  
repayment due (£)*
2 05/09/2013 500 up to 10 153
*Based on Mr H drawing down the full credit limit at the outset and repaying the balance over 10 months
payday loans
loan no. applicationprincipal 
amount (£)no. of instalments 
duehighest monthly  
repayment  due (£)
3 21/03/2015 100 3 122
3a 25/03/2015 125 3 275
3b 03/04/2015 100 3 400
4 22/07/2015 100 1 129
4a 02/08/2015 300 3 496
5 04/09/2015 100 2 122
6 21/10/2015 400 3 489
6a 25/11/2015 500 3 1,127
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Hs complaint already and recommended  the 
complaint be upheld in part. She felt the checks QuickQuid carried out on loans 1 and 3, as 
well as on the flex credit agreement at the point of sale were proportionate. And that it was 
not unreasonable for QuickQuid to have approved these applications based on the results  of 
these checks.
But she thought the checks QuickQuid carried out from the first top-up on loan 3 (3a) onwards 
werent proportionate.  And she thought that had QuickQuid carried  out proportionate  checks,  
it wouldve  seen that the second  top-up on loan 3, and the remainder of the lending  from this 
point on wouldve been unaffordable for Mr H, and wouldve therefore not agreed to these 
loans.
Ref: DRN98967882She also thought  that QuickQuid shouldve done more  to monitor  Mr Hs account during the 
course of his flex credit  agreement, and that had it done so, it wouldve seen that by 
27 September 2014, Mr H was not using his account  as intended. So she recommended 
QuickQuid refund any interest and charges applied as a result  of any drawdowns  after this 
date.
QuickQuid didnt agree with the adjudicators findings regarding loans 3b onwards, so it didnt 
agree to uphold these  loans. But it did accept the findings regarding  the flex credit agreement, 
and offered to refund  all the interest and charges applied as a result of any drawdowns  from 
27 September 2014 onwards in line with our approach in settlement of Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H was unhappy with this offer. So as no agreements been reached at this stage, the 
case has come to me, as an ombudsman,  for a final decision.  As loans 1, 3, 3a, and the flex 
credit account no longer  appear in dispute, my decision will focus  on QuickQuids lending 
decisions from the second top-up on loan 3 (3b) onwards.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.  
Our adjudicator, having looked  at everything, found  that QuickQuid didnt carry out 
proportionate checks for Mr Hs applications  for his second top up on loan 3 (3b) onwards.  
And she thought  that had it done  so, it wouldve likely understood that at this time, and from 
this point on, the loans  and subsequent top-ups approved were  no longer affordable for him. 
These findings were  set out in some  detail in a view letter  to the lender. 
QuickQuid initially said it carried out appropriate and proportionate affordability assessments, 
including validation of Mr Hs income  and expenses before funding all these loans. Its said it 
started implementing changes to affordability assessments in June  2014  and all the changes  
were completed by 28 February 2015.
It said that starting 1 March 2015, before Mr H borrowed  loan 3, it had implemented an 
affordability review that was consistent with the FCA (Financial Conduct Authority) 
Handbook and was in place at the time it received authorisation  by the FCA. And that its 
assessment was conducted properly and individually  for each of these applications.
QuickQuid raised this argument in both its initial submissions, and in response  to the 
adjudicators assessment.  However,  our job is to look not only into the rules and regulations  
set by the regulator at the time of borrowing but also the law, good industry practice  and all 
the available  evidence and arguments  to help us decide whether we think  what  the business 
has done is right or not. And in this case I don't think QuickQuid  was right to provide  Mr H 
with some of the loans  he borrowed  from 2015  onwards.
This service has responded to QuickQuid on the above generic argument directly and 
through earlier final decisions. So Im not going to expand on this point any further here, 
though I have considered it alongside everything else in making my decision. 
Ref: DRN98967883I would remind QuickQuid  at this point of the FCA guidance in how complaints are to be 
dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] 
which says that businesses procedures for complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
So my decision will focus on the specifics of Mr Hs complaint and what both parties have 
said about this.
The FCA was the regulator at the time Mr H borrowed the loans in question. Bearing in mind  
the rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business  (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), I would expect  a lenders affordability assessment to vary with 
circumstance. (I am not quoting the specific regulations here because,  as before, I would 
expect QuickQuid to be conversant with these through previous ombudsman decisions,  
particularly recent decisions, which set these  out in detail.)  
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying out more  detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer  the lending relationship
When Mr H topped up loan 3 for the second  time (3b), around  two weeks  had passed  since 
hed borrowed the initial advance on this loan. Loan  3 was originally for £100,  but after the 
second top-up,  QuickQuid  had increased  Mr Hs total borrowing under this agreement  to 
£325. And this was due to be repaid over three months, with a highest monthly repayment of 
£400.
By this point, Mr H had been borrowing  from QuickQuid for around  20 months. I think by 
now, and from this point  on, before agreeing to lend any further, QuickQuid  shouldve  built a 
full picture of Mr Hs financial circumstances and verified the information  it was given, to 
ensure he could afford to meet the repayments on any future lending sustainably.  
Mr Hs provided  bank  statements from around the time of the loans in question. So Ive 
looked at these, and all the other evidence provided  by both parties, to work out what  I think 
proportionate checks wouldve  shown QuickQuid, had they been carried  out at the time. 
Ref: DRN98967884At the time of Mr Hs second  top up on loan 3, having looked at his bank statements he 
appears not to have  been working. As just five days after topping  up this loan, he was 
receiving unemployment  benefits of around  £145 every two weeks.
I think QuickQuid wouldve found  this out had it carried out a full review of Mr Hs financial 
circumstances at the time. I think it wouldve also seen that his monthly living  expenses  were 
around £550. And that he was committed to repay  around £250 on his regular monthly  credit  
commitments, as well as a further  £250 on his short-term credit commitments.   It wouldve 
also likely found out that he was spending over £900  a month on online gaming and 
gambling sites.
Given the above, I think had QuickQuid carried out proportionate checks, it wouldve realised 
that at this point  Mr H applied for loan 3b, he was in no position to be able to commit to any 
further repayments, and as a responsible lender  would not have agreed to lend to him 
knowing this. 
Loan 4 was taken out around just a week after loan 3 was settled, and Mr H again borrowed 
£100. It seems at this point Mr H was working again, and was now receiving a monthly 
salary payment of around £1,470. Which I think QuickQuid wouldve found  out had it carried 
out proportionate checks. 
But proportionate checks wouldve also shown  QuickQuid  that Mr Hs monthly living  
expenses were just over £700  a month; and that he owed a further £700 a month  towards 
both his regular  and short-term creditors. They wouldve also likely revealed that Mr H was 
spending over £200  a month on online gaming and gambling sites,  which  meant that his 
monthly expenditure at this time already exceeded  his income, and he was in no position to 
be able to commit to any further credit  commitments. Therefore, I think QuickQuid would not 
have agreed to either loan 4, or the subsequent top-up on this loan (4a), had it carried  out 
proportionate checks.
At the time Mr H took out loans 5, 6, and the top-up on loan 6 (6a), his circumstances had 
changed very little. His living expenses remained around £700 - £800 a month, and his 
regular monthly credit  commitments  remained around £350. His short-term credit  
commitments throughout this time ranged from around £250  a month to £650 a month,  and 
at the time of each application,  and he was spending around £100 a month  on online 
gambling and gaming  sites. This meant that his total monthly outgoings at the time of his 
applications for loan 5 through  to 6a, ranged from £1,270 to around £1,910.
But QuickQuid wouldve likely also seen that Mr Hs monthly income at the time of each 
application was around just £1,220, which was less than his outgoings. So I think had 
QuickQuid carried out proportionate checks when  Mr H applied  for loans 5,6 and 6a, it 
wouldve again seen  that his monthly expenditure exceeded his income, and that he was in 
no position to be able to commit to any further  credit repayments at this time. 
In summary,  I dont think the checks QuickQuid carried out from loan 3b onwards were 
proportionate. And I think had it carried  out proportionate checks,  it wouldve realised that all 
of Mr Hs loans and subsequent top-ups from this point on wouldve been unaffordable for 
him, and as a responsible lender, would not have approved them.
what QuickQuid  should  do to put things right
Ref: DRN98967885QuickQuid has already agreed  to refund the interest  and charges  Mr H paid as a result of 
any draw downs on his flex credit account  from 27 September  2014 onwards, so it should  
still do this. 
In addition to this I think QuickQuid was wrong to have approved loans 3b  6a. So it needs 
to refund all of the interest and charges Mr H paid on these loans.
Specifically, it should:
refund the interest and charges paid as a result  of the second top-up it agreed on loan 3 
on 3 April 2015
refund the interest and charges paid for the loans it agreed  on loan July 2015  to 
September 2015, including  all top ups on these loans
pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
remove any adverse  information about these  loans  from Mr Hs credit  file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
QuickQuid should  also:
remove all interest and charges added to loan 6 agreed in October 2015, including any 
top-ups on this loan
treat any repayments made, as payments towards the capital balance
I understand this will leave an outstanding  balance, so QuickQuid can deduct this 
balance from what it now  needs  to pay Mr H above,  if it still owns the debt.
If, after all of the above has been actioned, anything remains  outstanding,  a mutually 
agreeable repayment plan should  be arranged. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part. 
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things  right as described  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9896788