K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains he was given unsuitable advice by an adviser with Connacht  Financial  
Services Ltd, an appointed representative  (AR) of TenetConnect Services Limited 
(Tenet). He says he was advised to invest all of his savings in a high risk investment which 
wasnt suitable for him.
He feels that as Connacht Financial Services was an AR of Tenet, Tenet is responsible  for 
his losses. He wants to be put back in the position  he was in before he was advised by the 
AR.
background
Mr A had a general investment portfolio, an ISA and two pension portfolios and told us hed 
been advised by the AR for around 15 years.  He says that in December 2011 he was 
contacted by the AR about investing  in Gulf Keystone  Petroleum Ltd (GKP). In January and 
February 2012, Mr A invested all of his available funds in the shares. 
When the shares were  sold in July 2016, Mr A had lost the majority of his money. He says 
hes been unable  to retire and his health  has been impacted. He says hes since  found out 
that the shares werent on Tenets approved panel of products so the AR was working 
outside of its authority.
Tenet said the orders were all carried out on an execution  only basis  the AR didnt advise 
Mr A to invest  in GKP, it simply acted  on his instructions.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded  that, 
for every instruction, Mr A had signed  a letter to confirm that he was acting without advice.  
He concluded  that, because the trades were carried out on an execution  only basis,  Tenet  
wasnt responsible  for Mr As losses.
Mr A didnt agree. He replied in detail saying,  in summary, that:
He visited the ARs office with his friend and the AR recommended  they both invest  in 
GKP.
The meeting notes provided  by Tenet  are not an accurate reflection of what  happened 
and look to have been  added to the business file to support  its defence of this complaint.
The execution only instructions that he was asked to sign werent  discussed.  Even  if the 
trades were  execution only, the AR and Tenet didnt have the required Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) permissions to carry out the trades.
He wasnt made aware that the AR didnt have the required permission to carry out the 
trades and that, as a result, any losses wouldnt be covered by professional  indemnity 
insurance. He wouldnt  have  agreed  to the share purchases  if hed been made aware  of 
this.
The AR sold Mr As existing investments during the period  November  2011  to January 
2012. No discussion  took place prior to these  sales  and Mr A didnt agree to them.
As a result of the ARs  actions,  he has lost his entire pension  provision.
Ref: DRN97718942my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
In response to our investigator,  Mr A suggested  that some of the records  provided by the 
business were created  as a result of his complaint  namely the records  of meetings and the 
email instruction to switch  his portfolio to 100% cash dated 15 September 2011. I havent 
seen enough evidence to support his allegation  of fraud and, as an informal dispute 
resolution service, this isnt the appropriate service  to decide this point. If Mr A believes 
Tenet, or the AR, acted dishonestly and wants to pursue that issue,  hell need to do so 
through the appropriate authorities.
This service isnt a regulator and it isnt my role to make a finding on whether there has been 
a breach of the regulations. Thats the role of the FCA.
In September  2011, the AR recommended that Mr A either switched to a lower  risk profile,  or 
into 100%  cash as a temporary measure. This was against a background of a possible 
default by Greece.  This recommendation was set out in an email dated 13 September  2011  
and Mr A replied two days later saying  he wanted  to switch to 100% cash.  Overall,  I think 
Mr A gave permission to liquidate his investments. And I havent seen anything to suggest  
that this was in preparation for investing in GKP  the first mention of this investment was 
around three  months  later.
At the end of January  2012, the first investment in GKP took place.  Three further purchases 
were made in February 2012  and all of the shares were  sold in July 2016.
Mr A says the AR recommended he invest in the shares. If it did give a personal 
recommendation, it wouldve been  obliged  to make sure the shares were  suitable for Mr A.
I think its likely that the AR spoke  about  GKP and told Mr A and his friend that he was 
planning to make a personal investment. I dont think  such  a discussion is unsurprising or 
unreasonable given Mr A, his friend,  and the AR had formed a close relationship, having 
known each other for many years. But I havent  seen anything  to persuade me that any 
discussion about GKP  amounted to a personal recommendation for Mr A to invest in the 
shares.
The AR prepared  a letter of instruction for Mr A to sign for every instruction he gave. This 
including the wording:
I confirm  that my decision to purchase  these  shares bas been  made  without advice or 
recommendation from CFS Independent Financial Advisers or its employees and that it has 
been explained to me that this investment  falls outside my assessed attitude  to risk.
Mr A confirms he signed each of these letters and I think it was reasonably clear that he 
wouldve understood the AR hadnt advised  him to buy the shares. And that he understood 
the risk involved was higher than his previously  agreed attitude  to risk, but that he wanted to 
go ahead  anyway.
Ref: DRN97718943After each transaction, the AR wrote to Mr A to confirm the transaction.  This letter repeated  
that the ARs  role was to facilitate the transaction and that it hadnt  given advice.  It also said 
that the investment was regarded as very high risk.  Mr A signed this letter  for every  
transaction.
I accept these letters  and the wording  used  were provided by the AR. But I find it was 
clear from these letters that Mr A was giving instructions on an execution only basis.
Im sorry  this investment  resulted in a loss for Mr A. But as I dont find the AR gave him 
advice, I dont find Tenet is responsible for his loss.
Its disappointing that Tenet wasnt able to provide a copy  of the AR agreement.  But Ive 
made my decision based on the evidence and information we have been given. And the lack 
of an AR agreement doesnt  change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9771894