K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that U K Insurance Limited carried  out a change of vehicle incorrectly  
under his car insurance policy.  
background
Mr A said he has car insurance policies  for two cars with UKI. He changed one of his cars 
and called UKI to change  the car registration details so that his new car was insured. But 
UKI incorrectly changed the new car under the wrong policy. 
Mr A noticed  the error and he called UKI the following morning. UKI apologised,  corrected  its 
error and paid Mr A £10 for the inconvenience its error had caused him. UKI said it would 
have indemnified any claim made during  the period when  he wasnt insured. UKI said it 
would provide feedback  and training to the individual involved. 
Mr A brought his complaint to us as he said the compensation  wasnt enough. 
Our investigator thought that UKI had done enough to resolve Mr As complaint. She 
explained that we can only consider what did happen  rather than what  might have 
happened. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said was inconvenienced  as he made  plans to use the car that 
evening and the following morning  but couldnt  because UKI hadnt updated the Motor 
Insurance Database  (MID)  to show it as insured. So he believes the compensation UKI has 
paid him isnt enough. 
So Mr A would like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. 
When things go wrong,  we look at what an insurer did to put things right.  UKI doesnt dispute 
that it made  the error.  It didnt change the car under the correct  policy  for Mr A. 
I understand that Mr A called UKI between 6pm and 7pm that evening  to change the car 
details under his policy.  He said he made plans for later that evening   and for early the 
following morning  which involved using the new car. He said that when hes changed cars 
in the past, hes found that the MID updates usually within 24 hours. Mr A said he was 
periodically checking the MID - but because it still showed the incorrect  details  the following 
morning, he called UKI. 
From the information given to us, Mr A called UKI between 11 and 12pm. UKI immediately 
corrected its error. 
It can take a few days for the MID to update. Mr A says he didnt use the car. But I think it 
was reasonable  for Mr A to have relied  on the assurance that he was insured to drive once 
hed told UKI of the change of vehicle and it had told him it had made  the change. I 
understand that Mr A believes the compensation UKI has paid him isnt enough. 
Ref: DRN90739282However I think  on balance  that its a fair and reasonable sum. The period of time Mr A 
was inconvenienced was short. And UKI has said that it would have  covered any claim made 
during the key period.  Fortunately no claim was made. 
UKI made an error.  And I agree with Mr A that these things shouldnt happen. But 
sometimes things go wrong.  In this case, I think UKI has done  enough  to put things right. 
So this means  I dont think UKI needs  to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9073928