K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about the lack of options Santander UK Plc gave them  when Mr M 
took ill and they had financial  difficulties.  Mr and Mrs M were looking  a fair mortgage deal 
with Santander,
background
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with Santander.  They made their contractual monthly  
payments punctually until Mr M took suddenly ill in December 2017. As it was likely that 
Mr M would be off work for at least 6 months  and that they would struggle financially Ms M 
contacted Santander to see if they could work something out to have the payments reduced 
for a period  of time while Mr M was off work.
Santander agreed to accept reduced  payments for a period. In May 2018 Santander told Mr 
and Mrs M that they couldnt offer Mr and Mrs M a new deal on a mortgage product  to fix the 
interest after their existing deal expired in September. Mr and Mrs M believe that they 
werent properly informed that the payment arrangement would affect  their credit rating and 
ability to get mortgage deals. They say that they should have been  told that the arrangement  
would affect rather  than may affect their credit rating  and should have been  offered 
alternatives to the reduced payment arrangement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened carefully  to the phone calls made between Mr M and Santander when Mrs M 
attended the local branch office and calls were  then put through  to more specialist 
Santander staff.
The background was that Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage account they were managing 
impeccably but they had a sudden blow to their finances when Mr M took ill. They  felt that 
they would  have difficulties paying  their mortgage  for a period and turned to Santander for 
help. Santanders  assistance was to offer to waive its requirement that Mr and Mrs M pay the 
full contractual  monthly payment each month but to agree  a reduced arrangement to pay. 
This was reviewed after two months when Mr and Mrs M agreed higher repayments and 
then later they paid off all the arrears,
The downside of any arrangement to pay is that the lender will report  the lower payments to 
a credit reference agency which will show a gap in the repayments  on Mr and Mrs Ms credit 
file. Looking at Mrs Ms credit file which she supplied to us, it shows  a history  of her 
mortgage account going back  almost  six years. Until the previous six months all payments 
were made on time. In the past six months  it shows  a two month  gap which is explained  as 
The lender has agreed to vary your payments for a time. This would seem to give a fair 
picture of Mrs Ms credit history.  It is not the credit  history of a serial  defaulter but of a person  
who has difficulty making payments for a short period and the lender has made  an 
agreement for reduced payments.
Ref: DRN98902612Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs M, making  reduced  payments had a knock-on effect which  is 
that their credit  history  has been  affected  and they have had the anxiety of not knowing 
whether they would be able to source a new mortgage product with a favourable interest  rate 
when their existing  product expired.  This is because when they next applied  for a fixed  rate, 
their account  would show an arrears history. 
We would  expect Santander to be positive and sympathetic to Mr and Mrs M when  Mrs M 
came to see them in their financial difficulty. Santander says that it did this by agreeing an 
arrangement Mr and Mrs M could afford. The downside of the reduced  payment 
arrangement is that it has consequences on the credit file because  of the arrears. I note that 
Mrs M was aware that the account would go into arrears  because she queried  in her first 
conversation whether  the arrears would  result in other charges or extra interest and indeed  
what that interest was likely to be.
I see that after the first arrangement Santander  wrote to Mr and Mrs M telling them that the 
arrears would be reported to credit  reference agencies and that the failure  to pay the 
mortgage may affect their future ability to obtain  credit. The purpose  of that is to alert Mr and 
Mrs M to the problems going  into arrears would cause for them  in credit  applications in the 
future. Mrs M has made the point  that this should  be emphasised more fully saying that it 
will affect  rather  than may affect  But most customers who have arrears will get credit in 
the future  as indeed  Mr and Mrs M did.
I have looked  at what alternative options  Santander  could have offered Mr and Mrs M. Mr 
and Mrs Ms broker  suggested two alternatives. He suggested firstly  that Mr and Mrs M 
should have been given  the option  from day 1 of reducing their payments to interest  only for 
a period and be kept under review. He doesnt  appear to be suggesting an interest-only 
mortgage as its only for a period.  
But this would have  a similar effect  on Mr and Mrs Ms credit profile as the arrangement they 
entered into. There would  be arrears as the interest-only payments would be less than the 
contractual monthly payments  and the credit  file would show an arrangement to pay. There  
is also the question  of whether it would have been reasonable for Santander to require Mr 
and Mrs M to pay more in January and February  than they could afford. According to the 
income and expenditure account interest-only payments at that stage were unaffordable.
The other solution suggested  by the broker would be to extend the payments as long as 
possible to bring  the payments down. He doesnt  suggest how long that might be. But the 
problem with extending the mortgage as a solution is that Mr and Mrs Ms income  as 
opposed to their expenditure was showing in January a large  deficit  and so any long term 
mortgage would be unaffordable. It would seem  reasonable to do as Santander did and 
suggest short term arrangements  to be reviewed  and adjusted in view of Mr and Mrs Ms 
changing income. 
Mr and Mrs Ms broker doesnt  suggest capitalisation of the arrears although Mrs M refers  to 
it in her letter of complaint. But that doesnt deal with the problem as capitalisation  occurs  
when the arrears have  already occurred and so any damage that would  result  to Mr and Mrs 
Ms credit file would already have been  done. 
The problem is that if Mr and Mrs M couldnt  afford the monthly payments, this was going  to 
be reported to credit reference  agencies although in this case as an arrangement to pay. So, 
having looked at the alternatives my view is that the reduced payment option offered by 
Santander was reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN98902613I note that Santander didnt  send  in January information about debt resources to Mr and Mrs 
M and didnt do so until May. Whilst it would have been better to have sent this out at the 
time Mr and Mrs M first raised  the problem with Santander I consider  that Santander acted 
properly to give Mr and Mrs M breathing  space  after the first shock  of Mr Ms illness  to see 
how they could  address  their temporary  debt problem. I cant  fairly say that Mr and Mrs Ms 
situation would have been better had they got that debt information earlier.  
Unfortunately because of the arrears Mr and Mrs M were unable to access  Santanders 
more favourable rates when their mortgage products came to an end. Mr and Mrs M say that 
they could have fixed a rate for the smaller loan from January but were advised to wait until 
the mortgage product for the larger loan expired. I can see why that advice may have been 
given as its sometimes more convenient that products for different loans run at the same  
time. Ive also listened to a phone call Mr and Mrs M had with the mortgage adviser in April 
and it seemed to me that Mr and Mrs M would have been aware of the options they had for 
accessing new mortgage products.
I appreciate from listening  to that call that these options werent  straightforward. I can also 
understand Mr and Mrs Ms frustration at that point when their financial prospects were 
improving compared  to January. But I am of the view that given Mr and Mrs Ms situation in 
January as described to the Santander  adviser  and in Mrs Ms letter to Santander of 24 May 
2018 that Santanders response was positive, sympathetic  and appropriate. For the above 
reasons I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9890261