K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complained about seven instalment loans he took out with Gain  Credit  LLC (trading 
as Lending Stream).  He says the loans were unaffordable.
background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr C and Lending Stream had told us. And she 
thought that the checks Lending  Stream carried out before giving Mr C his loans were 
proportionate. So she didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. Mr C disagreed  and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  short  term lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C was provided with high-interest loans, intended  for short-term use. So Lending  Stream  
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what  this means is 
that Lending Stream needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr C before providing it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im not upholding Mr Cs 
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Mr C was provided with his first two loans in May 2015 and July 2015.  These loans were 
due to be repaid  over a period of around six months. Mr C settled  these loans early  and he 
no longer owed Lending Stream by August  2015.  Mr C then approached for a further  loan in 
November 2017  some fifteen months later. This was also due to run for six months but was 
settled early. Mr C then took a further  three  loans between  January 2018 and June 2018. 
Again these were  also due to be repaid over six months but two of them were settled the 
month after they were  taken. 
Finally Mr C approached Lending Stream for a seventh loan, in January  2019, which  was 
almost six months after he repaid his previous one. Bearing in mind  the fifteen month period 
between loan two being repaid and loan three being taken, our adjudicator thought  that it 
was fair and reasonable to treat this as a break in lending.    
Lending Stream says it agreed to Mr Cs applications after hed provided details of his 
monthly income and expenditure.  It says the information Mr C provided on his income and 
Ref: DRN90857322expenditure showed that hed be able to comfortably make the repayments he was 
committing to. And in these circumstances  it was reasonable to lend. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr C and Lending Stream have said.  The first thing for me 
to say is that the first two loans  were  Mr Cs first loans with Lending Stream.  And there was a 
significant period  of time between loan two being repaid and loan three  being  provided. So 
Im satisfied that there wasnt any established pattern in Mr Cs borrowing needs at either  of 
these stages. 
The information provided does suggest that Mr C was asked to provide details of his income 
and expenditure.  Bearing  in mind the amount of the monthly repayments,  the questions  
Lending Stream asked  Mr C and these were Mr Cs first loans, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Lending Stream to rely on the information Mr C was providing. 
Mr C says that he was borrowing from other  short-term lenders during the period of time 
between loan two and loan three and so its unfair to regard this as a break in lending. I 
accept that Mr Cs actual  circumstances may not have been reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information Lending Stream  obtained. But I dont  think 
that Lending Stream would have been aware of the extent of Mr Cs use of other  short-term  
lenders during this period   only Mr R himself was aware of this and he chose not to disclose 
it.
Im also sorry  to hear that Mr C was struggling  financially  and repaying  these  loans has 
proved difficult.  But Lending Stream could only make its decision based  on the information it 
had available  at the time.  And, at these stages of the lending  relationship, I dont  think 
proportionate checks wouldve  extended  into Lending Stream asking Mr C to evidence  what 
he was declaring.   
Ive also thought about whether there was a point  that Lending Stream ought  reasonably  to 
have realised that the lending had become demonstrably unsustainable. In my view,  there 
were some warning signs  for example loan six was taken while  loan five was outstanding. 
But while these warning  signs  were  there,  I dont  think that Lending Stream  ought fairly and 
reasonably to have  realised that what was, in my view, an emerging pattern  had become 
established  especially  as there  was an almost six month break between loan six being 
repaid and loan seven  being taken. 
For the sake of completeness, Id also add that its only fair for me to uphold  a complaint 
where I can safely say a lender did something  wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that 
Lending Stream did anything  wrong in deciding to lend to Mr C - it carried  out proportionate 
checks even though its looks like the information  it mightve been  provided with was 
inaccurate. Lending Stream reasonably relied on the information  provided and given the 
amount of the repayments involved and the overall circumstances of Mr Cs loan history,  I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for Lending Stream  to lend  especially as there wasnt 
anything obvious,  in the information it had, to suggest Mr C wouldnt be able to sustainably 
repay these  loans.
So overall I dont  think that Lending Stream unfairly  provided Mr C with his loans and Im not 
upholding the complaint.  I appreciate  this will be very disappointing  for Mr C. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons  for my decision and that hell at least  feel his concerns have been 
listened to.
Ref: DRN90857323I understand that Mr C may be having  difficulty paying back  loan seven. So Id remind  
Lending Stream of its obligation to treat Mr C positively and sympathetically should it be the 
case that he is experiencing financial  difficulty.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9085732