K820x#14complaint
Mr B  Director of business W has complained about QBE Europe  SA/NVs decision to 
reject a claim W made under a commercial vehicle  insurance policy.
background
An engineer  was using one of Ws vehicles  and says he left the van locked.  When  he 
returned to it, he said he found a door was open and tools  left inside the van had been 
stolen. W made a claim to the insurer, QBE.
QBE rejected Ws claim under the Goods  in Transit section of the policy.  QBEs policy 
excluded cover for theft claims  where  there were no outward signs  of forced entry  to the 
vehicle while unattended.
Mr Bs representative asked us to look at Ws complaint. Our investigator thought QBE had 
acted reasonably. 
Mr Bs representative disagreed. He said there  was sufficient evidence to show  that force 
had been applied  using  a previous  court case as an example of what defines the meaning 
of force. The representative says that QBEs policy doesnt say that force sufficient to show  
damage is required. So he believes QBE should meet the claim.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
The key term in QBEs  policy  that its relying  on to reject Ws claim is set out in the policy.  It 
says that it wont cover  a claim  in the following circumstances: 
theft or attempted theft from any unattended vehicle operated  by the insured  unless  
there are outward signs  of forced entry to the vehicle.
Mr Bs representative has quoted the Judges comments from a case  Swales v Cox (1981) 
saying: 
"[...] he uses force if he applies  any energy to the obstacle with a view to removing it. 
It would follow that, if my view is correct, where there is a door which  is ajar but it is 
insufficiently ajar for someone to go through the opening without moving  the door and 
energy is applied to that door to make it open further, force is being used
The representative says that this is a simple matter of accepting  whether there  was or wasnt 
outward signs of forced entry.  He says that the claim should  be met on the basis that the 
claim passed the test of force  having  been used  to enter the vehicle - and signs  of this force 
being visible  from the outside of the vehicle.
However, I think its for W to show that an insurable  event happened. I understand the 
engineer insists he left the vehicle locked. 
Ref: DRN90397542So he cant  explain  why - when he returned  to the vehicle - the door was open. But equally 
theres no evidence  to show outward signs of forced entry  or to show that the engineer  did 
in fact lock the vehicle  and leave the vehicle  with the door closed. So I dont think  the 
example case the representative has relied  on is relevant here.
I understand that the police mentioned to the engineer that its possible a cloned key may 
have been used to open the door to the vehicle. But there isnt any evidence  to suggest this 
was the case.  
So based  on what Ive seen, I think QBSs decision to reject  the claim was made  reasonably. 
I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed  but this means I dont think QBS should meet Ws 
claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B on behalf  of 
W to accept or reject  my decision before  2 June 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9039754