K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society gave him personal information about  his 
account without  first taking him through security.
 
background
Mr A says that he wasnt asked security  questions when he phoned Nationwide  on two 
occasions to check the balance of his account.  He also feels that Nationwide provided him 
with a poor service  when  he complained  about this.
The investigator didnt  think Nationwide had done anything significantly wrong. Nationwide 
couldnt find the specific calls that Mr A complained  about. Our investigator had listened to 
another call that Mr A made on the same day as one of the calls when he said he hadnt 
been taken through security and found that Nationwide  had asked the appropriate security 
questions. Nationwide had apologised and had already paid compensation, which  she 
thought was fair.
Mr A didnt agree. In summary, he said that the compensation was for a different complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where there is a dispute about  what  
happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of probabilities   in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have  happened  in the light of the evidence.
Mr A says that Nationwide  failed  to take him through security on two specific occasions, 
once in November  2018 and again  in January 2019,  before  it gave him information  specific  
to his account. 
November 2018  telephone call
Ive listened to a call which Mr A made half an hour after the first call he complained about. 
This is when  Mr A made  his complaint about  the earlier call. He said that he had been given 
incorrect information from the previous advisor,  he wasnt taken through security and he 
asked for a manager  to call him but this didnt happen.
Im satisfied that Nationwide has made a thorough search for the earlier  call but it hasnt 
been able to locate it. It has looked using Mr As telephone number and the advisors  name. 
Ive also looked  at Nationwides records but these do not show any call made  to a member 
of staff with the name Mr A suggested. And having looked at Mr As telephone  records  I cant 
see that he made any calls to Nationwide that day from that number, despite Mr A saying 
that it was the only number  he would  have used.
Nationwide does not always need to take a customer through  security  if, for example, their 
question is not directly related to an individual account. I understand that Mr A was asking 
about how long it would  take for a credit, paid in through a cash  machine, to be applied to his 
account. As this type of question isnt account specific, but would apply to all of Nationwides  
accounts, then it might  not have been  necessary for Mr A to be asked any security 
questions.
Ref: DRN92409262Customers, who use telephone banking security prior to speaking to an advisor, only need  to 
confirm their name. They dont need to be asked a series  of security questions. I consider 
Nationwide only needs to complete full security if telephone banking security isnt used and if 
the questions  are account specific.
As I havent  been  able to listen to the call, I cant say what was discussed or whether 
Nationwide should  have taken Mr A through  security. Nationwide has accepted that Mr A 
might not have been given the correct  information  about timescales  for a credit reaching  his 
account. It has apologised and paid £30 for this. It also accepted that Mr A wasnt  called 
within three business days about  his complaint and, because it couldnt locate the call to 
establish exactly what happened, it paid £100 in compensation for this. I consider this to be 
fair.
January 2019  telephone call
Mr A says that the same failings with security happened again in January 2019 and when he 
complained again Nationwide didnt  handle his complaint properly. I can see that Mr A did 
call Nationwide on 30 January 2019 to make  a complaint. Nationwide  investigated  and wrote  
to him on 21 February  2019. Again, despite a thorough search, Nationwide was unable  to 
find the call. It told Mr A that it would investigate further if he was able to provide it with more  
information about the call. 
Im satisfied that Nationwide responded to Mr As complaint within three  weeks of him 
making it. A bank is entitled to take eight weeks to issue a final response  about a complaint. 
Im not persuaded that Nationwide  caused any delays in investigating this. Whilst I 
understand Mr As concern about security, on balance,  I cant  safely conclude that 
Nationwide has made a mistake or that it didnt provide a satisfactory  service  so I dont 
consider it should  pay any further compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.  
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9240926