K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about Phoenix  Life Limited.  Hes unhappy that the value of his pension plan 
dropped following a quotation he received in June  2017. 
background
Mr L had a deferred annuity pension  plan with Phoenix Life. Premiums  stopped  being paid in 
to the plan in June  2011. 
Phoenix Life sent a retirement pack to Mr L in June  2017 that provided a transfer value of 
£103,615. Mr Ls financial adviser contacted Phoenix Life querying  the figures provided in 
this pack. Phoenix  Life werent able to address these at this time as their systems  were 
down.
Phoenix Life wrote to Mr Ls adviser on 17 July 2017 explaining that the value previously 
quoted was incorrect as it wasnt reduced  to reflect premiums stopping in 2011. They  
apologised for any inconvenience this had caused  and provided  revised  figures for Mr Ls 
pension plan. The new quote  provided a fund value of £78,604.48.
Mr Ls adviser queried the change in fund value  with Phoenix Life as the June 2017  quote 
said the calculations  assumed contributions were  made up to 1 June 2011.
Phoenix Life responded saying the June  2017  quote was incorrect  as it was calculated  on 
the assumption premiums  were  paid in full up until 2022. And had the benefits been correctly  
calculated then the June 2017 value wouldve been  £84,616. The value however dropped  
again in July to £78,604.48 due to a rate change - that came in to effect on 1 July 2017. The 
rate change was following a review  carried out to ensure the transfer  value was a fair value 
and to ensure  the amount  paid didnt disadvantage the policyholders that remained in the 
fund.
Mr Ls adviser complained  to Phoenix Life about  the drop in value as a result of their error. 
He also said that had they known  about the correct figure before the rate change, of 
£84,616, then Mr L wouldve  accepted  this.
Phoenix Life didnt  change their position  and said the updated figures  were  correct and that 
they wouldnt honour the incorrect  values  they provided. They did however offer Mr L £250 
for the loss of expectation he suffered as a result of their error along with an additional £50 
for the time it took to deal with the complaint.
The complaint was referred  to our service but our investigator didnt think Phoenix  Life had 
to do anything further. He accepted Phoenix Life had made  errors  as the amount Mr L 
shouldve been  quoted  in June 2017 was £84,616. But even  if this quote had been accepted 
prior to the rate change, Phoenix  Life had confirmed that benefits wouldve been calculated  
from Mr Ls intended retirement date of 5 July 2017.  So the rate change wouldve still 
affected the value of Mr Ls benefits.  The investigator therefore  didnt  ask Phoenix Life to 
honour the fund value  of £103,615  or £84,616. He also thought the level of compensation 
offered was sufficient.
Mr L disagreed and so the matter has been  passed to me to review.
Im aware that Mr L has since  transferred benefits  from this pension plan to another  provider.
Ref: DRN97190182my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I appreciate why Mr L is unhappy  with whats happened. He was provided information from 
Phoenix Life about his pension  plan and I think it was reasonable for him to rely on it. I can 
therefore understand his disappointment  at finding  out his pension  benefits had been 
calculated incorrectly and so were less than hed previously  been told. But while Im 
sympathetic to Mr Ls situation,  for the reasons Ill explain Im satisfied  hes received the 
amount he was entitled to. 
Phoenix Life has confirmed that the June 2017 calculation, as well as an earlier  one they 
sent in February  2017, was incorrect. Theyve  said this was because the calculations  
assumed premiums had been paid in full and hadnt  stopped in 2011.  And had benefits been  
calculated correctly they shouldve provided a fund value of £84,616  in June 2017. So based 
on the premiums Mr L paid he was never entitled  to the £103,615  Phoenix Life quoted.
I understand the premiums stopped being paid due to Mr Ls direct debit not being switched 
over correctly when he changed bank. I appreciate Mr L may not have been aware his 
payments had stopped and that had he known this at the time, then he might have arranged 
for the direct debit  to be reinstated. But while I dont think this is necessarily the fault of Mr L, 
I likewise dont think it would be fair to hold Phoenix Life responsible  for that either.
Phoenix Life wrote to Mr L on several  occasions in 2011 to inform him that the premiums 
had stopped being paid.  Mr L has however  said that he didnt receive the letters as he never 
lived at the address they were sent to. Phoenix Life unfortunately doesnt have records to 
show why Mr Ls address was changed to this on their systems. But Mr L has explained that 
hes since found out his ex-wife lived there and that a joint investment  policy  they held was 
assigned to her following  a divorce. Hes therefore  suggested that his address was updated 
by his ex-wife in relation to the joint policy and that because of this, Phoenix  Life were  
sending letters about his pension plan to an incorrect  address.
Ive carefully consider  this point and although I cant be entirely sure what has happened,  I 
think Mr Ls explanation  is entirely  plausible. I also accept that its possible that if these 
letters had been sent to Mr Ls correct  address  then this might  have prompted him to 
continue paying  the premiums. That said, I dont  think this necessarily  means Phoenix Life is 
obligated to provide the pension benefits  Mr L wouldve received on this basis.  Ultimately  
Mr L stopped  paying  the premiums and so hes had the advantage  of the additional  funds he 
wouldnt otherwise  have had. So while I know Mr L will be disappointed by this, I dont think it 
was wrong for Phoenix Life to correct  the value of his pension  plan to accurately reflect  the 
amount he was entitled to based on the premiums he paid.
Im aware that Mr L and his adviser have also raised  concerns about  the calculations  
Phoenix Life has carried out. Although I understand why theyll have doubts about the 
accuracy of the calculations given whats happened, I think  it would be helpful to explain that 
the role of our organisation isnt to provide an actuarial service.  And so, although  Ive taken 
in to consideration the points Mr L and his adviser  have raised about the matter, Ive not 
seen anything to show the updated  pension values Phoenix Life provided were incorrect.
Ref: DRN97190183I understand Mr L has particularly questioned the difference in the amount of the guaranteed 
minimum annuity that Phoenix Life has quoted.  Previous quotes refer to an amount of 
£2,067 whereas more recent  figures  show £1,429. While I understand Mr Ls reason for 
questioning this, Im satisfied the variance in these figures is due to different assumptions  
being used in respect of the total premiums payable as well as retirement  dates. 
Ive also looked  at Mr Ls dissatisfaction with the rate change that came in to effect on 
1 July 2017. Mr L has argued  that if the correct figure of £84,616  had been  provided in the 
June 2017 quote then he wouldve accepted that amount and avoided  the drop in value to 
£78,604.48 that subsequently followed.  
Phoenix Life has however  confirmed  that, even if Mr L had accepted  the June 2017 
quotation, his pension benefits wouldve been recalculated as at his retirement date of 5 July 
2017. So irrespective  of whether the correct value  had been provided  in June 2017, Mr Ls 
pension plan wouldve still been  subject to the rate change  and therefore  valued on the new 
basis. I appreciate this will likewise come  as a disappointment to Mr L but I dont think hes 
lost out due to the rate change or, as a result of receiving  an incorrect pension plan value 
before it came in to effect.  Im satisfied that he received the amount he was entitled to.
I understand Mr L has since transferred his pension plan elsewhere. And that he considers 
he lost out on investment  growth over the last 17 months due to not being able to transfer it 
when it was valued at £84,616.  But while  I understand  his dissatisfaction  with being provided 
an incorrect valuation, as Ive explained, I dont think he was financially disadvantaged as a 
result of this. I also dont consider that the dispute  over pension plan value prevented  him 
from transferring it to another provider. I therefore dont think it would be fair to hold Phoenix 
Life responsible  for any loss of investment growth  he has suffered as result.
I do however accept that this matter has caused  Mr L trouble and upset. Im aware that 
Phoenix Life has offered  £300 for the loss of expectation he suffered and for delays in 
dealing with his complaint. Having  considered  this, I think it is a reasonable amount in the 
circumstances and so Im not increasing it any further. If the £300 compensation hasnt yet 
been paid then Mr L should  contact  Phoenix  Life directly to arrange this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN97190184
Ref: DRN9719018