K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that he was given incorrect information when asking about transferring funds
to a currency card he has with Revolut Limited.  As a result Mr L lost out when  funds were
exchanged from Hong Kong Dollars (HKD) to Great British  Pounds (GBP).
Mr L also complains that Revolut lost his money  and wouldnt attempt to trace  it until he
provided transaction confirmation evidence from his bank.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional
decision dated 8 February 2019   a copy of which  is attached  and forms part of this final
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld. I
invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make.
my findings
Revolut contacted us to say that it accepted the provisional decision and had no further 
comments to add. Mr L responded  to say he didnt accept the provisional  decision but didnt  
provide any further  information or comments for me to consider. 
As both parties have  responded  but neither has provided any new evidence  or information I 
seen no reason to change  the conclusions I came  to in my provisional  decision. I still dont 
think there are grounds to uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  decision, my decision is that I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Copy provisional decision 8 February 2019
complaint
Mr L complains  that he was given  incorrect information when asking about  transferring  funds
to a currency card he has with Revolut Limited. As a result Mr L lost out when funds  were
exchanged from Hong Kong  Dollars (HKD) to Great  British Pounds (GBP).
Mr L also complains  that Revolut  lost his money and wouldnt attempt to trace it until he
provided transaction confirmation evidence  from his bank.
background
Ref: DRN92995332Mr L has a currency card with Revolut and on 11 June 2018  used a webchat facility  to check
what account  he needed  to transfer his HKD to so it could be converted to GBP. During the
webchat Revolut  told Mr L how to find details  of the account he needed to use.
The following day Mr L sent his funds to an account he says hes previously used.  Because
the account couldnt accept  HKD, Revoluts  bank converted them  to GBP before they were
received. The exchange  rate wasnt as good as the Revolut rate.
A couple of days after completing the transfer Mr L contacted Revolut as the funds hadnt
been paid into his account. Mr L was able to give the details of his transfer to Revolut but it
insisted that he provide a copy of the transaction confirmation before it was able to trace  the
funds and pay them  into his account.
Mr L contacted Revolut a number of times to ask it to locate  his funds  but was advised  the
transaction confirmation was required each time. On 3 July 2018 Mr L provided  a copy of the
confirmation and Revolut transferred the funds  to his currency card.
Mr L went on to complain. But Revolut  didnt  agree it had made  an error. It said Mr L had
been told which account to transfer his HKD to when  he asked and that it couldnt  trace his
funds unless it had the transaction confirmation evidence itd requested.  Revolut  did offer
Mr L a six month  premium  membership as a gesture of goodwill.
As he remained unhappy, Mr L referred his complaint to this service and an adjudicator
looked at whatd happened. He thought Revolut had told Mr L what account to use but felt it
shouldve been possible  to trace Mr Ls funds sooner so asked it to pay £100.
Revolut didnt  agree that itd acted unfairly  by asking for evidence of the transaction  and
asked for the case to be appealed.  So its been passed to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive reached a different
decision to the adjudicator. Ill explain why.
Like the adjudicator, I havent found that Mr L was given incorrect information about  what
account to use via webchat  service on 11 June 2018. Ive looked  at what Mr L was told and
can see Revolut  asked him to click on the HKD  option to get the account  details he needed
but he went on to send the funds to a different account. I appreciate the account had
changed from the one Mr L had previously used but, I think Revolut gave Mr L clear
instructions on how to complete the transfer.
Because Mr L sent HKD to the wrong  account, Revoluts  bank had to convert the funds  to
GBP before they could be paid in. That meant the transfer was subject to the exchange rate
of Revoluts bank which wasnt as good  as what it wouldve  used had the funds  been paid
into the right account. But as Revolut told Mr L what account  to use for HKD  and the funds
were sent to a different  account, Ive not found its made a mistake and Im not telling it to
take any further action.
The adjudicator thought Revolut shouldve been able to trace the funds sooner  so
recommended it pay Mr L £100. But I dont think thats fair. Revolut was consistent  with Mr L
in explaining that to trace the missing  funds and pay them to his currency card it needed  a
copy of the transaction confirmation either in writing or using email.  It wasnt able to proceed
Ref: DRN92995333based on the information Mr L provided over webchat. Revoluts explained  to us that getting
this information in writing is its standard process due to the nature of its banking
arrangements.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied Revoluts request was reasonable. I appreciate  that there
was a delay because Mr Ls bank wrote to him with the information. Mr L also told Revolut
that he wasnt  in the country when his bank  responded  which mayve also added to the
delay. But Im satisfied  Revolut was entitled to request evidence of the transaction
confirmation before it tried to locate Mr Ls funds and pay them to his account.  As a result, I
dont agree that it would be fair to tell Revolut  to compensate Mr L for any delay.
Revoluts offered Mr L six months premium membership as a gesture of goodwill. As Ive not
found any evidence  of a mistake by Revolut Im not telling it to do anything else to resolve
this complaint.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Mr L and Revolut Limited have  until 8 March  2019 to send me anything  further theyd like me
to consider before  I make  a final decision.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9299533