K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  about the charges BMW  Financial  Services (GB) Limited  (BMWFS) have 
asked her to pay to refurbish a car she returned  at the end of a lease period.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2020.  I explained  that I wasnt  
expecting to uphold  Miss Os complaint but that I would consider  any additional evidence 
either Miss O or BMWFS  wanted to provide. An extract from that decision is included below.
Miss O took receipt of a used car in June 2015.  She financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with BMWFS. At the point of supply the car had already completed 
about 10,500 miles  and was about  two years old.
Miss O returned her car in May 2019  and an inspection was completed on handover. The 
inspector identified a few areas of damage. Miss O disagreed that she should  be charged for 
work to refurbish scratches to a door but BMWFS thought the charges were  properly made.
So Miss O referred her complaint to this service and our investigator provided her opinion. 
She considered the damage  identified  in the inspectors photograph against the industry 
guidelines for what should be considered fair wear and tear on a car when its returned at the 
end of a lease. She thought the damage was in excess of the fair wear  and tear guidelines. 
But she didnt think it was reasonable for BMWFS to charge Miss O for its refurbishment as 
she noted this was a used  car and there was no evidence provided by BMWFS that the 
scratches were not there when Miss O took receipt  of it.
BMWFS disagreed with the investigators  view and they asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators view.  I know  that will disappoint Miss O so 
please let me explain  why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss O acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is 
a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.
The terms of Miss Os contract allowed BMWFS to charge her for any refurbishment 
required to bring  the car back to an acceptable standard.  Its the British  Vehicle Rental and 
Ref: DRN98735312Leasing Association  (BVRLA) who provides the industry guidelines on what should be 
considered fair wear  and tear on a vehicle when its returned.  So, Ive considered the 
damage against those guidelines and I would agree that the scratches are beyond what the 
guidelines would consider  fair.
By the time Miss O returned the car it was six years old and had been in her possession for 
four of those years. In that time shed completed  nearly 23,500 miles. So, on the basis  that 
Miss O had been in possession  of the car for the majority of its life and that shed completed  
twice as much mileage as the car had recorded  when she received it, I think its most  likely 
the scratches were  incurred during  her ownership.  
Whilst there are no photographs to demonstrate  the scratches werent present when Miss O 
took receipt of the car, I dont think thats unusual.  But I do think  it would be unusual  for a car 
not to be presented to a new owner in its best condition. I think its therefore likely  any 
scratches and blemishes would have  been  repaired prior to Miss O taking receipt  of the 
vehicle and that its likely she would have complained about them  if they hadnt been.  So, I 
think this also supports my view that the damage was most  likely to have occurred during 
Miss Os ownership.
So, I think the damage was in excess of the guidelines and that it most likely happened 
whilst Miss O had possession  of the car. I dont think BMWFS have  therefore  done anything 
wrong when asking Miss O to pay for refurbishment.
my provisional decision
Im not currently intending to uphold this complaint.
BMWFS didnt provide any further information but Miss O did. She said that shed had a dent 
on the car repaired in July 2015  and that afterwards shes  complained  to the dealership that 
there was a scratch. The dealership had explained at that point that the scratch was most 
probably something that shed done.  She said it was therefore unfair to pay for a scratch that 
was there  from the beginning.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Miss O said but I dont  think shes provided sufficient information to 
explain that the scratch was the same one that was identified by the inspector; or that the 
scratch was reported  to the dealership. So, Ive not been persuaded to change  my initial 
opinion of this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2020.
Ref: DRN98735313Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9873531