K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement  with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  wasnt of satisfactory  quality. Shes being 
helped with her complaint  by her partner.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mrs A under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services that she signed in September  2016. There was an issue with the cars 
steering controls  in May 2017 and Mrs A was told not to drive  the car. The car was repaired 
by the dealer but the fault reoccurred the following  month. Mrs A said that she wanted to 
reject the car but Mercedes-Benz Financial Services arranged for the car to be repaired 
again. Mrs A didnt collect the car because she says that shes  lost confidence in it and 
doesnt think that its safe to drive. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  has arranged  for the 
car to be inspected by an independent expert  who concluded that there was no fault with 
the car. Mrs A has received a letter about  a recall  of her car due to inadvertent driver airbag 
deployment which means  that further  work will be needed on the cars steering column. 
Mrs A complained to Mercedes-Benz Financial Services but wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She concluded that it 
was fair for Mrs A to reject the car. And she recommended that Mercedes-Benz  Financial 
Services should refund her deposit  and the monthly payments made under the agreement  
from June 2017  (all with interest), that it should refund the cost of hiring  a car between June 
2017 and when the car is collected (minus  the monthly payments made during that time), 
reimburse her for any storage costs  charged  by the dealer and pay her £350  compensation 
for the trouble and upset  that shes been  caused.
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services has asked  for this complaint to be considered  by an 
ombudsman. It says,  in summary,  that:
the steering  column wasnt replaced   it was the steering control module (control  
buttons located on the steering wheel which  operate volume  and menu)  that was 
replaced - nothing mechanical  was replaced  on the car;
the issue occurred  eight months  after the agreement start date and Mrs A hasnt 
provided any evidence to show that the issue was present at the point  of sale;
the issue with the control module reoccurred  a month later because of a faulty part 
used in the repair;
the car has been inspected by an independent  expert who confirms that there are no 
issues with the car;
the recall is completely unrelated  to the other repairs and shouldnt have a bearing on 
the outcome of the complaint; and
theres been one minor fault with this car, outside of the first six months, the car is 
now fully repaired and the independent  expert  has confirmed  that there are no issues 
with the car so Mrs A shouldnt be allowed to reject the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN91218422There was an issue with the cars steering  in May 2017  less than eight months  after the 
car had been  supplied  to Mrs A. Mrs A and her partner say that the issue caused the 
steering to lock and that they were advised by the manufacturers assistance service  that the 
car wasnt safe to drive.
The car broke down  again the following month and the steering was locked. Mrs A and her 
partner say that they were again  advised  by the manufacturers assistance service  that the 
car wasnt safe to drive.  And Mrs A says that shed lost confidence in the car and didnt think 
that it was safe to drive as she used it drive  her children  so she said that she wanted to 
reject the car. Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services didnt accept her rejection of the car and 
arranged for a further repair  of the car by the dealer. And it says that the issue  re-occurred 
because of a faulty part used in the first repair.
The car has now been inspected by an independent expert who says that there are no faults 
with the car. But Mrs A has been  contacted about  a safety recall  on her car due to 
inadvertent driver airbag  deployment which means  that further work will be needed  on the 
cars steering column.
The car that was supplied  to Mrs A in September 2017  was a new car. And I dont consider it 
to be reasonable  to expect a new car to have such significant issues within  the first nine 
months after it was supplied to a customer.  Although Mercedes-Benz  Financial  Services  
says that it was a minor fault,  Mrs A and her partner says that the fault caused the steering 
to lock and that they were advised  that it wasnt safe to drive the car. 
Mrs A accepted the repair of the fault by the dealer  but the issue  reoccurred the following 
month and Mrs A says that the steering  locked  again and that she was told that the car 
wasnt safe to drive.  I consider that it was reasonable at that time for Mrs A to have lost 
confidence in the car and to want to reject it. And I consider that it wouldve been fair and 
reasonable for Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services to have accepted her rejection of the car 
at that time. But it didnt  so and it arranged for the car to be repaired.  Mrs A didnt accept the 
car back and its been left with the dealer since then.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mrs A to reject  the car  
so Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services should  end the hire purchase  agreement and collect 
the car from the dealer.  I also find that it should  refund her deposit and the monthly 
payments that shes made for the car since it broke  down in June 2017.  Mrs A hasnt  been  
provided with a courtesy car and so has needed  to hire a car  and I find that Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services should  reimburse her for those costs  (less an amount equivalent  to 
the monthly payments that shes  paid during  the time that she hired a car). And I consider 
that it should reimburse Mrs A for any storage  costs  that shes charged for the car. These 
events have caused considerable distress and inconvenience  to Mrs A  and I consider that 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services should pay her £350 compensation for that distress and 
inconvenience (which  is the amount that it offered  her as a goodwill gesture in its final 
response to her).
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mrs As complaint. And I order  Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected from the 
dealer  both at no cost to Mrs A.
Ref: DRN912184232.Refund to Mrs A the deposit that she paid for the car.
3.Refund to Mrs A the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement since  
the car broke  down in June 2017.
4.Reimburse Mrs A for the car hire costs that shes  incurred since  her car broke  down 
(less an amount  equivalent to the monthly  payments  that she wouldve paid under 
the agreement  during  that period).
5.Reimburse Mrs A for any storage costs that shes been charged  for the car.
6.Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3, 4 and 5 above at an annual  rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
7.Pay £350 to Mrs A to compensate her for the distress  and inconvenience  that shes  
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Mercedes-Benz Financial Services to deduct tax from the 
interest payment  referred to at 6 above. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  must give Mrs A 
a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9121842