K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  about the way Clifford Finance Limited (CFL) treated him while he was 
experiencing financial difficulties. 
background
Mr L obtained a second-hand vessel through  a hire purchase agreement  with CFL in March 
2011. The total amount payable under the agreement was £389,710 in 143 monthly 
instalments of £2,706.25 and a further  final payment of £2,716.25.
Mr L says that the agreement was affordable at first but due to changes  in his personal 
circumstances he began  to experience  financial difficulties in 2015. He says he got in touch 
with CFL in April 2015 to tell them and look for ways to get out of the agreement.  Mr L ended  
up trying  to sell the vessel over the course  of several years, during which time CFL accepted 
reduced payments  to the agreement.
Mr L was unsuccessful with selling the vessel and unhappy with how CFL handled things so 
complained to this service  about several  matters. But CFL objected to that. It said the 
finance agreement  was not regulated by the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (the CCA)  and the 
complaint had been brought  too late. It also explained that it would accept return of the 
vessel and be prepared  to agree  a repayment  arrangement while it was waiting to be sold 
and on any outstanding balance following its sale.  
An ombudsman ended up looking at the jurisdiction points which  CFL raised.  In summary he 
concluded:
the agreement  was a regulated consumer credit  agreement so this service could 
consider a complaint about it; 
some  of Mr Ls complaint points  were about  events that were too long ago so this 
service could not consider them (namely his complaint that the vessel  was over-
priced and the cost of the credit);  and
Mr Ls complaints about  CFL not allowing him to return the vessel  with nothing further 
to pay and his complaint  about  the application of penalty interest  were  made  in time.
The matter  was passed to our investigator  who looked into these points. In summary, she 
said:
CFL should have  offered Mr L the right to voluntarily terminate (VT)  his agreement 
in April 2015 which would have capped his liability at one-half of the total price under 
the agreement  and been more beneficial to him than the options  it gave;  and
Mr L shouldnt have  to pay for the monthly payments and associated expenses  
incurred past the point  that he should have  been able to return  it.
The investigator also noted that CFL has not issued regular  account statements to Mr L as 
required by the CCA.  So she felt Mr L should not be charged interest for the period of non-
compliance.
Mr L agreed with the outcome the investigator  proposed. But CFL did not. 
In summary,  CFL argues:
Ref: DRN93321832it had no record of Mr L contacting it in either April or June 2015 regarding  his 
financial difficulties;
when Mr L missed  payments from May 2015  and was sent a notice of default  in July 
2015 he did not explore the option of returning the goods by way of VT or voluntary 
surrender even though these options were  available to him;
Mr L negotiated  a payment plan with CFL in order to maintain possession  of the 
vessel and it would  not have been treating  him fairly  by insisting on the asset being 
returned;
it cannot be assumed  that Mr L wanted to return the vessel  around July 2015 and he 
first enquired about this in March 2018;
Mr L had not made half of the total payments to the agreement by April 2015;
the responsibility for berthing,  electricity, maintenance and insuring the vessel  is 
always the hirers responsibility  so Mr L needs  to pay for this;
Mr L has had full use of the vessel up until 2020 which is clear from the invoices he 
has submitted (including electricity  use) so he should pay for this use and all the 
associated costs;
it isnt clear what costs related to lift and launch/repair work/general maintenance are 
due to Mr Ls use of the vessel, but it shouldnt have  to pay those that are;
Mr L has incurred unnecessary extra cost by moving the vessel  to a more expensive  
storage facility (and there appears to be some overlap  with the billing dates for each);
Mr L has paid for cleaning/valet services which were not necessary to keep the 
vessel in good  order;
it should only be responsible for costs which had sufficient evidence that Mr L has 
paid them  the paperwork shows various invoices with no receipts  or receipts  
without invoices; and
Mr L had definitely been issued full account statements in June 2015,  August 2016, 
February 2018 and September  2019.   
CFL did make a different offer to Mr L to settle  the complaint but he was not happy with this. 
CFL collected the vessel from Mr L in July 2020,  but because  no agreement  could be 
reached on his liability  the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 29 March 2021.  In this I said:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
For clarity,  where I refer to submissions made by Mr L, I include those  made on his behalf.
should CFL have done more in relation to Mr Ls financial  difficulties?
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) handbook sets out rules  for financial businesses 
when dealing with customers. The Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) sets out the rules  
and guidance  which apply to providers of consumer credit. In this decision, I have referred to 
the rules and guidance as they were  in 2015.
One of the key questions for me is when CFL should  have first been aware that Mr L was 
having financial difficulties.
Ref: DRN93321833CONC 1.3.1 G explains  some  factors  which should  indicate to a business that customers  are 
in financial difficulties (including things like consecutively failing to meet payments or 
evidence of a debt management plan). 
I dont think it is in dispute that by the time Mr L had missed a couple of payments and been 
issued a default notice in July 2015  CFL was aware  he was in financial difficulty. 
However, from what I can see CFL was likely to have been on notice that Mr L was 
struggling financially  before this point.
Mr L says his circumstances  changed  dramatically leading up to the missed  payments from 
May 2015 due to changes in his income  and he was no longer able to afford the finance 
payments for the vessel. I can see that supporting  his credible testimony is the fact that after 
consistently paying the monthly payments for several years he was suddenly  unable to make  
payments to the agreement.
Mr L says he contacted CFL in April 2015  explicitly stating the situation he found  himself in.
CFL says it didnt get certain letters Mr L says he sent in. In particular one from 30 April 2015 
where Mr L lays out his situation in some  detail and asks for help. The letter  refers  to recent 
telephone conversations  with two named individuals at CFL about payments on the vessel. 
Mr L says he is now writing formally  to explain how serious his financial situation is and how 
it is impacting his ability to maintain the monthly payment for the vessel.  He refers to 
conversations he had with CFL to date and a disappointment about the lack of flexibility and 
support shown in that I have been advised  that there  is nothing you can do to help us at this 
critical time.  Mr L says he is no longer able to keep paying the monthly  repayment  and 
would like the vessel repossessed. If that was not possible he refers  to a 6 month  payment  
holiday while  he tries to find a buyer for the vessel.
There is a little doubt about whether CFL got the letter dated 30 April 2015 initially.  I can see 
that Mr L has sent in a handwritten note of a call with CFL from 25 June 2015 where his wife 
asks if they received the letter and the individual says no. However,  I note the person Mr Ls 
wife spoke to was not the same person the letter was addressed  to. According  to Mr L that 
person has now sadly  passed away, so it is difficult to find out more about  the circumstances 
relating to the receipt of said letter. But on the face of it I dont see a clear reason why CFL 
wouldnt have got that letter around the time it was sent.
In any event it does  appear that Mr L was in touch  by phone about his financial difficulties 
before he started  to miss payments. In the letter dated 30 April 2015 he refers to recent  
prior telephone conversations with two named individuals very specifically. I also note that 
there is credible evidence in the form of phone notes  and correspondence that he and his 
wife continued  a dialogue with CFL both in writing and over the phone  to find a solution for 
the change in circumstances. A reduced payment plan started  in July 2015  so it stands to 
reason that some  dialogue had taken  place with CFL prior to this to agree said reduction.  
I also note that although  CFL disputes  receiving  letters from 30 April and 25 June 2015 there 
is a copy of a letter  from CFL which somewhat undermines this. This letter  to Mr L dated 3 
July 2015 refers to our previous correspondence and your wifes telephone  call to our office  
in relation to payment of arrears which have built up. This is open  to interpretation but 
certainly suggests there was an ongoing  dialogue (including letters and phone calls) about 
Mr Ls financial difficulties at the time.
Ref: DRN93321834In addition to this inconsistency I also note that CFL hasnt been able to provide 
comprehensive contact  notes to show what history of contact it had with Mr L which  makes  it 
less clear how it processed letters or what phone calls took place in relation to the account.
I think Mr L has provided consistent testimony, and the copy letters he said were sent 
appear to be credible.  I dont see why CFL wouldnt have received these  and in any event I 
think it likely  that Mr L was already in a telephone  dialogue with CFL about his financial 
difficulties.
Where information is unclear or incomplete I look at what  I think is most likely to be the case. 
All things  considered I think it is more likely than not that by early  May 2015 CFL was on 
notice that Mr L was in financial  difficulty and that it had been  told (either  in writing or by 
phone) of the circumstances surrounding this as detailed in his letter  dated  30 April 2015.
I note that CFL has indicated that it doesnt  think that Mr L was struggling  financially  it says 
the company of which he is a director has always been profitable.  However, I dont  think  this 
necessarily is going  to be a fair reflection of Mr Ls own personal finances. I also note that 
Mr L appears to have taken out borrowing to enable him to meet ongoing expenses over the 
coming years. I think that if he told CFL he was struggling it is fair to have first taken it on 
face value, perhaps  asked him for more information about his personal  income/outgoings  at 
the time and discussed all the possible options  for assisting him (and in any event options 
such as VT are available if a customer wants to exit an agreement  regardless of the degree 
of their financial difficulties). Which brings  me on to my next point. 
The next key question for me is what CFL should  have discussed  and offered  Mr L in order 
that it could assist him with this situation.
 CONC 7.3.4 R explains:
 A firm must treat customers in default  or in arrears difficulties with forbearance  and due 
consideration.
While CONC 6.7.2 says
A firm must monitor a customer's  repayment  record and take appropriate action  where there 
are signs  of actual or possible  repayment  difficulties.
Appropriate action here would have been  discussing  the options available  to Mr L. One of 
the options available to Mr L in taking out a regulated hire purchase agreement  is VT. This 
right is set out in the CCA. It effectively allows Mr L to return the vessel,  exit the agreement  
and cap his liability to half of the total amount due under the agreement.  
CFL has made various  submissions about why Mr L didnt  VT back in 2015  when his 
financial difficulties first arose. My understanding  is it said, in summary:
he had the right to VT but he didnt explore it;
he wanted to keep possession of the vessel so VT wasnt appropriate; and
he hadnt paid half the agreement at that stage.
Although CFL has accepted that Mr L had the right to VT I dont think  it was for him to pro-
actively raise this. With CONC in mind I think the onus was fairly  on CFL to treat Mr L with 
Ref: DRN93321835due consideration and forbearance and let him know what his options  were  including his 
right to VT.
I also dont think the evidence supports CFLs  argument that Mr L wanted  to keep the vessel.  
For example, the letter Mr L says he sent to CFL in April 2015 refers  to a previous 
discussion hed had with CFL about  his financial difficulties and goes on to say:
The fact remains that we are no longer  able to keep paying  £2,706  on a monthly basis  and I 
am writing to request the following:- that you consider a six month cessation of payments - or 
that you re-possess  the vessel  from us. 
It went on to explain that if CFL accepted a break from making payments for six months Mr L 
would try and sell the vessel to pay off as much of the outstanding finance as he could and 
would take out additional finance to pay off the arrears. In fact all of Mr Ls communication 
from this point shows his intention was to try and get rid of the vessel  to limit any ongoing 
financial liability. Although  I dont know exactly what was said during  calls I think  it is fair to 
say that these would likely  have reflected the written communication I have seen.
It is also difficult to say Mr L didnt want to VT when CFL didnt  suggest  it and actively  
proposed other solutions after Mr L began experiencing  financial difficulties.  In fact, letters 
from 2018 show that CFL said finding  a private  buyer for the vessel or refinancing  the 
agreement would be the best option  for Mr L. And although at one stage CFL do draw 
attention to Mr Ls right to terminate under clause 8 of the hire purchase  agreement  this 
clause did not afford  him the same  rights as VT under the CCA. 
As of April 2015 Mr L was some  way into the agreement. So exiting it and capping  his 
liability at half of the total price wasnt necessarily out of the question in comparison to 
alternatives. And considering Mr L wrote  to say he was willing  to take a very large loss and 
take out finance to cover  the negative equity on selling the vessel  (something he said he 
had already been trying to do for two years) I think that VT would  have been  attractive  
particularly as finding a buyer wouldnt be easy and by keeping the vessel he would also 
have the ongoing costs  of maintaining,  insuring and berthing it. 
CFL has said when Mr L sent the letter in April 2015 he hadnt  paid half the total amount due 
under the agreement so couldnt VT at that point. But under the CCA a consumer can VT at 
any time with their liability capped at half the total price. 
So, I think CFL should have explained to Mr L he had the right to VT the agreement and this 
would mean  hed be required to pay up to half the total price due under the agreement.  I 
think it also should have  treated him with forbearance and offered  a repayment plan for the 
balance based  on an assessment of his means at the time. If this had happened I think  Mr L 
would have likely agreed to VT.
So I dont  think that offering  and facilitating a VT would have been treating Mr L unfairly or 
taking back the vessel against his wishes as CFL has indicated it would have been. 
I think it fair and reasonable that CFL put Mr L back in the position as if he had elected to VT 
back when it should have been offered to him, as I think it more  likely than not he would 
have accepted this option. I think it likely  that CFL could  have  offered  and arranged  for Mr L 
to accept a VT by the time the May instalment was due (on the 8th). So I think it reasonable 
to consider 8 May 2015 as when the agreement  should have been voluntarily terminated.
Ref: DRN93321836I understand that Mr L has now paid over half of the total amount due on the agreement. So 
he shouldnt have to pay any more money  to CFL.  And he should be refunded  any 
overpayments plus out of pocket interest.
I understand the vessel has now been  taken back  but CFL should ensure  the agreement  
has been brought to an end and Mr Ls credit  file amended to reflect  the account had it been 
voluntarily terminated  on 8 May 2015.
additional expenses  
Mr L is not claiming costs  incurred in relation to use of the vessel prior to his financial 
difficulties. However, he wants CFL to pay for costs  incurred when it should have taken the 
vessel back from him. The costs  which Mr L has incurred while retaining possession of the 
vessel since notifying CFL of his financial  hardship  are contentious. I understand that CFL 
does not think  it is fair for it to pay all of these,  particularly  as Mr L has continued  to use the 
vessel while  it was in his possession.
My starting point is that had CFL given Mr L the option to VT in May 2015 he would have 
returned the vessel then, not used it further and wouldnt  have incurred  additional costs.  Mr L 
was in a difficult  position - he didnt want the vessel anymore, but he wanted to keep it in 
good condition  for a prospective sale and to meet  his obligations under the hire purchase 
agreement to keep  the vessel in a good state  of repair and insured.  So, on the face of it I 
dont think it was unreasonable  that he paid for ongoing costs.
It isnt fair that Mr L be responsible for ongoing  costs  incurred as a result  of an error made  by 
CFL. On balance I think a reasonable thing  to do is to put Mr L broadly back in the position  
he would  have been in had he been  able to VT the agreement on 8 May 2015, which would 
mean refunding his additional costs plus out of pocket interest. However, I do acknowledge 
that even if Mr L unwillingly had the vessel longer than desired he was also under a duty to 
mitigate any costs. If he has paid more money  out than was necessary  or as a result of his 
leisure use  then he should  pay for that. 
I also need to take into account  the fact that Mr L has had some use of the vessel over the 
past five or so years.
Mr L agrees he has been using  the vessel. He says since 2011 the engine has completed 
about 160 hours - roughly  13 hours each year. Mr L says this isnt a lot of use, and that as 
he works full time it has been used some weekends, mainly to check  on its condition.
CFL confirmed there is no record of how many hours were on the vessel  at date of 
purchase. It isnt exactly clear to me the extent and nature of Mr Ls use prior and post May 
2015. From  what I have seen and what CFL has said it appears that engine hours do not 
necessarily reflect absolute use and the vessel might have been sailed and used for longer 
than this in any given year. I am willing to accept Mr L didnt  likely  get a lot of leisure use of 
the vessel based on the engine hours  used being below average (even accepting that some 
additional time would likely be added to this for non-engine use). But I consider it likely (also  
taking into account  the claimed electricity costs discussed below and the non-claimed fuel 
costs) that he did get some use that wasnt  entirely  related to maintenance or upkeep. So in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable redress I have kept this in mind.
I have worked with the investigator on this case to put together a spreadsheet of the costs  
Mr L appears to be claiming relating to the time after CFL should have allowed him to VT the 
Ref: DRN93321837agreement. I think  it is worth pointing out this isnt a forensic audit but a broad review  of the 
expenses submitted to us and the corresponding evidence of payment. The spreadsheet 
also notes if evidence of an invoice and payment by Mr L has been  seen by this service  for 
any particular cost - and where information  might be incomplete.  Both parties will be sent a 
copy of this with my provisional  decision and can provide additional comments  regarding any 
corrections/errors they feel necessary. I have reviewed this and I am satisfied  that it 
represents a broadly  reflective summary  of the costs Mr L is claiming. But I ask Mr L to take 
a look to see if anything  has been missed. 
It is worth noting that there has been some  dispute  as to what  Mr L has actually paid for. 
CFL has pointed out that in some instances  it is not clear if Mr L has actually incurred a 
particular cost (missing invoice) or settled  a cost (unclear as to how payment was made).  
I think the parties need to be as pragmatic as possible here.  It appears  that in the main  the 
invoices are present  and the resulting bank statements tally. This issue  has been going on 
for several  years through no fault of Mr L, which will naturally mean  records  of expenses  (of 
which there are many  here) might  not be as complete  or clear as we might like. So I think he 
should generally, although  not without exception  as I will come to discuss,  be given  the 
benefit of the doubt regarding the claimed  expenses where there  might  not be complete 
clarity. I also think that if Mr L was not settling invoices in relation to costs incurred I am sure 
CFL as owner of the vessel would have  had knowledge of this sooner or later, or that Mr L 
would be pursued  for the debt directly. 
I also note that some  of the expenses Mr L is claiming have been paid by the limited 
company (BB) he is a director of rather than him personally. I know he said he took a 
directors loan to pay some expenses which he is paying back  to BB. But the expenses 
settled directly by the company are different  and cannot be considered as part of a loan to 
him as the money used to settle those expenses was the companys money and not Mr Ls. I 
am only able to award losses suffered  by Mr L so I cant  fairly  direct CFL to reimburse  any of 
these payments made by BB as they are losses of a separate legal  entity. I appreciate that 
the costs covered by BB are significant   so this will likely to come as a disappointment to 
Mr L. 
I think it is best if I consider the costs Mr L is claiming in broad  categories as follows:
Insurance
I dont think it is in dispute that Mr L had to keep the vessel insured regardless of whether he 
was using it or not. This is clear  from the hire purchase agreement. So as a starting point,  
insurance is a cost that had to be incurred while Mr L remained in possession  of the boat 
and so one that might  fall to CFL to fairly cover here. 
However, looking at how the insurance  was paid, it seems to have  largely been paid by BB. 
As set out above, I will not award payments made by BB. The insurance paid by Mr L is 
£1,369.92 so this will be awarded.
Electricity
CFL argues that the cost of electricity is incurred  solely as a consequence of Mr Ls personal 
use of the vessel.  But whilst some  could feasibly be in connection with any continuing leisure 
use, it appears that some electricity use would be in connection with necessary upkeep and 
maintenance.
Ref: DRN93321838It is worth noting that the electricity costs  on the spreadsheet also include  what appears to 
have been charged for electricity in connection with berthing fees and other expenses.
I can see that following  May 2015 and up until July 2020 Mr L incurred £3,479  in electricity. 
The charges  varied  year on year but in some cases the charges are quite high (over  £1,200  
in 2018). Mr L has said the electricity is so that the vessel can be kept dry with a 
dehumidifier and heated while he isnt using it to prevent damp  and deterioration. But I find it 
unlikely that the overall  cost of electricity  over the years  is down  to just this. 
Based on some online research I would be surprised if more  than 1/3 of the cost of electricity 
incurred was to keep the vessel in good  order in the way Mr L has described. Therefore, I 
propose that CFL is liable  for 1/3 of the £3,479 electricity costs Mr L is claiming (£1,159.67). 
The rest he should pay as I think it likely it came about as a consequence  of his decision to 
carry on utilising the vessel.
Maintenance, repairs and cleaning costs
My starting point here is the finance agreement says that the hirer is responsible for keeping  
the vessel in good order. So it is fair that Mr L be reimbursed for the reasonable costs 
incurred through  regular  maintenance and repair to keep the vessel in good order.
Mr L says that the vessel had to be maintained and kept in sea worthy  condition with regular 
servicing. And repairs were required due to environmental damage, for example, he cites a 
storm that occurred which  damaged  a canopy.  Mr L also says that the vessel had to be kept 
in good order  as any prospective  buyers would expect it to be kept in sea worthy  condition.
From my research it appears  a vessel will need  certain servicing carried out to it annually 
including application  of anti-foul, engine servicing and replacement anodes. It appears the 
bulk of the costs claimed relating to maintenance and repairs  are in connection with these 
yearly services.
It isnt entirely clear what repairs were directly  attributed  to Mr Ls use of the vessel from 8 
May 2015. As the vessel  is subject to the elements in the water I expect that things can 
deteriorate over time even  if it isnt being  used. For example,  I see one repair  was because 
the external power plug to the vessel was water logged and badly corroded. And another  to 
the stern thruster was because it was blocked  with barnacles and other growth.  It seems  
likely these were the result of the vessel sitting outside in the water rather than anything Mr L 
had done. I also refer back to the storm damage Mr L mentioned,  which he says occurred 
when it was berthed. This couldnt be said to be as a direct consequence of him using the 
vessel for leisure. 
I accept that some things  might have worn out more quickly due to Mr Ls use of the vessel.  
But that isnt entirely  clear. And I think the investigation needed to determine what  repairs 
related to his use of the vessel is going to be tricky and disproportionate. I go back  to my 
initial point  about  giving  Mr L the benefit  of the doubt here as he was unwillingly placed in a 
situation where he had to pay these costs due to an error by CFL. I also note that ultimately 
these repairs/services  will have gone  some way to helping CFL achieve  the price  it does 
when it eventually sells the boat. Overall, I think it is fair and reasonable that CFL refund the 
majority of the repair and maintenance  fees incurred by Mr L. 
Ref: DRN93321839Where I do make an exception is in relation to a cost which  is a claim  for a thruster repair  for 
£755.40 where there is no evidence of an official invoice or payment. I also note a thruster 
repair was carried out the following month (invoice  provided). I think  due to the high cost 
claimed, the lack of evidence of payment/work carried out, and evidence  of another thruster  
repair, I dont think it would be fair to award  Mr L this cost unless he can provide further 
evidence this was incurred and settled.
I know CFL is unhappy with paying for the cleaning fees. However, on the face of it they 
dont appear unreasonable. CFLs  point  appears to be that internal cleaning is 
unnecessary/related to Mr Ls use of the vessel. But from what  I can see just a small amount 
of the fees are for internal cleaning. And even if the vessel were not being used by Mr L it 
seems likely the inside would still need  a clean to avoid deterioration. It is also likely to get 
dirty from people boarding  to carry out routine servicing, repairs  and viewing  the vessel for 
possible sale. Because Mr L thought he had to find a buyer for the vessel  I can see why he 
wanted it looking its best at all times. Overall, I think it is fair and reasonable that CFL pay 
the cleaning costs identified.
I note some of these maintenance and repair costs  were  paid out by BB. For the reasons 
already outlined I am not able to award  Mr L these costs.  So CFL does not have to pay him 
these. Taking these off (and the thruster repair cost claimed as mentioned above) it appears 
that CFL need  to pay Mr L a total of £5,961.84 for maintenance, repairs  and cleaning.
Berthing (including lift and launch  fees)
Similar to insurance  berthing appears  to be an essential cost to keep the vessel  
somewhere appropriate while it isnt being used. So, on the face of it, it seems fair that Mr L 
be awarded the berthing fees he has paid during a time he should have already been able to 
VT the agreement.
CFL has said that Mr L incurred unnecessary costs by moving the vessel to a more 
expensive facility. It appears Mr L originally had the vessel with facility  A then moved it to 
B and then back to A. CFL says that it was more expensive and unreasonable to move  it 
back to A. But Mr L says the rental  of facility A was actually  cheaper  and it only looked 
more because the berthing fees included electricity.  He says he moved the vessel  to B 
originally as it had better  facilities  for servicing and maintaining the vessel, but then back to 
A as it was cheaper.  
Overall, it appears that Mr Ls explanation for moving the vessel  does  not appear 
unreasonable. And he has explained why the difference in rent looks greater than it might 
be. So all in all, I dont see a reason to reduce the award of berthing  fees because  he used 
two different places for berthing.
The lift and launch  fees appear  to relate to the ongoing repair  and maintenance of the 
vessel. I have already explained  why I think it fair and reasonable that Mr L is generally 
reimbursed for costs of repair and maintenance. So, it follows  that he should  be reimbursed 
for the related lift and launch fees. However,  one exception which  Mr L has agreed is that 
CFL will not be responsible for the £23 fee to lift his dinghy from the water  which  seems  
reasonable. So this cost isnt included in the calculation  of CFLs liability.
There also appears to be an outstanding  balance  on the final berthing invoice for £838.34. It 
isnt clear who paid this  and it might be that CFL has settled it as it took the boat back 
Ref: DRN933218310during 2020. As a result I have not included this in my award, but the parties are welcome to 
clarify the situation.
After taking off the cost of the dinghy lift and launch and separating out any incorporated 
electricity charges the total berthing and lift and launch fees that CFL should pay (and which 
are not settled by BB) come to £31,078.92.
use of the vessel  and distress and inconvenience
It appears that Mr L has been  caused considerable distress and suffering as a result of 
having to continue with the agreement when he was already in financial difficulties and by 
the impact this matter  was having  on his credit  file. And it would have been inconvenient to 
continue to maintain  the vessel after it should have been returned to CFL. Overall, I have 
considered the impact  on Mr L over the years and while this might  ordinarily  result  in a 
compensation payment, I dont propose to make one here.
The reason  being is Mr L did make some trips in the vessel  over the full period he had it, and 
I would usually deal with that by making a deduction from the monthly  payments  that are 
being refunded  to Mr L. But rather than make a deduction from the monthly payments being 
refunded to Mr L for that usage, I will instead not make a separate award for compensation 
for distress and inconvenience  suffered.  
failure to send statements
Mr L mentioned that he had not received all the statements  he should have in relation to the 
hire purchase account. Our investigator pointed out that the CCA requires that regular 
statements should be sent. And in the event they are not the creditor should  refund interest  
and charges relating to the period(s) not covered by statements.
CFL says statements were sent out on request. And it says it has proof  that certain 
statements were sent out in June 2015,  August 2016, February  2018  and September 2019.
I have not seen these statements and persuasive  evidence they were sent out but if CFL 
wishes to send these  in response  to my PD it can do so and I will consider this. But as it 
stands I have not seen persuasive  evidence that Mr L was sent regular (and at least  yearly) 
statements covering  the periods from the start of the agreement right up until 8 May 2015  
(when I consider  he should have been  able to VT). So, with the requirements  of the CCA in 
mind I think it should refund Mr L any interest  or charges for this period of non-compliance. 
Although the period of non-compliance  might extend  beyond  8 May 2015,  Ive concluded 
that Mr L would have chosen to VT the agreement then and had that happened as I think it 
should have, CFL would no longer have  been required to send statements. So I dont think  it 
would be fair to ask it to refund interest  beyond that date.
Because I am directing  CFL to refund  all interest and charges up until 8 May 2015 and 
because I am limiting Mr Ls liability to half of the total price  of the agreement (refunding 
anything he is paid over and above  that) - I do not consider it necessary to consider the 
complaint point relating to the application of penalty  interest. 
my provisional decision
Ref: DRN933218311Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000 plus any interest  and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think  are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £150,000  I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as stated  below. My decision is that Clifford Finance  Limited  should  pay Mr L the 
amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £150,000. It should  also pay any 
award of interest  as specified below.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation is more  
than £150,000, I recommend that Clifford  Finance Limited pays  Mr L the balance.  
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Clifford  Finance Limited  
doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr L can accept my decision and go 
to court  to ask for the balance. Mr L may want to get independent  legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept  this decision.  
I uphold this complaint  and direct Clifford Finance Limited to:
ensure the hire purchase agreement is ended  and Mr Ls credit file is amended  to 
remove any adverse information  and reflect it being ended  by voluntary termination in 
May 2015;
refund  any payments  including interest and/or charges Mr L has made over half the 
total amount payable  under the finance  agreement  (£194,855);
refund  the insurance costs incurred being  £1,369.92;
refund  1/3 of the electricity  costs being £1,159.67;
refund  the repair, maintenance  and cleaning costs being £5,961.84;
refund  the berthing/lift and launch  costs being £31,078.92; and
on the refund of costs above  pay 8% yearly simple interest calculated from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement; and 
refund  any interest and charges  Mr L paid from the inception of the agreement  until it 
should have been  voluntarily terminated  on 8 May 2015.
If CFL considers its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from
the interest award  it should tell Mr L how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr L a
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  &
Customs if appropriate.
I asked the parties  for their response to my provisional decision.
Mr L agreed with the provisional decision.
CFL provided an extensive response  to my decision which continued over the course of an 
email dialogue  with me. I have attempted to summarise what I consider to be CFLs main  
points. If a submission is not mentioned here that is not to say I have not considered it. 
However, I focus on what I consider to be the key issues following my provisional findings 
and email communication with CFL.
In summary,  CFL does not agree with my provisional decision. In particular, its 
representative (who  I will refer to as Ms R below)  highlighted:
Ref: DRN933218312it still disputes being aware  of Mr Ls financial difficulties  prior to July 2015  and says a 
missed payment could  be due to a number of reasons  without Mr L saying so, it is 
unfair to expect it to have been  aware of any change to his financial circumstances;
it also disputes that it received Mr Ls letter regarding  his financial difficulties dated 
30/4/15, along with another  letter  from 25/6/15;
it is not clear why I concluded CFL must have received the April 2015  letter  when 
(closer to the time) Ms R personally  confirmed  to Mr Ls wife it hadnt and there is a 
telephone note from Mr Ls wife reflecting this discussion;
even though the April 2015  letter was for the attention of someone  other  than Ms R 
all mail would have been handled and dealt with by her  she can confirm  there  is no 
record of the letter  within Mr Ls file nor does she have any recollection of viewing it;
the success of Mr Ls company at the time he fell into arrears  should not be 
disregarded and is relevant here;
Mr L did not just have some use of the vessel, he had full use of it from March 2011 
until the end of July 2020 - if he wasnt using it weekly this was due to his personal 
choice but he did had full access and use for the 9+ years it was in his possession;
running electricity on an unmanned vessel is generally prohibited by marinas and not 
allowed by the insurance so all electricity being  charged will be related to Mr Ls use 
of the vessel;
Mr L moved the vessel to a more expensive storage facility during the course  of the 
complaint and it does  not seem fair that CFL should  be accountable for this additional  
cost;
the lift and launch  fees are not exclusively due to maintenance and are also incurred 
when the vessel  is being launched to sail. There are also lift and launches  with no 
corresponding repair invoices at the time  therefore CFL should  not be liable for all 
the lift and launch  charges; and
as it is unclear what some items on the spreadsheet of costs relate to  it is not fair to 
assume what these are for when they could be for electricity or fuel.
CFL also requested  some  documentation, such as copy  letters and general clarification on 
some issues, namely items on the spreadsheet of costs, the rate of interest in my decision, 
and whether penalty interest charges were included in my direction to refund interest and 
charges. It also provided clarification on some points and provided  copies  of statements for 
my attention which it says were  sent to Mr L.
During my dialogue with CFL on these matters  I also requested that Mr L clarify  a few points 
and provide any response to CFLs  submissions.
After careful consideration, I informed CFL why its submissions did not alter the fundamental 
reasoning underlying my provisional  decision.  I will explain why in my findings below. 
However, as a result of some of the points the parties raised the costs  that I am awarding 
changed. I will summarise the central  changes in my findings below. However, the detail  is 
contained on an updated spreadsheet which will be sent to the parties with this decision and 
is now named Final spreadsheet of consequential  losses 15 June 21 - both parties  have 
seen the content of this spreadsheet, and I understand  they are broadly  satisfied  with the 
accuracy of the information within. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN933218313when CFL first became aware of Mr Ls financial difficulties
Despite what CFL has said I still think the copy of the historic  letter  dated  30 April 2015  in 
which Mr L states his financial difficulties is credible and considering what  he has said and 
when the missed payments started, I think it is more likely than not he entered  a dialogue 
with CFL about financial difficulties  before May 2015. I cant say exactly  why CFL dont have 
records of those earlier calls and the letter dated 30 April. CFL were keen to highlight that it 
wouldnt intentionally ignore correspondence   and I am not saying that was the case. But as 
the initial dialogue and letter were directed to someone who is no longer working  with CFL I 
certainly think it is a plausible explanation for the matter not coming to Ms Rs attention 
sooner. 
While I accept that Ms R confirmed to Mr Ls wife that she had not received the letter,  
especially given Mr Ls wife has a note which reflects that was said in an exchange,  that is 
not the same as Mr L accepting the letter was never  sent and received. Nor does it persuade  
me it is proof  it was never sent by Mr L or received  by CFL. 
On balance, for reasons already given here and in my provisional decision I think it more 
likely than not that Mr L communicated with staff at CFL in April 2015 or before, specifically 
to inform it of his financial difficulties and wish to exit the agreement and return the vessel,  
which should have  prompted it to act before it issued  him with a default notice in July 2015.  
However, there are other reasons CFL should have been aware of Mr Ls possible financial 
difficulty before it issued him with a default  notice in July 2015.  I accept  CFLs  submission  
that missed payments might be due to many things  but they are also a strong indication  of 
potential financial difficulties. So, I think that when CFL were  considering  defaulting Mr L for 
more than one missed payment it would have been  fair and reasonable for CFL, irrespective 
of whether it received the letter in April 2015  to have proactively reached out to Mr L to invite  
discussion of his financial circumstances  and the various options available  to him (be that by 
a letter  or phone call). As I set out in my provisional  decision, CONC requires a firm to 
monitor a customers repayment  record and take appropriate action where there are signs of 
actual or possible  repayment  difficulties.
Ultimately, Mr L should have been told about  VT around May/June 2015 which,  had he 
accepted, would have capped his liability  at half the total amount payable.  It is of course 
arguable that if CFL had not received certain communications  its level of awareness would 
be different. But I still think that it should  have been prompted to act before it issued a default 
notice in any event.  It is possible to carry on discussing the letters and calls prior to the 
default notice  being issued but whether CFL should  have been  treating Mr L as a consumer  
in financial difficulties in June as opposed  to May 2015 makes little difference  to my 
proposed redress. 
All things  considered I dont think it is unreasonable to consider 8 May 2015 as the point 
when Mr L should  have been  able to VT the agreement.
Ref: DRN933218314Mr Ls financial  status
I note that CFL has once  again emphasised that it doesnt think  that Mr L was struggling 
financially. It says the company  of which he is a director has always  been profitable. 
Crucially, CFL in my view, could and should have reached out to Mr L at the time to conduct 
an assessment of his financial  circumstances. It didnt and without this any comment by CFL 
on his personal  financial  health at the time is speculative. But ultimately,  if Mr L was not 
meeting the payments under the agreement and there were indicators of financial  difficulty,  
which I think there clearly were in this case, then CFL should have reached out to Mr L and 
explained all the options available to him including VT. As I have  already said, VT is 
available to a debtor irrespective of their financial circumstances. It is a statutory right that 
the debtor  can rely on at any time and doesnt require the debtor to be in financial difficulty.
All things  considered, I think there  was enough within CFLs knowledge of Mr L, had it 
properly considered things, to alert it to possible repayment difficulties and that should  have  
promoted it to act. Had it done so and done  so properly,  I think it should have explained the 
option of VT to Mr L and I think  it likely he would have taken that option  up, as I set out in my 
provisional decision. 
use of the vessel
While the vessel was available for Mr Ls use from March 2011  to July 2020  it must be 
stressed that for around five years of that time Mr L had made  it known he no longer wanted  
the vessel. 
I do acknowledge there has been use of said vessel by Mr L during this period and that is of 
course reflected  in my award.  But I am mindful that Mr L was put in a situation of maintaining 
a vessel that he shouldnt have due to an error  by CFL. Therefore, as I have stated in my 
provisional decision, I think it isnt unreasonable to take a conservative  approach  to Mr Ls 
liability for use of the vessel after the point he should have been able to VT.
It is worth highlighting that to fairly reflect use since 8 May 2015 I am still asking that Mr L 
pay 2/3 of electricity costs  and I am not, in light of his usage, making a separate  award  for 
roughly five years of additional distress and inconvenience caused  by having to maintain 
possession of the vessel and service the agreement. This is likely to have been a fairly 
substantial award  in itself.
Mr L has explained that it is incorrect to suggest the marina and insurance  would  not allow 
the boat to be continually powered. He has explained that the boat needed power to run 
heating/dehumidifiers to prevent it becoming  damp inside and deteriorating. I am willing to 
accept this explanation as it seems  plausible to me. I also think it likely that there would be 
some electricity costs associated with the overall  maintenance  of the vessel. Therefore, I still 
think, for the reasons already given,  it fair and reasonable that CFL cover 1/3 of his 
electricity costs as detailed on the updated  spreadsheet of costs (Final spreadsheet of 
consequential losses 15 June 21).
lift and launch fees
More generally it appears that lifting and launching is unlikely to be incurred  as a direct  result 
of leisure use by Mr L. He has stated  clearly that this large vessel would only be 
lifted/launched for maintenance, which I find persuasive, as it appears that where the vessel 
Ref: DRN933218315spent most  of its time,  the access to open  water was not via a hoist,  but a gap in the marina 
that presumably could  be sailed straight through  into the sea. 
So my starting point is that the lifting and launching  entries queried  by CFL would most likely 
be in connection  with repairs and maintenance  something I think it is fair that CFL cover 
the cost of for the reasons given in my provisional decision.
I asked the investigator  to look at the individual entries on the spreadsheet which CFL 
queried as being unclear due to a lack of a detailed invoice, despite being  itemised  on a 
statement with corresponding evidence of payment. I then looked at these myself and 
responded in a detailed  email to CFL. I dont think it is necessary to go through  each charge 
in that level of detail here.  I am also not going  to cover any queries  relating to charges which 
CFL are not being asked to pay (because  these were paid by BB). However, in summary I 
said:
there are, on occasion repairs carried out around the time of charges which Mr L has 
claimed are for lift and launch and any differences in the invoice dated on the 
statement to when  the lift/launch  was carried out could plausibly be down to when the 
bill was raised as opposed  to when  the service  was carried  out.
one charge appears to have no corresponding repair.  It is entirely possible this cost 
relates to something other than maintenance, but it could be that Mr Ls records are 
simply incomplete in regard to a corresponding invoice for repairs.  Considering  what I 
have seen so far, I think it is more  likely  than not this is a maintenance related bill 
and considering what I have already said to date,  I think  it fair to give Mr L the benefit 
of the doubt in relation  to this particular entry.
it has been suggested that Mr L is claiming for a duplicate launch when there was 
already a launch included in the invoice  for the corresponding repair. Mr L has 
indicated that the launch detailed on that invoice  was in relation  to testing whether 
the repair had been successful, rather than a return to the water after repair. This 
seems plausible  as the repair invoice mentions a launch and re-test. So overall I 
dont think it likely  that CFL will be paying twice for the same  thing.
despite the lack of repair invoices  corresponding to one claimed lift it appears this 
corresponds with when  Mr L says the vessel was moved  to hard standing  for storage. 
There were further  repairs as well albeit sometime after. There is also a 
corresponding launch which appears to be when  the vessel was then put back into 
the water  for the move to Marina  A. Overall,  it appears this invoice was likely 
connected with the necessary storage and ongoing maintenance  of the vessel.  So in 
line with the reasoning  in my provisional  decision it is fair that CFL pay for this.
To sum up, I appreciate  that CFL has queries regarding  some claimed costs for lift and 
launching but I am satisfied that the items are likely incurred  as a result  of necessary 
ongoing maintenance rather  than leisure use. I consider it fair and reasonable that CFL 
covers these costs.
Ref: DRN933218316move of the boat  from berthing at Marina B to Marina A around  March  2019
The investigator has assisted me with some research on this matter and spoken with Mr L to 
clarify some things. As I understand it Mr L originally moved the boat to Marina  B due to 
better facilities for essential  upkeep and maintenance of this large  vessel.  Mr L has 
emphasised that this is a 46-foot powered  vessel and lifting and launching was a 
complicated and expensive operation with specialist equipment required that Marina  B had 
but Marina A didnt.  
Mr L has maintained it was in fact generally  cheaper  to keep the boat at Marina A than 
Marina B purely from a berthing point of view. It appears CFLs comparison of monthly rates 
is based on a time where Mr L was temporarily storing the boat out of the water  at Marina B 
for a cheaper rate as a concession. It seems this arrangement was agreed by the marina  in 
order to keep costs  down for him. There is also a lift in October 2018 which appears to 
correspond with when  the boat was moved  to dry storage (and when berthing costs 
reduced).
Looking at previous  years  the annual berthing  charges for Marina  B were around £6,000 or 
more in 2016, 2017 and 2018. Meaning  a monthly  berthing cost of around £500 or more.  In 
comparison the monthly cost of berthing  at Marina A (which  Ms R refers to in her 
calculations) is less than this. It appears that comparing like with like for a boat berthed  in 
the water, it was usually more expensive to keep the boat at Marina B. 
In any event it appears Marina A was notably  further away  than Marina B from where Mr L 
lived too, so I cant  see why he would have moved it there without a reasonable explanation. 
At the time he moved it he said he had no idea he would  be getting any money back,  so I 
dont see how his motivation could have  been  driven by a desire to inflate costs 
unnecessarily. 
Overall, based on the evidence  I have I am willing to accept that Mr L did not act 
unreasonably by moving the vessel to Marina A. So I dont think a deduction from CFLs 
liability for berthing costs  should be made  because  of this.
refund of interest and charges & out of pocket interest
My provisional finding on this was that Mr Ls liability is effectively capped at half of the total 
payable under the finance agreement (£194,855)  as it would have been had he been offered 
and accepted VT in May 2015.  So, any payments he has made over that amount (whether 
they are standard payments or additional  charges applied) should be refunded  to him.
CFL has asked if this includes penalty  interest charges as these were  not included  in the 
total amount payable  under the finance  agreement. Mr L had also previously contested his 
liability for penalty interest charges.
I have not looked deeply into whether  the application of penalty interest was fair and 
reasonable as I dont  think  it is necessary.  This is because I am saying  Mr L should  have 
been able to VT from 8 May 2015.  I understand penalty interest  wouldnt have arisen in this 
event. So to answer and clarify my redress for CFL,  Mr L is not liable for penalty interest in 
addition to half of the total amount payable under the agreement  (£194,855). 
Ref: DRN933218317Regarding the 8% out of pocket interest  award on refunds. I have explained  the basis  for this 
to CFL who have made no further comment.  So I dont consider it necessary to go into this 
further here. 
account statements
I thank CFL for providing these. The requirement in the CCA (as I understand it) is 
essentially that the creditor sends regular (at least annual) account statements in the 
prescribed format. This is detailed in s77A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (inserted by the 
Consumer Credit Act 2006).
The relevant  period  for sending account  statements for the purpose of my decision is from 
the start of the agreement up to 8 May 2015 (when I consider VT should have happened). I 
can see the statement  of account which CFL say was sent on 10th June 2015 would 
potentially be suitable to cover a period up to a year preceding it. 
But the statement  would need to conform with the content requirements as set out in the 
Consumer Credit (Information Requirements  and Duration of Licenses and Charges) 
Regulations 2007. In this case  I dont  consider  the statement of account  provided meets  
these requirements. For example, it does not contain the full contact details of the creditor, 
information about the rate of interest applicable  or the prescribed form of wording as set out 
in Sch1  Part 3 for hire purchase agreements (information about the right to VT). Therefore, I 
dont consider the requirements of s77A have been met in relation to statements it sent Mr L. 
As a result I dont consider this additional information changes  my award of a refund of the 
interest Mr L paid from the inception  of the agreement up to 8 May 2015.
the spreadsheet of costs (Final spreadsheet of consequential losses 15 June 21) / 
other matters
As a result of the post provisional decision dialogue some clarifications and edits were  made  
to the spreadsheet of costs claimed  by Mr L. The content of this spreadsheet has been seen 
by both parties who have  no further  comments on it. I understand that Mr L is broadly happy  
with the accuracy  as a summary of the costs  incurred by himself  or BB in relation to the 
vessel. And while CFL do not agree  as to its liability for costs I understand that it is broadly 
satisfied with the accuracy  of the spreadsheet as it stands.
Due to the passage of time, the volume of information being considered, and the lack of 
clarity around some of that information, the spreadsheet is an attempt at capturing a broadly 
accurate snapshot of the costs incurred in relation to the ongoing  use and upkeep of the 
vessel.
CFL made some other queries regarding various costs  on the spreadsheet. The response to 
these can be summarised as follows:
I now understand that Marina  B issued a credit note to Mr L in relation to the 
electricity bill dated 2/4/19. This has now been  reflected on the spreadsheet. 
I think it is fair and reasonable that CFL pays for the repairs and maintenance cost 
dated 8/1/2016 which it has highlighted due to a lack of clarity  regarding payment. I 
say this as there is an invoice available, the cost is relatively low, and for the reasons 
given in my provisional decision  I think it is fair that Mr L is given the benefit  of the 
doubt in certain  circumstances where evidence of payment  is not available. 
Ref: DRN933218318it has transpired that a cost on the berthing/launch tab is for fuel costs.  I think this 
would appear  to relate to leisure  use by Mr L so I dont see a reason why CFL should 
fairly pay it. This has now been reflected on the spreadsheet.
some  clarifications were made in respect  of the number of direct debit payments Mr L 
had made for some berthing  costs.  Totals have been adjusted  accordingly where 
necessary which both parties have been  informed about.
CFL confirmed that it had paid part of an invoice for berthing (£838.34). This has now 
been corrected  on the spreadsheet as it wasnt  originally deducted from the total as 
intended.
CFL has pointed out an administrative error on the spreadsheet where a £200 
electricity charge was duplicated across tabs.  This has now been rectified.
Mr L also provided some additional information which led to an adjustment to some of the 
berthing and electricity costs being claimed (an increase overall).  CFL has been  informed 
about this and it has also been sent supporting evidence  of costs it has requested.
After deduction  of the charges which I dont  think it fair for CFL to pay (including a proportion  
of the electricity bill and payments made  by BB) CFLs liability  now breaks down as follows:
-Electricity: £1,244.06 (representing 1/3 of the total electricity costs incurred)
-Insurance: £1,369.92 
-Repairs and maintenance £5,961.84
-Berthing/lift and launch £29,505.49
As explained in my provisional decision,  CFL is not liable  for payments made  by BB and the 
figures above take this into account.
In summary,  following my provisional  decision CFL have made  some  submissions which  
have given me reason to alter its overall  liability. However, I have not been  given  reason  to 
depart from the central findings as expressed  in my provisional decision. I still consider my 
provisional findings to be fair and reasonable for the reasons  expressed  here.  However, I 
have altered the award slightly as explained above.
my final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000 plus any interest  and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think  are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £150,000  I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as stated  below. My decision is that Clifford Finance  Limited  should  pay Mr L the 
amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £150,000. It should  also pay any 
award of interest  as specified below.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation is more  
than £150,000, I recommend that Clifford  Finance Limited pays  Mr L the balance.  
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Clifford  Finance Limited  
doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr L can accept my decision and go 
Ref: DRN933218319to court  to ask for the balance. Mr L may want to get independent  legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept  this decision.  
I uphold this complaint  and direct Clifford Finance Limited to:
1.ensure the hire purchase agreement is ended  and Mr Ls credit file is amended  to 
remove any adverse information  and reflect it being ended  by voluntary termination in 
May 2015;
2.refund  any payments  including interest and/or charges Mr L has made over half the 
total amount payable  under the finance  agreement  (half the total amount payable 
being £194,855);
3.refund  the insurance costs incurred being  £1,369.92;
4.refund  1/3 of the electricity  costs being £1,244.06;
5.refund  the repair, maintenance  and cleaning costs being £5,961.84;
6.refund  the berthing/lift and launch  costs being £29,505.49; and
7.on the refunds  specified above and numbered 2-6 pay 8% yearly  simple interest 
calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement; and 
8.refund  any interest and charges  Mr L paid from the inception of the agreement  until it 
should have been  voluntarily terminated  on 8 May 2015.
If CFL considers its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from
the interest award  it should tell Mr L how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr L a
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  &
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2021.
Mark Lancod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9332183