K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about letters that MBNA  Limited  has written to him about the payments he 
makes to his credit  card account.
background
Mr W told us that he got a letter from MBNA in May 2018. That letter  said that MBNA  was 
going to increase the minimum payments which would be required  on his credit  card 
account, from 1% of his balance to 2.25% of his balance. The letter  offered Mr W the choice 
to opt out of this payment  increase,  but said that if he did that, then it would close his 
account, and allow him to pay off his existing balance using the 1% minimum payment. Mr W 
chose that option. He said that he didnt get any advice from MBNA at the time about the 
implications of this.
Mr W said that his contract with MBNA only allowed it to ask for minimum payments set at 
1% of his balance. He didnt  think  MBNA could change that. Mr W said that he made a 
significant financial decision  shortly  after this, in August 2018. He said he did that based on 
his income and outgoings as they then were. 
Mr W then got another letter from MBNA in September 2018. That letter  said that for the past 
18 months Mr W had paid more in interest,  fees and charges than he had had paid off his 
credit card balance. The letter said that Mr W was in what  the Financial Regulation  Authority 
(FCA) calls persistent debt, and the FCA had asked MBNA to let its customers  know  when 
they are in that position. 
MBNA said that it might need to increase Mr Ws monthly payments if this continued to 
happen over the next 18 months. And it said that it might also need to let credit reference 
agencies know that he was in persistent debt. 
Mr W said that he got in touch with MBNA then, and it blamed these changes  on a new FCA 
regulation. But Mr W said that there  was nothing about this new regulation on the first letter  
that MBNA  issued. He thought that MBNA shouldve explained exactly  how these changes 
would impact him, and he said it hadnt  done that. He said he didnt have the scope  to 
change his payments  now.  He expected  MBNA to stick to the contract it had made  with him. 
Mr W said that this had a severe impact  on his mental health, and his current job relies  on 
him having a good credit  history. 
Mr W said that hed complained to MBNA about this. But its response just hadnt  addressed  
his concern that this new FCA regulation wasnt explained in the letter which  told him about 
the change, and allowed  him to opt out of it. He said that MBNA should  maintain his existing 
payment level. And if it wasnt able to do that, it should charge him less interest, so that he 
would be paying  more off his card with his existing payment than he was paying in fees, 
charges and interest. 
MBNA has written to Mr W about his complaint. It said that the FCA required it to send a 
letter about  persistent debt. It also said that it wasnt currently planning  to tell credit 
reference agencies  that Mr W was in persistent debt. That letter  said that MBNA would paid 
Mr W £50 for poor service  he received on a call to MBNA. It didnt deal with whether MBNA 
shouldve explained  the new FCA regulation, and its future impact,  when it wrote to Mr W in 
May 2018.
Ref: DRN93602032Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that hed looked at the relevant FCA 
guidelines, and he thought that MBNA had done what  it was supposed to do. 
Mr W didnt agree with that. He said that hed looked at the regulations too. And he queried 
whether the May letter was compliant. He said the May letter  didnt warn the customer of 
the potential implications if the customers  payments comprise a lower  amount in principal 
than in interest, fees and charges in two consecutive 18-month periods And the May letter  
also missed out a large amount of detail he would have needed to make  a full and 
considered financial  decision. He said that the May letter shouldve looked  similar to the 
second letter, which he received in September. He thought that MBNA  was under an 
obligation to give him that information in May,  because the new rules gave firms until 
1 September 2018 to comply, but MBNA didnt send him the second  letter  until 4 September.
Mr W said that the payment of £50 hed received was unrelated to this complaint. It was for a 
different aspect of poor service provided  by MBNA.
Mr W wanted us to show him the law that would allow MBNA to increase his payments 
without prior notice. He said that MBNA would be in breach of contract if it tried to put up his 
monthly payments.  And he also said he was shocked, because  he thought that our service 
would want customers making  important financial decisions to be given the full facts and 
potential implications of any financial decision  going  forward before making that decision.
Because Mr W didnt agree with our investigator, the case  was passed  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same conclusions  as our 
investigator, and for broadly the same  reasons.
MBNA has said that it wrote to Mr W to tell him it planned to raise his minimum payment in 
line with FCA regulations. I think what MBNA may have done is taken a decision to ask 
account holders  to pay more as a minimum payment,  so that its less likely that those who do 
choose to make a minimum  payment will be paying more in interest,  charges and fees than 
they are paying  off the balance of their debt. Thats in line with what  those regulations  are 
trying to achieve. So I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for MBNA  to do this. I 
understand that a number of credit  card companies have done the same.
Mr W says that MBNA isnt allowed to change  the payments he makes. But it is. The terms 
and conditions of his account  say that it can change the amount of your minimum payment 
or the way we calculate it MBNA has sought  to make that change, and its explained  why it 
did that. Mr W was given  a choice, either to agree to this change, or to reject it, and close  his 
account, so he could carry on paying at the same  level. I dont think that MBNA did anything 
wrong when it did that.
Mr W has chosen to close his account,  and carry on paying at the same  level. But he says 
that he didnt get enough  information in the letter he received in May 2018, to allow him to 
make informed decisions on his finances.  
Mr Ws complaint  covers  two points. One is that hes concerned about  not having  been told 
that his debt would take a very great  deal longer to pay off, if he didnt  increase  his minimum 
Ref: DRN93602033payment. The other is that he wasnt warned that he could be at risk of having  a note placed 
on his credit record to say that he is in persistent debt. His complaint to MBNA  at the time 
suggests that its the issue about  his credit  file that hes most concerned about, but Ill deal 
with each point  in turn.
On the first point, I do think that Mr W was told that his debt would take very much  longer to 
pay off, if he just pays a 1% minimum payment. Each of the statements he was being sent, 
before the May letter was issued, says that. And the May letter  itself also says that the 
change MBNA wanted to make was being made  to help you repay your credit card 
borrowing sooner,  which means it will cost you less in the long term. So I think that Mr W 
was warned that it would  take a long time to pay off his debt if he continued to make  a 
minimum payment worked out on 1% of his balance. 
On the second  point,  Mr W says that there  is no mention in the May letter of the fact that 
MBNA will, in some  circumstances, inform  credit reference agencies if someone is in 
persistent debt. MBNA has warned him about this in its September letter. It has also said its 
not planning on telling credit reference  agencies about problems on Mr Ws account at this 
stage. 
MBNA is required, under the new regulations, to offer Mr W some help with his repayments 
18 months after this September 2018 letter, if Mr W remains in persistent debt.  If MBNA  
does come to an arrangement with Mr W then,  perhaps for reduced interest,  fees or 
charges, it could report that to credit reference agencies.  
Mr W says he shouldve been told about  this in May. He thought that his earlier  letter 
probably wasnt compliant  with the rules, because  it didnt  contain that information. Ive read 
those rules in detail, and it looks to me as if the obligation to look back  at a customers 
previous 18 months  of payments,  to see if only the minimum payment has been  made,  only 
applies from September 2018. Firms can act earlier than this if they wish, but they dont have 
to. So I dont think that I can conclude that MBNA  made a mistake when it wrote to Mr W on 
4 September 2018.
I realise that this was a very unwelcome letter. Mr W told us it arrived on his birthday. And he 
also told us that he had made a financial commitment for two years in August 2018,  just 
before he received the September letter saying that MBNA might  take further action in 18 
months time.  Mr W has told us how worrying he found this, and I accept  what  he has said 
about that. But I have to bear in mind  that it will always be Mr Ws responsibility to assess his 
overall debt situation,  in deciding what further financial commitments he can take on. The 
new regulation  means  that, in future, there will be additional information from credit card 
companies to support  those choices. But I dont think that MBNA was obliged, in May 2018, 
to tell Mr W that it might offer him further  support in the future  if he didnt start paying his 
credit card down a little faster, and that this support might be reported to credit  reference 
agencies.
I know that Mr W will be disappointed, but I think that MBNA has complied with the 
obligations placed on it by the new FCA regulations  on persistent debt. And, although I know 
that Mr W wont agree with me on this, I think it has acted fairly and reasonably in doing so.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN93602034Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9360203