K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited rejected her claim under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  about  an online education course for her son.
background
In November 2017 Mrs O paid for an online  education course  for her son. This purchase was 
financed by Omni. In March 2018 she told Omni that the software  didnt work properly, and 
asked for a refund. Omni refused, on the ground that the software  provider had offered to fix 
the problem, and because the terms of Mrs Os contract said that she only had 14 days in 
which to cancel it.
Mrs O is adamant that she had first complained to the retailer  in November 2017, shortly 
after the purchase and within 14 days. She says the retailer sent a member of staff  the 
same person  who had installed the software   back to her home to fix it. She brought  this 
complaint to our Service, but our investigator  did not uphold it. He said there was no 
evidence that this second visit had ever happened. He said the emails  provided  suggested 
that the problems had only begun  in early 2018, and the earliest  evidence  of Mrs O 
contacting the retailer  was in February.  He said the retailer  should be allowed a reasonable 
chance to fix the issue  before Omni could be held liable for it under section  75.
Mrs O maintained that the retailer had tried and failed to fix the problem in 2017. She asked  
for an ombudsman to review her case.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that the 14 day cancellation period is a red herring in this case. It only applies  when 
there is not a problem  with the software.  Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, there was an 
implied term in Mrs Os contract with the retailer that the software  would be of satisfactory  
quality and fit for purpose when it was sold. Where that proves not to be the case, there  is a 
right to cancel the contract at any time  but only after giving the retailer  one opportunity to 
rectify the problem first. The retailer has offered  to do that.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  makes  Omni jointly  liable with the retailer for 
any breach of contract by the retailer.  So if the software was not of satisfactory  quality (and 
there appears to be no dispute about that), then Omni would be liable to refund Mrs O. But 
as Omnis liability in those  circumstances is the same as the retailers,  I dont think  it would 
be fair and reasonable of me to order Omni to pay Mrs O a refund unless she had first 
allowed the retailer a chance to exercise their legal right to repair  the software.
There is no evidence that the retailer has already tried to repair  the fault, or that it has had 
an opportunity to do so, other than Mrs Os own recollection that a repair was attempted in 
November 2017.  However, this is not borne out by contemporary records. Omnis account 
notes do not mention any such visit being  carried out. Neither  do the retailers  contact notes. 
Both of these records first mention  Mrs O reporting the fault in March 2018.
The software was actually designed  and sold by another  third party,  not by the retailer. At my 
request, the retailer contacted the software  developer to see if they had dealt with Mrs O 
Ref: DRN94566412directly. Their notes, which Ive seen, do not say that anything happened in 2017 other than 
the delivery of the software  and hardware.  The first mention of any problem was on 31 
January 2018.  This entry records that the developer was going to call Mrs O back. After  that 
there are no more entries  until March, when Mrs O said she wanted to cancel her 
subscription and return  the computer. There  is no record of a visit being booked or carried 
out to undertake a repair. So I do not accept  Mrs Os recollection of events.
I have still considered whether the software developers apparent  failure to call Mrs O back  
about the problem after her initial phone  call might  be enough  for me to say that the retailer  
had an opportunity to repair the fault,  and waived it. But I dont think  it is. The retailer  knew  
nothing about  that phone  call or the promise to call back, and the software developer was 
not the retailers agent. So I think that when Mrs O did not receive the call back  she was 
promised, she should have phoned  the retailer about the fault and asked it to arrange  a 
repair visit. Instead, her next contact  with the retailer was to ask to cancel her contract and 
return he computer. By then she had made up her mind that an attempt at repair  would not 
be satisfactory. I understand her frustration, but I have to have  regard for the retailers  legal 
right under the 2015 Act.
For these reasons, I do not think that Omni was wrong to reject Mrs Os claim for a refund 
under section 75 of the 1974 Act.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9456641