complaint
Mrs J complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC increased  the minimum payments on her credit card 
and that letters of complaint sent by her partner went  unanswered.
background
In January  2019  Mrs J received  a letter  from Lloyds  to explain  that her minimum  
repayments  would  be increased  from 1 to 2% towards  the end of February  2019.  The 
letter  gave  her the option  to close  her credit  card account  if she wasn't  happy  with this.
Mrs J's partner  sent a number  of letters  of complaint  to Lloyds  about  this and explained  
that the increased  payments  weren't  affordable  for her. She also complains  that some  of 
the letters  to Lloyds  went  unanswered.
Mrs J thinks  Lloyds  treated  her unfairly.  She thinks  Lloyds  didn't  act in accordance  with 
the Financial  Conduct  Authority's  rules  on persistent  debt and she says  was only given  
the option  to make  increased  minimum  payments  or to close  her account  - which  she 
says  she isn't able to do because  she needs  to use her credit  card.
Lloyds  didn't  uphold  her complaint  about  the increase  to her minimum  payments.  It said 
that following  guidance  from the FCA it wanted  to assist  its customers  to reduce  their 
debt.  It said Mrs J was given  the option  to close  her account  if she didn't  want  the 
increase  to take effect.  Lloyds  agreed  it had delayed  responding  to Mrs J's concerns  and 
it paid £75 to her account  by way of apology.
Unhappy  with Lloyds'  response,  Mrs J referred  her complaint  to our service.
Our investigator  didn't  recommend  that Mrs J's complaint  should  be upheld  because  the 
terms  and conditions  of her account  allow  Lloyds  to increase  the minimum  payments  if we 
consider  that you are in persistent  debt,  or at risk of falling  into persistent  debt."
Mrs J disagrees  with the investigator's  view.  She thinks  the investigator  placed  emphasis  
on the terms  and conditions  which  she's  never  had; she doesn't  think  the investigator  read 
the FCA's  guidance  about  persistent  debt and she doesn't  think  the £75 compensation  is 
fair.
Ref: DRN9925376K820x#14Since  the investigator  issued  their view Mrs J told us Lloyds  has now reversed  its 
decision  to increase  her minimum  payments  which  she thinks  shows  Lloyds  is at fault.
I issued  a provisional  decision  and in that decision  I said:
Having  reviewed  the information  provided  by Mrs J I think  the crux of her complaint  is 
that Lloyds  didn't  act in accordance  with the FCA's  guidance  on persistent  debt when  it 
increased  her minimum  payments.
As an ombudsman  my role is to act impartially  to resolve  individual  complaints  
between  a consumer  and a business.  Should  we decide  that something  has gone  
wrong,  we would  ask the business  to put things  right by placing  the consumer,  as far 
as is possible,  in the position  they would  have  been  if the problem  hadn't  occurred.  But 
the role of our service  isn't to regulate  or punish  businesses  for their conduct  - that is 
the role of the FCA.
Lloyds  told us it wrote  to Mrs J in September  2018  to explain  that she was in 
persistent  debt.  The letter  said "if you continue  to pay more  in interest.  fees and 
charges  than off your balance  over the next 18 months  we may stop you using  your 
card.   It also said "We might  also need  you to increase  your minimum  payments."
I've looked  at Mrs J's credit  card statements  for the last three  years  and I can see that 
her balance  increased  steadily  to more  than £12,000.  Her repayments  were  generally  
around  the same  amount  as her monthly  minimum  payment  - and this meant  she 
was paying  very little off her outstanding  balance.  Considering  Mrs J's usage  of her 
credit  card and pattern  of repayment  I don't  think  Lloyds  made  a mistake  in writing  to 
her to tell her that increasing  her monthly  payments  would  mean  she would  be able to 
pay off her credit  card balance  more  quickly  and pay less interest  overall.  And neither  
do I think  it made  a mistake  by saying  it would  monitor  her account  over the next 18 
months.  I think  this was in line with the rules  on persistent  debt.
However,  four months  later - in January  2019  - it wrote  again  to say her minimum  
payments  were  being  increased  from 1 to 2% of her outstanding  balance  plus interest  
and charges.  The September  2018  letter  indicated  that Lloyds  would  only decide  
whether  to increase  the minimum  repayments  after monitoring  her account  for a 
further  18 months.  Whilst  I accept  that Lloyds  was trying  to help her reduce  her credit  
card balance,  I think  it took the decision  to increase  her monthly  payments  sooner  
than it said it would  and I think  Lloyds  made  a mistake  here.
Mrs J's partner  told Lloyds  that increasing  her minimum  payments  would  cause  her 
financial  difficulties.  I must  explain  that I'm not making  any finding  about  whether  this 
actually  caused  her financial  difficulties.  In these  circumstances  I'd expect  Lloyds  to 
treat her positively  and sympathetically.  I think  Lloyds  did that here because  in the final 
response  letter  it gave  Mrs J until early  April 2019  to review  her options  and it said it 
would  remove  the higher  payment  expectation  from her statement.  It also offered  for 
Mrs J and her partner  to speak  to a financial  adviser.
In terms  of putting  matters  right for Mrs J, Lloyds  has provided  a copy  to our service  
of its offer to settle  her complaint  dated  August  2019.  In that letter  Lloyds  agreed  to 
reverse  its decision  to increase  her minimum  repayments,  it also agreed  to remove  
any late payment  indicators  reported  to credit  reference  agencies  and to restore  her 
Ref: DRN99253763credit  limit to its previous  level.  It also credited  Mrs J's and her partner's  joint 
account  with a payment  of £1,065.
I think  the non-financial  actions  Lloyds  has agreed  to undertake  in its August  2019  
letter  are fair, but I think  the compensation  offered  by Lloyds  is more  generous  than I 
would  have  awarded  had the complaint  come  to me without  an award  having  already  
been  made.  My understanding  is that Lloyds  has already  paid this compensation  to 
Mrs J and her partner  so I do not intend  to require  it to pay any further  compensation  
or to do any more  than it has already  agreed  to do in its August  2019  letter  to settle  
this complaint.
developments  since  my provisional  decision
I invited  both parties  to let me have  any further  submissions  before  I reached  a final 
decision.  Lloyds  acknowledged  receipt  of my provisional  decision  and didnt  have  any 
objections  to it. On behalf  of Mrs J, her husband,  Mr J, responded  to my provisional  
decision  and in summary:-
He says  the refund  of £1065  wasnt  offered  by Lloyds  or accepted  as 
compensation  but they were  instead  told this was a refund  of additional  
amounts  paid by Mr and Mrs J as a result  of Lloyds  enforced  increase  of their 
minimum  repayments  from 1% to 2%;
Mr J doesnt  think  my decision  recognised  that Lloyds  actions  went  against  
FCA rulings  and he feels  my decision  was biased  in favour  of Lloyds .
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that on behalf of Mrs J, Mr J doesnt think  my decision reflects  the many letters  
and phone calls he and his wife had with Lloyds or that she managed her account well.  As 
an informal dispute resolution service, we must  reach a fair and reasonable conclusion with 
the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to every  point  
made or to detail  all the information  provided  by both parties.  Instead  I am required to 
concentrate on what I think are the key issues. 
I appreciate Mr J feels very strongly  that Lloyds  didnt deal with Mrs J in accordance with the 
FCA rules on persistent debt. I explained  in my provisional decision why I thought Lloyds 
didnt treat Mrs J fairly so Ive gone  into some  further detail here to explain my reasoning.
At the time Lloyds increased Mrs Js minimum credit  card repayments,  the applicable terms 
and conditions of her credit card account allowed it to do so if it thought she was in 
persistent debt or at risk of falling into persistent debt. Although the terms and conditions  of 
Mrs Js credit card account allowed Lloyds to do this I dont think  it treated her fairly.
I already explained in my provisional  decision that when Lloyds wrote to Mrs J in September  
2018 it informed  her that it would monitor her account over the next 18 months  and that it 
might ask her to increase her payments. So, when Lloyds wrote  to Mrs J again in January 
2019 to inform her that her minimum repayments  were increased from 1% to 2% of her 
outstanding balance plus interest and charges  I think this contradicted  what Lloyds had 
Ref: DRN99253764previously told Mrs J and I also think that Lloyds increased Mrs Js minimum repayments  
sooner than it should have done  under the rules relating to persistent debt. 
The rules  on persistent debt broadly require financial businesses  to contact their customers 
to explain that theyve been  in persistent debt for 18 months, to explain that increasing their 
payments will reduce the cost of their borrowing  and allow  them to pay the balance  sooner 
and to explain that if they remain  in persistent debt for 36 months their card may be 
suspended and they may be given options  to increase their payments. 
I think Lloyds complied  with this part of the rules when it wrote to Mrs J in September  2018.
Under the rules  on persistent debt it isnt until an account has been  in persistent debt for 36 
months that a business can set out options to require customers  to increase their payments.  
So here, I think Lloyds  acted sooner than it should have  done. While I appreciate Mrs Js  
strength of feeling  about the way shes been treated by Lloyds, the role of our service isnt to 
punish Lloyds   as that is the role of the FCA. Instead, I need to look at the impact  this had 
on Mrs J and to look at what Lloyds  needs to do as far as possible, to put Mrs J in the same 
position as she would  have been in had the problem not occurred. 
In August  2019  Lloyds  agreed  to reverse  its decision  to increase  Mrs Js  minimum  
payments,  it also agreed  to restore  her credit  limit to its previous  level.  It also 
credited  Mrs J's and her partner's  joint account  with a payment  of £1,065.  
Lloyds  has confirmed  that the £1,065  payment  it credited  to Mr and Mrs Js 
account  was mainly  a refund  of interest  charged  during  the period  Lloyds  
increased  the minimum  repayments  from 1% to 2% and with a small  amount  
representing  a refund  the difference  between  the amount  they paid due to their 
minimum  payment  being  increased  to 2% and what  they would  have  paid had it 
remained  at 1%. 
On behalf  of Mrs J, I realise  Mr J doesnt  see this as compensation  but I dont  
agree.  Here,  the terms  and conditions  of Mrs Js credit  card account  allowed  
Lloyds  to charge  Mrs J interest  on her outstanding  credit  card balance.  When  
Lloyds  increased  Mrs Js repayments  from 1% to 2% of her outstanding  credit  card 
balance  plus interest  and charges,  this was an increase  not in the rate of interest  
Mrs J was being  charged  but an increase  in the minimum  amount  she would  need  
to repay  each  month   and which  she already  owed.
I cant  say Lloyds  did anything  wrong  in charging  Mrs J interest  on her outstanding  
balance  because  it was permitted  to do this. Mrs J would  have  needed  to pay the 
interest  in any event  so I cant  say she lost out financially  and I explained  in my 
provisional  decision  why I thought  Lloyds  treated  Mrs J positively  and 
sympathetically  when  Mrs J told Lloyds  that increasing  the minimum  repayments  
would  cause  her financial  difficulty.  
I havent  seen  anything  to suggest  Mrs J disputes  that she owes  the outstanding  
balance  to Lloyds  so although  I think  Lloyds  incorrectly  increased  Mrs Js minimum  
repayments  from 1% to 2%, because  Mrs J owes  this money  to Lloyds  I cant  say 
shes  lost out by paying  more  than she should  have  done   and reducing  her 
outstanding  balance  would  also reduce  the amount  of interest  she was charged.  
Ref: DRN99253765Mrs Js financial  loss,  if any, is the amount  she overpaid  to Lloyds  and which  she 
could  have  put to use elsewhere   for example  by repaying  a credit  card with a 
higher  rate of interest  or for any missed  payments  and financial  penalties  shes  
incurred  to other  lenders  as a result  of overpaying  Lloyds.  I havent  seen  anything  
from Mrs J to suggest  that this is the case.
For the reasons  Ive explained  above  I still think  that Lloyds  has done  enough  to 
put matters  right for Mrs J but in addition  to the actions  it set out in its letter  to Mrs 
J in August  2019,  I also require  Lloyds  to amend  Mrs Js credit  file if Lloyds  has 
recorded  any late payment  markers  as a result  of Mrs Js minimum  repayments  
being  increased  from 1% to 2%. I realise  that Mrs J will be disappointed  by my 
decision  but this brings  to an end what  we, as an informal  dispute  resolution  
provider,  can do to  help resolve  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold  this complaint  in the sense  that I require  Lloyds  Bank  
PLC to put matters  right in accordance  with its August  2019  letter,  to the extent  it has not 
already  done  so and in addition  I require  Lloyds  Bank  PLC to amend  Mrs Js credit  file if 
Lloyds  has recorded  any late payment  markers  as a result  of Mrs Js minimum  
repayments  being  increased  from 1% to 2%. For the reasons  I've explained  above,  I do 
not require  Lloyds  Bank  PLC to pay any further  compensation  to settle  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2021.
Michelle Hayward
Ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN9925376