K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complained about problems she had related to a bond she took out with Bank of 
Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI).
background
Mrs A complained about two issues with the BoI bond she took out in May 2017. 
The first issue is how she could access information  about the bond. She said she opened  
the bond online, but then couldnt access it through the online platform. She told us BoI just 
said the online platform didnt work  with her computer. She said BoI fixed  this sometime  in 
2017, but didnt tell her, so she still didnt know she could  access her bond  online. 
The second  issue  was that BoI wrote to her in December 2017  to say that shed changed her 
home phone number. But she hadnt.  A fraudster had done  that. She tried to ring BoIs fraud  
department, but it was after 5pm on a Friday, and the team wasnt available until Monday.  
She said that something as important as a fraud  team  should  be available 24 hours a day. 
Mrs A said that when she spoke to the fraud team, she found that someone had managed to 
get through the call centres security  and get BoI to send  out new login details. She thought 
that the call centres  security wasnt fit for purpose. She then asked BoI to put extra  
passwords in place,  and it said it had. But she told us when  she called back  she wasnt  
asked for those passwords 
Mrs A said that the fraud department moved her bond to a different account, but then sent 
out the new details by post. Mrs A said BoI knew the fraud mustve happened because  
someone was stealing  her post. It wasnt until she got upset that BoI agreed  to give her the 
information about the new account over the phone. And it still sent the details by post too. 
Mrs A said that she then told BoI she wanted  to shut down the account. It paid her the 
interest to date. She said that was premature,  the bond hadnt  expired. BoI also paid her £75 
for her complaint, which she didnt think was enough. She said that saying it would send 
documentation by post was insensitive and incompetent.  Although she asked it not to do 
that, it still did. Mrs A also wanted BoI to change its processes for the future. 
Mrs A also said that when she rang she wasnt being asked for the extra  security  information 
that BoI said it had put in place for her. She didnt think her bond was secure. She said that 
this was what had eventually prompted her to just close  her bond. And because of that she 
thought that BoI should pay interest  up to the end date of the bond.
BoI initially  said that it couldnt be sure now what the website said when Mrs A opened her 
account. But later, it told us it had checked  this, and the website did list the browsers that 
work well with its online platform  at the time that Mrs A applied.  Her browser  wasnt  one of 
those listed then. So BoI said that Mrs A couldve just downloaded a different browser, and 
used that instead. Or, if she wasnt happy with the online access to the account, she had 14 
days from opening to close the account again,  with interest and without penalty.  
BoI said it was sorry that Mrs A had been a victim of identity theft.  It said it doesnt insist on a 
signature to open  an account, but customers can provide  them if they wish. Mrs A had done. 
It was sorry it sent new account details by post before shed put in place measures to make 
sure she got her post. It didnt think that was the sort of service  it should be providing. 
Ref: DRN96543462BoI said that it was sorry that it had caused Mrs A inconvenience. It offered to pay her £75 in 
compensation. And it asked her to add her two additional passwords to the acceptance slip, 
so it could be sure any reply came from her. 
BoI took us through what had happened on Mrs As account. Someone  had accessed the 
account, and a new six digit security number had been sent to Mrs A. She didnt  get that. 
The phone number  on her account was then changed online. BoI wrote to her about the 
change. Mrs A did get that letter, and contacted BoI in response  to say she hadnt made the 
change. BoI blocked Mrs As account  immediately. It issued a new security  number.  It later 
changed the bond number, and set up a whole  new account for Mrs A. 
BoI said it had also added extra security questions  to her account. It knew that Mrs A 
expected these to be asked straight away when she rang, but she would still have to go 
through normal security  first, then the extra  security  questions would be asked. 
When Mrs A told BoI a few days later that she wanted to just close  the bond,  it did that, and 
waived the usual penalty. The money was paid into her nominated account the next day. BoI 
didnt think it should have to pay interest to the end of the term though. It pointed out that the 
bond was at a fixed  rate, and interest rates had actually gone  up during the term of the bond. 
So when Mrs A moved her money elsewhere, she was probably getting  a better rate. 
BoI said that whoever called it pretending to be Mrs A had access  to a lot of her personal 
information, and answered a number  of security questions correctly. This wasnt information 
that the bank ever put in a letter to her. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that she thought  that BoI had done  all 
it could when it learned of the problems on Mrs As account. 
Our investigator had listened to the call where  someone else accessed  Mrs As account,  and 
the caller did give correct details. Those details werent in letters sent to Mrs A by BoI, and 
our investigator didnt think BoI had allowed the call to go ahead  without enough  verification. 
Our investigator said BoI did what wed expect when it found out about the impersonation. It 
blocked Mrs As account and reissued  the security number. It set up a new profile for her. It 
added extra security  to her account. And it had explained why Mrs A wasnt asked some  
additional security  questions straight away  when  she called.so when BoI also waived any 
charges when Mrs A asked to close the bond.  
Our investigator said that BoI had fulfilled its obligations to Mrs A. She didnt think  it 
shouldve sent new account details by post, but fortunately that didnt have any further 
consequences. And her money  hadnt  been accessed. As it was in a long term bond, it 
wasnt likely to be accessed without  her signature. 
Our investigator said that BoIs  site told Mrs A which browsers  worked when she opened her 
account. She couldve either closed her account, or called back about that, if shed wished. 
Out investigator knew that Mrs A wouldve liked to speak to the person in charge of customer 
services, but she didnt think BoI had to offer that, given the number of customers it has, and 
the amount of queries  it must be dealing with. 
Ref: DRN96543463Our investigator thought that paying Mrs A £75, and closing  her bond early with full interest 
to date and no penalty, was a fair resolution to this problem. 
Mrs A replied to say that she strongly  disagreed. She said that the response to her query  
about online access had been unsatisfactory, and said that if this had been properly 
recorded by BoI, then BoI wouldve known there  was an access  issue.  So she thought that 
an opportunity had been missed to challenge the fraudsters call. 
Mrs A said that she still thought the information BoI used  for her security was easily  
obtainable. She pointed  out ways in which that information about  her could be found.  
Mrs A said that her email  and mobile  had also been changed, as well as her home number. 
She said shed asked us to check if BoI had written out about these changes, and we hadnt. 
Mrs A said that her account  wasnt blocked  straight away on the Friday night when she first 
alerted BoI to the problem. It wasnt blocked  until the following Monday. 
Mrs A said that the details  for her new account should never have been issued by post. She 
said our position  on this made no sense. Mrs A said that it wasnt insensitive to send 
information by post, it was incompetent.  
Mrs A said that she wasnt asking for additional security questions  on her account to be 
asked first. They werent asked at all. She said that call handlers repeatedly told her that the 
questions werent  obvious  on their screen, so they had to scroll down to find them. So if she 
hadnt prompted them, they would  not have known  to ask these questions.
Mrs A offered  a list of things she thought BoI should  change in future, to make  its processes 
more robust. She said that she couldnt believe we were  saying  it didnt have to do more. 
Mrs A asked if we had checked if BoI had her signature. And she said wed suggested  it was 
unlikely that someone  else would actually  have been able to access her account.  She asked 
on what grounds wed said this.  
Mrs A said an escalation  process should exist for complaints. Not all complaints should  go to 
the head of customer care, but she thought  hers should have, given what had happened.  
Because our investigator and Mrs A hadnt agreed, this complaint was passed  to me for a 
final decision. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-Mrs A raised a number of points about  how problems on her account were dealt with. For 
clarity, I said Id note at the start of each paragraph which point I was dealing with. 
-Accessing her bond online   Mrs A said BoIs response to her problems accessing the 
bond was unacceptable. BoI said she couldve  closed her bond, or installed  a different 
browser. And it said that information  on compatible browsers  was available  at the time.
Ref: DRN96543464-Id listened  to the call that Mrs A made about  this. At the start of that call Mrs A was told 
that the problem was common  to all IT products made by this firm. That wasnt  right,  the 
problem couldve been solved by Mrs A installing a different  browser.  But the call 
operator did offer to check whether  there was anything else that could be done.  Mrs A 
said that it was no big deal, and she could always just ring when the bond matured. The 
operator checked that her bond was set up, and mentioned that if she kept trying,  she 
might be able to view the account online  before it matured. 
-Because BoI had set out for Mrs A how she could manage her bond  without going 
online, and because Mrs A seemed to accept  that on this call, I didnt think  that BoI was 
wrong to note that this complaint appeared to have been resolved at the time.
-Mrs A also said that if this problem had been noted on her account as an ongoing issue,  
then that mightve  helped  to identify the fraudster who rang pretending to be her. Id 
listened to the call that fraudster made,  and I just didnt think that whether Mrs A was still 
having problems  accessing her online banking  was something that would  ever have 
been likely to come up on that call. So I didnt  agree that BoIs noting this problem as 
resolved contributed to the later fraud  issues she had on her account. 
-Security used to identify her account - Mrs A said she still considered  that the information 
about her was easily obtainable, and she pointed out ways  in which  the information that 
was given about her could  be found.  But that fraudster did give a considerable amount of 
personal information about Miss A. Its not for our service to tell businesses how to set 
up their security procedures, but I didnt  think the procedures and questions that BoI 
used to try to identify  Mrs A were unreasonable or unfair. Mrs A wasnt only identified to 
BoI using  publicly  available information. The fraudster had her BoI account  number too. 
-Notification of changes - Mrs A said that it wasnt just her home number that had been  
changed, her email address and mobile number had also been  changed.  She said shed 
asked us to check  if BoI had written out about these changes,  and we hadnt. 
-We asked BoI about this, and it said that given the length of time since  these changes 
were made, and the fact that Mrs As old profile was then deleted and a new profile set 
up for her, it could  no longer  show  that it had written about these other two changes. BoI 
said that it might not have written separately about these issues, if the changes  were all 
made at once. But BoI also said that it didnt  think anything  turned on this. It said that 
Mrs A had received  its notification  about  a change on her account, and had acted on it. I 
thought that was right. I didnt think it made  any difference to the outcome  in this case 
whether BoI should  have, or did, send other letters too. 
-Availability of the fraud team - Mrs A said that the fraud team  wasnt available over the 
weekend. She rang on a Friday  night, but her account wasnt blocked until the following 
Monday. Id looked at the block that was applied to Mrs As account, and it did look as if 
it was done on 18 December, which was a Monday. 
-I didnt think it was reasonable to expect a fraud team to be available  to start a detailed 
investigation on a 24/7 basis. But I did think that urgent  action, like blocking  an account, 
should be taken  straight  away.  So I asked BoI about this. And BoI said that its customer  
services team did block the account straight  away. It said that this block  would have the 
date of the next working day, but it showed us evidence to support what it said about  the 
block having been put in place right away, as soon as Mrs A called.  
Ref: DRN96543465-Account details by post  Mrs A said that the details for her new account should  never  
have been issued by post. I thought  that both I, and our investigator,  would agree with 
her on that. She took issue with the use of the word insensitive  to describe issuing 
documents by post, and said that it wasnt insensitive, it was incompetent.
-I thought the term insensitive  may have been  first used  when Mrs A was telling us what 
happened when  she reported the fraud.  She said she didnt want  new account details 
sent by post. She said although she was very upset on the call, BoIs fraud team  
member said he was going to send this highly confidential information  by post, and they 
could see if it arrived. The call she has described did seem  to me to be insensitive. I also 
thought it would be a rash decision  by BoI to send items by post in these  circumstances. 
-BoI agreed that its response  here was unhelpful.  It paid £75 in compensation for that. I 
said Id bear that in mind when I was thinking  about the right outcome for this case.
-Extra security questions - Mrs A said that she wasnt asking for her additional security  
questions to be asked  first. They werent asked at all. She said call handlers repeatedly 
told her that the questions  werent  obvious  on their screen.  They had to scroll down to 
find them, and if she hadnt  prompted, these questions wouldnt have been asked.
-BoI said that Mrs A had asked for these security questions to be asked before she had 
fully cleared security, and sent us two calls that it said showed that. On the first call, I 
could hear that Mrs A gave her bond  number, and her name.  She said that there were 
additional questions  she was expecting to be asked,  and suggested the call handler read 
the notes. The call handler said that standard  security  questions would be asked. She 
then paused to read the notes on Mrs As file. And then asked the extra  questions. 
-Having listened  to this call carefully, I could understand why Mrs A formed the view, from 
the start of this call, that the call handler didnt appear to realise there might be additional  
questions. I could also understand why Mrs A would be concerned  that someone who 
hadnt mentioned  these  extra questions  might not be asked them. I thought  it was also 
unfortunate that the call handler then told Mrs A to prompt for those extra  questions  to be 
asked, the next time she called. So I could see why Mrs A formed the view that this 
hadnt added  anything to her security. I also thought it was unfortunate that on the 
second call I listened to, Mrs A had to explain that she was expecting to be asked for a 
special password, not a six digit number, because that may have been compromised.
-But I didnt think that this actually showed me that the right questions  wouldnt have been 
asked at all without  a prompt from Mrs A. I noted that on both the calls I had, as BoI said, 
Mrs A was raising  the issue of these extra security  questions  herself,  and doing  so early 
in the call, before shed cleared the ordinary  security  that applies to all accounts. And 
that was consistent  with the second  call I listened to, when the call handler  said that she 
could see a warning  on the account, but couldnt access the detail of that warning, which 
told her to ask further questions, until the first level of security was cleared.
-So I didnt think I could say, having  listened  to these calls, it was more likely than not that 
these questions wouldnt have been  asked at all if Mrs A hadnt prompted for them. But I 
could understand  why Mrs A had concerns about whether  her account was now secure. 
So I thought BoI did the right thing  when it allowed her to close this bond early. 
-Changes to BoIs security - Mrs A offered a list of things that she thought that BoI should 
change, to make its processes more robust.  But its not the role of our service  to tell 
Ref: DRN96543466businesses how their security procedures should  work.  I couldnt  force  BoI to make  wider 
changes to its security for the future. I could only look at what it has done in this case. 
-Signature held - Mrs A asked if we had checked  whether  BoI had her signature, because 
it had told her at one stage that it hadnt. I sought to reassure  her that we had, and it did. 
-Money in her account  Mrs A said that wed agreed with BoI that, even though someone 
else had cleared security, they were  still unlikely to be able to access  the money in her 
account. She wanted to know why we thought that. 
-I thought BoI was saying that accessing  the funds in a bond like this before the maturity  
date is actually quite  difficult. BoI doesnt usually release the money early. The fraudster  
wouldve had to write to BoI to explain why the money was needed early, and BoI says 
that wouldve  involved a signature, which it would compare to the one it held for Mrs A. 
-I thought that was a reasonable point for BoI to make. I also asked BoI whether the 
fraudster could  just have waited until the bonds  maturity to try to take the funds. And BoI 
said that wouldnt have worked either. It held a nominated  account  for Mrs A, which  is 
where money would  be paid when this account  matured. And if any change  was made to 
that, then it would have written  to her separately  to notify her of that too. So it didnt think 
it was likely that this fraud wouldve allowed someone else to access  Mrs As money.
-I thought that was right. I thought  that BoI had shown that there  were  a number of 
safeguards in place,  which meant that it was unlikely that someone else wouldve been 
able to access Mrs As money.  I also noted that these reassurances were in line with 
what BoI said to Mrs A when  she first discussed this fraud  problem with it.
-Response from head of complaints - Mrs A said that given the gravity of what  had 
happened she felt that her complaint  shouldve had a more senior response.  
-I didnt think that BoI should be criticised for the level at which  a problem is handled. I 
thought that was a business  decision for BoI to make. But at whatever level BoI chooses 
to deal with a complaint, I said Id expect BoI to make sure it responded fully and 
promptly to the problems Mrs A was having. 
-Closing the account, and paying extra interest   BoI closed Mrs As account early  without  
penalty. I thought  this was the right response for BoI to make in these circumstances.  I 
knew that Mrs A said that BoI should pay interest  until the end of the term, but I thought 
that BoI had shown that Mrs A was actually likely to be better off now, as interest rates  
had gone up, so her money  may be earning more  invested  elsewhere. 
-Summary - I didnt think that it was BoIs fault that Mrs As account  was compromised. 
And I understood BoI tried to help Mrs A with the problems  this caused. But I thought  
that it had slipped  up, particularly when  it reissued her account details by post, but also 
with what it said on the phone  about  the additional security questions. Although  Id said I 
didnt think I could  find that these questions would not have been  asked,  Id explained 
that I could understand why Mrs A didnt  find those calls reassuring. I understood why 
she closed her bond. So although  I didnt  think that BoI caused this problem, I thought  
there were some occasions when it couldve provided better  service,  to sort this out. 
Ref: DRN96543467-I understood that BoI had paid Mrs A £75 in compensation. I didnt think  that was quite  
the right amount to make up for what had gone wrong in this case.  I thought that BoI 
should pay a total compensation payment of £150.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both BoI and Mrs A sent detailed replies.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mrs A said BoI had offered £75 in compensation, but shed refused it. The award I proposed 
in my provisional decision will ensure that Mrs A receives the whole amount of £150. 
Mrs A said shed proposed additional  security on her account. She said BoI didnt offer extra 
security questions, and it didnt properly execute the questions it did add. I said in my 
provisional decision I didnt think I could say from the evidence that it was more  likely than 
not the extra security  questions  wouldnt have  been asked if Mrs A hadnt asked for them.
I realise that Mrs A strongly disagrees with that conclusion. Ive listened again  to these calls, 
and I still think that, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. And, having listened 
to a number of calls Mrs A had with BoI, I dont think that its fair to say that BoI failed to take 
steps, once it was aware of the fraud, to protect  Mrs As account.
Mrs A said the complaints  manager  was dismissive  of the issues  she raised about not being 
able to access her account  online.  She said she wasnt told that she might be able to solve  
the problem by downloading a different  browser. 
I said in my provisional decision that Id listened  to the call that Mrs A made to discuss  this 
problem with BoI when  she first opened her account. I dont agree that the call handler that 
Mrs A spoke to then was dismissive of Mrs As concerns. As I noted, Mrs A said then that it 
was no big deal, and she could always just ring when the bond  matured. 
I realise that not being able to access her bond online may have taken on much  more 
significance for Mrs A after the fraud  on her account.  But I still dont think  that her complaint  
to us, which I understood to be about  how BoI dealt with her call on this issue  after she 
opened her account,  should be upheld.
Mrs A said that her account  wasnt blocked  on her initial call to BoI on Friday  15 December 
2017. She said she called again on Saturday 16 December 2017,  and the call handler  
confirmed that the block  would be actioned  on Monday 18 December 2017. 
We asked BoI, and it has confirmed it has no records of any call from Mrs A on Friday 15 
December. It had sent us the call that Mrs A made on Saturday  16 December. Ive listened 
again to that call, and Mrs A doesnt  mention  having called the day before. The conversation  
she had with the call handler doesnt seem to me to be consistent with her having called the 
day before. I also think that Mrs A was repeatedly reassured on this call that her account  had 
been blocked. So I havent  changed my mind about  this. I dont think  that BoIs response to 
Mrs As fraud notification was inadequate.
Ref: DRN96543468Mrs A says that theres  an inconsistency in my decision, because I decided  that the block  on 
her account  was put in place straight  away, but it wasnt dated  until the following Monday. 
But BoI has told us that a block like this one just picks up the date from the next working day. 
I dont think that means that the block wasnt effective from the Saturday.
Mrs A says she thinks a fraudster couldve accessed her account if she hadnt given BoI a 
signature. She was also concerned about what mightve happened if she hadnt received the 
one letter about changes to her details  that she did get. I can understand these concerns, 
but Mrs A did give a signature, and she did get a letter about changes  to her details. I cant 
consider, as part of the resolution  of this case, what might have happened if she hadnt.
 
Mrs A was very concerned that BoI couldnt  show if or when any written notification of the 
other two changes to her contact information  had been sent. I still think that nothing  actually 
turns on this, in this case, because she did receive written notification  of a change.  
Mrs A repeated that she felt that BoIs  complaint handling had been poor, and she objected  
to its refusal to escalate her complaint. Our service  cant consider a complaint which  is solely 
about complaint  handling,  as that isnt a regulated activity. Insofar as this point relates to Mrs 
As complaint about the handling of fraud issues on her account,  Ive explained that I dont 
think that BoI has to escalate a case to a senior staff member. But Id still expect it to resolve 
the issues properly,  no matter who deals with the concern.
Mrs A said that I shouldnt have said that shed been allowed  to close the account early.  
She felt I was missing  the point. I just wanted to say, in that part of my provisional decision, 
that BoI couldve tried to apply the penalty for early closure that its terms and conditions 
allow it to charge. It didnt.  I think that was the right thing for BoI to do.
Mrs A also said that she felt she could no longer invest in an online account after this fraud. 
So she thought that it was wrong  for BoI to say that she couldve opened an online account 
elsewhere, and earned a higher rate of interest.  But I dont think that this fraud happened 
because this was an online  account. I think it happened because her post was stolen.  And I 
think that if Mrs A prefers not to invest in an online account in future, thats  not BoIs fault.  
Mrs A asked who she should tell about  her concerns about BoIs fraud processes, if not us. If 
Mrs A wants  to raise wider concerns about  BoIs procedures,  then shed  need  to discuss  that 
with the regulator, which is the Financial Conduct Authority.
BoI also responded to my provisional decision.  It said Id identified two mistakes  by it. It 
thought those were  issuing  account details by post and failing to reassure Mrs A that her 
additional security  questions would have been  asked.
BoI stressed that it hadnt granted  access to Mrs As account  just on the basis  of information 
that was in its letters to her. And it said that it had blocked her account  straight  away. 
BoI sent us the call where Mrs A spoke to the fraud team to say she still hadnt received the 
new security code.  On that call she said shed had mail intercepted  in August, including  for a 
different account,  but she had raised this with her local delivery  and was now getting  mail. 
I realise that on the first call, Mrs A seemed to put down any missing  items of post to delays 
caused by Christmas post. But on the same  call, BoI and Mrs A discussed  concerns about 
possible future interceptions of post.  BoI offered a new profile and account details in case 
Ref: DRN96543469her post had been intercepted. Mrs A asked for the items to be sent recorded delivery, so 
she was still concerned about whether post would get to her. BoI didnt agree to that.  
BoI also sent a later call recording  about the issue of the new bond details. Mrs A said then 
that shed had further problems with post,  which had led to a recent theft of money  from a 
different account.  I think it was clear on this call that Mrs As post was still being intercepted. 
She didnt  want any new details to be posted to her. But the letter had already been sent. 
I know that BoI reassured Mrs A on that call that the new account would be restricted until 
the issue with her post was resolved. And I acknowledge BoIs  suggestion that Mrs A is 
primarily responsible for making sure that her post is either  secure when it arrives at her 
property, or that shes made alternative arrangements  for collection. But I still think  that BoI 
took a risk when it posted details to Mrs A. It didnt send the items by recorded delivery, or 
confirm with Mrs A that any steps  had been  taken to eliminate the risk of items being lost. 
Because it didnt  do that, I think that Mrs A was caused additional stress at this point by BoI. 
 BoI also said that its call handlers  wouldve  asked Mrs As additional security  questions,  
even if she hadnt  prompted for those. BoI explained  again  how the security questions  
showed on her records.  It thought it was only fair to judge BoIs  actions based  on the facts, 
not what couldve happened. There was no evidence  to prove BoI failed to ask Mrs A the 
additional questions  on any of her calls. I broadly agree  with that. But my provisional 
decision on this point  was what the call handlers said to Mrs A made  her concerned  about 
the security of her account. I dont think that was an irrational response by Mrs A to what  
was said. 
BoI said that it couldve charged Mrs A £251.50  to close her bond early. It hadnt  done that, 
and it thought that this should be taken into account as compensation. I have taken account 
of the fact that Mrs A was able to close this account without penalty. But I still think that there  
were service  failings, in the two areas  Ive identified above. So I still think BoI should  pay 
Mrs A £150  to make up for that.
my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc must pay Mrs A a total of £150 in 
compensation. Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc can count towards that amount any compensation  it 
has already paid Mrs A for this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9654346