K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  about the way Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
handled a claim  they made on their home insurance  policy.
background
After a period  of bad weather, Mr and Mrs F noticed  damage to their roof. A single tile had 
slipped out of position at the front of the house.  And mortar between  some of the tiles was 
broken. They made a claim  to LV.
LV sent a contractor to inspect the roof. They said the storm had dislodged the single tile, 
but it hadnt caused the problem with the mortar. Mr and Mrs Fs son replaced the single tile 
shortly after and, bearing in mind  they would have  to pay an excess,  Mr and Mrs F decided  
not to claim for the cost of replacing the single tile. They felt the mortar damage should be 
covered and complained to LV.
In response LV accepted  there was a storm at the time of the damage. They thought  the 
storm was the cause of the slipped tile, but the mortar damage was a result of wear and tear. 
Because of that the claim was declined. Mr and Mrs F referred their complaint to this service 
for an independent review.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and concluded  the roof damage was more  
consistent with wear and tear than storm damage.  As the policy  doesnt cover  wear and tear, 
she thought LV had acted fairly by declining the claim.
Mr F disagreed. He said other areas  of the roof were as old as the damaged area and the 
tiles there  were still secure. He thought it more likely the storm had caused  the mortar to 
break because high winds had caused  the tiles to rattle and lift. 
As Mr and Mrs F didnt agree its been  passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking LV to 
do anything more. Ill explain  why.
The policy covers damage  to the building as a result  of storm. When  this service  looks  at a 
complaint about  a storm claim, theres  three  main  points  we usually take into account:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage  claimed for consistent  with damage a storm typically  causes?
3.    were  the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Its only if we can answer  Yes to all three questions that we say the insurer is liable to pay 
the claim.  But in this case the answer isnt yes to all three, so Im not asking LV to pay the 
claim.
Ref: DRN97269912The answer to the first question is yes. Theres been  no dispute that there were strong winds  
the day before the damage  was discovered. Weather records  show  wind speeds of over 
60mph, which  I consider  are storm strength.
For the dislodged tile, the answer to the second  and third questions is yes. LV accepted the 
single tile was dislodged due to the storm and the cost of replacing it would have been 
covered had it exceeded the policy excess. Mr and Mrs F chose not to continue with their 
claim for the tile because  of the policy excess. So, Ill only consider the claim for the 
remainder of the roof damage.
For the mortar, Im not satisfied the answer to the second and third questions  is yes. The 
damage is to the mortar between a number  of roof tiles. Its dislodged, broken or crumbling 
in various places. The purpose of mortar  on the roof is to resist  the impact  of strong wind 
and keep tiles secured  in place. So, its rare for mortar to be damaged  by a storm.
Typical damage caused by strong  winds is where the impact of the wind has lifted  or moved 
more exposed parts of the roof, such as ridge  or edge tiles and chimney pots. Here the 
photos Ive seen show the damaged mortar is between tiles toward the centre  of the roof, so 
its not in a position particularly vulnerable  to strong  wind.
The tiles themselves dont appear to have moved out of position but some  of the mortar has. 
Without any clear sign of the surrounding tiles moving, the mortar damage appears more  
likely to be the result of gradual  deterioration  than the storm. 
Mr F has suggested  the wind may have rattled  or lifted the tiles. If that had happened,  its 
possible the vibration or force of the wind under  the tiles may have been  the cause of the 
mortar coming out of position.  Whilst I dont disagree thats a possibility, Ive seen no 
evidence from Mr F to support that point of view. And as the tiles in the area of mortar 
damage dont appear out of position,  Im not satisfied this is likely  to be what happened.
LV thinks  the mortar damage is more akin to wear and tear than storm damage and I agree. 
Based on what Ive seen,  the mortar  is more  likely  to have degraded over time and hasnt 
been damaged  by the storm winds.
Mr and Mrs F have  also taken out accidental damage cover for their buildings.  For that 
cover to apply, the damage must be caused  suddenly. Based on what Ive said above, I 
dont think that was the case. So, I dont think this part of the policy  can provide cover for the 
roof damage either.
Ref: DRN97269913my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 December  2019.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9726991