K820x#14Complaint
Mr S says Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do enough  to help when  he fell victim to a banking 
payment scam. He says Lloyds should have done  more to prevent the payment going 
through and to recover the money  from the scammer.
Background
On 24 May 2018, Mr S made  online payments of £25,000 and £5,680.92 (totalling 
£30,680.92) from his Lloyds current account  on the instruction of who he believed  was his 
solicitor for the purchase of a property. 
Mr S subsequently discovered hed made  the payment to a scammer  whod  intercepted 
emails between him and his solicitor and impersonated the solicitor. Mr S contacted Lloyds 
on 29 May 2018 to tell it what  had happened, and to see if there was anything it could do to 
help. Lloyds contacted the scammers bank that same day to see if any of Mr S money 
could be recovered.
Lloyds later confirmed  that the scammers bank said almost no money remained from Mr S 
transactions. He was sent a payment of £1.02, which was the amount that had been  
recovered. Mr S was unhappy with how Lloyds handled things, so he complained.  Lloyds 
said it acted appropriately  and was unwilling to further reimburse  him for his loss. 
Still unhappy with Lloyds  response,  Mr S complained to us. Our adjudicator looked at what 
had happened  and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  They  felt Lloyds hadnt acted 
unfairly by allowing the payment to be made and didnt think  it could reasonably  have done 
more to help recover his money.
Mr S disagreed. In essence, he suggested  there was a link between a scammer who stole 
from high street bank  customers according to the press, the beneficiary  bank account and 
the Lloyds member of staff Mr S spoke to over the phone two days before making the online 
payments. Mr S also believed the amounts he was transferring and the activity  on his 
account should have been  flagged by Lloyds as suspicious and stopped.  Further,  he queried  
why no investigation  had been made of the beneficiary bank or its involvement in the scam. 
The complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks  expected  to process  payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And Ive taken that into 
account when  deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
Ref: DRN91023492The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Lloyds acted  fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with 
Mr S when he made payments totalling  £30,680.92 to a new payee in May 2018, or whether 
it should have  done more  than it did.
I recognise that the payments Mr S made  were  relatively large, but Im not persuaded that 
hed have done anything differently even if Lloyds had flagged  them  with him. I say that 
because Mr S was clearly the victim of a sophisticated scam. I think  he genuinely believed 
he was acting on the instructions of his solicitor  and that hed have gone ahead with the 
payments irrespective of whether Lloyds had contacted him to query them.  
Mr S has suggested that the Lloyds member of staff he spoke to over the phone  before 
making the transfers was somehow involved in the scam. Ive thought very carefully about 
what hes said about that, together with Lloyds comments, and Ive listened  to a recording of 
the call itself.
Having done so, Ive seen  nothing  to suggest the representative was in any way complicit in 
the events that would soon transpire. Firstly, she merely responded to Mr S questions  
Ref: DRN91023493regarding how to transfer large sums of money. To my mind, she didnt behave in any way 
suspiciously. In fact, I note that during the call Mr S asked if there was any way he could 
avoid the charges hed incur by making the payment in branch. The representative said 
there wasnt and didnt instead,  for example, try to persuade him to transfer the money 
online  without branch involvement  and the scrutiny that might  potentially bring. 
Furthermore, I find it unlikely someone  involved in such a crime would willingly have their 
contact with the victim just before the scam took place recorded as the call was. 
Equally, I see no evidence linking the crimes Mr S points out were reported in the press  to 
the scam  he fell victim  to. Although, ultimately,  I believe it would be for the relevant 
authorities to look into and comment on that.    
So, in the circumstances, I dont think the actions Lloyds took before or during  the transfers 
caused Mr S to lose out.
When Mr S told Lloyds  that it had been  scammed, Lloyds acted quickly enough by 
contacting the scammers bank within  the hour to see if any of Mr S money  was still in the 
receiving account  and could be recovered.  Unfortunately, by that time  which  was five days  
after the transfers were  made  I can see from the information provided  by the beneficiary 
bank that Mr S money had gone.  Its not unusual in scams like this for the scammers  to 
withdraw funds quickly.  
Any further investigations into what happened  to the money  after it left the scammers 
account werent the responsibility of Lloyds,  and it wouldnt have unrestricted access  to that 
information. So, contacting the scammers bank to try and retrieve  the money was all Lloyds  
could do to help Mr S at that stage.
I realise Mr S would also like us to investigate  the actions of the beneficiary bank as part of 
his complaint. However, because of the scope of this services  remit at the time in question, 
were unable to review matters in that way. That said,  its open  for him to contact the 
beneficiary bank  direct  to see if theres anything it can do.  
Its unfortunate that Mr S has lost out, and I understand that this whole experience will have 
been very upsetting for him. But, in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say that 
Lloyds was responsible for Mr S losing his money. I also cant  hold Lloyds responsible  for 
Mr S having  fallen victim to an elaborate  scam, and I think it did what  it could to help once it 
knew what had happened. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to compensate Mr S 
for his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2020.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9102349