K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that NewDay Ltd made  an unauthorised payment on his credit card account 
and wont refund it.
background
Mr E sells books  online  through Amazon.  He had stock held at an Amazon warehouse, but 
in early 2018 sales were  lower than he was expecting. He therefore asked Amazon to return  
most of his stock to him. There  was a fee for doing  so, charged per item returned.  In Mr Es 
case, the return fees totalled just over £750  at 60p per item plus VAT. The return fee was 
charged to Mr Es Debenhams credit card (which is administered by NewDay). Mr E had 
previously provided Amazon with the card details. 
When Amazon told Mr E what the fee was, he contacted NewDay to try to stop the payment. 
NewDay said however  that the payment was pending and couldnt therefore be stopped.  
Mr E said he hadnt authorised the payment and that hed have made other  arrangements  if 
hed known how much  the fee would be. He thought  NewDay  should  refund the payment 
because he hadnt  authorised it. 
NewDay said that Mr E had provided  his card details to Amazon and that his agreement with 
Amazon allowed it to take payment from his credit card account. Mr E doesnt dispute  this, 
but says that he wasnt made aware  of the cost of returning the books as he should have 
been. He referred  the case to this service,  where  one of our investigators considered it. 
Our investigator noted that NewDay had tried to obtain a refund through  chargeback   a 
process run through the card scheme  (in this case,  MasterCard) for dealing  with certain 
payment disputes.  That wasnt  successful. The investigator thought however that NewDay 
had done enough and so didnt recommend a refund. Mr E didnt accept her conclusions and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Mr E acknowledges that he provided his credit card details to Amazon,  so that it could 
charge any fees he owed  to the account. The Amazon  terms say that Mr E is liable for any 
fees described in the agreement. 
The credit card terms say that a customer cant cancel  a transaction  after its been 
authorised. When Mr E contacted NewDay, the payment to Amazon was already  pending,  
so I agree with NewDay that it couldnt  be stopped. It could however still be challenged if it 
wasnt authorised  by Mr E. 
Mr E says that the credit terms cover the position  here, because the payment was pre-
authorised  that is, Amazon was using a general  authority to take payments, rather  than a 
specific authority for a single payment. The card terms include: 
 If the dispute relates to the amount of any Transaction where the amount of the 
Transaction exceeds the amount that you reasonably expected  you must  tell us within 
Ref: DRN96346442eight weeks from the date on which the Transaction was put on your Account as you are 
entitled to a full refund
Mr E says this covers  the situation here. I accept that Amazon does not appear to have told 
Mr E specifically how much it would charge until it actually initiated the payment. But Mr Es 
agreement with Amazon  did explain that its fees were set out in its Service  Terms and 
Programme policies; they were also on its sellers page. Those policies and published fees 
therefore set out the amount that Mr E could reasonably expect to be charged  even  if in 
fact they were more  than he thought  they might be. In the circumstances, I dont  believe  that 
the pre-authorisation  provisions Ive referred to above mean that Mr E is entitled to a refund 
from NewDay. 
But in my view, the dispute here isnt really about whether Mr E authorised  a card payment 
to Amazon; its a dispute  between  him and Amazon about  the level of its fees and whether it 
told Mr E what they would be. Its not for me to comment on that, but I dont believe that 
NewDay has treated Mr E unfairly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require NewDay Ltd to take any further steps to resolve  
Mr Es complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9634644