K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them  a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs J bought  the policy in 1996  sometime after taking out a mortgage. They say they 
applied for the PPI policy during a meeting  in branch. Due to the time that has passed,  BoS 
is unable to confirm  how the policy was sold. Given what Mr and Mrs J have told us, Ive 
considered this complaint on the basis that the sale took place  during  a meeting in branch. 
Although the mortgage was in both Mr and Mrs Js names, the policy  provided  cover for Mr J 
alone. It covered  Mr J for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its exclusions 
and limitations. It offered  to repay £200 a month towards Mr and Mrs Js mortgage balance  
in the event of a successful claim.  At the time,  it cost £9.96 a month. 
At the time,  Mr J was employed  as a quality checker  for a glass company. It is unclear how 
much sick pay Mr J would  have received  as he has told us he was entitled  to statutory sick 
pay but then also told us that he would  have received between 6 and 12 months pay from 
his employer. He told BoS he would have  received  redundancy pay (one week  for every  year 
worked). He also told us he would  have received redundancy  pay but didnt specify  how 
much. He has told us that he had £100  in savings as well as a life policy.  Although Mr J has 
mentioned a number  of health conditions, these all occurred after the sale.  Mr J has said he 
didnt have any health problems at the time of the sale.
Mrs J was not working at the time of the sale.
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2002.
Mr and Mrs Js representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Js representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs J 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Js representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr and Mrs J about the poor value;  
Ref: DRN94367222The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs J and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs J received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Js. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN94367223The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI Code and these  
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Js case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking   
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Js complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs J with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BoS gave  Mr and Mrs J sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs J, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs J 
Ref: DRN94367224suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would  amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs J 
and BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs J know they had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
BoS says PPI is likely  to have been presented as optional.  However, it no longer has any 
documents from the time of the sale. This is understandable given the length of time since  
the sale. And I dont  have  strong enough evidence from Mr and Mrs J (again 
understandably) to be able to conclude that BoS didnt present the policy as optional. I also 
note that the policy  was sold around 4 years  after the mortgage was taken  out. And I havent 
seen evidence which would lead me to conclude that BoS pressured Mr and Mrs J into 
taking PPI out.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs J knew  the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
Both BoS and Mr and Mrs J agree that advice was provided during this sale. 
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr and Mrs J with reasonable  care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence (screen  
shots) suggests that BoS took some steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs J. The adviser  had information about some of Mr and 
Mrs Js financial  circumstances  as part of the mortgage application. But although some 
questions were asked  to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs J had a need  for the policy   
by asking questions  about their wider  circumstances such as any health issues  I dont 
think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. This is because  the limited  questions that 
I have seen were asked of Mr and Mrs J wouldnt have allowed the representative to be able 
to fully consider  Mr and Mrs Js circumstances at the time so as to be able to advise them  
properly as to the suitability  of the policy. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs J given  their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs J, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr J met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN94367225-Mr and Mrs J had a need  for the policy  Mr J was the main  wage  earner and it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs Js finances would be put under strain if he was not working 
 even allowing  for the sickness  and redundancy benefits he was entitled to. The 
policy would have  helped  Mr and Mrs J manage the consequences were Mr J unable  
to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs J.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs J. 
There was nothing  about Mr Js employment  or occupation which would have made  it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim;
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability and unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr and Mrs Js 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr and Mrs J sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BoS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs J were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr J was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs J 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs J agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs J Im not persuaded BoS 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mr and Mrs J all of the information  
they needed about the policy to make  an informed decision about whether  to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Js representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Js. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
Ref: DRN94367226-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Js representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs J about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Js representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs J have suggested.  And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs J? To what extent  did Mr and 
Mrs J suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs J. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs J suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs J would have  still taken  out the policy, had BoS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs J, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs J have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if BoS had explained  things properly, 
Mr and Mrs J would  have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mr and Mrs J say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs J had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BoS advised them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  Mr J 
was unable to work  because  of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
Ref: DRN94367227As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Js circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs J knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear BoS told them the exact  premium  at the point Mr 
and Mrs J applied for the policy.  Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs J would have 
been told the cost before  the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with BoS at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs J would have found the cost unacceptable if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs J would get back  in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Js 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs J thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions for which Mr J had received 
advice treatment or counselling from any doctor during the 12 months before the start 
date and which reoccurred within 24 months of the start date;
 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr J 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr J be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs J pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs J from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Js circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr J was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr J wouldve been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr J didnt have 
Ref: DRN94367228any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
J might  reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely they would have  expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs J from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs J, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs J had known they could only claim for disability if Mr J was not only unable  to 
do his job or any similar  job but also unable to do any job which he might reasonably be 
qualified for, it might  have  played into their thinking about what  they would do. And I accept it 
may have  given them pause for thought  although  given  Mr and Mrs Js circumstances, on 
balance, I still think they would have been  interested in taking  out the cover.
BoS may not have told Mr and Mrs J that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than Mr J would have received full sick pay for and his 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs J would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr J be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk 
and might potentially  help preserve Mr Js sick pay or redundancy money  for other  use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs J would still have taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr J was made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs J would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Js representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs J would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN94367229Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Js 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs J found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs J believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs J in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr and Mrs J compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs J think BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mr and Mrs J, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1996 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Js representative says a court  might  take if 
it were to find BoS negligently  misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs J and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs J in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2021.
Ref: DRN943672210Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9436722