K820x#14complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in 
my decision.
Miss W says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Miss W took out with a store card in September  2002. It 
was added to her account when  she applied for the card in the store  whilst  shopping.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Miss W mainly said that this PPI was included automatically and, if given a choice, she 
wouldve refused  this policy. Miss W told us that the salesperson  completed  the form and 
passed it to her to sign. Miss W also told us that PPI was unsuitable for her as she had other 
means she could rely on to cover her store card monthly repayments.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Miss Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
It isnt reasonable  to expect Miss W to remember exactly what  was discussed  when  she took 
out PPI so long ago. This means that what she says isnt enough  on its own for me to be 
able to uphold  this complaint just based on the way Miss W told us she was sold PPI. I have 
to look at everything and decide what I think is most  likely.
FICL has given us a copy of Miss Ws completed  store card application.  Miss W has signed 
in the PPI part of the form, next to where  it says Yes,  I would like to protect my Account with 
Account CoverPlease debit my Account  with the relevant  monthly premium until further 
notice. It also says here: Only sign this box if you require Account Cover . 
I think Miss W wouldve seen that she had to complete  this part of the form in order to take 
out the policy - and that she couldve left it blank  if she hadnt wanted PPI. I think its 
reasonable to expect Miss W wouldve first read through anything she was asked to sign  
even if the form was completed for her by the salesperson. 
So, although  I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it wouldve been clear 
from the paperwork that it was up to Miss W to say if she wanted to have PPI added on. 
Miss W signed  the completed  application  so it seems to me that she must have agreed with 
the information on the form at the time  even if, understandably,  she has forgotten  this now. 
On balance, I find that Miss W was aware  the policy  was an option she could take out with 
her store card and she chose to have it.
Even though  no PPI recommendation was made  by FICL it still needed to make sure it gave  
Miss W enough  clear information to decide if the policy was right for her.
Ref: DRN96827022Its possible some information FICL gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  So I need  to consider if Miss W wouldve acted  differently,  and not bought 
the policy, if clearer information had been provided.  
The policy couldve  paid a benefit  for as long as Miss W was off work sick. And it also 
covered Miss W if she lost her job unexpectedly  and was out of work. In the event of a 
successful claim, the policy couldve cleared her card balance  if Miss W wasnt able to go 
back to work. So even taking into account her good sick pay benefits  through work, it looks 
like the policy couldve been  useful to her.
Relying on other  people to help out in the event of money problems  isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI. 
 
It doesnt look as if Miss W was affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover.  
So, I dont think more  information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve put 
her off taking  it out. 
I dont think its likely  that FICL gave Miss W clear  enough information about the costs  of the 
PPI policy. But Miss W chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  so she seems 
to have wanted it at the time,  and been happy to pay to have it, even if shes  forgotten  this 
now. Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Miss W, I think it unlikely she wouldve 
made a different decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance I think shed 
still have taken out the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9682702