K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy with a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement with Honda 
Finance Europe  Plc (Honda) as Mr J received a product recall safety notice for it.  
background
Mr J acquired  a car in January 2018 under a hire purchase agreement  with Honda. 
He received a letter  in late February 2018 to tell him that the manufacturer  had issued a 
safety recall notice for the model  of car Mr J had acquired. This was because  certain models  
of the car had serious safety issues relating to the airbag inflator. The dealership later 
advised the recall  became live on 23 February 2018. Mr J cancelled his direct debit on 
15 March 2018  and he stopped using the car.
Mr J was advised to have  a free repair  done at one of the manufacturers dealerships. 
This was arranged on 7 April 2018.  Mr J notified the dealership the vehicle was no longer 
starting as he hadnt used  it since receiving the recall notice. The dealership  sent a 
mechanic out to collect the vehicle and take it to the garage. As Mr J felt it wasnt safe to 
drive, he assumed the mechanic would arrange for a recovery vehicle to collect.  The 
mechanic was however intending  to drive the car. It would not however start so the repair  did 
not take place.  
Mr J asked Honda to cancel the finance agreement as he considered there had been a failed 
repair attempt. 
On 25 May 2018 Honda Finance issued a default  notice, advising Mr J he was in arrears  of 
£253.76. He was given until 14 June 2018  to pay the arrears before further action would be 
taken. Mr J did not pay off the arrears  and Honda issued a notice of termination on 20 June 
2018. Honda asked Mr J to return the car. Mr J was not happy  with the way Honda had 
acted. He brought a complaint to us to consider.
Honda Finance  repossessed the car on 1 November  2018. 
Mr J wants to be reimbursed for consequential  losses following the repossession. 
The investigator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  He noted  that the 
recall notice mentioned  a serious  safety  issue in certain models which included Mr Js car. 
The notice makes  it clear this is to resolve  an issue which may affect Mr Js vehicle. The 
investigator considered  the notice showed  there  may be a potential  issue  to resolve,  but its 
not been shown there  was an actual fault.
The investigator noted Mr J did not assert his right to reject  within  the first 30 days. 
Furthermore, Honda has not had a reasonable opportunity to arrange for the repair  to be 
completed.
The investigator considered Honda  was entitled  to take the car back  under the finance 
agreement when Mr J stopped the payments due under it. Honda  has however said the car 
has not yet been disposed  of. It will give the car back to Mr J if he pays  off the outstanding  
balance. Mr J does not want to the car as he has a new one. 
Ref: DRN92428522In summary,  the investigator considered that the recall notice was a precaution.  It has not 
been shown there was a fault with the vehicle so Mr J does not have the right to reject  it. 
It would not be fair and reasonable to require Honda  to cancel the agreement and refund 
Mr Js payments under the finance agreement.
Mr J is not happy to accept the investigators recommendation. He says,  in summary, the 
recall notice makes  it clear that the fault would not show  up on the dashboard even if 
its present.  Neither the dealer nor Honda disputed that there was a fault with the airbag 
which  need a repair. A repair was offered.
Mr J says he had the right to reject  the car within 30 days when the fault was first reported 
and not from when he acquired  the car. 
Mr J says the investigator has not said how Honda  was not given a reasonable opportunity  
to repair  the car. It only tried to repair it on one occasion. 
Mr J informed Honda in writing on 15 March 2018 that he would not make payments under  
the finance agreement until the problem was fixed.  Honda should not have repossessed  the 
car while Mr Js complaint was ongoing.  Mr J had said he was willing  to re-instate the direct 
debit and to pay all arrears after the repairs have been carried out. Honda  did not discuss  
this option with him. 
Mr J says the investigator thought the car did not have  a fault. This is despite the fact the 
fault would  not become apparent until the car was in an accident and the air bag opens. 
Honda has not disputed there was a fault with the car.
The investigator replied  to say that Honda  said in its final response letter to Mr J that: 
"we have not received  any evidence to confirm this vehicle is subject  to an unresolved  
fault which was inherent or developing since supply." 
The final right to reject, as contained  in section 24(5) of the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 , 
says  a consumer  may reject after one repair attempt  (whether in relation to one fault or 
more) . The 30 days is something  different, this is contained in section 22(3)  of the 2015 Act. 
This says a consumer can reject without allowing a repair attempt within 30 days of delivery. 
The investigator  considered  that Mr J had not worked  with the dealership  to have  the 
necessary  work  carried  out on the car. Mr J did not take up the offer of a free repair  to the car.
The investigator  considered  Mr J did not have  grounds  to cancel  the payments  due under  
the finance  agreement.  He did this before  raising  his concerns  with Honda.  
The investigator did not consider the car was unsafe  or unfit for purpose.
Mr J replied  to say, in summary,  that the recall  notice  said a faulty  part of the car needed  
to be replaced.  The fault was present  from the date the car was manufactured.  The 
notice  did not say the repair  was precautionary  but that it was important  and required.  
Mr J says  that by agreeing  to carry  out a repair,  Honda  agreed  there  was a fault with the 
car. Mr J told them  the car would  not start when  he arranged  for the car to be collected.  
Mr J did not refuse  a further  attempt  to repair  the vehicle.  
Ref: DRN92428523Mr J told Honda  in writing  on 15 March  2018  that he was not making  the payments  due 
under  the agreement  until the car was fixed.  Mr J was not using  the car. Honda  
repossessed  the car even  though  Mr J said he would  reinstate  payments  when  the car 
was fixed.  Honda  did not mediate  with him before  it repossessed  the car. 
In conclusion,  Mr J says  the recall  letter  showed  there  was a fault with the car. Honda  did 
not take up his offer to repair  the car. The final right to reject  in the Consumer  Rights  Act 
2015  says  a consumer  can only reject  the car if the dealer  has not repaired  or replaced  
the goods  within  a reasonable  time.  The responsibility  was on Honda  to repair  the car. It 
did not try to repair  it after the first attempt.  The car was unsafe  for Mr J to drive.  He had 
the right to reject  it and to treat the finance  agreement  as ended.  
Mr J says  Honda  should  pay Mr J £3,631.19  in compensation.  Honda  should  also 
remove  any default  notices  from his credit  file. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr J has made a number of 
representations in support of his complaint. I want to reassure him that I have read them  all. 
I do not refer to each  in my decision,  but this does not mean I have not considered them. 
And Ive also taken account  of relevant law, including the Consumer Rights  Act 2015  (CRA).  
Amongst other things, the CRA  provides that consumers have the right for goods supplied  
under a hire purchase contract  to be of satisfactory  quality  and sets out several remedies 
where this is found not to be the case.  The CRA allows for goods to be rejected within the 
first 30 days  if a fault is found that was present at the point of sale.  After  this and within  the 
first six months, if a fault is found then repair  can be carried out.
Mr J acquired  the car on 27 January 2018. The manufacturer issued a recall  notice in 
February 208. Honda sent Mr J a recall notice which he received on 27 February 2018. This 
was after Mr J had the car for 30 days. The recall  notice  said:
In the even t of an impact where the airbag is deployed , the inflator part of the airba g may 
ignite, in such a manner that it creates excessive internal pressure . As a result , the meta l 
inflat or casing may rupture causing rnetal fragments to be propelled through the airbag and 
into the vehicle compart ment. This may result in serious injury to the vehicle occupan ts.
I am satisfied that Honda was not told to recall the car in question by the manufacturer until 
23 February 2018. I consider that Honda  was not under an obligation to recall  the car until it 
was told to by the manufacturer. The manufacturer implemented the recall as a preventative 
measure. The recall  did not mean  that Mr Js car was faulty  or defective. It was to make sure 
a problem with the airbag did not exist. The notice made it clear  that the car may have this 
issue, but it was not definite that it was a fault. The recall notice did not tell Mr J he could not 
drive the car until the repair was carried out. The notice said that the airbag may have a 
problem. A repair  was to be carried out as a precautionary measure in the event something 
may happen in the future. I am not persuaded that the car was not of satisfactory quality. It is 
not clear that the car did have the problem mentioned  in the recall  notice. 
Ref: DRN92428524In any event, Mr J was told that a free repair would be carried  out. This was arranged for 
7 April 2018. Before  the repair attempt, Mr J wrote to Honda on 15 March  2018 to tell it that 
he was suspending his payments under the agreement. 
The repair was not possible on 7 April 2018  as the car would not start.  Mr J wrote  to Honda 
on 16 April 2018 to say he was ending the agreement. I find that Mr J did not give Honda  
another opportunity to repair the airbag  before he cancelled the agreement. In his letter  to 
Honda dated 14 May 2018, Mr J said:
Howev er, an offer to repai r has not been  taken because it does not restor e my trust and 
confi dence in the performance of the goods.
I find that Mr J did not have the right to reject  the car until a repair  attempt was carried  out. 
I find he should not have stopped making  payments  under  the agreement  in March 2018  
when discussions were  ongoing about  attempts  to work on the airbag. I agree with the 
investigator that the recall was to investigate  a potential issue and to carry out any 
necessary repair  work. I do not find that this was sufficient reason to reject  the car.
I understand that Mr J feels strongly  that he should have been able to reject  the car, end his 
agreement and receive a refund of the sums he made under it. I do not find he had grounds 
to withhold payments due under the agreement before the repair attempt had taken place. 
Mr J did not make any payments due from 15 March 2018. I find that Honda was entitled to 
repossess the car in these circumstances.  As I have  noted, Mr J was not told to stop driving 
the car until the repair was carried out. 
I find Honda should not be required to amend  Mr Js credit  file. It is an accurate portrayal of 
how his agreement was managed. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Rosemary Lloyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9242852