K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that he wasnt covered for breakdown cover  as part of his Lloyds Bank PLC 
account
background
Mr A upgraded his Lloyds account  in April 2015. One of the benefits of the account  was 
vehicle breakdown cover with a company I will call A. He says he broke  down on 27 May 
2015 and called both Lloyds and A but was told by A that he didnt have breakdown cover 
with it. Mr A says as a result he called his wife and she picked him up.
Lloyds says it looked at this issue in 2015  and says Mr A should  speak to A if he has any 
issues with it. It also says Mr A used the breakdown  cover on 26 June 2015 which shows Mr 
A was aware of the service and it was in place.  
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator asked Lloyds for the date it told A that 
he was to be covered  from. Lloyds  told us it couldnt provide evidence of the information  it 
gave A, as that information wasnt kept.  The investigator didnt uphold  Mr As complaint and 
thought it more likely that Lloyds had given A the breakdown cover information,  as Mr A had 
used As service in June  2015.
Mr A didnt accept that view and provided  call records which he says shows  he called both 
Lloyds and A on 27 May 2015 and later his wife.
I asked both parties for further information.  Mr A hasnt responded to my request.  Lloyds  
says it told A on 12 June 2015 via secure  data transfer that Mr A should  be covered with it 
for breakdown cover.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in this case and came to the provisional view that this 
complaint should  be upheld.
I could see from Lloyds  records that Mr A upgraded his account in April 2015.  So I was 
satisfied he shouldve been covered by A for vehicle breakdown  and as in this case running 
out of fuel, as one of the benefits of that account. I accepted  that, as Mr A used the 
breakdown cover in June  2015 and again  in December 2015, Lloyds did tell A that he should  
be covered. But the crucial question I thought was when  Lloyds told A that.
The investigator raised the same question with Lloyds and it told us it couldnt provide details 
of the date but the information  wouldve  been sent by a secure  data transfer.
I also asked Lloyds to check its records and it told me that the data transfer  took place on 12 
June 2015. The breakdown took place on 27 May 2015 which is before the date A wouldve 
been aware that Mr A was entitled to breakdown cover. I was satisfied that the breakdown 
took place on that date as Mr A had provided evidence that shows he contacted Lloyds and 
A on that date, before later calling his wife.
So I thought  Lloyds had made a mistake by not telling A when  it shouldve  that Mr A was 
entitled to breakdown cover. 
Ref: DRN97755282I had no doubt  in those circumstances that Mr A was caused inconvenience and distress  and 
spent some time on the phone to A trying no doubt  to convince it he was covered. So I 
thought Lloyds should pay Mr A £150  compensation for what  took place. I thought  that 
amount fairly reflected  the level of distress and inconvenience  caused  to Mr A.
Lloyds has accepted my provisional decision and so has Mr A.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision  and I can see that both parties also agree with 
it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order  Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr A £150 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9775528