K820x#14complaint
Ms M has complained that Mortgage  Next Network Limited mis-sold her an accident, 
sickness and unemployment (ASU) insurance  policy.
background
In September  2013, at the age of 59, Ms M underwent  a review of her financial needs with 
an adviser from Mortgage Next. On the advisers  recommendation,  Ms M agreed to take out 
an ASU policy with a particular insurer (which Ill call L). The policy would pay a monthly  
benefit for up to twelve months in the event that Ms M was unable  to work due to accident  or 
sickness, or was made involuntarily unemployed.
In October  2018, Ms M was unfortunately made redundant. She contacted  L to make a claim 
under her policy. However,  L informed her that she wasnt able to renew the policy  after she 
had turned 64 years old and so it had been  cancelled in September  2018. She shortly 
received a letter from L confirming  this.
Ms M complained to L that she hadnt  been  made  aware that she couldnt  renew  the policy 
after her 64th birthday. She said she wouldnt have taken out this particular  policy if shed 
understood this was the case.
L apologised and said it should have advised Ms M that the policy would be cancelled  at 
least three weeks before the date the policy was due for renewal in September  2018. It 
offered £75 compensation for this oversight. However, it maintained that the cancellation 
was correct and in line with the policys terms and conditions which had been provided to 
Ms M when she first took out the policy. It said that if she felt the policy had been mis-sold, 
she should address  her complaint to Mortgage Next.
Ms M complained to Mortgage Next.  She said its adviser hadnt made her aware that the 
policy couldnt be renewed after September 2018 once shed reached the age of 64. She 
said shed understood the policy would continue until at least  July 2019 which was when she 
turned 65 and so would become eligible for her state pension.  She pointed  out that in 2012  
the adviser had arranged  her mortgage  and so was aware this ran until 2024. She also 
pointed out that, when  the adviser sold her the ASU policy,  he had also sold her a critical 
illness policy  which was due to run until 2023.  She wanted a full refund of all her premiums.
Mortgage Next didnt uphold her complaint. It was satisfied  that the adviser had made  a 
suitable recommendation and had provided  Ms M with all necessary information  to decide 
whether to accept  this.
Ms M was unhappy at Mortgage Nexts response.  She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She considered that 
Mortgage Next had carried out the sale in an appropriate way.
Ms M didnt accept the investigators findings.  She said she didnt receive all the information 
which Mortgage Next said it had provided at the time of sale.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN96094452my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The evidence shows that Ms M contacted Mortgage  Next because  she wanted advice about 
insurance. Mortgage Next had a key facts document describing  its services. I consider it 
likely that Mortgage  Next provided this document to Ms M.
After carrying out a fact find, the adviser  established  that Ms M wanted to protect her income 
for up to twelve months in the event that she was unable to work due to illness or injury, or 
she was made unemployed. The adviser therefore recommended  that she take out an ASU 
policy with L. Im satisfied this was an appropriate recommendation. Mortgage Nexts  key 
facts document  confirmed  it was only able to offer products  from L for this type of insurance.  
The adviser recommended a level of benefit  which Im satisfied was appropriate for Ms M 
and which  she could  afford. 
The adviser wrote to Ms M to confirm his recommendation. He enclosed certain documents, 
including a key features  document  for the policy. The adviser  said it was important that Ms M 
read these  documents. Im satisfied  it was clear from the information provided  that the policy 
was annually renewable. The key features document stated that the applicant  had to be 
aged under  64 at the policy start date (which was the date the policy  was first taken out) 
though it admittedly didnt say anything about  age restrictions at renewal. Ms M has disputed 
that she received  all the information from the adviser but I consider it likely that this 
information was sent to the correct address.
The adviser explained to Ms M that she would  receive a welcome pack from L in due course 
which would contain  the full policy documentation  and that she would then have  a cooling off 
period of 30 days during which she could cancel the policy without charge if she wished. The 
full policy  document  clarified that cover  could not be renewed after the policyholder  had 
turned 64.
Ms M thinks the adviser should have  highlighted at the time of sale that the policy couldnt 
renew after shed  reached the age of 64 and that, if he had done this, she wouldnt have 
taken out the policy.  I understand Ms Ms concern. However, I dont consider the adviser 
was obliged to highlight this. Ms M wanted an ASU policy. Unlike critical illness  policies, ASU 
policies tend to be annually renewable in my experience and the adviser recommended a 
suitable policy for the forthcoming twelve month period. After  that, I consider that the issue  of 
the policys renewal  each year was a matter between Ms M and L. While Ms M may have 
inferred that this cover would continue to be available until she reached retirement age or 
perhaps even until her mortgage term had expired, I cant  see that the adviser  implied that 
this would be the case. Indeed, he couldnt  have provided any assurance  to this effect 
because, being an annually renewable policy, it was open  to L to change the terms of the 
policy each year or to withdraw the policy  altogether.
I sympathise with Ms M over the unfortunate timing of her redundancy in relation  to her 
cover. However, I dont  consider  that Mortgage Next did anything  wrong  and therefore I cant 
reasonably ask it to pay her compensation. As the investigator has explained, it is open to 
Ms M to refer to us a separate complaint against L if she thinks it is at fault in some way.
Ref: DRN96094453my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9609445