K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Vanquis  Bank  Limited has debited his credit  card account with £164.28.
He says he didnt  agree to or otherwise authorise the payment.
background
Some years  ago, Mr A had a selling  account with Amazon. As part of the agreement
between them, Mr A would pay fees to Amazon,  based on the sales  he made  through  its
website. Not having used the selling account  for many years,  Mr A believed  he owed nothing
on it.
In October  2017, Mr A bought a personal  item, unconnected with his earlier  selling activity,
through Amazon.  He paid using his Vanquis credit card. Shortly afterwards, Amazon sought
payment from Vanquis of fees that it said were outstanding on Mr As seller  account.
Vanquis paid Amazon and added the £164.28 Amazon had claimed  to Mr As account.  Mr A
said he hadnt authorised the payment to Amazon. He hadnt  agreed to Amazon taking any
payment (other than for his purchase),  and didnt even have a Vanquis card when he
stopped using the Amazon selling account.
Amazon was able to persuade Vanquis  that Mr A had had a selling account and pointed to
its terms and conditions   and specifically to terms that any amounts it determined  were due
from Mr A could  be charged to his credit card or any other  payment instrument he might
provide. Vanquis  took this to mean that Mr A had provided Amazon with a form of
continuous payment  that meant  it could  take payment from the credit card. Since  Mr A had
willingly provided Amazon with his credit card details, Amazon was entitled to use it to take
payment.
Mr A didnt agree and referred the matter to this service,  where  one of our investigators
looked at it. He concluded, in summary,  that Mr A hadnt agreed to the payment,  since  he
wasnt aware that Amazon was claiming anything was due from him or that  if it was  his
Vanquis card would be used to take payment. He acknowledged that there was a dispute
between Mr A and Amazon, but didnt consider that it was for Vanquis or the ombudsman
service to decide whether the agreement  was valid or enforceable. For these reasons, he
said, Vanquis should refund the payment.
Vanquis didnt  agree  with the investigators  assessment and asked  that an ombudsman 
review the case.  I did that and issued a provisional  decision. I said that requiring Vanquis to 
refund the payment would  produce an unfair outcome, since  Vanquis had no means of 
recovery from Amazon. Mr As dispute  was really  with Amazon,  and so they ought  to resolve 
that between themselves.  
Mr A didnt accept my provisional  decision. He said, in summary:
He couldnt realistically recover any money  from Amazon,  since that company wasnt  
responding to him.
Amazon had had his card details  for some  time,  so he didnt understand why it had 
taken so long to take the payment. 
He had received a refund from a different card provider.
Amazon hasnt  provided evidence of a debt. 
Ref: DRN91638682Vanquis does have a means  of recovery, through chargeback  or under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
Mr A also asked whether  I thought he owed any money to Amazon. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision,  its not for me to decide whether or not Mr A owed the 
money that Amazon took from his Vanquis  card. He had a selling account and the terms of 
his agreement with Amazon said that he would  pay fees from time to time.  But Im not in a 
position to know  what fees, if any, he might have owed when Amazon took the payment. 
Thats primarily a matter  between Mr A and Amazon. 
When Mr A raised this issue with Vanquis,  it, in turn, contacted  Amazon. Amazon was able 
to show to the satisfaction of Vanquis that Mr A had, in fact, agreed that it could take 
payments from his credit card. Vanquis  took the view therefore that there was no basis  on 
which it could pursue a refund from Amazon. 
Mr A says that Vanquis should  have pursued  things further through chargeback   the 
process run through the card scheme  (in this case Visa) for resolving some disputes 
between payers and payees.  I dont agree, however.  Vanquis  had provided  evidence that 
Mr A had provided his card details and agreed  that Amazon could use them  to take money 
owing. In the circumstances, its unlikely that Vanquis could have successfully  taken the 
matter any further. It was, I think,  entitled to take the view that a refund wouldnt have been 
made. 
Mr A has suggested too that Vanquis could  have made a recovery under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  That might be relevant if Mr A had a claim for breach of contract  
against Amazon  in respect of a transaction financed by his Vanquis card.  Thats not, 
however, whats alleged here. Rather,  Mr A says that Amazon has taken money  from his 
credit card that he doesnt owe at all. 
I indicated in my provisional decision that I thought it arguable here that the payment was 
authorised by Mr A. He may not have been aware that Amazon believed a payment was 
due, but the terms  of his agreement with Amazon indicate that he wouldnt necessarily have 
known exactly what fees were due from time to time. Those  terms referred to  amounts 
that we [Amazon] determine  you owe us So it was for Amazon   within  the terms it had 
agreed  to say what it thought was owing,  rather than that sum being the subject of 
negotiation and agreement.
The terms also allowed  Amazon to take payment from Mr As Credit Card or any other 
payment instrument you provide us That was, I think, wide enough to include the Vanquis 
card.
Much of what Mr A has said in response  to my provisional decision concerns the question of 
whether he owed any money  to Amazon and the difficulty he might have in obtaining the 
payment back if he didnt. But, as Ive said,  its not for me to decide if he owed any money; 
thats an issue that ought to be resolved between him and Amazon. 
The present  position is that Vanquis has paid Amazon and in turn sought payment from 
Mr A. But if in fact Mr A didnt  owe any money,  the effect of requiring Vanquis  to reimburse 
Ref: DRN91638683him is that Amazon has been paid, even though it wasnt  owed  anything, and Vanquis has 
paid that money  with no possibility of reimbursement. Ive explained above why Vanquis 
cannot recover money from Amazon. 
If, on the other hand, Mr A were to pursue  Amazon successfully,  he would obtain a refund, 
Amazon wouldnt be able to keep a payment it wasnt entitled to and Vanquis would not be 
out of pocket either. I appreciate what Mr A has said about the difficulties  hes faced in 
pursuing Amazon, but it does appear to me that this is the only way to achieve a fair 
resolution  whether Amazon was in fact owed money or not.  
my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Vanquis Bank Limited  to do 
anything further  to resolve Mr As complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept  or reject  my decision  before 15 December 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9163868