K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that PSA Finance UK Limited charged her repossession and auction fees 
instead of allowing her to voluntarily  terminate the finance agreement  she had with them for 
a car.
background
Miss G took receipt of a new car in April 2016.  She financed  the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with PSA.
In early April 2018 she called PSA and told them she was likely to lose her job. She asked 
them about  a payment  waiver but PSA explained  this was only available  if she had been 
made involuntarily redundant and, as this wasnt the case, she wasnt able to benefit from 
that waiver.
She discussed options for coming out of the agreement and PSA told her about her 
voluntary termination  (VT) rights. 
PSA sent payment  reminders in June and when payments werent received they instructed a 
collection agent in July 2018.  
The collection agent attended in late August but Miss G wasnt  in. She later complained to 
PSA as she said the agent had discussed her situation with a neighbour. PSA investigated 
the matter and apologised for any inconvenience. They  removed £75 from the outstanding 
balance on the account in recognition of the inconvenience thatd been caused.
Voluntary termination forms were sent out in August  and Miss G says that PSA agreed to put 
the account on hold whilst  she arranged for the car to be repaired  prior to VT. She was 
therefore surprised  to be asked to pay the repossession and auction fees for the car after it 
was collected  in late September. She said there  had been an agreement for her to VT the 
deal and that these fees were therefore  not due.
PSA said that theyd  never received the VT forms back  from Miss G and as theyd 
subsequently repossessed the car they said the repossession and auction fees were  
payable. 
But Miss G was dissatisfied with their response and she therefore  referred  her complaint to 
this service. Our adjudicator didnt think PSA had done anything wrong. She explained that 
breaches of confidentiality should  be referred to the Information Commissioners Office and it 
was not therefore for this service to decide whether the repossession  agent  had discussed  
Miss Gs situation with a neighbour.
She went on to explain  that at the point the car was repossessed Miss G was five months in 
arrears on the contract. She didnt think there  was evidence that the voluntary termination 
forms had ever been received by PSA and she noted from their system  notes that, as late as 
20 August, it seemed  they hadnt  been. So she didnt think  PSA had been unreasonable  
when arranging to repossess the car and she thought they were  therefore able to fairly levy 
charges for repossession and auction.
But Miss G disagreed and she therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN99907192my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Miss G so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss G acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is 
a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.
the repossession agents comments
There appears to be a difference of opinion  about  what was said when the collection agent 
spoke to Miss Gs neighbour. I would agree with the adjudicator that such disputes are best 
handled by the Information Commissioners Office  and I can see that the adjudicator  has 
provided the contact  details to Miss G should she wish to pursue her complaint through 
them.
the charges for repossession and auction
The hire purchase agreement says that if Miss G breaks any terms of the agreement PSA 
may make charges. The charges  are listed in the contract and include charges for 
repossession and auctioning  the vehicle.
Im not persuaded that the voluntary termination  forms were  ever returned by Miss G. Ive 
reviewed PSAs system log and can see that VT was regularly discussed and that VT forms 
were sent.  But theres no record  of the forms being  returned.
Whilst I can see that the repossession was delayed, whilst Miss G had the car repaired, I 
dont think thats  evidence of a VT being  accepted by PSA.  Had Miss G not had the car 
repaired its value at auction would have been  likely  to be less and the sale contribution to 
the balance on Miss Gs account  would have been diminished. It was therefore  always  in 
Miss Gs interest to have  the car repaired regardless  of any VT arrangement.
So Im persuaded  that PSA have been reasonable when  making  charges for repossession 
and auctioning  the car as these were  clearly due under the agreement  if it was breached and 
Im persuaded that was the case.
Ref: DRN99907193my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9990719