K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way that esure Insurance Limited dealt with his home insurance 
claim for theft and damage following a burglary of his home. He represents himself  and his 
late sister, Miss S.
background
In January 2018 Mr S reported a claim to esure. His home had been burgled and in the 
course of that the burglars damaged a patio door, inside door, an alley door and a back  gate. 
After reviewing the claim esure said it needed a copy of the police report  to verify it. It was 
prepared however to replace the patio doors  on a without prejudice basis. It asked Mr S to 
obtain quotes for this. When these were received esure thought  them to be excessive and 
also they covered  work in undamaged parts. It instructed its own suppliers who made  two 
appointments with Mr S which  they missed,  and they cancelled  another one. It instructed 
another supplier, who also missed an appointment. That supplier did then provide an 
acceptable quote to esure.
Mr S complained about the delays to esure  in April 2018. It explained that couldnt proceed 
without the police report but was prepared to deal with the patio doors. It apologised for the 
missed appointments  and paid £150  compensation. It also said it was prepared to verify  the 
theft part of the claim and consider whether to pay it without the police report once it 
received a VAR (value at risk) form which it sent to Mr S to complete.
Mr S wasnt  prepared to complete the VAR form as it wasnt required when he bought  the 
policy or on renewal.  He said he had lost two days earnings, which esure  was only prepared  
to consider if he obtained evidence from his employers.
In respect of the patio doors  Mr S gave authority for them to be replaced at the end of May 
2018. Parts had to be ordered  and the doors were installed around  the end of July 2018. 
Mr S wasnt  happy with the quality of the replacement doors and esure  agreed  that they 
needed to be replaced. It said its suppliers  were willing to do this but Mr S wasnt  happy  with 
that. So esure offered a cash settlement of the amount it would have cost it to repair  the 
doors. Mr S accepted  payments  of £1,345.20 and a further £790.80  in April 2019.
As for the balance of his claim Mr S finally completed the VAR form in February 2019. The 
police report was still not available as the investigation was still continuing. esure agreed to 
settle the claim without  the police report in March  2019. It made several payments in April 
and a final payment  in May 2019.
The matter  was passed to me for review.  As both esure and Mr S were asking us to consider 
matters up until the claim  was settled I did that, including considering the actual installation  
of the patio doors, the fact that they were faulty  and esures actions in respect of that. I made 
a provisional decision.  In it I found  that esure  had acted reasonably  and paid reasonable 
compensation for the difficulties causes  by missed appointments.  In respect  of the faulty 
installation of the patio door I proposed that esure pay a further £100 compensation.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN95629982These were  my provisional findings:
claim
I think it was reasonable  for esure to advise Mr S that it needed  to wait for the police report  
before it could deal with the claim. This was because it had concerns about the claim which 
needed to be verified before it could consider it. It is standard practice in such  cases for the 
insurer to obtain  a police report. And unfortunately it can take a long time for the report to be 
available. The fact that the thieves  may have been later prosecuted doesnt mean that esure  
wasnt justified in asking  for the report.
In this case the report was held up due to the polices continuing investigation. I think  in 
those circumstances  it was reasonable for esure to address  Mr Ss security  concerns over 
the patio doors and to offer to repair them without prejudice to its decision on the claim.  It 
also asked Mr S to complete a VAR form. Again this would be standard  practice  in a theft 
claim  the insurer needs to know  if the contents  are adequately covered so it can decide on 
the payment for the claim. Such forms arent  usually  required on purchasing  or renewing a 
policy, at that stage it's up to the customer to decide  how much cover  they need.
Mr S declined to complete  a VAR form until February 2019. By that stage the police report  
was still not available and esure took the view then that it would settle the claim, which  it 
subsequently did, by further payments in April 2019  and a final payment on 2 May.  As esure  
had to carry out verification for all aspects of the claim, I think  that was a reasonable time 
frame to settle it. If Mr S had supplied the form earlier it might have been settled earlier.  I 
dont think however that because esure  settled  without the police report in the end that that 
didnt justify it trying to obtain it. 
patio doors  - installation
I think it was reasonable  for esure to offer to repair the patio doors without prejudice to the 
claim decision. Mr S queried  why he was asked to obtain quotes himself  if esure  just 
instructed its own contractors. The reason for this is because when esure got the quotes it 
thought they were excessive and covered work  that in its view didnt need to be done. 
Having said that, there  was a delay in the work  being done because  of the missed 
appointments. But Mr S also delayed  the repair by asking for specific  details about  the 
nature of the repair and the doors to be supplied. 
I do think that, up until the time the doors were repaired, £150 was reasonable 
compensation. Mr S was upset as he couldnt get access to his garden through the patio  
doors. I accept that it would have been  inconvenient to him but Im not inclined to award  
compensation for him paying a gardener.
As for Mr S losing money for taking time off work, I accept that if he waited in for two 
appointments which were  missed it would be reasonable for esure  to consider that. But he 
would need to provide proof  of his loss, whether that would be proof  of his income in the 
weeks around the repair or other  documents from his employer. I wouldnt expect esure  to 
pay this without such evidence. 
patio doors   post installation problems
Mr S can rightly  feel justified in his misgivings  about esures contractor  as the patio doors 
when installed were  unsatisfactory.  That doesnt  mean that esure was wrong to use that 
Ref: DRN95629983contractor (who had already replaced  its only other available contractor). Mr S has pointed 
out that the chosen contractor wasnt a member of the Glass and Glazing Federation (GGF). 
But I dont think thats relevant,  we cant tell insurers what contractors to use. Ultimately the 
insurer is responsible  if its contractors fail to do a satisfactory repair.
Mr S contacted esure to advise it he wasnt satisfied around  the end of July. The regional  
manager for the contractor visited Mr Ss property on 19 August. He was offered a further  
repair but wasnt happy with the same company re-attending. esure offered a cash 
settlement but Mr S wasnt happy  with that. It asked him for a further estimate and chased  
this in September, October and November.  It then took the view that as Mr S wasnt  
responding it would leave  the matter until the claim was dealt with. Whilst unsatisfactory,  the 
doors were secure.
Mr S didnt chase up the doors until again  March  2019. He was again asked for an estimate  
which he supplied on 10 April. But esure wasnt satisfied  that this was a like for like 
replacement, so it issued  a payment for the amount its contractors estimated, of £1345.20,  
to carry out the repair. It reviewed the matter further and issued a further payment on 
26 April for £790.80 based on Mr Ss lowest quote.
I think that esure acted  reasonably in settling  the issue of the faulty patio doors.  As the claim 
hadnt been settled and as Mr S wasnt responding to its requests for his estimate, and the 
doors were secure, I think the timeframe for settling this was reasonable. I also think  the 
actual cash settlement made was reasonable.
I do note however that the doors when installed were unsatisfactory  and the contractor 
agreed they needed to be redone. I think esure  should pay a further £100 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused to Mr S.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision, I have no further comment to make. 
My provisional findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require esure Insurance Limited to pay to Mr S a further 
£100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019. 
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9562998