K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains, through  a claims management  company (CMC),  about a reviewable whole 
of life (WOL) policy  with critical illness  cover  (CIC) that was sold to him by a predecessor 
firm to Phoenix Life Limited. The CMC raised  the following issues  on behalf  of Mr P:
It isnt clear why he needed  to take out the policy.
No alternatives were discussed with him.
The reviews under the plan werent  disclosed.
There was no assessment of affordability in retirement.
The adviser didnt  ask how long he wanted  cover for or even if this was a priority.
background
Mr P saw an adviser, along  with his wife Mrs P, who reviewed their overall financial 
circumstances. The only need they wanted to address was life cover  and CIC.. As a result of 
the advice give to them they each  took out a WOL policy with CIC for £50,000.  Mr P 
complained to Phoenix at the start of 2019. Mrs P has also complained and that is the 
subject of a separate complaint
In its final response to the complaint  Phoenix  accepted the WOL policy  was unsuitable and 
said that it wouldve  been more appropriate  for Mr P to have been advised to take out a 
29 year fixed term assurance  so until his retirement. It said the cost of the fixed  term policy 
wouldve been £35 rather than just under £43 for the WOL policy.  It offered to repay  the 
difference with his policy to be cancelled from inception but said that as the surrender value 
was more than the difference in premium there was no loss.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt agree with Phoenix.  She said the 
fact find showed  that a 20 year term had been discussed. She noted the adviser had 
calculated a shortfall of £100,000 but that Mr P had taken out £50,000 because of 
affordability but that his wife had taken  a separate policy for £50,000. 
She said there was nothing to show how a shortfall of £100,000 had been identified and 
thought Phoenix  should  calculate  what a joint policy with £50,000  over a term of 20 years 
wouldve cost and refund  the difference.
Phoenix said it agreed with the adjudicator and carried out a calculation  in relation to both 
Mr Ps and Mrs Ps WOL policies which showed that there was no loss when the combined 
surrender values of the policies was taken into account.
The CMC said that the fact find recorded  that both Mr P and Mrs P wanted cover for the 
duration of their lives but the adjudicator had suggested a term of 20 years. It said that this 
aspect is unclear and the fairest option  would be to deduct the actual cost of cover as has 
been concluded in other ombudsman decisions.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One of the complaint points made by the CMC is that Mr P wasnt made aware of the review 
his policy  was subject  to. Phoenix said this part of the complaint was made  too late as it was 
Ref: DRN96331412made more  than six years from the event complained about and more than three years from 
when Mr P ought reasonably to have been aware he had cause for complaint  which  it said 
was when the policy was reviewed in 2008  and the sum assured was reduced from £50,000 
to just short of £35,000. 
The CMC hasnt argued about this but for completeness I also think this part of the complaint 
has been made too late for the reasons set out by Phoenix.
Turning to the rest of the complaint the CMC doesnt make  clear what  Mr P wanted at the 
time he saw the adviser. But given he was married  with two young children I think  life cover 
with CIC was a suitable  recommendation in itself and the issue is about  what  type of cover 
he shouldve  had.
In short  this comes down to whether he shouldve been recommended a WOL policy or a 
term assurance. If the WOL policy was suitable  then Mr P has got what he wanted  and 
Phoenix did nothing  wrong.
But Phoenixs own conclusion is that the WOL policy wasnt suitable for Mr P and I agree. 
Given Mr P had dependent  daughters,  the youngest of which wasnt yet two years old, I think 
a reviewable WOL policy  was unsuitable  given  there  would need to be two reviews  when the 
sum assured could  be reduced or the premium  increased whilst  Mr P still had dependents.  
And this is what happened on first review when the sum assured was significantly reduced.  I 
also note failed the second.  
But the question  then is over what term he shouldve been  advised to take cover. Phoenix 
suggested this should be 29 years to take Mr P to 65. This isnt necessarily unreasonable.  
When considering  term assurance  for a married  man with dependent  children It is common  
to either  recommend a term that covers the children  until 18 or 21, or alternatively  until 
retirement.
 
The CMC has said there  is no evidence what term wouldve been suitable, and as this 
aspect is unclear Mr P should be refunded the premium less the cost of life cover. But within  
the fact find the adviser recommended a policy that provided a high level of life cover only for 
20 years   with a low level of cover thereafter  - or a term assurance for 20 years.  So I think  it 
is clear that term of 20 years was contemplated at the time.
 
Mr P never had the opportunity  of taking out a term assurance for 20 years with CIC as this 
wasnt suggested by the adviser. But given that period  is what  was identified  for life cover  
only I think it is reasonable to find that if Mr P had been given  suitable  advice he wouldve 
taken out a term assurance with CIC over this term. This wouldve  provided  cover until his 
youngest child reached 21, which as I have said is a common term where there are 
dependent children. The policy  wouldve  finished last year on that basis.
There is another issue with regard to the policy and that relates to whether it shouldve  been 
a joint policy  with Mrs P. It wasnt necessarily unsuitable for the adviser  to recommend single 
policies. There are pros and cons with joint and single policies. But on balance  I think  Mr P 
shouldve been  advised to take out a joint policy with Mrs P as this wouldve allowed them to 
get a higher amount  of cover for the premium  they were willing to pay compared to a single 
policy, albeit if they both had cause to claim a joint policy is likely to have paid less than two 
single policies that cost the same.
Ref: DRN96331413I note Phoenix has done a calculation based on joint cover of £50,000  which shows  there is 
no loss. But I am not satisfied the cover for a term assurance policy over 20 years  wouldve 
been limited to £50,000  whether the term assurance was single  or joint. 
The recommendation from the adviser for the WOL policy  was for £100,000 of cover  but this 
was reduced for affordability reasons. Although there is nothing  to show  how the figure of 
£100,000 was arrived at, there is not a maximum amount of cover that someone can choose  
to have. 
Given the amount  of cover Mr P had was based  on affordability I think  he is more likely  than 
not to have chosen to have as much  cover as he could afford over the 20 year term. In other 
words I think he is more  likely than not to have wanted to pay the same premium he paid for 
the WOL policy for the term assurance  which wouldve meant he had more cover. Obviously 
no loss then arises when comparing either  a single or joint term assurance over 20 years 
with the WOL policy, given I think the premium amount wouldve been the same.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  on the basis set out above but I make no award  as Mr P hasnt 
suffered any loss as a result of what Phoenix Life Limited did wrong.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9633141