K822xcomplaint
Mr G has a motor  insurance policy with Advantage Insurance  Company Limited, trading as
Hastings Direct. He complains that it refused his request to change his car under the policy.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision in May 2019, an 
extract of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. So, I wont repeat that 
information here. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I intended to uphold  Mr Gs complaint and what  I 
intended to direct Hastings to do to put matters  right.  
Hastings said it had no further comments and that its comments  remained as before. Mr G 
said that the day before Hastings confirmed that it would insure him, hed hired  a car for a 
week. He said that it should compensate him for an additional weeks hire. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain of the view that Hastings should  have dealt with Mr Gs request  to change the car 
insured under his policy and dealt separately with any outstanding amount Mr G owed in 
relation to his previous policy. I think it was reasonable for Mr G to hire a car until Hastings 
agreed to change the policy on 12 February 2019.  
Ive noted what  Mr G has said about the hire car charges.  Ive made  a general enquiry of the 
hire car company Mr G used. It said that if a hire car is required for a shorter period than 
initially indicated, the hirer can amend the booking accordingly. So, on 12 February 2019, 
when Hastings confirmed  that it would cover  Mr Gs new car, it was open  to Mr G to amend 
his hire car arrangement. I dont think that Hastings is responsible for Mr Gs hire car costs  
after it agreed to cover  his new car. I think it was Mr Gs choice to defer the start date of the 
change to 19 February 2019  and I dont think that Hastings is responsible for that. 
To put matters right, Hastings should reimburse  Mr G for his hire costs  for the period  
28 January 2019  to 12 February 2019  inclusive. As Mr G has been kept out of the use of that 
money, it should also pay him interest. In addition, Hastings  should pay Mr G compensation 
of £85 in addition to the £15 it has already paid in relation to his distress and inconvenience. 
Its not appropriate to deduct anything from the £85.
Ref: DRN93188512my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Gs complaint. I now require Advantage Insurance Company Limited, trading as 
Hastings, to pay Mr G:
1.His car hire costs for the period 28 January 2019 to 12 February  2019  inclusive.
2.Simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the dates 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
3.Compensation of £85 in relation to his distress and inconvenience  in addition to the
£15 it has already paid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Advantage to take off tax from this interest. 
Advantage  must give Mr G a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off, if he asks 
for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.  
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN93188513extract of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr G has a motor insurance policy with Advantage Insurance Company Limited,  trading  as
Hastings Direct. He complains that it refused his request to change  his car under the policy.
background
Mr G was involved in an accident and Hastings  said that his car was a total loss. Mr G found  a car he 
wanted to buy and on 25 January 2019, he asked Hastings to cover his new car on his existing policy. 
Hastings refused  to do so, as its systems showed that it couldnt offer cover.
On 12 February 2019,  Hastings discovered  that the reasons its systems said it couldnt offer cover 
was that Mr G owed  an outstanding  balance in relation to a previous policy.
Hastings says that when  Mr G first asked to change  the policy it should have identified  the reason for 
its refusal, so that Mr G had an opportunity to pay what was owed  and insure his new car from that 
date. It agreed to cover  Mr Gs new car on 12 February 2019. At Mr Gs request, the insurance  
began on 19 February 2019. Hastings offered Mr G compensation of
£75, £60 of which it used to repay the outstanding balance on his previous policy.
Mr G says that he lost a deposit of £200  he paid in the relation to the car he wanted  to buy  which 
he subsequently bought - and incurred hire car costs. He says that Hastings  told him that hed lost his 
entire no claims discount  because of the accident. So, when he looked for insurance  without the 
benefit of a no claims  discount, the cost was unaffordable.
Our investigator said that Mr G hadnt been able to show us evidence of the loss of the deposit of 
£200, so she didnt ask Hastings  to reimburse  that. But she thought  that Hasting  should reimburse 
Mr G for the cost of car hire from 28 January 2019 to 18 February  2019.
Hastings didnt agree with the investigator. It said that Mr G should have bought the new car
and insured it with another insurer,  rather  than hire a car.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hastings says that when  Mr G first asked to change  the car insured under  his policy it should have 
identified the reason for its refusal, so that Mr G had an opportunity to pay what was owed. I dont 
agree with that approach. I think that Hastings should have dealt with 
Mr Gs request and dealt  separately with any outstanding amount Mr G owed in relation to a
previous policy. Mr Gs policy provides that Hastings will cancel his policy  if he doesnt replace his 
car within 30 days of the settlement payment following a total loss claim.  I dont  think  that an 
outstanding amount should  have prevented Mr G changing the car insured  under his existing  
policy.
I agree with our investigator that Mr G hasnt shown us that he lost a deposit of £200. So, its not 
appropriate to ask Hastings  to reimburse Mr G for that.
Ref: DRN93188514In the circumstances that arose  here, I think it was reasonable for Mr G to hire a car rather than 
buy the car and insure it with another provider.  Mr G wanted  to remain with Hastings. Thats  
understandable, as hed recently had a claim. So, a new policy with a new insurer was likely  to 
cost him more that if he simply changed his car under  his existing policy. And Mr G says that 
Hastings told him that hed lose his entire no claims  discount.  So, I can see why Mr G would rather 
not buy the car and seek insurance  elsewhere.
In addition,  Mr G wasnt initially aware  of the reason Hastings couldnt  offer him cover,  so its likely  
that he wanted to get this matter sorted out within  the time limit set out in his policy, rather than start 
a new policy with another insurer.
Hastings agreed to change  the policy  on 12 February 2019. I think it should  reimburse 
Mr G for hire costs from and including 28 January 2019 to 12 February 2019. As Mr G has been 
kept out of the use of that money, Hastings  should also pay interest on that. It was 
Mr Gs choice to defer the start date of the change so I dont think Hastings is responsible for hire 
charges after 12 February 2019.
Hastings should also pay Mr G for his distress and inconvenience. For a period approaching two 
weeks, Mr G couldnt proceed as he wished. That meant Mr G had a longer period without a 
replacement car than was necessary. I think  fair compensation  for that is £100. I understand that 
Hastings has already  paid Mr G £15. So it should pay the balance of £85.
As Ive said above, Hastings should have dealt  separately with any outstanding  amount
Mr G owed in relation to a previous policy. So, its not appropriate for it to deduct anything from 
this £85.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint. I intend to direct Advantage
Insurance Company  Limited to pay Mr G:
1.His car hire costs  for the period 28 January 2019 to 12 February  2019 inclusive.
2.Simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the dates  they 
were paid to the date of settlement*.
3.Compensation of £85 in relation to his distress and inconvenience in addition to the £15 
it has already paid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Advantage to take off tax from this interest.  Advantage
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN9318851