K820x#14complaint
Mr S acquired household  furnishings in 2018, by means of a fixed sum loan agreement  with 
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc. There were significant  problems with the quality  and delivery 
timescale of these goods. As a result, the order and the loan agreement were  cancelled. 
Mr S wants  Hitachi to compensate him for additional costs he incurred, and for stress and 
inconvenience he suffered, because of these problems.
background
Mr S ordered several household furnishing items  from a supplier, to be delivered and 
installed within an agreed timescale. One item was delivered but unsatisfactorily  installed, 
and other  items were not delivered within the agreed  timescale.  The supplier agreed to 
cancel Mr Ss order (and to take back the unsatisfactorily installed  item), and Hitachi  agreed 
to cancel his loan agreement, at no cost to him.
,
But Mr S said that he both incurred additional  costs associated with acquiring these goods 
from another supplier, and suffered serious stress  and inconvenience  caused by the 
problems he encountered  for which he was seeking compensation. Mr S complained  to 
Hitachi  it did not uphold his complaint, which he then referred to us.
Our investigator did not think the complaint should  be upheld. She pointed out that, within  
our jurisdiction, we could consider complaints against Hitachi  about  the quality of goods 
supplied to Mr S, but not about  the quality of customer service or other matters relating to 
the supplier. She felt that Hitachi had already done  everything we would have expected  it to 
do, in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Our investigator noted as well that Mr S had taken legal advice relating to his complaint. She 
added that we also could not consider  these  costs. We offer a complaints resolution service  
that is free to complainants, and for which they do not need legal advice.
Mr S disagreed with our investigator, saying that Hitachi  should be required  to make a 
compensation payment to him. And so this complaint was referred for review  by an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I find that I have come to the same  
conclusion as our investigator, for similar reasons.
Hitachi has a responsibility  to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and corresponding to 
their description, have been  supplied. This means that a reasonable person would have 
regarded the goods as satisfactory, taking into account all relevant circumstances.  But there 
are limits to Hitachis responsibilities.  In particular, it is not responsible  for the quality of 
customer service  provided by the supplier of these goods.
By their actions, both Hitachi and the supplier have  accepted that the goods  were of 
unsatisfactory quality  (which, in these circumstances, includes the fact that they were  not 
delivered within an agreed timescale). The goods have been rejected, and Hitachi  has 
cancelled Mr Ss contract (which is what we would expect it to do).
Ref: DRN96367092I sympathise with Mr S, but this complaint is against  Hitachi. He may or may not have a valid 
claim for compensation  against  the supplier, although the nature of his complaint means  that 
it does not fall with Hitachis responsibilities.   
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9636709