K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr H says Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
Briefly:
In 2002 Mr H took out PPI at the same time as taking out a credit card by postal application. 
The policy was designed to protect  Mr Hs credit card payments in the event of accident, 
sickness and unemployment. It would pay a benefit of 10% of the outstanding  balance each 
month for up to 12 months per claim. It cost 89 pence for every £100 Mr H owed on the card 
and the payments did attract interest.
At the time Mr H was employed  as a process worker in a factory (chef).  When he first 
submitted his complaint to us he said he was entitled to sick pay of more than three months  
but less than six months pay. But he later said he was entitled to three months  full pay 
followed by 60% pay for a further year. He said he didnt have any other means he could use 
to make his payments if he wasnt working. He said he was in good health  at the time.
I issued my provisional decision of September 2020 in which I said I was minded to disagree  
with the adjudicator and no uphold Mr Hs complaint.  Both parties were given the opportunity  
to respond  Mr Hs representative  said it had nothing further to add and Capital One didnt 
reply.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Having done so, and because Ive not been given anything  new to consider, Ive decided not 
to uphold Mr Hs mis-sale complaint for the following reasons:
I think Capital One made it clear  that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out. Capital  One has provided a copy of Mr Hs credit card application. Looking 
at this I can see Mr H ticked the Yes box to take out PPI  Please enrol me in Capital 
Ones Payment Protection scheme If Mr H didnt  want  PPI he could have ticked  the 
equally prominent No box.
This was a sale by post with no interaction  from a Capital One staff member, so Im 
satisfied Capital One didnt advise Mr H to take out PPI. So it didnt have  to check  it was 
right for him. But it did have  to give Mr H enough clear and timely information  to allow 
him to make  an informed  decision  about  the cover.
Ref: DRN95972072Im not persuaded Capital One did give Mr H all the information he needed in a clear and 
timely manner  for example  I dont think Capital One made  clear  the ongoing  cost and I 
dont think it clearly  drew Mr Hs attention  to the significant limitations  and exclusions of 
cover before  he made  his decision to buy. But Mr H chose to take it out - so it looks like 
he wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Mr H has given us different information  about his sick pay at different times. When he 
first submitted his complaint to us, through his representative, he said his sick pay was 
more than three months pay but less than six months. But when we asked him to clarify 
his circumstances  at the time of sale  Mr H hadnt told us the date he bought  PPI  he 
said his sick pay was three months full pay followed by 60% pay for a further 12 months.
While Im mindful that Mr H had been with his employer for many years, the level of sick 
pay he has latterly  told us he was entitled to is in my view unusual  it reflects  what  I 
consider to be a particularly generous  employee benefit given Mr Hs occupation type.  
And despite Mr H being with the same employer,  and having made repeated requests, 
hes not been able to provide anything to support what he says.
So taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that Mr Hs sick pay was at the 
level he latterly said it was. I think  more likely  than not it was broadly at the level Mr H 
told us it was when  he first brought his complaint to us. Because  of this I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover  I think it 
wouldve proved  useful to him in the event the insured  risks became a reality for him.
This means Capital  One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  it didnt tell him, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One 
(Europe) plc does  not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so theres nothing  more it needs  to do to put things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2020.
Ref: DRN95972073Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9597207