K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  Pacific  IFA Limited gave him unsuitable advice to move his personal 
pensions to a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). This allowed him to invest  in Harlequin 
 a high risk overseas property investment  and the properties  he purchased were never 
completed.
background
Mr L and his wife were introduced to Harlequin by an adviser from a third party business that 
was an appointed representative of a firm regulated  to give advice. There  were several 
meetings with that adviser and a sales pitch from a Harlequin representative. Following  
these, they decided to invest in four properties. Two were paid for with money from a 
mortgage and two with Mr Ls pension funds.
On 17 June 2009, they paid £4,000  as the reservation fees (£1,000  each). And on 
29 June 2009,  they signed  a contract  in relation to one of them  (Property  1). This contract 
was signed by Harlequin Properties on 1 July 2009.
A mortgage offer was received on 3 July 2009 and Mr L was introduced to Pacific  for 
pension advice around this time because the firm Mr and Mrs L had been  speaking to wasnt  
allowed to give pension  advice.  A  meeting occurred and a fact find was produced  on 
9 July 2009 which recorded that Mr L:
Had about as much [investment] understanding/knowledge as the next person .
Was age 58 at the time with a planned retirement age of 65.
Had an income of around  £33,400 a year.
Owned a house with his wife which was worth £360,000 and had an outstanding 
mortgage of £79,000.
Had £10,000 in savings with his wife.
Held three personal pensions with a combined value of £92,500.
Felt the most important objective  was maintaining [his] standard of living in 
retirement. 
Described  himself  as having an adventurous attitude to risk which was supported 
by the profiler  questionnaire which put him at the top of a suggested Moderately  
Adventurous Portfolio   almost  into an Adventurous Portfolio.
Wishes to consolidate  3 pensions into a SIPP to purchase two Harlequin  overseas 
properties.
On 10 July 2009, Mr L and his wife signed  a contract  to buy another Harlequin property 
(Property 2). This contract was signed by Harlequin Properties on 20 August 2009. In the 
meantime, theyd paid the £30,500 deposit  for Property 1 on 16 July 2009 using their 
savings  although I understand they reimbursed their savings when they received  the 
mortgage money. 
Ref: DRN96022392On 6 August  2009, Mr L signed  another two contracts in respect of Harlequin  properties  
(Properties 3 and 4). These were the two purchases  that were  going to be funded using  
Mr Ls pensions. He also signed the release forms for his pensions.
Pacific sent Mr L a report on 8 August 2009 setting out a summary of its advice. This said:
You were introduced  to me by [the third party adviser] who has advised you to 
purchase a Harlequin  overseas property and you wish to utilise  your pension funds to 
generate (initially) the deposit for the investment.  You are aware  that the investment 
is high risk as it is off plan and not yet built. You advised me that you had already 
commenced the Harlequin  paper work prior to our meeting  and were  not looking for 
advice in that respect.
As discussed at the meeting and explained  throughout  the course of our interview 
Pacific IFA are not associated  in any way with either Harlequin properties  or any of 
the sales agents for Harlequin and therefore do not offer any advice in relation to the 
suitability of the investment property or whether suitable  in line with your needs, 
aspirations or attitude to risk.
You have  pension fundsand you wish to transfer  these into a SIPP home to give 
access to self investment.
Normally we would arrange  a suitable  portfolio for clients for their pension fund which  
may involve  a number  of asset classes however in this instance we have not given 
formal advice in relation  to the investment  you wish to self select in, rather  I have 
only given advice on the suitability of the vehicle with which  you can carry out your 
objective
You wish to limit my recommendation to re-arranging  your existing plans to better 
accommodate your financial needs without additional expense to your income or 
capital resources
As explained neither myself nor Pacific IFA have had any involvement in relation to 
your choice of investment  and you specifically requested that we arrange a suitable  
pension vehicle in order for you to carry out the property  purchase of your choice.
The recommendations for the self invested personal  pension  has been  based on 
your objectives to self invest but we do not and have not discussed the suitability of 
your investment and as a result are only setting up the vehicle to enable your self 
investment as agreed
In accordance with your adventurous  attitude to risk, we would consider a spread of 
assets held within a portfolio of suitable investment  funds targeted  to your attitude  to 
risk. However you have said that you intend to utilise the pension fund available  to 
you to self invest. Pacific  IFA has not given you advice on this chosen strategy. We 
have limited our advice to establishing a SIPP with a fully researched and suitable 
provider and [do] not accept liability for losses resulting  from your chosen investment.
The charges  of the new arrangement is likely to be more than in your current  
arrangement.
Ref: DRN96022393HOW THE INVESTMENT  RISK  OF YOUR EXISTING ARRANGEMENT  
COMPARES WITH THAT FOR THE NEW  PLAN
The amount  of investment risk inherent in the plan from which you have agreed to 
transfer are far lower than the plan I have recommended
Having considered your current  circumstances and future requirements, I am 
recommending that you establish a SIPP plan with [SIPP provider].
The report  then went on to detail  the positives of that SIPP  provider. Towards the end of the 
report it said:
INVESTMENT
In this instance you are self investing  and you have not requested my advice as you 
have made  your own decisions.  We will advise you on any residual monies in a 
separate advice  process should  this be required.
Please note the following  risk warnings
With property, you should  remember that the value  of the property is 
determined by the appointed valuer  rather than an open market value. The 
provider may delay the encashment of units because  assets  of the fund may 
not be easily realisable. Risks include (but are not limited  to)
(i) Currency/exchange  risk
(ii) Liquidity risk
(iii) Regulatory risk
(iv) Political risk
(v) Delivery  risk
(vi) Diversification risk
Self-investment is very high risk and you could lose all of your funds
The SIPP was set up on 17 August 2009.
The mortgage completed on 1 September 2009  and Mr and Mrs L paid the £30,500  deposit  
for Property  2 using  this money on 8 September 2009. As Ive set out above,  I understand 
they also replaced the money theyd spent  on Property 1 with some of the mortgage money.
The pension transfers to the SIPP went ahead on 11 September  2009  approximately 
£103,700.
On 14 October 2009, Harlequin Properties signed  the contracts for Properties 3 and 4. On 
10 October 2009, £63,000 was paid from the SIPP  to Harlequin Properties as the deposits 
for these  properties. And on 22 October  2009 the £2,000 thatd been  paid as reservation 
fees for them was refunded to Mr L.
Ref: DRN96022394The remaining  money in the SIPP was left in a deposit account until January  2010. Then on 
Pacifics advice, I understand Mr L invested  £32,000. Mr L hasnt complained about this 
advice. Ive been told that further Harlequin property was purchased in 2011 outside  of the 
SIPP.
The properties were  never completed and in November 2015,  Mr L complained  to Pacific.  
Pacific didnt uphold  the complaint. It said itd only advised Mr L on the SIPP  not the 
Harlequin investments   and the Conduct  of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules in place  at 
the time allowed this. And it said even if itd given  different advice, Mr L would still have  
invested as he was committed to the purchases  and only wanted limited advice on which  
SIPP was most suitable. It also pointed out that hed ignored the risk warnings itd given.
I issued a provisional decision. A copy of my provisional findings is attached and forms part 
of this decision. In summary, I said I was planning to uphold the complaint.
Pacific didnt agree. Ive read and considered its response in its entirety. In summary,  it said:
It doesnt believe this service has provided  all relevant evidence to it.
This service should consider whether the complaint was made outside the relevant 
time limits  specifically  whether  it was made  more than six years after the event 
complained about  and more  than three years after Mr L either  knew,  or ought to have  
known, he had cause  to complain.
It genuinely considered in 2009 that COBS  allowed it to limit the scope of its advice in 
the way it did.
Mr L knew what it was advising him on  he wasnt under the impression that he was 
receiving advice  on the Harlequin  investments.
Mr L was relying on another regulated adviser  for advice  on the Harlequin 
investments.
It accepts  the Harlequin investments were unregulated and high risk but it doesnt 
accept they were speculative. The investments failed not because they were 
speculative but because there  was fraud.  And this couldnt  have been foreseen  back 
in 2009.
The risk warnings it gave Mr L were specific and not just general property warnings.
My conclusion  that Mr L would have gone to a different regulated  adviser if it had 
refused to give advice  isnt supported  by any evidence. He could have done  this at 
any point but didnt. And even  if he had decided to get advice  from another regulated  
adviser, its likely  he would have  gone  back to the initial adviser  and/or Harlequin  who 
would have recommended  another of their approved advisers. In the circumstances, 
its likely  that adviser  would have made the same recommendation as it. Its not 
reasonable to conclude  that another adviser  would have  given compliant advice.
The other alternative is that Mr L would have engaged it on an execution-only basis.
Mr L wasnt a party to the emails that Id referred  to as evidence  of his state  of mind. 
Theyre therefore hearsay evidence. They were also sent before its involvement; 
Ref: DRN96022395Mr Ls comments on them havent been sought;  and we dont know what  happened 
after the emails  which  were sent very early in the process. In any event, its clear  
from the emails that Mrs L was driving things; that the idea of investing  using Mr Ls 
pensions was already being discussed  at this early stage; and that Mr and Mrs L both 
saw a clear need  to reinvest Mr Ls pensions.
Mr and Mrs L were  clearly convinced by the meeting they had with Harlequin 
because as a result of that meeting they ended up reserving  four properties rather  
than the two it seemed theyd been planning. They  were clearly relying on the initial 
advisers advice at this point and theyve acknowledged that. Its clear that hed 
dispelled whatever doubts Mr L had had previously.
It had advised  Mr L that the Harlequin investments were high risk and he could lose 
all his money. The other adviser had advised  him that it was a good opportunity he 
shouldnt miss. He had listened to the other adviser over it. So my conclusion that if 
everything had happened  as it should have Mr L would have listened to it over the 
other adviser is illogical. Its clear hed already made up his mind and was deaf to 
whatever [it] may say about the risk of proceeding.
Mr and Mrs L even proceeded with a later Harlequin investment despite 
acknowledging they didnt have the funds available to do so. Mr L was clearly  
committed to Harlequin investments. In relation to that later investment they sought 
advice from the other adviser but not from it  again suggesting they placed more 
weight on the other  advisers advice.
Mr L didnt rely on it when he made the investment decision  he relied on the initial 
adviser. He carried on with the investment  despite  it providing  him with risk warnings. 
In these circumstances it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold it responsible for the 
losses. The losses clearly werent  caused by any of its acts or omissions.
An assignment of a cause of action  will be worthless given by that stage Mr L will 
have suffered no loss.
Any compensation for lost annuity  income should be reduced by Mr Ls actual or 
notional income  tax rate in retirement.
I dont have the power to require Mr L to keep  his Harlequin investment. I can only 
direct Pacific.
Under the Harlequin agreement Mr L can exercise his right to cancel it. This doesnt  
require the agreement of Harlequin.
Because the time limit issue  Pacific raised hadnt previously been considered before, the 
investigator looked into that issue  and issued her opinion. She was satisfied the complaint  
hadnt been made outside the time limits.  Although  she noted  it had been  made  more  than 
six years  after the event complained about,  she said she couldnt see anything that 
persuaded her Mr L knew, or ought  to have known, of cause to complain more than three 
years before he complained. She also invited Pacific to let her know  which  specific  
redactions it was unhappy  with and said shed consider these.
Pacific didnt provide  any further comments.  The complaint has therefore  been passed back  
to me.
Ref: DRN96022396my findings on jurisdiction
Ive considered all the evidence  thats been  provided. Having  done  so, I agree with the 
investigator that it is a complaint this service  can consider.
This service cant look at all complaints. Our ability to consider complaints is set out in 
Chapter 2 (DISP 2) of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook  of Rules  and 
Guidance. 
DISP 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service
(2)more than:
(a)six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b)three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably  to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint  to the respondent or the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written  acknowledgement or some  
other record of the complaint having  been received;
unless:
(3)in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limitswas 
as a result of exceptional circumstances.
As set out above, it seems the advice was given in July 2009. And the complaint wasnt 
referred to Pacific until November 2015. This means the complaint is outside the first part of 
the time limit  ie it was made more than six years  after the events complained about.
The issue  for me to decide is therefore  whether the complaint is also outside the second part 
of the time limit  ie whether it was made more than three years after Mr L knew, or ought to 
have known, he had cause to complain. Because the complaint was made in 
November 2015,  the question becomes whether he knew, or ought to have known, he had 
cause to complain before  November 2012.
Mr L says he didnt  become aware  of cause to complain until May 2015. Pacific has referred 
to the fact he stopped receiving payments from Harlequin in late 2012 and has queried  
whether he knew there was an issue with Harlequin at that point. However, when  the 
investigator asked Mr L for his comments on these payments stopping,  he explained that 
hed requested they stop in order to reduce  the amount he owed. And he provided evidence 
of this. Theres therefore nothing about the payments from Harlequin stopping  that makes  
me think Mr L ought reasonably to have known  of cause to complain more  than three years 
before he complained.
Ref: DRN96022397And although the FCA issued an alert relating to Harlequin in January 2013 and the 
Serious Fraud Office  started an investigation, Im satisfied I dont need  to reach a conclusion 
on whether these events  ought reasonably to have made Mr L aware of cause to complain,  
because he did complain  within three years of them.
For the reasons  given  above, Im satisfied  we do have jurisdiction in this complaint. Ive 
therefore gone onto consider the merits of it.
my findings on merits
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments and Ive considered the 
responses to my provisional  decision. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions  
as in my provisional decision:
Although both parties seemed to have  proceeded  on the basis  that Pacific  was only 
advising on the most suitable SIPP,  it wasnt able to limit its advice in this way. 
Suitable advice  needed to take account  of both the pension  switches and the 
proposed investments.
Mr L wasnt an experienced investor and couldnt afford to take significant risk with 
his pension provisions. Pacific  should  have concluded the pension switches werent 
suitable and should  have  told Mr L this in the strongest  possible terms. The risk 
warnings it gave  didnt  go far enough.
If Pacific had refused to advise  and Mr L had needed to go to a different regulated 
adviser, a reasonable alternative  adviser would have advised Mr L not to move his 
pensions to invest in Harlequin.
Mr Ls relationship  with the other adviser  who initially  advised  him to invest in 
Harlequin was relevant.  But he wouldnt have  favoured that advisers advice  over 
Pacifics (or an alternative adviser) if everything had happened  as it should  have. It 
was clear that Mr L had concerns  about  the risk involved in Harlequin. And if Pacific 
(or an alternative adviser) had set out the specific risks of Harlequin, its likely those 
concerns would have resurfaced and he wouldnt have  ignored  that advice.
Although Mr L had already committed to Harlequin, things hadnt gone so far that he 
wouldnt have pulled out if everything had happened as it should  have. He would 
have been prepared to lose the £2,000  hed paid in reservation fees for these two 
properties.
If Pacific had given  suitable advice, or refused to advise, Mr L wouldnt have switched 
his pensions to the SIPP or made  the investments in Properties  3 and 4.
Irrespective of what the SIPP operator  and other adviser did, Pacific  still gave advice  
and its actions allowed the SIPP to be set up and two Harlequin investments to be 
made. But for the pension switches, these two investments  couldnt  have happened. 
And the pension switches  wouldnt  have happened but for the unsuitable advice of 
Pacific. So Pacific should compensate Mr L for all the losses  he suffered by moving 
his pensions to the SIPP and it should  put him in the position hed have been in if he 
hadnt moved his pensions.
Ref: DRN96022398My reasons  for reaching those conclusions remain as set out in my provisional findings  
which Ive attached  supplemented by the additional points Ive made below addressing  
Pacifics response.
the material this service  has provided  to Pacific
I confirm Ive provided all the evidence to Pacific that I relied  on in deciding  this complaint  
apart from where it was evidence Pacific already had a copy  of. 
the advice Pacific gave
As I set out in my provisional  decision, I accept Pacific believed  at the time that COBS 
allowed it to limit the scope of its advice in the way that it did. Although  I note the way it 
acted isnt wholly consistent with this as it did mention the Harlequin  investments and did 
comment on the risk attached to Mr Ls self-selection of Harlequin.
I also still accept Mr L knew Pacific  wasnt  advising him on the Harlequin investments  and 
that he was relying  on another  regulated adviser  for advice on those.
But as I explained,  the question for me to answer  is whether  what  Pacific did in restricting  its 
advice and leaving Mr L to rely on the other  firms advice on Harlequin  was consistent with 
its regulatory obligations and whether it acted fairly and reasonably by only offering  advice  
on the SIPP wrapper.
Ive thought about this again carefully,  but as I set out in my provisional decision, COBS  
required Pacific to give suitable advice and it cant fairly and reasonably have  met this 
obligation by restricting its advice to the SIPP. The only reason Mr L wanted  to move his 
pensions to the SIPP was to invest in Harlequin. So the suitability of the switches was 
inextricably linked to the suitability  of Harlequin.  Im therefore still satisfied that suitable 
advice here needed to take account  of both the pension switches  and the proposed 
investments. The advice needed  to be independent so Im satisfied Pacific couldnt  rely on 
another firm having  advised on Harlequin   its advice  needed  to clearly talk about  the merits 
of Harlequin and the suitability of it as an investment for Mr L. 
what suitable advice would have  been
Pacific accepts that the Harlequin investments were unregulated  and high risk. It doesnt 
accept they were speculative. But even if I were  to agree with it on this, as I set out in my 
provisional decision, Mr Ls circumstances all pointed to him not being  able to take much risk 
with his pension  provisions and he already had exposure to Harlequin. He was looking to 
invest a considerable portion of his pension provision in Harlequin  reasonably  close to his 
intended retirement date and he was unlikely to be able to replace any significant losses.  So 
the fact Harlequin  was a high risk investment leads me on its own to conclude  that the 
pension switches to the SIPP werent  suitable  and that Pacific  should  have told Mr L this in 
the strongest  possible terms.
In the circumstances here, I think its reasonable to say Pacific should  have had concerns 
about whether  the other adviser had given Mr L a balanced view of Harlequin as an 
investment. It should have  been  aware  and it should have made  Mr L aware  that 
Harlequin was suitable  only for a small portion of the pension  scheme  of a sophisticated 
investor. And it should have told Mr L how far away  his intended  course of action was from a 
suitable course of action.
Ref: DRN96022399Ive thought carefully again about the risk warnings  Pacific gave Mr L, but Im still satisfied 
most of them  were more  general property warnings rather than warnings specifically about 
Harlequin. Generic references to high or speculative risk werent enough  as suitable advice 
would have given  clear warnings about off-plan overseas development and the lack of 
regulatory control and oversight. And suitable advice would have involved advising Mr L not 
to move his pensions to a SIPP in order to invest in Harlequin. 
what Mr L would have  done if suitable advice  had been  given or if Pacific had refused  
to give advice
I accept Mr L wasnt  a party to the emails  I referred  to between Mrs L and the other adviser.  
But Im still satisfied they provide a useful picture of what was happening  at the time and 
what Mr Ls state of mind was. They paint a clear picture of someone who was reluctant to 
take investment  risk and theyre contemporaneous and so not clouded by hindsight. Other 
than to ask what  the one risk [that] went wrong  was I havent  asked for Mr Ls comments 
on the emails. His complaint is that he wasnt prepared to take a high level of risk and Im 
satisfied the emails support that. I dont think specifically asking him to comment  on the 
emails would aid my understanding of the issues.
I agree  with Pacific  that the emails suggest Mrs L was driving things. But the emails also 
suggest that Mr L wasnt prepared to proceed  if he felt there was too much  risk involved.  And 
although I accept  that both Mr and Mrs L seem  to have seen a need to reinvest Mr Ls 
pensions and that they were discussed  as a way to invest in Harlequin early on, that doesnt 
change the fact that Im satisfied Mr L didnt want to invest in something that was high risk.
I also accept the emails were sent before Pacifics involvement  early in the process  and 
we dont know exactly what happened after them. But we do know that at some  point  soon 
after  after talking  to the adviser and Harlequin   Mr L decided the Harlequin investments 
werent too risky and he and Mrs L ended up reserving more  properties than it seems theyd 
initially planned to.
Pacific has referred to the fact Mr and Mrs L made a later Harlequin investment despite 
acknowledging they didnt have the funds to do so. It does seem as though they became 
very keen  on Harlequin as an investment.  But Im still satisfied this was because no 
regulated adviser  had ever advised them against  investing in Harlequin.  When  they went on 
to make further investment in Harlequin later, it seems they still didnt appreciate  the level of 
risk involved  so the fact they made  that later investment doesnt change  my thinking  here  
they werent making that investment against advice to do so in knowledge of the risk 
involved.
Im still satisfied that if Pacific had given Mr L suitable advice, Mr L would have  taken time to 
think about what hed been told. I dont think he was so committed to Harlequin that he 
would have simply continued regardless. As I set out in my provisional  decision, he could 
have turned back at that point and would  have only lost the £2,000  of reservation fees hed 
paid for the properties in question here. The next payment for these properties was £61,000  
 a significant portion of his pension.  And Im satisfied  the thought of making a commitment  
of this size against advice  from a regulated adviser would have given him a reason to stop 
and think it through.
I still accept the other adviser had persuaded Mr and Mrs L of the merits of Harlequin as an 
investment. But as Ive already set out, Im satisfied  Mr L had been sceptical  particularly 
Ref: DRN960223910when it came to the level of risk involved.  And even if hed later been convinced  by what  hed 
been told, Im satisfied  a regulated adviser  highlighting the risks and telling him it wasnt a 
suitable investment  for him would have brought back  the worries and fears hed either  
suppressed or overcome.
I also havent placed weight on the fact they didnt  ask Pacific for advice on that later 
Harlequin investment.  As far as Mr L was concerned, Pacific gave him pension  advice and 
the other adviser  gave him Harlequin  advice. I therefore dont  think  its surprising he didnt 
ask Pacific for advice  on an investment that wasnt going to be funded by his pension. And 
Im not persuaded this means  he valued  the other  advisers advice  over Pacifics.
As Ive set out above, Im still not persuaded Pacific went far enough in the warnings it gave 
Mr L  they werent  specific  enough and it didnt advise Mr L against investing his pensions 
in Harlequin. Pacific says Mr L placed  more weight on what  the other  adviser said about 
Harlequin than what it did. But in the circumstances  of the other  adviser giving specific 
advice about Harlequin and it giving  more general advice and not advising against  it, I dont  
find this surprising. Its impossible to say what Mr L would have done if Pacific had given 
suitable advice,  but although  he clearly valued the other advisers advice, I dont agree hed 
already made his mind up or was deaf  to Pacifics advice.
Im still satisfied its most likely Mr L would have listened to Pacifics  advice  even though 
suitable advice  would  have been contrary to what the other adviser had said. Thats not to 
say he would have  immediately decided not to go ahead with switching his pensions and 
investing in Properties 3 and 4. But as I concluded in my provisional decision,  I think its 
most likely he would have  gone to another  regulated  adviser.
Pacific says my conclusion that Mr L would have gone to a different  regulated adviser if it 
had refused to give advice isnt supported by any evidence. Specifically, it says he could 
have done this at any point but chose not to. I accept Mr L could have gone elsewhere for 
advice at any point  or engaged it on an execution-only basis. But he thought  he was getting 
pension advice from Pacific that complied  with the rules. If instead Pacific had refused to 
give him advice, he would have been in the position  of not having the pension advice hed 
been told he needed to get. And in those circumstances, Im still satisfied its most likely he 
would have gone to a different regulated adviser.
I accept its likely that if Mr L had decided to get the advice of another regulated  adviser, he 
most likely would have  gone back to the initial adviser or Harlequin  to ask for another  
recommendation of an adviser. But I dont agree with Pacific  that that means its likely the 
next adviser he would  have  been referred  to would have given the same recommendation as 
it. Im still persuaded that the only fair and reasonable outcome is to conclude  that a 
reasonable alternative adviser would have  advised Mr L not to move his pensions to invest  
in Harlequin.
Because Im satisfied  Mr L wouldnt have switched his pensions  to the SIPP  and invested  in 
Harlequin if Pacific had given suitable  advice, I think its fair to ask Pacific to compensate  
Mr L for the full measure  of the loss he suffered from investing in Harlequin.
The DISP  rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money  award may be such amount  as the ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court  would award compensation 
(DISP 3.7.2R).  Another  business  may have given Mr L advice on the Harlequin  investment, 
Ref: DRN960223911but Pacific had its own distinct regulatory  obligations which,  if met, Im satisfied  would have 
resulted in the switch to the SIPP not taking place.
In making these findings, I take account of the potential contribution  made by other parties to 
the losses suffered  by Mr L. In my view,  in considering what fair compensation looks  like in 
this case, its reasonable to make an award against  Pacific that requires it to compensate  
Mr L for the full measure  of his loss. But for Pacifics failings, Mr Ls pension  switches 
wouldnt have occurred  in the first place.
Im not asking Pacific  to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings. 
Im satisfied those failings have caused  the full extent  of the loss in question. That other  
parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter,  which  Im not able to 
determine as its not a complaint thats  been brought to us. However, that fact shouldnt 
impact on Mr Ls right to compensation from Pacific for the full amount of his loss.
fair compensation
I think what Ive set out below is fair compensation. But if Pacific wishes  to take an 
assignment of any rights  from Mr L so that it can take action to recover any losses caused by 
the other parties,  Im happy for it to do so. Mr L should cooperate  with Pacific to recover any 
losses from other parties, if full compensation is paid by Pacific.  I note Pacifics comments  
about this proposed reassignment  of rights, but my role is to award fair compensation and to 
attempt to redress Mr L. It isnt my role to comment on the prospect of success  of any 
reassignment of rights.
My aim is that Mr L should be put as closely as possible  into the position he would  probably  
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
Although the complaint focusses on the Harlequin investment and not the additional £32,000 
that was invested,  Im satisfied that Mr L wouldnt have moved  his pensions if everything had 
happened as it should have and therefore neither the Harlequin investments nor the £32,000 
investment would have  been made.  Im satisfied that what  Ive set out below is fair.
Pacific says that under the Harlequin  contracts Mr L can exercise  his right to cancel them 
and have his money  refunded and that this doesnt  require  the agreement  of Harlequin. I 
agree this is what the contracts say. But given  the well-publicised  and widespread issues 
with Harlequin  and the fact that people have  unsuccessfully   tried to cancel the contracts, 
Im satisfied that isnt an option in the circumstances.
what should Pacific do?
To compensate Mr L fairly, Pacific must:
In relation to Mr Ls previous pension plans  that didnt involve a guaranteed annuity   
obtain the notional transfer values of the previous pension  plans on the date of 
calculation if theyd  not been  transferred to the SIPP.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  notional valuations then the FTSE UK Private  
Investors Income Total Return  Index (prior to 1 March  2017, the FTSE WMA  Stock 
Market Income Total Return  Index) should  be used  as Im satisfied thats  a 
reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been  achieved if suitable 
funds had been chosen.
Ref: DRN960223912Its to be assumed that any contributions  or withdrawals that have  been  made  would 
still have occurred  proportionately  on the same dates.
In relation to Mr Ls previous pension plan that did involve a guaranteed annuity, this 
pension appears  to have provided Mr L with a guaranteed income at retirement, to 
which annual bonuses  (and potentially a final bonus)  would be added.  Theres no 
contractual entitlement to a fund value but a cash equivalent transfer value  of this 
guaranteed income  may be paid that takes into account these bonuses and reflects 
the guarantees he has lost.
So Pacific  should  obtain the notional transfer  value  of this previous pension plan on 
the date of calculation if itd not been transferred to the SIPP.
Compare the transfer value of Mr Ls SIPP with the notional  transfer  values of his 
previous pensions (or the fair values calculated  by the benchmark).
My understanding is that theres  no realisable  value of the Harlequin  investments. So 
the actual value of those  investments should be assumed to be nil to arrive at the 
transfer value.
Pay the compensation into Mr Ls SIPP if this demonstrates a loss  to increase its 
value by the total amount of the compensation and any interest (see below). The 
amount paid should allow for the effect  of charges and any available  tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Pacific  is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr Ls pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ls actual or expected  marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr L would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation. If Mr L has already taken benefits then the tax free amount 
used should be taken into account.
Pay Mr L five years  worth of SIPP fees. Had Pacific given suitable advice I dont 
think there would  be a SIPP. Its not fair that Mr L continue  to pay the annual  SIPP  
fees if it cant be closed.  Ideally,  Pacific should take over the Harlequin investments 
to allow  the SIPP  to be closed. This is the fairest way of putting Mr L back in the 
position he would have been in. But as I understand it, the ownership of the 
Harlequin investments  cant  currently be transferred. Its likely that will change at 
some point,  but I dont  know when  that will be  there are a number of uncertainties.
So, to provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Pacific  pays  Mr L an upfront 
lump sum equivalent to five years worth  of SIPP fees (calculated  using  the previous 
Ref: DRN960223913years fees),  or undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years.  
This should provide a reasonable period for things to be worked out so the SIPP can 
be closed.
In return for this, Pacific  may ask Mr L to provide an undertaking to give it the net 
amount of any payment he may receive  from the two Harlequin investments in that 
five year period,  as well as any other  payment he may receive  from any party  as a 
result of the investments. That undertaking should  allow for the effect  of any tax and 
charges on the amount he may receive. Pacific  will need to meet  any costs in 
drawing up this undertaking.  If it asks Mr L to provide  an undertaking, payment of the 
compensation awarded by my decision may be dependent upon provision of that 
undertaking.
If after five years, Pacific  wants  to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an 
undertaking for any future  payments under the Harlequin investments,  it must agree 
to pay any further  future SIPP fees. If Pacific fails to pay the SIPP fees, Mr L should 
then have the option of trying to cancel  the Harlequin investments to allow the SIPP 
to be closed.
Pacific says I dont have the power to require  Mr L to keep  his Harlequin investments. 
But as Ive explained, my understanding is that the ownership of the Harlequin 
investments cant currently be transferred. Mr L therefore has no choice but to keep 
the Harlequin investments and so the compensation Ive awarded  uses that starting 
point.
Pay Mr L £500 compensation for the significant stress and worry hes suffered 
thinking hed lost a large  proportion of his pension provision.
If everything had happened  as it should have, Im satisfied  that in the particular 
circumstances here,  Mr L would have lost the £2,000 hed paid as deposits  for the two 
Harlequin properties in question. Pacific can therefore deduct £2,000 from the compensation 
it pays to Mr L.
If Pacific  doesnt pay the compensation within 28 days of being informed that Mr L has 
accepted my decision, interest, at the rate of 8% simple a year should be added from the 
date of the decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pacific deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr L how much  has been taken off. Pacific  should give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Mr Ls Harlequin investments were  deposits. There are therefore more parts of the contracts 
for the remaining purchase prices of the properties that havent been paid yet. No loss has 
been suffered  yet for these  parts  of the contracts so it isnt being compensated for here. But 
the loss may still occur. If the properties are competed, Harlequin could still require those 
payments to be made. I think its unlikely there  will be a further loss. But Mr L needs to 
understand that this is possible and he wont be able to bring a further complaint to us if 
these contracts are called  upon.
my final decision
Ref: DRN960223914My decision  is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and require Pacific IFA Limited to pay the 
amount calculated as set out above and provide details of its calculation  to Mr L in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2020.
Laura Parker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN960223915COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL FINDINGS
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I agree  with the adjudicator that Pacific  gave Mr L 
unsuitable advice. Im also satisfied that if suitable advice had been given by Pacific, Mr L would  have 
followed that advice.
the advice Pacific  gave
Pacific says that in line with Mr Ls instructions, it only advised him on what the most suitable  SIPP  for 
him was. And this was made clear to Mr L. It says Mr L had already made his decision to move his 
pensions and invest in Harlequin  as a result of advice  from the other adviser.
I agree that both parties seemed to proceed on the basis Pacific  was only giving  limited or focussed  
advice. But the question I have to consider is whether  that was something Pacific was free to do in the 
circumstances.
The Conduct  of Business  Sourcebook rules (COBS) contain a number of rules and principles that are 
relevant here. In particular, COBS 2.1.1R required Pacific to act honestly, fairly and professionally  in 
accordance with the best interests of its client . And COBS 9.2.2R required  it to believe what it was 
recommending met Mr Ls investment objectives and that he could bear the risk of it.
In 2013, the Financial Services Authority (now the Financial Conduct Authority) issued  an alert in 
relation to Advising on pension transfers with a view to investing pension monies into unregulated  
products through  a SIPP.  Amongst other things,  this said:
It has been  brought  to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice  to 
customers on pension  transfers  or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments proposed  to be held within  the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving customers retirement  savings to self-invested personal 
pensions (SIPPs)  that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid unregulated  
investments (some of which may be in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes). 
Examples of these unregulated  investments  areoverseas property developments
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally  requires consideration of the 
other investments held by the customer or, when  advice is given on a product which is a 
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs), consideration of the suitability of 
the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected  underlying investments  in 
unregulated schemes. It should be particularly  clear  to financial  advisers that, where a 
customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing a wider investment strategy, the 
advice on the pension transfer must take account of the overall investment strategy  the 
customer is contemplating.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will 
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds  to invest  in an overseas  
property investment under  a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property  investment 
must form part of the advice  about whether  the customer should  transfer into the SIPP. If, 
taking into account the individual circumstances  of the customer, the original pension  product, 
including its underlying holdings, is more  suitable for the customer,  then the SIPP is not 
suitable.
I acknowledge that this alert was issued  after the events here. But Im satisfied it was simply a 
reminder of existing  obligations under  COBS  and therefore is relevant. And in my view its clear  that 
Pacific wasnt  able to limit its advice in the way it tried to here.
Ref: DRN960223916Pacific knew  Mr L was looking to move his whole  pension provision. It knew the charges on the SIPP 
were higher than Mr Ls existing  plans  so its performance needed to be much better  for Mr L to not 
lose out. It also knew the SIPP was just a wrapper and so its suitability was linked  to the investments 
that were going to be made within it. And it knew Mr L was planning to invest in Harlequin.
In the circumstances here, Im satisfied that acting  in Mr Ls best interests would have taken account  
of all of these  things. And would have involved  understanding the Harlequin investments he was 
planning to make. Suitable advice needed to take account of both the pension switches and the 
proposed investments.
Pacific says if itd been  required to give advice on Harlequin it wouldnt have given any advice. In 
these circumstances  I think  its most likely Mr L would  have gone to a different regulated adviser.
what suitable  advice would have been
Ive therefore gone on to think about what suitable advice  would have been, based  on what I know 
about Mr Ls circumstances at the time, had Pacific considered the nature of the intended  investment.
Despite having already invested in Harlequin, its clear to me that Mr L wasnt an experienced  
investor. And although hed described his attitude to risk as adventurous, it doesnt seem that he 
could afford  to take significant risk with his pension provisions. Instead, the opposite  appears to have 
been true  he appears to have had limited  investment  experience and he was looking to invest  a 
considerable portion of his pension provision  in Harlequin  reasonably  close to his intended retirement 
date. He was unlikely to be able to replace any significant losses.
Harlequin was unregulated, high risk and speculative. It had no track record and there was a 
possibility the project would fail and his investment would  be lost. Pacific knew this. This was most  of 
Mr Ls pension provision  and he had no significant savings. It also knew he already had exposure to 
Harlequin.
I therefore  think Pacific  should have  concluded  the pension switches to the SIPP werent suitable  and 
should have told Mr L this in the strongest possible terms. Pacific says it did explain that Harlequin  
was high risk and the reasons why. I accept it did do this to an extent.  But many of the risk warnings  
were more general property warnings. And I dont think what it said about Harlequin went  far enough. 
It certainly didnt advise  Mr L not to move  his pensions to a SIPP to invest  in Harlequin.
If Pacific had refused  to advise and Mr L had needed  to go to a different  regulated adviser,  Im 
satisfied a reasonable alternative adviser would have concluded Harlequin wasnt a suitable  
investment for Mr L and would have advised him not to move his pensions  to invest in it.
what Mr L would have done if suitable  advice had been given
Pacific says the advice Mr L was given by the other adviser and his relationship with that adviser is 
relevant to what he would done if itd advised him not to move his pensions.  I agree. Mr L says the 
other adviser strongly advised him to invest in Harlequin  and told him that it carried  no risk and 
was an opportunity  not be missed. Its possible  that even if Pacific had given  Mr L suitable  advice, 
he would have chosen  to ignore that advice and favoured what  hed been told by the other adviser.  
But in the circumstances here, I dont think he would  have.
There are several emails  that I think shed light on Mr Ls state of mind shortly before Pacific became  
involved. In an email  Mrs L sent the first adviser  on 12 June 2009 she said:
Im afraid Im going to ask you to cancel the appointment for today.  I spoke to [Mr L] for quite 
a while after you left but Im sorry to say he feels theres just too much at risk. Perhaps we 
could consider it at a later date. I know well miss this opportunity but maybe next time.
Ref: DRN960223917And in another  email from Mrs L to the first adviser later on the same day she said:
can we reschedule a meet for either  Monday  or Tuesday afternoon. It took a while for [Mr L] 
to calm  down (good job you didnt stay!!)
But although  he said after one risk went wrong hes not too keen on another he can see the 
need to sort something asap  because just leaving it will, it will only get worse.
Its clear to me that Mr L had concerns about  the risk involved in the Harlequin  investments. It seems 
he went on to put those concerns to one side. But I think its most likely  that if Pacific had given 
suitable advice and set out the specific risks, those concerns would have resurfaced.  And in the 
circumstances I dont  think  Mr L would  have  ignored  that advice. Theres nothing that makes  me think 
he wouldve given more  weight to what the other adviser  had said given his concerns.
I also note Pacifics comments about the fact reservation fees had been paid, a property had been 
purchased and the paperwork had been progressed  by the time it became  involved.  Ive carefully  
considered all of these  things. But I dont think  things  had gone so far that Mr L wouldnt have turned 
back. Although he would have lost the £2,000 hed paid as reservation  fees for the two properties  in 
question here,  the next payment was for £61,000. This was an entirely different level of commitment 
and I think Mr L wouldve  been prepared to lose the £2,000 hed already paid to avoid the risk of 
losing the additional £61,000. And although hed signed  the agreements  before the summary of the 
advice, the advice had already been  given  at that point.
So in the circumstances here, Im satisfied that if Pacific had given suitable  advice, Mr L wouldnt 
have switched  his pensions to the SIPP  or made the investments in Properties 3 and 4.
If Pacific had refused  to advise and Mr L had needed  to go to a different  regulated adviser,  for the 
same reasons, Im satisfied  its most likely  Mr L wouldve  followed the advice of that other regulated 
adviser (over the first adviser).
fair compensation
I note Pacifics comments about the involvement of the SIPP operator and the third party  adviser.  The 
Dispute Resolution: Complaints rules (the DISP rules)   found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) handbook  set out the following at DISP 3.6.3G:
Where a complainant  makes  complaints  against more than one respondent in respect of 
connected circumstances, the Ombudsman may determine that the respondents must 
contribute towards the overall award in the proportion that the Ombudsman considers 
appropriate.
The DISP rules also set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award,  then 
that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair compensation for 
financial loss, whether  or not the court would award compensation (DISP  3.7.2R).
Here Im only considering  Mr Ls complaint  about Pacific. Irrespective of what  the SIPP operator and 
other adviser did, Pacific  still gave advice. In my view, its actions allowed the SIPP to be set up and 
two Harlequin investments to be made. But for the pension switches,  these two investments couldnt 
have happened. And Im satisfied the pension switches wouldnt have happened but for the unsuitable  
advice of Pacific. So Im satisfied its fair and reasonable that Pacific should  compensate Mr L for the 
losses he suffered by moving his pensions to the SIPP.
I think  what Ive set out below is fair compensation. But if Pacific  wishes to take an assignment of any 
rights from Mr L so that it can take action  to recover any losses caused by the other parties, Im happy 
for it to do so. Mr L should cooperate with Pacific to recover any losses from other parties, if full 
compensation is paid by Pacific.
Ref: DRN960223918My aim is that Mr L should be put as closely as possible into the position  he would  probably now be in 
if he had been given suitable  advice.
I take the view that Mr L wouldnt have  moved his pensions if everything had happened as it should 
have. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable. 
what should Pacific do?
To compensate Mr L fairly, Pacific must:
In relation to Mr Ls previous  pension  plans that dont involve a guaranteed  annuity:
Obtain  the notional transfer  values  of the previous pension plans on the date of calculation if 
theyd not been transferred  to the SIPP.
If there  are any difficulties in obtaining notional valuations then the FTSE UK Private Investors  
Income Total  Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock  Market  Income 
Total Return  Index) should be used as Im satisfied thats a reasonable proxy for the type of 
return that could have been achieved  if suitable  funds  had been chosen.
Its to be assumed that any contributions or withdrawals that have been made would  still have 
occurred  proportionately   on the same dates.
Compare the proportionate  transfer value  of Mr Ls SIPP with the notional  transfer values  of 
his previous pensions (or the fair values calculated  by the benchmark).
My understanding is that theres no realisable value  of the Harlequin  investments. So the 
actual value of those investments should be assumed  to be nil to arrive at the transfer value.
The proportionate transfer value  should be calculated  using the total value of the two 
pensions that didnt involve  a guaranteed annuity at the time they were  transferred compared 
to the total amount transferred.
Pay the compensation  into Mr Ls SIPP if this demonstrates a loss  to increase its value by 
the total amount  of the compensation and any interest (see below). The amount  paid should  
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should  not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.  
If Pacific is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Ls pension plan, it should  pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr Ls actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr L would have been able to 
take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation. If Mr L 
has already  taken benefits  then the tax free amount used should be taken into account.
Ref: DRN960223919In relation to Mr Ls previous  pension  that did involve a guaranteed annuity:
Calculate the amount of money  that would  be required  to buy an annuity of the level 
guaranteed by Mr Ls previous pension, on the same  terms.
In line with the terms and conditions  of the previous pension, add the income Mr L would have 
received from the annuity up to the date compensation is paid. For each back payment  owed, 
it should  also interest at the rate of 8% simple a year  from the date the payment should 
have been paid to the date of payment.
Deduct  the remainder of the transfer value of Mr Ls SIPP. As before, the actual value  of the 
Harlequin investments should be assumed to be nil to arrive at the transfer value.
Pay the compensation  to Mr L if this demonstrates a loss. It will then be for him to decide 
whether to purchase an annuity.
As general compensation:
Pay Mr L five years worth of SIPP fees.  Had Pacific given suitable  advice I dont think there 
would be a SIPP.  Its not fair that Mr L continue to pay the annual  SIPP fees if it cant  be 
closed. Ideally, Pacific should take over the Harlequin  investments to allow the SIPP to be 
closed. This is the fairest way of putting Mr L back in the position he would have  been in. But 
as I understand it, the ownership  of the Harlequin  investments cant  currently be transferred. 
Its likely  that will change at some point, but I dont know  when that will be  there are a 
number of uncertainties.
So, to provide  certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Pacific pays Mr L an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the previous years fees),  or 
undertakes to cover  the fees that fall due during  the next five years.  This should provide  a 
reasonable period for things  to be worked  out so the SIPP can be closed.
In return  for this, Pacific  may ask Mr L to provide an undertaking  to give it the net amount of 
any payment  he may receive from the two Harlequin  investments in that five year period,  as 
well as any other payment  he may receive  from any party as a result of the investments. That 
undertaking should allow  for the effect of any tax and charges  on the amount he may receive. 
Pacific will need to meet  any costs in drawing up this undertaking.  If it asks Mr L to provide an 
undertaking, payment  of the compensation awarded  by my decision may be dependent upon 
provision of that undertaking.
If after five years, Pacific wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking  for 
any future payments  under  the Harlequin  investments, it must agree  to pay any further future  
SIPP fees.  If Pacific fails to pay the SIPP fees, Mr L should then have the option of trying to 
cancel the Harlequin investments to allow the SIPP  to be closed.
I note Pacifics concerns  about  taking an undertaking. I accept  there are some possible 
difficulties and its not a perfect solution. But Im satisfied its an adequate solution. Its likely 
that Mr L will be able to withdraw any payments made in relation to the Harlequin investments 
and his SIPP  statements should highlight what these payments are. 
I also note Pacifics comments about the SIPP trustee being able to terminate  the contracts. 
But my understanding is that Harlequin is no longer agreeing to terminate the contracts when 
requests are made. So although the agreements allow  for this, I dont think itd be fair to take 
that into account  when deciding  what fair compensation  is. But if Pacific has any evidence  
that Harlequin has agreed to terminate contracts recently then Ill reconsider  this.
Ref: DRN960223920Pay Mr L £500 compensation  for the significant stress and worry hes suffered thinking hed 
lost a large proportion of his pension  provision.
If everything had happened  as it should have, Im satisfied  that in the particular circumstances here, 
Mr L would have  lost the £2,000 hed paid as deposits  for the two Harlequin properties  in question. 
Pacific can therefore deduct £2,000 from the compensation it pays  to Mr L.
Ive noted Pacifics comments that a deduction  should be made from the compensation for advice  
being provided. I dont agree. Im currently planning to decide that Pacific gave unsuitable advice. And 
so although I accept that if everything  had happened as it should  have, Mr L would still have  needed 
to pay an advice fee, I dont  believe that it would be appropriate to make a deduction  for this in the 
circumstances.
If Pacific doesnt pay the compensation within 28 days of being informed that Mr L has accepted my 
decision, interest, at the rate of 8% simple a year should be added from the date of the decision to the 
date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pacific  deducts  income tax from the interest  it 
should tell Mr L how much  has been taken off. Pacific  should give Mr L a tax deduction  certificate if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Mr Ls Harlequin investments were  deposits. There are therefore more parts of the contracts for the 
remaining purchase  prices of the properties that havent  been  paid yet. No loss has been suffered yet 
for these parts of the contracts  so it isnt being compensated  for here. But the loss may still occur.  If 
the properties are competed, Harlequin could still require those payments to be made. I think its 
unlikely there  will be a further loss. But Mr L needs to understand that this is possible and he wont  be 
able to bring a further complaint to us if these contracts are called  upon.
Ref: DRN9602239