K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies  taken out in 
2000 and 2012. Mr and Mrs L say Yorkshire Building Society, trading as Chelsea Building  
Society (YBS) mis-sold  them  the PPI.
background
In 1997 Mr and Mrs L arranged a mortgage with YBS. In 2000 they took out PPI to cover 
their mortgage. Even though this was a joint mortgage, only Mr L was covered by the policy. 
This policy was cancelled in 2005 when this mortgage was redeemed and a new mortgage  
was set up due to them moving house.
In 2012 a new PPI policy  was taken  out, possibly when Mr and Mrs L were looking to take 
out a further advance on their mortgage.  This policy again covered just Mr L. 
Mr and Mrs L paid a monthly amount for each policy and if Mr L had made a successful 
claim for accident, sickness or unemployment the policies  would  have paid out the 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed  so the complaint has
been passed to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
I think YBS made it clear that Mr and Mrs L didnt  have to take out the PPI and they chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why they cant remember this after all this time.
The first policy was taken  out in 2000  and YBS no longer has all of the records  from that 
time but says it thinks it is most likely this policy was taken out by post when a mailshot was 
sent to all customers. Due to the time that has passed, I dont think  it is surprising that YBS 
are unable to provide  the documentation,  considering this sale took place  over 18 years  ago. 
In cases like this I need to consider what I think is the most likely thing that happened.
Ive noted that this policy wasnt taken  out until several years after the mortgage had been  
set up  so Mr and Mrs L knew that taking this policy wasnt  a condition of the lending (Ive 
seen the mortgage application  from 1997 shows they didnt take out the PPI at that time so 
this would indicate that they knew they didnt  need  it in order to be accepted for the 
mortgage). And Ive also seen that Mr and Mrs L only took out the policy  for Mr L, which 
would suggest  that they considered the cover available and decided that it would be more  
beneficial for Mr L to take it out.
In relation to the policy sold in 2012, this appears to have been taken out in a branch  most 
likely when  Mr and Mrs L were looking to take out a further advance on this mortgage. Ive 
Ref: DRN90066662seen a copy of the Statement of Demands and Needs which was issued to Mr and Mrs L 
after a meeting in the branch and in this document in confirms that they chose to insure  Mr L 
only for the cover. Ive also been given a copy of the illustration provided to them about this 
insurance which shows the likely cost, amount of the monthly  benefit  and the level of cover  
taken  accident, sickness and unemployment.  On this form is states This Payment 
Protection Insurance is optional  so if Mr and Mrs L had been  told they had to take it out, I 
think they would have questioned this when they saw this document.  As with the first policy, 
Mr and Mrs L had already been paying their mortgage for a number of years  before taking 
out this policy and so I think  they would have known it wasnt  compulsory.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think its more  likely that YBS made it 
clear that the policies  were optional and that Mr and Mrs L chose  to take them  out, knowing 
they could refuse them  if they didnt want the cover.  
As the PPI policy sold in 2000 was taken  out by post, YBS wouldnt have had any interaction 
with Mr and Mrs L. So I dont think it recommend the PPI to them. This means it didnt have 
to check if it was right for them. But it did have  to make sure Mr and Mrs L got the 
information they needed to decide  if it was right for them. But from the documentation Ive 
seen for the second sale in 2012, I think its more likely that YBS did recommend to 
Mr and Mrs L that they take out the policy.
And based on what Ive seen, I think the policies were right for them. Mr L was eligible for 
the cover  and doesnt seem to have been affected  by any of the main  exclusions or 
limitations to these types of policies, such as unusual working arrangements or suffering 
from a medical condition of which he was already aware.
Mr L has told us that he would have received six months full pay, followed by six months  
half pay from his employers if he was unable to work due to accident  or sickness  so he 
didnt need the cover. But these policies would  have paid out for up to 12 months  which 
would be in addition  to, and potentially for longer than, the full sick pay he may have 
received. And they would have provided  cover for the same length of time if Mr L had lost his 
job. So I do think these PPI policies  could have provided a useful  benefit  to them.
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI on two separate  occasions - so it looks 
like they wanted  this type of cover. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put them  off taking out the cover. 
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs L have told us that Mr L was in an accident in 2010  and when 
they tried to make a claim they were  told they had to wait until at least 12 months had 
passed. As the first PPI policy was cancelled in 2005 and the second policy was not taken 
out until 2012, it doesnt appear that they had any PPI in place  at the time of the accident. 
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs L did have other insurances, includes life and critical illness 
cover. So it might be that this was a requirement of one of those insurances.  But as this 
doesnt relate to PPI this point doesnt change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive stated above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2019.
Ref: DRN90066663Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9006666