K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs G. FICL  didnt  actually  sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2001 alongside a store credit account. The 
PPI was sold on the phone. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs G disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mrs G has said, but Ive decided  not to uphold her complaint.  I will 
explain why. 
There isnt much paperwork  from when  Mrs G took out the card. Thats  unfortunate, but not 
unexpected, given the sale was so long ago. Its most likely Mrs G applied for the card in 
store, and was sold the PPI a little while later on the phone. We dont have a copy  of the 
actual form Mrs G signed when she applied for her card. But, from what I know  about these 
cards and how they were  sold,  its likely the form set out the PPI as a choice, and asked Mrs 
G to tick a box if she wants the PPI. I dont  know whether a box was ticked, but thats  to be 
expected as it doesnt look like Mrs G bought the PPI when filling in the form. 
Instead it was sold during  a phone call. From  what we know about how these calls were  
scripted, its likely  Mrs G would have been  aware she didnt have to buy the PPI. I do 
understand why Mrs G doesnt remember  this as it was so long ago. 
Mrs G says the PPI wasnt explained  properly. It doesnt seem that FICL recommended the 
PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Gs individual needs.  This means it didnt  have to 
check if the PPI fitted her circumstances.  It would have been  for Mrs G to decide whether it 
was suitable.
However FICL did need to give Mrs G clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And Im not sure that it did do this properly  at least  the information  on the 
form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what, if any, other  information  was given to 
Mrs G on the phone or afterwards. So Ive thought  about whether better information is likely 
to have made a difference. But given  Mrs Gs circumstances at the time, even if shed been 
given all the necessary  information, I dont think its likely to have made a difference to her 
decision. 
Mrs G cant remember  where she worked  or what work  related  benefits she might  have been 
entitled to in 2001. So Ive thought  about whether she met the eligibility  criteria for this sort of 
Ref: DRN97317602policy. To take advantage of the unemployment  part of the cover she simply had to be 
working. Mrs G hasnt  said she wasnt  working,  and its unlikely shed have got the card if 
she couldnt tell the lender she had an income.  So I think  she was eligible. It also seems the 
PPI could have  paid out in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay Mrs G might 
have had. So she could  have kept in reserve  any other  means she had for meeting her living 
costs and debts.  Also it doesnt  look like shed have  been affected  by any of the significant 
exclusions in the policy. Overall, the PPI is likely  still to have seemed potentially useful.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
 
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9731760