K821x#15complaint
Ms H says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy that covered a store card. 
Ms H was sold the store card in a department store   but FICL  has taken responsibility for 
this complaint, so Ill refer to FICL in my decision to keep things simple. 
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Ms H took out in 1996.  It was added to her 
account when  she applied for the card in store.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the compliant, but FICL disagreed. So the complaint has been  
passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Hs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Ms Hs complaint because I dont think  that FICL gave Ms H enough 
information about the policy, and I think this wouldve mattered  to Ms H. I say this because  at 
the time Ms H was sold the policy, she says she was self-employed,  and looking at the 
policy terms, I think this wouldve made it more difficult for her to make a claim on the policy  
if shed needed  to. Had this been made  clear  to her, I dont think Ms H wouldve wanted  to 
take the policy, so I think that Ms H has missed  out because of something FICL did wrong.  
Ive considered everything FICL  has said, including what it has said about  receiving  a 
number of questionnaires from Ms H  some of which say she was self-employed  at the 
time, and others that she was employed.  But Im satisfied that on balance, its more  likely 
that Ms H was self-employed at the time   so I still think I should uphold  the complaint.
putting things right
FICL should put Ms H in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Ms H would owe on her store  card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms H owes and what she would 
have owed.
Ref: DRN92831472If Ms H made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy,  FICL  can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B.If  when FICL works  out what Ms H would have owed each month without PPI  Ms H 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms H paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms H 
wouldve owed FICL something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
C.FICL  should tell Ms H what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Ms H a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9283147