K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs A say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
Background
Mr and Mrs A took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2002.  It was sold as part of an 
insurance package  called  a Total Mortgage  Protection Plan, or TMPP for short.
Mr and Mrs A paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract  interest. It 
covered them both in case either of them was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.  
Having done that, Ive decided that this policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs A said they were told they had to have PPI in order  to get other  parts of the 
TMPP package. Ive thought carefully  about  this point.
This sale was 17 years  ago, so I think its understandable  that neither side have all the 
original documents  from the time. But from what weve seen of Halifaxs  sales process for 
this type of policy, it wouldve given Mr and Mrs A a choice  about whether theyd like PPI or 
not, and only set it up if they actively  chose it. And the PPIs cost wouldve been  set out 
separately, rather than as something that was necessarily included  with the mortgage.
The PPI was not a condition of Mr and Mrs As mortgage, nor a requirement  to get other  
insurance. And the product  literature from around the time seems to have made it clear that 
customers could pick and choose what type of insurances they wanted as part of a TMPP 
package  indeed,  this was one of its key selling points. Ive not seen any evidence which 
shows that Mr and Mrs A were told PPI was compulsory, nor have I seen any wider 
problems with Halifaxs sales  process from the time. So I think its most likely that Halifax  
made Mr and Mrs A aware  they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose  to 
take it at the time  though I can understand if they no longer recall doing so after so long.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs A, so it had to check it was right for them.  And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr and Mrs A were eligible for the cover  and werent  affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Ref: DRN94501932While Mr and Mrs A had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those. 
And it offered them more  comprehensive cover, such as when their work benefits  reduced to 
a fraction of their normal salary or to the very limited statutory benefits.  I understand they 
may have  had some savings as well, though  its not clear exactly  how much  these were. In 
any case, the mortgage was a very significant,  long-term commitment, and there  was no 
guarantee the savings or benefits would still be there in the years  to come. Further, the PPI 
could help Mr and Mrs A to protect their savings, so they could use them  for things other 
than covering the mortgage. Its also worth bearing in mind  that if Mr and Mrs A fell behind  
on their mortgage payments, they couldve lost their home. It looks  like the PPI couldve 
been useful for them  in protecting  their home and giving  some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs A about  PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above,  Mr and Mrs A werent  affected  by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve been useful for them in case  something 
went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Mr and Mrs A could cancel 
it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely  to have 
put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 August 2019. 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9450193