K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  about the way that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Birmingham 
Midshires) has administered  her mortgage.
background
Miss B had a mortgage with Birmingham Midshires that was repaid  in February 2017.
In January 2019, Birmingham Midshires wrote to Miss B. It said it had reviewed Miss Bs 
mortgage following  guidance from the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA).  Birmingham 
Midshires said it had looked to see if the mortgage was in arrears at any point from June 
2010 and if it asked Miss B to make  a monthly payment that included an amount towards  
arrears. 
Birmingham Midshires said it had found that at least one monthly  payment included  a 
payment towards  arrears  so it compared this to what  the monthly payment would have 
been if arrears were excluded. But it said that any overpayments went  towards  reduced the 
interest it charged. Birmingham Midshires sent Miss B a cheque for £8. It said this 
represented interest at 8% on any overpayments for the period where  she wouldnt have 
been in arrears, had it excluded  arrears  from the calculation of the monthly payment. 
Miss B had previously complained about  the administration of her mortgage.  She was 
unhappy that this matter  wasnt dealt  with as part of that  and she doesnt understand 
where the £8 has come from.
Birmingham Midshires issued a final response  letter to the complaint. It said that the £8 was 
interest on an overpayment to Miss Bs mortgage. But it then issued another  final response 
saying that interest  had been paid incorrectly as the overpayment was made  when the 
mortgage had technically ended.
Our investigator didnt  think that Miss B was due a further refund. She considered  that it was 
fair that Birmingham Midshires  had agreed  to honour its offer of £8. Miss B didnt accept  
what the investigator said.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Miss B is concerned about the way her mortgage has been  administered. 
The FCA has found that Birmingham Midshires, along with other lenders, hadnt been 
treating borrowers  fairly. That was because when  Birmingham Midshires  calculated 
mortgage payments  it included  the arrears balance  in the calculation.  Where a mortgage  
was in arrears  as in Miss Bs case  that meant it asked for a higher payment than would 
have been due had it calculated the mortgage  correctly. It ought to have looked to come to a 
separate arrangement with Miss B to repay the arrears,  thinking about her circumstances 
and what was affordable to her.
The FCA has issued guidance on what lenders should do where  they have calculated 
mortgages payments  incorrectly. Broadly speaking,  it said that lenders should  re-work the 
mortgage so that it is in the position  it would have been in had it been calculated  correctly. 
Ref: DRN97165592Birmingham Midshires has given us a breakdown of its calculations. It shows  the payments 
that it asked Miss B to make to the mortgage,  the payments  she actually made and what she 
should have paid if the mortgage had been calculated  correctly. I can see that Miss Bs 
mortgage was significantly  in arrears from at least March 2011. That was the first point 
where Birmingham  Midshires calculated the payment  incorrectly,  against the rules. 
Even if the mortgage  payment had been set correctly, Miss B would still have  been  
significantly in arrears  on her mortgage, bearing in mind the payments she made. From time 
to time, Miss B did make  payments that were higher than the correct  payment  but they 
didnt clear the arrears.  But there were longer periods where there  was either no payment or 
the payment was less than the correct payment. So if the mortgage had been calculated  
correctly I cant see that Miss B would be due a refund. And it seems likely that it would have 
been reasonable for Birmingham Midshires to carry out broadly the same level of collections 
activity that it did. 
From the evidence available to me it seems more  likely than not that Birmingham Midshires  
made a mistake when  it offered her interest  on any overpayments. Its correct that the only 
overpayment where the arrears were cleared was the payment that Miss B made to 
redeem her mortgage. This wouldnt be something  where I would usually expect a lender to 
pay interest to a borrower under  the FCA;s guidance.
I appreciate the difficult time that Miss B has been  through. And I know she was already 
worried that Birmingham  Midshires  had made  mistakes on her mortgage  before it wrote to 
her about  this matter.  I would add that I dont  agree  with Birmingham Midshires  that it should  
not have dealt with this issue as part of the previous complaint. It may not have started  its 
redress scheme  but it was aware  of this issue (or should have been) and should have 
dealt with it bearing in mind the complaint that Miss B made.  
Birmingham Midshires hasnt handled either  complaint well. It didnt deal with this matter in 
the previously complaint  and it sent Miss B a misleading letter  that she was due 
compensation. That has added to the confusion and Miss Bs sense that she has lost out. 
But that isnt enough for me to uphold the complaint. And as Im satisfied that Miss B hasnt 
actually lost out and the increases in the contractual monthly payment didnt make any 
material difference to her, I wont ask Birmingham  Midshires to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2019.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9716559