K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that an error by Santander UK Plc led to him making a duplicate payment 
which caused him distress and inconvenience  whilst he was on holiday.
background
On 1 May 2019  Mr O made a payment of £850  to a third party  via his online banking facility  
with Santander.  Unsure  as to whether it went through  he called Santander on the same day. 
The adviser told Mr O the payment hadnt  been  made so advised him to attempt it again. 
Based on this advice,  he did so. But Mr O had, in fact, set up the first payment to be 
actioned the next day. So when this went through, a duplicate payment was made.
Mr O contacted Santander on 5 May explaining a duplicate  payment had been made. This 
was a day before he was due to go on holiday. Santander recalled  one of the payments and 
credited Mr Os account with £850  on 10 May.  Mr O complained to Santander about its 
advice.
Initially, Santander offered  Mr O £50 for its error. Mr O was unhappy with this offer.  He 
explained to Santander that the issue had caused him a great  deal of stress as he was on 
holiday whilst the recall  process was ongoing. So Santander increased  its offer by £150 to 
£200. Mr O remained unhappy  so he brought his complaint  to our service.
Our investigator recognised that Mr O had been  inconvenienced by the actions of 
Santander. But her view was that as Mr O hadnt suffered any financial loss, and the money  
was refunded to his account within a few days, Santanders offer of £200 was fair.
Mr O didnt accept our investigators view. He believes  hes entitled  to more compensation 
because he says the consequences  of the error had ruined  the first part of his holiday. So 
he asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Os 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Its not in dispute  that Santander was at fault when  it mistakenly advised Mr O to make  
another payment of £850. Its adviser hadnt picked up on the fact that Mr O had set the 
payment up to be actioned for the next day  Mr O was also unaware that he had done  this. 
This had led to incorrect advice being  given to Mr O for which  Santander has offered  £200 in 
compensation. Therefore, the only matter  in dispute  is the level of compensation that should 
be offered to Mr O for the inconvenience this error  caused.
To start, it may be useful if I explain that we generally award compensation for: 
financial loss; and/or 
non-financial loss - including  any trouble and upset caused
Mr O has confirmed he continued  his holiday after he realised there  had been  a duplicate 
payment. So hes holiday wasnt  cancelled or curtailed  as a result of the error and he didnt 
suffer any financial loss. Therefore I cant make an award in respect of financial loss.
Ref: DRN92528722That only leaves me to consider how much compensation  to award  for non-financial loss. 
Ive taken on board what Mr O has said about  the effect this matter had on the first part of 
his holiday. However,  I have to balance that against the fact that he wasnt prevented  from 
doing anything  that he wanted to do on his holiday  for example, he could still access funds  
to buy what he needed. I also note the money  was recalled and repaid into his account 
within five working days  of him reporting the error.  And that the refund was backdated to 
ensure there was no loss of interest.
Taking all these matters into account, I consider the offer made by Santander totalling £200,  
is fair. I understand  that Santander has already paid Mr O £50. And that its offer of a further 
£150 is still available to Mr O if he wishes to accept it. I will therefore leave this decision to 
Mr O.
So whilst I understand Mr O will be disappointed by this outcome, for the reasons outlined 
above, I wont be asking  Santander to do anything  further.
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9252872