K820x#14complaint
Miss Cs unhappy that her credit limit was reduced  and a transaction declined  on her Virgin 
Money plc credit card after shed  used it to withdraw cash. 
background
Miss C complains that Virgin Money  has breached  the terms and conditions  of her account.  
She says it didnt say how many  cash withdrawals she could make on her card and didnt 
write to her about  reducing her credit limit as it shouldve  done. She wants  her credit  limit 
reinstated or some of the outstanding balance written off.
Virgin Money said in its final response that from time to time it reviewed the credit facility  on 
accounts and reduce  the credit limit if it wished to do so. According  to its terms its not 
obliged to provide notice  of this but it would write  to Miss C after reducing the limit. It 
apologised that Miss C had to wait 45 minutes  on the phone to find out why a transaction 
had been declined and as a gesture  of goodwill has made a payment of £25 into her account  
for this. It will not now increase the credit  limit.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said Virgin  Moneys terms and 
conditions say it may decrease the credit limit and it may give advance notice of this or write 
after the decrease. Here itd issued a letter  to Miss C. The £25 paid to her adequately  
reflects the poor customer service. She wont be asking Virgin Money to do any more.
Miss C doesnt agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the account clearly say Virgin  Money may reduce the credit limit 
on an account. Here it did so after Miss C used  her card to withdraw  some  cash from an 
ATM. Although I understand  Miss Cs frustration at this its not something  I can interfere with. 
Thats a matter of Virgin Money exercising  its commercial discretion.
The terms and conditions  also say Virgin  Money may give advance notice of a reduction of a 
credit limit or it may write to the customer after the reduction has been  made.  Here  Virgin  
Moneys notes show an appropriate  letter was despatched to Miss C on 11 October  2018.  
Its unfortunate if this didnt reach  her for some  reason but thats  not Virgin Moneys  fault.
Taking everything into account  I think Virgin Money  has complied with the accounts terms 
and conditions when  reducing the credit limit on Miss Cs account and then by writing to her 
about it.
I also think its payment of £25 for its poor customer service when she was kept waiting  on 
the phone, is fair.
Overall, although I recognise  Miss Cs strength of feeling, I cant  fairly  or reasonably  require 
Virgin Money to do anything more, including reinstating the previous higher credit  limit or 
reducing what she owes, as shed like.
Ref: DRN93037782my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9303778