K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1990 to 
cover a mortgage. Mrs W says Santander  UK Plc mis-sold her and her late husband Mr W 
the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
The policy covered Mr W only so Ive mainly considered his circumstances at the time the 
policy was sold.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Santander had to make Mr and Mrs W aware the PPI was optional  and gain their consent 
before adding it to their mortgage. Mrs W has told us she wasnt aware the PPI had been 
added to the mortgage. I cant  know for certain  what was said at the time the policy was sold 
but from the paperwork available I can see that a separate form was completed to take the 
policy. The form was signed  by Mr W in agreement to having  it. So I think Santander made  it 
clear that Mr W didnt  have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr W so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him. 
Mrs W has told us Mr W would  have  been entitled to sick pay but she isnt sure how much.  
But the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and likely paid out for longer than 
Mr W would  have received full pay.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ws circumstances at the time he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for him if something went wrong.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Ref: DRN98121502Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9812150