K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that the delays by Selectapension Bureau Services Limited  (SBS  -   
(an appointed representative  of CFP Management  Limited  CFP) in providing advice on the 
transfer of his occupational pension scheme (OPS) caused him a financial loss.
background
Mr Fs financial adviser contacted SBS in December 2016 about transferring Mr Fs defined 
benefits from his occupational  pension  scheme to his personal pension.
A fact find was carried out by SBS and a client agreement signed between Mr F and SBS in 
December 2016.  On 5 January 2017 SBS wrote  to Mr F to confirm  it had started  its review  of 
his pension plan.  It said it was requesting information from the Trustees of the OPS. 
The Trustees replied  on 23 January  2017.  They provided some  details about the scheme  
and also said Mr F had a pension sharing order attached to his pension. It said Mr F had 
already received a transfer  quote  within the previous 12 months and he would need  to pay 
£250 plus VAT for another  one.
SBS wrote to the Trustees  again on 1 February  2017 asking for a copy  of the latest transfer  
quote. It also asked  if early retirement  was an option; if so it requested an early  retirement  
quote; details  of the pension sharing  order  and of the pension  at date of leaving,  and a copy  
of the scheme  booklet. SBS sent a chaser  to the Trustees on 17 February 2017. 
In a telephone conversation with the Trustees  on 6 March  2017 SBS were  told that the 
scheme had closed on 31 October 2016  and leaver statements were being  sent out and on 
the back of this CETV quotations will also be sent.
SBS received the information from the Trustees on 13 April 2017.  The Trustees provided a 
retirement quotation but didnt include a copy of the earlier CETV. SBS requested further 
information from the Trustees  on 19 April 2017. Amongst other things, this included asking 
whether Mr F paid AVCs;  whether partial  transfers  were available; details of death  in 
deferment benefits; early  retirement and commutation factors; pension  sharing order  or 
divorce issues; lifetime allowance and protected tax free cash  details, and a copy  of the 
scheme booklet.
The Trustees provided further  information  on 3 May 2017. It said,  amongst other things, that 
Mr F was active in the scheme. On 5 May 2017  SBS e-mailed Mr Fs IFA asking that either  
Mr F provide a copy of the earlier CETV or confirm he would pay the additional fee for a new 
quotation. The IFA replied  the following day. 
It appears the IFA provided a copy of the transfer quotation dated 3 October 2016. It showed 
a transfer value of £1,101,481. It said the transfer value wasnt  guaranteed.  And that a 
guarantee would be given  if Mr F asked for a quotation after leaving  the scheme. Under 
member details it said that Mr F had left the scheme  on 29 September 2016. It also appears 
the IFA provided a copy of a letter from the Trustees  dated 3 April 2017  to Mr F sending  him 
his deferred benefits statement showing Mr F had left the scheme on 10 October 2017.
SBS wrote to the scheme Trustees on 12 May 2017. It said it had been  provided with a copy  
of the deferred  benefits statement dated 3 April 2017 which  showed  that Mr F had left the 
scheme on 10 October 2016.  SBS asked the Trustees for a CETV.
Ref: DRN96473872SBS chased  the Trustees for a CETV by telephone on 6 June 2017.  Mr Fs IFA chased SBS 
on 29 June 2017.  And SBS chased  the Trustees on 30 June 2017.
The Trustees provided SBS with the CETV  on 6 July 2017. The CETV  showed a value of 
£1,060,229 and was guaranteed until 4 October  2017. SBS requested  further information 
from the Trustees on 7 July 2017. And there  were  subsequently further exchanges  of 
correspondence where SBS asked for clarification of scheme details.  Information  requests 
from SBS to the Trustees continued until 1 August 2017 when they confirmed they had all 
the required information.
On 16 August 2017 SBS emailed Mr Fs IFA saying that due to a Financial Conduct 
Authority investigation  of its partner, reports wouldnt be issued for three months.  It said 
further work  required on existing cases where  reports had been issued would push back 
waiting times  for cases still waiting  for a report. And this transfer wouldnt be looked  at until 
October as the FCA review wouldnt be completed by the end of September.
Three options were given to Mr F  in summary  to:
Stay with the firm (its partner) and wait for the report  to be issued
Take the case away free of charge  and it would provide all the scheme information 
that it had gathered  for Mr F to send to another pension specialist. And no charges 
would apply.
Wait for SBS to find new transfer partners  and move to them.
Mr F notified SBS that he would wait on its response. 
On 31 October 2017, the FCA requested SBS remove their defined benefit transfer 
permissions with immediate effect. SBS agreed  to do so.
Mr F has said that he was told that SBS wasnt able to continue with the transfer in a 
telephone call on 21 November 2017.  It wrote to the IFA on the same date enclosing  all the 
scheme information it had for Mr Fs transfer. 
Mr F formally complained  to SBS in December 2017. He said he believed he had lost out 
financially as a result  of SBS handling of the matter; both in terms of lost investment 
performance and his understanding that a new transfer value would likely be lower. 
SBS didnt uphold  the complaint. In summary, it said there  was no guarantee it would have 
recommended the transfer. And that the delays were caused  by the Trustees. 
Mr F referred his complaint to us.  
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. He thought it should be upheld.  The 
adjudicators view was that if SBS had acted  in a timelier manner it would have been able to 
provide Mr F with advice  prior to the restrictions being imposed by the FCA.
In particular, he noted that SBS had been  told by the Trustees in January 2017  that a CETV 
had already been issued.  The adjudicator  thought SBS should  have contacted  the IFA to get 
a copy of it. However it hadnt requested  a copy from the IFA until May. The adjudicator  
thought that if SBS had obtained the CETV from the adviser in January the additional 
information it continued to ask for from the Trustees  wouldnt  have been  required. And it 
Ref: DRN96473873would have been in a position to provide Mr F with advice prior to the restrictions  imposed by 
the FCA.
SBS didnt agree with the adjudicators findings.  It said, in summary:
The Introducing  Adviser  Agreement said: "Please  note that some  schemes  only 
provide one free transfer value a year. As timescales are often tight for this type of 
business, it is essential that SBS request the transfer value and not you. Where a 
transfer value  has been requested prior to the case  being referred, SBS cannot  
guarantee to process cases within the timescales  set by the pension scheme.
Mr F described  his objective  as "I would like advice  on the transfer of my {OPS} 
because I wish to examine my income  options for the future".  It said it therefore 
asked the Trustees for details of the prospective retirement  benefits  in addition  to the 
transfer value.
Once it was aware that an earlier quotation  had been provided it requested  a copy 
from the Trustees within a few days.  
The CETV,  when received, didnt contain all the required  details to prepare a 
technical transfer analysis.  The Pension  Sharing Order attached to Mr F's benefits 
meant that even  further information  was required.
It thought the delays  in the case were  down to the Trustees. Information, when 
provided, wasnt always correct. The Trustees had confirmed in May 2017  that Mr F 
was active in the scheme". When SBS questioned the information  provided about 
the GMP revaluation  the Trustees had apologised for providing an incorrect  
revaluation rate.
The transfer value  dated 3 October  2016 wasnt a CETV - Mr F was still a member of 
the scheme at that time,  and the transfer value was clearly  shown as not being 
guaranteed. Mr F left pensionable service on 10 October  2016  and the scheme 
closed on 31 October  2016. It wasnt until 3 April 2017  that a deferred member's 
statement was issued.  It said a CETV  couldnt  be produced before the deferred 
benefit statement  had been issued. But that document didnt contain sufficient 
information to prepare a transfer value analysis. In particular it made no mention of 
any dependants benefits. 
It had chased  the Trustees on 6 June and 30 June 2017. The CETV  was sent to it on 
6 July. But it had queries  with the CETV which werent resolved until 1 August 2017. 
The earliest it could  have prepared a TVAS  was 1 August 2017. It would have 
needed to be checked and passed to an adviser  to assess the merits of a transfer 
and provide Mr F advice  in line with his objectives. There  was no guarantee it would  
have recommended a transfer and it didnt have an Insistent Client  procedure.  
It had met with the FCA on 14 June 2017  and agreed with them  the following week 
not to take on any more cases  or provide any further recommendations until it had re-
looked at those recommendations it had already made but not completed. It 
voluntarily gave  up its pension transfer  permissions  on 31 October 2017. It told the 
IFA and provided all the scheme  information on 21 November 2017. 
Ref: DRN96473874It had told Mr F about its discussions with the FCA and Mr F had made the conscious 
decision to await the outcome.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 18 June 2020. I said that
although the adjudicators  view was that SBS should have asked for the CETV from the IFA 
at the outset, it had asked  for a copy from the Trustees on 1 February 2017 following receipt 
of their letter dated 23 January 2017.  Although it could also have asked the IFA I didnt think  
not doing so was a clear error on SBSs part. I said I thought  events needed to be 
considered in the context of the time and not with the benefit of hindsight;  I didnt think it was 
unreasonable for SBS to have asked the Trustees for a copy  directly. And the 3 October 
2016 quotation wasnt actually a CETV  it was a retirement quotation saying  Mr F had left 
employment and scheme  membership on 29 September 2016.
Mr Fs objectives  were recorded  in the fact find as to achieve a future income for myself 
and my daughter.  This was consistent with the firms letter  to him dated 5 January 2017 
which said I understand that your objective is to have control over when and how you take 
your pension income as well as flexible death  benefits so you can leave funds to your 
daughter in the event of your death. It didnt  appear  that Mr F had fixed  the firm a deadline 
by which  he needed  to have arranged the transfer.  It had appeared to me he was 
considering his options. Clearly, by instructing the firm Mr F had a reasonable expectation 
that it would  act in a reasonably timely manner.  But looking at events  as they unfolded,  I 
didnt think SBS had acted unreasonably prior to obtaining the 6 July 2017 CETV. I thought it 
had requested information that was necessary and I didnt think it had delayed  unreasonably 
in doing so. 
I said once the Trustees  had provided a CETV it was clearly time sensitive. On receiving the 
CETV on 6 July 2017 SBS had requested further  information. I didnt think  that was 
unreasonable at that point as it wasnt aware of the outcome of the FCAs review.  The 
additional information was received on 1 August 2017. And initial feedback from the FCA 
following the review  was received on 15 August 2017. 
In setting out the background  to the complaint the adjudicator had said Mr F was happy  to 
wait for the report to be issued. Mr F had responded to say he wasnt happy about it, but 
after discussions with his IFA they felt that having  gone that far it was better to continue with 
them. My understanding  was that Mr F had already received  a report  on another transfer the 
firm was arranging and as that transfer was further  forward I thought  he may also have  been  
reluctant to have transfers being  arranged by different firms. 
I said Mr F would already have been aware that transfer values could change as the CETV 
from 6 July 2017 was lower  than the quotation hed received in October 2016. I also 
understood an updated CETV on his other transfer was slightly higher. Mr F also had his IFA 
in the background. I thought Mr F would likely have been aware that by waiting there was a 
risk that the transfer value could change  again.  There were still seven weeks  remaining of 
the twelve week CETV deadline when  Mr F decided to wait. So I thought  there was still a 
possibility that the CETV  deadline  could have been  met if Mr F had opted to take the case  
away with no charge and approach another firm with the information that had been collected  
to that date. 
I accepted what  Mr F had said about not being happy to wait; I understood his decision given  
he had been with the firm several months, progress  was slow and so he may have thought 
switching to another firm may have taken the process backwards. But at the same  time, I 
said what I was considering was whether errors made by the firm caused the loss of the 
Ref: DRN96473875higher CETV. CETVs could go up or down over time depending on a number of inter-related  
factors. So although there was a risk that the CETV  could go down when Mr F made his 
decision to wait it could  also have risen. And I said I didnt think  the firms  requests for 
information were unreasonable or untimely; scheme  details  being critical both in assessing 
the financial viability of a transfer and providing suitable advice for a clients objectives and 
circumstances. 
I said I recognised that Mr F might feel I was being  unfair to focus on his decision to wait 
which affected only seven  weeks of a lengthy  transfer process as the firm hed engaged to 
provide advice had taken  several months just to get to the CETV stage. But I said,  overall, I 
didnt think there had been  any material delays  in the firm requesting information. And when 
the CETV  was issued  and Mr F had been  alerted to the fact the report wouldnt be 
completed in time I thought he had made an informed decision to wait, when he may have 
been able to secure the CETV through another firm; albeit  I accepted  in making  that decision 
there were no guarantees he would be able to do so even  by instructing another firm. 
I said taking everything into account,  I didnt think the loss of the CETV was caused by errors 
made by the firm in the particular circumstances of the case. And that I wasnt persuaded the 
firm caused the losses  that Mr F had claimed.
A copy of my provisional decision was sent to both parties. I asked them to send me any 
further evidence  or arguments that they wanted  me to consider before I made my final 
decision. No further submissions were provided.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision.
my final decision
Accordingly, for the reasons outlined  in my provisional decision as explained  above,  my final 
decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2020.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9647387