K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) closed his account when he 
has been a good customer for over 40 years. 
background
Mr E received a letter from Halifax in March 2019  telling him that they were going  to close 
his account. They gave him 65 days notice  of the closure. 
Mr E replied  to this letter asking why Halifax  were closing the account. He pointed  out, 
amongst other things,  that he had held this account  for over 40 years  and that he also had 
had a mortgage with them.
Halifax responded by saying  that Mr Es account  was considered to be outside  of the banks 
risk appetite which is why they had made the decision  to close the account. 
The account  was closed in April 2019, because Mr E decided to switch to another  bank 
before the 65 days notice  expired.  
Mr E wasnt  happy that the decision to close his account had been  made  so he came  to us. 
Our investigator didnt  think that Halifax had acted unfairly in closing Mr Es account. Mr E 
wasnt happy with this outcome so the complaint  has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Mr E wont be happy  with my decision. I think  that Halifax were entitled to 
close his account.  I will explain why. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account. At paragraph  24.1, it says that the 
bank can close the account by giving  2 months  notice. Halifax  gave Mr E 65 days  notice 
which meets  these requirements.
The reason  that they gave for closing the account is that it was outside of their risk appetite. 
This is a decision that I cant interfere  with as it is a business decision. 
Ive no doubt that it mustve come as a surprise  to Mr E to have his account closed. I dont 
think that the way that Halifax dealt with the closure  was particularly thoughtful    especially 
as Mr E had been a customer for so long. But, Im afraid that they made a decision that they 
were entitled  to make in closing your account. And they gave  Mr E the right notice in doing 
so.
Im sorry  that this isnt the outcome that Mr E had hoped for. 
Ref: DRN95174572my final decision
I think that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  followed  the right procedures in closing 
Mr Es account and behaved  fairly  and reasonably in doing so. So, I dont require them  to do 
anything else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9517457