K820x#14Complaint
Mr C and Miss C complain that Nationwide Building  Society has refused to refund a payment 
they made from their account.
Background
Mr C and Miss C arranged  for a new boiler  to be fitted at a property they rent out. After the 
work was completed, Mr C made  a payment  over the phone to someone he thought was the 
fitting company.  But the account  statements later showed the payment had gone to a 
plumbing supplies company.
As they didnt receive a gas safety certificate and started to have problems with the boiler,  
Mr C and Miss C tried to contact the fitting  company. But they were unable to get in touch 
with them.  And when they contacted  the supplies company, they were  told they only supply  
goods, so couldnt help with any issues with the installation.
Mr C and Miss C have  said that, as the payment wasnt made to who they thought and was 
taken by a company they have no contract  with, it should be treated as fraudulent. Theyve  
also said the work was done so poorly  that the boiler had to be entirely  replaced.
Nationwide said Mr C and Miss C willingly  made  the payment for goods  and services  they 
had received, so didnt  treat it as fraud  or a scam. It also looked into whether a chargeback 
could be carried out on the payment, but said it wouldnt do this as the work had been  
completed. It did offer £50 compensation for the time taken to respond to their complaint. 
Mr C and Miss C werent satisfied with Nationwides response, so they referred their 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think Mr C and Miss C had been the 
victims of fraud  and felt Nationwide had acted reasonably in not carrying  out a chargeback.  
Mr C and Miss C disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Nationwide has acted reasonably  so I wont be asking it to do 
anything further.  Ill explain why below.
I understand and accept  that Mr C didnt know he was making the phone payment to the 
supplies company  and that Mr C and Miss C didnt have any contractual relationship  with the 
supplies company.  But I dont think this means the payment was fraudulent or part of a 
scam.
Typically, a fraud or scams  in these circumstances would involve payment being taken but 
then no goods  or services  being  received. Or the payment being diverted to an unconnected  
third party, leaving the invoice unpaid.
Mr C and Miss C have  largely received the goods and services listed on the invoice Ive 
seen. The supplies company told Mr C and Miss C there was an arrangement between them 
and the fitting  company to take the payment. And theres no suggestion that the fitting 
Ref: DRN97000612company has been chasing Mr C and Miss C for non-payment of the invoice.  So I think 
Nationwide has acted  reasonably in not treating this as a fraud  or scam.
Banks can also help settle some  disputes between customers and merchants by submitting 
a chargeback on a transaction.  Chargeback is a way for customers to dispute certain card 
payments and is run by the card scheme   VISA in this case. A chargeback can only be 
done for certain specific reasons,  such  as the goods  not being  as described or being  faulty,  
and within  certain  timescales. And theres no obligation  on a bank to carry out a chargeback,  
although we generally take the view that its good practice for a bank to do so where theres 
a reasonable prospect of success.
When Mr C first spoke  to Nationwide  about the payment he said he was having trouble 
getting a gas safety  certificate and that, as the supplies  company hed paid wasnt  gas safe 
registered, it couldnt provide the goods  and services he had paid for.
But the invoice  Mr C sent to Nationwide doesnt  mention a gas safety  certificate or when it 
will be provided. So I dont think there were grounds  here to say the goods werent as 
described.
While it may be a legal  requirement  for Mr C and Miss C, as landlords, to have a gas safety  
certificate, I dont think the failure  to provide a certificate means the boiler itself or the 
installation were necessarily faulty.  And, as I mentioned above, it appears there was some 
arrangement between the fitting  company and the supplies company about  the payment. So 
I dont think the payment  going to the supplies company means  that they, rather than the 
fitting company,  actually  fitted the boiler or therefore  that the work was carried  out by 
someone who wasnt gas safe registered. And so I dont think  this means  the work or goods  
were faulty  either.
And even  if the failure to provide the certificate did mean the boiler or installation were  faulty,  
I dont think there were reasonable prospects of a chargeback succeeding for the entire  
payment as a result, as Mr C and Miss C would then have received the boiler  for free. And, 
as the certificate  isnt mentioned on the invoice, its not possible to say how much of the 
payment should  be disputed.
So, based  on the information  it was given at the time, I think Nationwide  acted reasonably  in 
deciding there  werent grounds for a successful chargeback. And so I dont think its treated 
Mr C and Miss C unfairly by not carrying one out.
Mr C and Miss C later said the boiler  was poorly  installed and had to be entirely replaced. 
But the time limit for a chargeback for the goods  being faulty was 120 days from the date of 
the payment.  And I cant see that Nationwide was told about the poor installation  or the need 
to replace the boiler until after this time limit had passed.
Mr C and Miss C have  said delays by Nationwide meant they lost the chance to raise all the 
relevant issues within  the time limit. But, while Nationwide  didnt respond as quickly  as it 
could have done, Mr C and Miss C did raise  the issue  of the gas safety certificate when  they 
first spoke. So I dont think Nationwides slow response stopped them raising  further issues 
at the same  time. And, as they were  already  towards the end of the time limit when they first 
spoke to Nationwide,  I dont think these delays prevented  Mr C and Miss C from successfully 
raising a chargeback.
Ref: DRN97000613Nationwide has offered Mr C and Miss C £50 as compensation  for the delays in responding 
to them.  And I think this offer is fair and reasonable.
I sympathise with the position Mr C and Miss C have  found themselves in. And my decision 
shouldnt be taken as saying I think they have  been  treated fairly by the fitting company or 
the plumbing supplies company, or that I dont think they have legitimate complaints about 
the goods and services  they received from those companies. But I can only look at whether 
Nationwide has acted  reasonably in dealing  with their complaint. And, for the reasons given 
above, I think it has.
My final decision
Nationwide Building  Society has already made an offer to pay Mr C and Miss C £50 and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Nationwide  Building Society  must pay Mr C and Miss C £50 if it has 
not done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 20 December 2020.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9700061