K820x#14complaint
Mr T has a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP)  with London & Colonial Services Limited.  
Within that SIPP he invested in the Aria Absolute Income Protected Fund in 2011.   Mr Ts 
complaint was summarised by his Claims Management Company (CMC) as:
1. Lack of due diligence of the investment in the period from 2012 to 2013.
 2. Incorrect charging  and failure to administer  dividends  on the account.
 3. Failure to manage the SIPP  account adequately.
background
I issued a provisional decision in Mr Ts complaint.  I set out some of the background to the 
complaint as follows:
Mr T lived in Spain in 2011.  He was resident there for tax purposes.  
In 2011 he consulted Black Tower Financial Management (International) Limited 
based in Gibraltar.   It advised  him to transfer  his existing personal pension  to a SIPP 
with London & Colonial. The SIPP was opened  in March 2011.   About £78,000  was 
transferred [into the SIPP].
Mr T says he was a cautious  investor and he wanted a safe investment for long term 
capital growth.
Black Tower advised Mr T to invest in the Aria Fund.  £55,000 was invested in March  
2011.  In 2013 Aria issued  two shareholder  warnings.   And the fund was suspended 
for a time.  
Mr T says London & Colonial did not tell him about those warnings. London & 
Colonial says it did not receive the warnings from Aria.  And apparently Aria does not 
have any records showing who the warnings were sent to.
The CMC says London & Colonial ought to have become  aware of these warnings 
from its reviews.   It says Mr T himself was undergoing lengthy medical treatment and 
he did not monitor his investment  at the time.  
Mr T says if he had known about  the warnings he would have transferred to the 
sterling fund as offered by Aria at the time and that fund grew by 7.5% the following 
year.
The CMC has also referred to payments received from Aria not being credited to 
Mr Ts account  and some  incorrect charges.  These matters  have  however  been 
resolved.
The CMC also refers  to a number of other  administrative matters such as London & 
Colonial not telling Mr T that he could access his account online.   If Mr T had known 
about this it would have helped Mr T to avoid losses he has suffered.  Mr T accepts  
this information  was however sent to Black Tower.  There  were  some other 
administrative problems (eg no statement was sent in 2014) and London & Colonial 
offered £100 compensation  which Mr T did not accept
Ref: DRN96708182As well as the Aria investment Black  Tower recommended a £20,000  investment in a 
life settlement fund.   London & Colonial tried to make that investment as instructed 
but the money was returned as the amount it was instructed  to invest  was less than 
the minimum investment  limit for the fund.
Later in 2011  Mr T returned to live in the UK.  He told London  & Colonial and told it 
not to deal further with his advisers in Spain, Black Tower.
Mr T decided to invest the uninvested money in his SIPP in the Aria Fund.   He 
instructed London  & Colonial to make two further investments in ... 2012.
Mr T invested a total of nearly £64,000  in the fund.   By the time Mr T complained to 
London & Colonial the investment was valued  at about £40,000. Also some  income  
had been received from the investment  
I said I did not think the complaint should  be upheld.  I set out my reasons for that view as 
follows:
There were  some  problems that were  put right.  London & Colonial says it did not 
receive the shareholder information about the fund.  And though it should have been 
sent to London & Colonial  there  is no evidence the information was received.   The 
2014 statement  was not sent.  £100  compensation was offered for this and it was a 
reasonable offer.
The CMC  says London & Colonial  should have made ongoing  due diligence  
checks on the investment  after Mr T invested in 2011.  They  say checks between  
2012 and 2013 would  have led to the discovery  of the profit  warnings that had not 
been received  and the option to transfer  to a different investment.  The point made  is 
that the failure to discover these matters and tell Mr T about them has caused  him 
loss.  It is also said that Mr T was not monitoring his own investments at that time as 
he was unwell and receiving lengthy medical  treatment.
I do [not] think this part of Mr Ts complaint should be upheld.   Mr T has a self-
invested personal pension and its his responsibility  to monitor  his investments.  On-
going due diligence checking of an investment  by a SIPP operator is not the same 
thing.  One is aimed at whether the investment remains a suitable  and satisfactory  
investment.  The other is aimed at a different  level  more about whether the 
investment is of a type that may be held in a SIPP, whether there are money 
laundering or financial crime issues,  or concerns about fraud or scams meaning  there  
is risk of customer  detriment. 
Mr T invested in the fund in 2011  on the advice of his then advisers.  He made further 
investments without advice in 2012.   Guidance to SIPP operators does talk of 
keeping due diligence under regular  review.  I cannot see that means  there was an 
obligation on London & Colonial to continuously  check the Aria investment for 
possible developments such that London & Colonial  should through that process  
have discovered  soon after Mr Ts investments that there  had been  a profit warning  
and an opportunity to switch funds.  It is unfortunate that these matters occurred 
when Mr T was unwell  and he did not have  a new adviser monitoring things for him.  
However I cannot see that I can hold London  & Colonial at fault for not discovering 
these matters and for not telling Mr T about  them.
Ref: DRN96708183I cannot see that Mr T had any real complaint about the setting up of the SIPP or 
the original Aria investment as such.  This  was not part of the original complaint as 
made by Mr T personally to London & Colonial or when the CMC referred  his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman  Service.
But in any event, I think it is relevant that Mr T was resident  in Spain when he applied  
for the SIPP.  In  the circumstances I cannot  see that London & Colonial was at fault 
in accepting the application  from an adviser  regulated in Gibraltar  and authorised to 
give investment advice in Spain.  Nor can I see that London & Colonial was at fault in 
allowing the investment in the Aria fund in the circumstances.   It was a permitted type 
of investment and I cannot see that London  & Colonial had any reason to have 
concerns about  it.  I do not therefore think the  complaint should be upheld.
Mr T does  not agree  with my provisional  decision.  Mr  T has made  a number of points 
including the following:
He used Black Tower because he knew it was regulated  in the UK and he planned to 
return to the UK later in his retirement.   He did not realise Black Tower  was not 
regulated in the UK to conduct pensions business.  If he had known,  he would not 
have used it.  And London & Colonial should have carried  out due diligence on Black 
Tower before it accepted business  from Black  Tower. 
Black  Tower mis-sold  the investment to him by telling  him the capital and interest rate 
were guaranteed.   The  word guarantee implies safety to cautious investors like him. 
Aria described the fund as protected.  He has lost 40% of his investment.  He feels 
he has been scammed.
All or most of his problems could have been avoided  if London  & Colonial had 
contacted him direct  with information about accessing his account online.  He  is a 
meticulous bookkeeper and uses the internet  extensively.  If hed had online access 
he would  have  used  it (rather than wait for annual statements)  and would avoided the 
losses he has suffered.  In retrospect he feels Black Tower  did not want him to have 
access to his account.
Aria says it sent information to all shareholders which would  have included  London & 
Colonial. He believes Aria.  It had no reason  not to send  the shareholder warnings to 
London & Colonial.
It is disappointing London & Colonial did not discover the warnings by other 
independent means.   It would  have been  common knowledge in the industry and 
later he found the information easily on the internet.  While he accepts  it is not the 
SIPP managers role to closely  monitor the clients funds, London and Colonial could 
exercise its duty of care and put automatic systems in place to detect abnormal 
swings and warn  clients if considered  necessary.
Although he was ill at the time,  and not personally monitoring things closely, he 
would have acted  on this information if he had been  made aware.
He does not think London  & Colonial acted efficiently in sorting  out the problem of the 
missing dividend payments.  It just returned  the payments rather than investigate and 
resolve the problem.
The £100 he was offered was not reasonable, it was derisory given London  and 
Colonials many  shortcomings  and the impact  they have  had on him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN96708184I accept that Mr T feels let down by Black Tower, Aria and London & Colonial and that he 
has suffered large  losses in his pension and much  inconvenience  and worry as a result.  
However, my view about London  & Colonials responsibility for Mr Ts losses  remains 
unchanged.
There were some administrative problems.  Things could have been done differently and 
things could have  gone more smoothly.  But those problems were  mostly put right,  and a 
reasonable offer was made for those  problems.
I do not find London and Colonial at fault in relation to the online access  notification or the 
profits warnings for the reasons given in my provisional decision.  It is regrettable that Black 
Tower did not pass on the online access information and I appreciate that Mr T now 
suspects its motives.  However, I cannot  see that London & Colonial had any reason to have 
doubts about Black Tower.  So  I cannot say it was at fault in sending  that information  to 
Mr Ts adviser  (Black Tower)  for forwarding on to Mr T.
Similarly, I do not consider London & Colonial was at fault in accepting  business from Black 
Tower given it was authorised  to advise Mr T in Spain  which was where he was living  at the 
time of the advice.   Also, there was no reason to have  concerns about the investment at the 
time it was made and the obligations  on the SIPP operator do not extend to ongoing  
monitoring of the acceptability of performance and suitability of the investment for the 
member. 
In the circumstances I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint against London & Colonial.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2020.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9670818