K822xcomplaint
Ms G complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc has handled a claim she made under 
travel insurance provided with her bank account.  
background 
Ms Gs Halifax packaged bank account  provides her with travel insurance,  amongst other  
things. And AXA is the insurer.  
In October  2018 Ms G was on a hiking holiday abroad. She planned to hike from one village 
to another with prospective (but not booked) accommodation in the next village.  Ms Gs hike 
didnt go to plan and she never  made it to the next village. But being an experienced hiker 
she made use of a mountain  hut which she knew to be available. She tried to contact her 
previous host to let them know of her predicament  but didnt have any signal.
Unbeknown to her, the host in the next village had become worried  when she didnt turn up 
and called mountain search  and rescue.  A helicopter was scrambled to help search for her 
and she was located safe and well in the mountain hut. At the time, Ms G says it was agreed  
she wouldnt  need to pay for the search  and rescue as she hadnt requested it and hadnt 
booked accommodation.  She had also shown  her attempted texts and calls about  her 
whereabouts. She returned to the UK a few days later.
In November 2018 Ms G was invoiced  by the search  and rescue team billing  her for 
approximately 10,000 francs. As this was a bill that had arisen  from her hiking holiday, Ms G 
submitted a claim to AXA on 24 November  2018.
On the same  day AXA declined the claim and wrote to Ms G letting her know  the policy 
didnt provide cover for her situation. But Ms G wasnt happy with that and wanted to know 
about the legal options the policy provided.  Ms G was provided with the policy terms and the 
number for the legal advice line  but was told on ringing  this was only for injury claims. So 
Ms G got back in contact  with AXA and wanted  to discuss the matter with a senior colleague. 
Although a complaint was raised for her, no-one responded even when Ms G e-mailed and 
called several times resulting in her being passed through several  different people.  Ms G 
even tried contacting  the CEOs  office.  
She was eventually contacted by the complaints  team who arranged  for a discussion with 
AXAs legal assistance firm. It followed the call with an e-mail setting out why the policy 
didnt provide legal assistance for her circumstances. But it did provide access to legal  
advice, but as she had already appointed a solicitor it had already gone  past that stage. 
AXA considered Ms Gs complaint. It upheld it in part. It stood by its decision to decline the 
claim for the cost of the mountain rescue  but agreed it had provided poor customer  service 
and offered £100. It also explained that Ms G could contact its legal advice line if she still 
wanted advice.  A few weeks later,  it was explained to Ms G that only general  advice  could 
be provided (and was) and she needed advice  specific to her circumstances which  the legal 
advice line couldnt  provide. 
Although Ms G accepted the costs  she was being  asked to repay  werent covered under the 
policy, she was very unhappy  with the way AXA had dealt with the matter.  She asked us to 
look into her complaint seeking  £5,000  compensation for the distress  this had caused. Our 
investigator explained we wouldnt make awards  of that sum for the service received but 
Ref: DRN93999242agreed AXA hadnt done enough when considering the claim.  She concluded AXA should 
pay total compensation of £250. 
AXA accepted the outcome. But Ms G didnt.  She is unhappy that AXA failed to deliver 
regular and consistent communication to a paying  customer. She believes the award  made 
is disproportionate to the suffering she experience and which made her unwell. She argues 
the impact from AXA was far greater than being billed for mountain  rescue  which she 
considers has no legal basis. She said she wouldnt settle for anything  less than £2,000 as 
she wanted to stop others from suffering in the same way. 
Our investigator stood  by her outcome. She explained  our awards for distress and 
inconvenience werent intended to be punitive. Ms G remained unhappy and wanted  £500 
compensation. But our investigator again  stood  by her view and so Ms G asked for the 
matter to be escalated.  She remains unhappy with the service provided,  that it took months 
to get any clear answers and had a series  of queries which  werent addressed.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Although I have only summarised  the background above, I would like to reassure both Ms G 
and AXA that I have read and considered everything  in its entirety. 
As Ms G has accepted there  is no cover  provided for her situation  under her travel insurance  
policy, I havent considered that. Rather my consideration is in relation to the service 
provided by AXA during  her claim.  
The records  show that AXA responded very quickly to Ms Gs claim. It wrote out the same 
day explaining  her policy didnt provide cover for the costs  of the mountain search and 
rescue  as there was no injury or illness. However, I agree it would have been helpful if 
AXA had considered whether there  were  any areas  under  the policy where  it might  be able 
to provide help.  
Ms G queried about the legal cover provided  under the policy, and later,  the personal liability 
cover. The policy clearly explains legal assistance only applies for a claim against  a third 
party who causes death or injury to the policyholder; and personal  liability only applies if    
Ms G had caused illness, injury or death,  or loss of or damage  to anothers property. Neither 
of these areas of cover  were applicable to Ms G. I wouldnt expect an insurer  to point out all 
of the areas where a policy didnt provide cover  unless  a customer specifically queried  this. 
Im not persuaded it was wrong  for this not to be covered in its claim outcome letter. 
Given Ms Gs circumstances, I think it ought to have  realised Ms G may have found 
information about the legal advice line helpful. But I cant ignore that the policy itself provides 
the number to call, and explains  confidential free legal  advice  can be provided  on any 
personal legal problem, if the incident occurs in or under the laws of the member countries of 
the EU, Isle of Man, the Channel Islands,  Norway or Switzerland. So Im satisfied she had 
sufficient information  accessible to her to call the legal advice line without needing to contact  
AXA. 
That said,  once Ms G had made  her enquiries about the legal cover and personal liability 
AXA could have  provided better  and quicker responses to her. And it should have ensured 
Ref: DRN93999243promises made of call backs  and summaries were kept. Instead Ms G was left felling ignored 
and that her problem  wasnt  important to AXA. I can see from the e-mails provided the 
increasing frustration  Ms G was experiencing from not having satisfactory, or any, responses 
to her queries. 
Her feelings about that are quite  understandable;  Ms G has been invoiced for a large  sum of 
money that she doesnt believe  she should pay. And she wanted answers to questions  about 
whether AXA could help. From  the records I can see she was given the number for the legal 
advice line, which I would  expect it to do as this is cover provided under the policy.  But she 
was told by it that it dealt  with personal  injury only. It isnt clear from the policy  that thats 
correct given the term said it would give free legal advice for any person legal problem. 
When Ms G notified AXA that she had been  told the legal advice couldnt help with her 
circumstances, I think  it could have  done  more about ensuring she spoke with someone 
more meaningfully. This didnt happen until a few weeks after AXA had issued its final 
response. 
It is clear that Ms G was in an incredibly difficult and stressful situation. And I dont doubt that 
this has had an impact on her. And I do need to bear in mind that a certain amount of her 
distress would have  derived from the circumstances themselves. Given  the types of award 
we make I find her request for £5,000 and £2,000 compensation extremely high for the 
distress and inconvenience she was caused.  Ms G was sent links to our website that 
contained information about  the awards we make, and the amounts she is seeking are in the 
substantial or severe category. 
Having considered what AXA did wrong, repeated failure to respond  to queries or explain 
matters clearly, Im not persuaded the impact this had warrants an award  in that region. Im 
mindful that its poor customer  service hasnt actually resulted in Ms Gs position being  any 
different. She hired a local solicitor  abroad to advise  on the invoice, something  which  the 
legal advice line couldnt have done. So she would  always have been in the position of 
needing to hire them. And the policy couldnt  do anymore for her other than give legal 
advice, which was explained in a matter  of weeks. 
I know Ms G feels very strongly  about this and that she will be disappointed by my decision.  
Having considered the matter carefully,  Im satisfied that the award our investigator 
recommended of £250 is reflective of the poor service Ms G received. And as explained 
previously, my award  isnt meant to be punitive; it is to reflect the impact  the poor service  
had on her which resulted  in it taking some weeks for her to get the answers  she was 
seeking. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to pay    
Ms G £250  for distress and inconvenience its handling of her claim had. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Ref: DRN93999244Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9399924