K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility for the complaint. To 
keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision. 
Ms C says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Ms C took out with a store  card in January 2001. 
The policy cost £1.00 per £100  Ms C owed on her store  card. The policy would have paid
15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Ms C couldnt  work because she
had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Cs complaint. Ill explain my reasoning below.
Ms C say she took out the PPI during  a phone call, but FICL has provided a copy of the 
application form she probably completed in store. So I have relied on this when looking at 
Ms Cs complaint. 
Ms C says the PPI wasnt mentioned when she took out the store card and she didnt know  
she was paying  for it. On the application form that was completed  at the time there is a 
separate section  called Account Cover.  It explains Yes, I would like to protect  my Account 
with Account Cover.  Please debit  my account with the relevant monthly premium until further  
notice. Ms C has signed this separately from the card which indicates she wanted  and 
agreed to the cover.  If Ms C didnt want the cover  she couldve left this section blank, like 
she had for other sections  on the form for additional  products.  I dont know what was 
discussed at the time Ms C took out the card, but I wouldve expected Ms C to read over the 
form and raise any questions she had at the time before signing it.
So based  on the evidence Ive been provided,  I think its most likely Ms C knew at the time 
that the PPI was optional and that she decided to take it. But I can understand why she 
might not recall this now, as the sale took place many years ago.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms C so it didnt  need to check  that it was suitable for her 
given her circumstances at the time.  But it did need  to ensure that she was given enough  
information to decide whether she wanted to take it. Although  I dont know  what  was said to 
her then, I think  its likely  that the information  she received about the PPI could  have been  
Ref: DRN91254712better than it was. But I dont think better information would have changed  her mind about 
taking the cover and Ill explain why.
Ms C appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Ms C says the PPI was of no use to her because she had sufficient  employee  sick pay at the 
time. Ms C also said she wouldve received redundancy pay. However, for £1.00  per £100 of 
the outstanding monthly  balance the PPI wouldve paid out up to 15% of Ms Cs outstanding 
monthly balance, until she returned  to work or the outstanding balance had been  paid off. 
And she wouldve  received the same benefit  if she was made  redundant. The policy  
wouldve paid out in addition to her sick pay or redundancy pay and lasted longer. So I think  
she would  have valued the extra security  which the policy gave her if things went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Ms C. And as the policys  premiums 
were paid monthly, she could have  cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.
Ms C also told us that family would have been able to assist  her if she lost her job. I dont 
doubt that it would have  been the intention  of Ms Cs family  to help. But circumstances can 
change and theres no guarantee that assistance  would have been  available to Ms C as and 
when she needed  it.
Ive thought about everything Ms C has said, but this hasnt changed my mind about not 
upholding her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Financial Insurance
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9125471