K822xcomplaint
Miss M has complained about Tesco Underwriting Limiteds handling of a claim on her motor 
insurance policy.
In bringing her complaint Miss M has been  helped by her mum. But for ease of reading  Ill 
refer to her mums comments as being Miss Ms.
Reference to Tesco  includes its agents.
background 
Miss M was involved in an accident in late November 2018 that wasn't her fault. Tesco  said 
her car was a total loss and valued  it at £1,548. Miss M thought that was too low. She was 
also unhappy with a number of aspects  of Tescos service.
Miss M brought her complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision on 1 December 2020. 
I've copied  the relevant  extracts from my provisional findings  below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill partly uphold 
it.  
Id like to start by apologising to both Miss M and Tesco for the time its taken us to review  
this complaint. I can see that for Miss M its been  particularly frustrating and Im sorry about 
that.
In dealing with the claim  and making  her complaint Miss Ms made  many  detailed points. I've 
considered everything  shes  said carefully.  But in this decision I don't intend to address 
every point raised but instead will focus  on what I see as being  the key outstanding issues.
total loss valuation 
Miss Ms policy says, if her car is a total loss, then Tesco will pay her its market value at the 
time of that loss. Miss M thinks Tesco undervalued her car. I should explain that it's not my 
role to value cars but Ill look to see whether an insurers reached its valuation  fairly. Valuing 
used cars isnt an exact science and there can be considerable variation in valuations put on 
cars by those in the trade and others. So, when deciding if an insurer  has valued  a car fairly, 
I'm not looking for a precise figure  but instead will consider whether its valuation is within a 
reasonable range in which the cars  actual market  value is likely to sit. And our usual  
approach to complaints about  valuations  is to look at the relevant trade  guides  for valuing 
second-hand cars. We find these  more reliable than figures cars are advertised for. That's 
because the trade guides use extensive research of likely selling prices,  whereas the price  a 
car is advertised for isn't necessarily the price  it sells for, if in fact it sells at all.
When arriving at its valuation Tesco considered two trade guides which it says provided 
figures of £1,770 and £1,925. It then took an average of those figures,  which is £1,847.50 to 
find a market value.  But it reduced that sum by £300, which was a deduction  for some 
pre-accident damage  to the cars  rear bumper  and quarter-panel. It estimated that the cost to 
repair the pre-accident  damage would be around  £600. And, in line with our guidance, it 
deducted half of that cost from the cars valuation.
Ref: DRN91112172It might help if I explain that the trade  guide  valuations are based  on cars being  in showroom 
condition - for a car of that age and mileage  - with a full service history. So, where theres  
pre-existing damage its likely that a car dealer  would either  pay to have that damage 
repaired before  putting  it in its showroom, or otherwise reduce the cost of the car to reflect  
the damage. And as a guide we think that 50% of the costs  of the repair, at a reputable 
garage, is a reasonable  deduction from the full value.
Miss M doesn't think Tescos valuation is fair. And, after our adjudicator issued her 
assessment of the complaint, Miss M instructed an engineer to value the car. That engineer  
valued it at £2,200. He didn't make a deduction for any pre-accident damage.
Im not persuaded by Miss Ms engineers valuation. Thats because  hes quoted valuations 
from four different trade guides as being: £1,770,  £1,767,  £2,129 and £2,055. The average 
of those valuations  being roughly £1,930. But hes provided his own valuation which is £270 
higher than the average figure and £71 more than the highest  of the trade  guides  
valuations. Hes said hes done so after extensive research and looking at vehicles offered 
for sale, but he hasn't referenced any of those  specifically. I would also point out that the 
trade guides also do extensive  research  when arriving at their valuations.  And Im aware 
they use numerous different sources  in order to do that. So I don't think  Miss Ms engineers  
statement that hes done extensive research  means  his valuation is more  reliable  than the 
trade guides. And I note Miss Ms car wasn't in any way rare or unusual. Therefore, I think  
its likely  that the trade guides would have a wider  source of information than Miss Ms 
engineer did in order to come  to their valuations. It follows that I don't think  the engineer has 
provided compelling evidence for disregarding the figures from the trade guides. 
Also Miss Ms engineer said she disputed that the damage to the bumper and quarter  panel  
was pre-existing.  He said Miss M had told him it wasn't  there before the accident and said 
that it could have happened at any point following it, presumably while  the car was being  
recovered or in storage. But I find that unlikely. I note that when Tesco first told Miss M that it 
was making a deduction for pre-accident damage she didn't dispute that the damage  existed 
but instead referred to it as being  minor. She described it as wear  and tear. It wasn't until 
some months later that she disputed that the damage was pre-existing. And I think that if 
shed thought it wasn't there before the accident she would  have raised that point earlier. So 
Im satisfied the damage was pre-existing.
Miss Ms also disputed Tescos estimate  to repair the pre-accident  damage. Tesco provided 
two such estimates. The first was a rough  estimate  of £600. The second, using industry  
recognised software,  produced a figure of around  £1,200. Miss Ms called into question  that 
estimate. She said it referred  to her car having metallic paint when that wasn't  the case. I 
accept that her car doesn't have metallic paint.  But, the reference to metallic paint is unlikely 
to have increased the costs significantly compared to standard paint. And stripping out the 
painting costs in their entirety, which were around  £365, would  still mean that the repairs 
would cost around £835, which would  still justify a deduction of more than £300  from the 
market value. So I don't  think  the reference  to metallic paint means that the deduction for the 
pre-accident damage  was unreasonable or otherwise calls into question  Tescos engineers 
findings. 
The only other evidence  of the cost to repair the pre-accident damage is a quote  Miss M 
provided from a local garage. The quote  is written  on a compliments  slip and simply says 
that the cost to repair and repaint the bumper would  be £150. It doesn't  explain on what 
basis that quote was provided, for example whether or not the garage had seen images of 
the work  required and it doesn't  include any costs  for the repair to the quarter panel. So I 
Ref: DRN91112173don't find it persuasive  as an accurate  estimate  of the likely repair  costs.  But Tescos 
engineers have provided two estimates with the benefit of having seen images  of the 
damage to the car. And in those circumstances I think the lower of those, and a deduction of 
£300 from the value of the car, is reasonable in the circumstances,  as its provided evidence 
that it could have been more. And I think that overall Tescos valuation  sits within  a 
reasonable range of the cars likely market value. It follows I think Tescos valuation  is fair.
Miss M has also questioned the software  Tescos engineer used to estimate the cost of 
repairs. She's suggested that the purpose of this software is to maximise insurers profits 
and cause loss to policyholders. But I disagree. The software she refers to is recognised 
across the insurance  industry and repairing networks. And while one of its advantages is that 
it aims to reduce  costs for insurers, thats  because it produces consistent and reliable 
estimates for the costs of repairs that insurers rely upon. Its worth noting that the majority of 
claims that insurers deal with are for car repairs, and not for total loss. So it's in insurers  
interests for the costs of repairs to remain  as low as possible. And the software Miss M is 
complaining about is widely used for that reason.  It follows that I don't  agree the software is 
designed to cause loss to policyholders.  And I don't find it unfair  that Tesco should use this 
software when arriving  at a repair estimate. 
Similarly, Miss M has called into question the engineers qualifications. But the engineer who 
provided the most recent  repair estimate is a member of an engineering industry  recognised 
professional body. And membership of that body requires appropriate qualifications. So Im 
satisfied he is suitably  qualified to comment on the value of the car and the cost of repair. 
Miss Ms also recently  questioned Tescos categorisation  of the car as a category B total 
loss (cat B). Cat B cars can be broken for parts but they can't be repaired and returned to 
the road. Tesco told us that it had given the car a B category  because it felt the car had 
come to end of life. But it said that with further investigation and dependent on the extent of 
damage to the car, it could possibly be recategorised as either a cat S or cat N. Both those 
categories of total loss allow  the car to be repaired.  The difference being  that a cat S car 
means the car has suffered  structural damage but a cat N car is one which, although beyond 
economical repair, hasn't suffered such extensive  damage.
Miss Ms said the car should  have  been  offered to her to see if she wanted to keep and 
repair it. But as Tesco believed the car was a cat B it wouldn't  have done that. Further,  even 
if the car falls into a repairable  category Tesco is under no obligation to offer to sell it back  to 
Miss M. But, where  a consumer is clear they would like to keep a repairable  car, we think  its 
fair for an insurer to let the policyholder keep it. But that would be subject to a deduction  
from the claim settlement  for the amount  that the insurer could expect to sell the salvage for. 
But I can't see that Miss M ever raised  this with Tesco. So I don't think Tesco  did anything 
wrong in not offering Miss M the salvage.  
compensation
Miss M thinks  Tesco should reimburse  the cost of her engineers report, of £75, and pay her 
further compensation for her distress and inconvenience. Shes  suggested a figure  of £200. 
But I don't  think  thats fair. Had her engineers report been persuasive  that Tescos  valuation 
was unfair  then I would  have instructed  it to reimburse Miss M for the costs  of that report. 
But, I think Tesco's valuation was reasonable. So I don't think  Tesco  needs  to reimburse 
Miss M for the cost of her engineers report.
Ref: DRN91112174Also I'm aware Mis[s] M feels that Tesco took too long sorting out the liability aspect  of her 
claim. Miss M had her accident  at the end of November  2018 and the other drivers insurer 
said it would  settle  the claim, on a without prejudice basis,  at the beginning of 
February 2019. Miss M feels thats too long. But it's not unusual for the question  of liability  to 
take many  months,  if not years, to resolve. And Tesco  isn't responsible for the actions of the 
other drivers  insurer  if it chooses not to accept liability at the outset. And in this case  the 
matter was sorted out within  three  months, which is relatively quickly. 
Further, Miss M hadn't accepted  Tescos  offer to settle the claim. That meant  that Tesco 
hasn't had an outlay  that is what it pays to settle  the claim.  And without an outlay  Tesco 
can't use the threat of court action  against the other  insurer to recover  it. So its options  to 
progress the matter were  limited. 
Also, while I think Tesco  could have occasionally communicated with Miss M better  I don't  
think shes suffered any real detriment because  of that. In particular at the outset Tesco  
could have been clearer that, as her car was a total loss, Miss Ms policy  didn't entitle her to 
any form of courtesy or hire car. And, when it referred her to a hire company to provide a 
car, it could  have told her that doing so was outside the terms of the policy.  So the 
agreement for the hire car was between Miss M and the hire company. And Miss M would 
have had to sign an agreement with the hire company when she took the car. I note she 
didn't have to pay anything  for it. So while I think Tescos communication could have been 
clearer I don't think Miss M suffered  a loss as a result of any unclear  communication. 
And while I recognise that Tesco could occasionally have handled matters better I think that 
the £50 compensation our adjudicator recommended is reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances. 
Miss Ms also suggested that Tesco should  add interest to its settlement for the claim,  as 
she's had to use savings to buy a replacement car. But Tesco  offered to settle  Miss Ms 
claim on an interim  basis. And if shed  accepted  that offer she could have  put the interim 
settlement towards  the cost of her replacement car. But she declined  that offer. That was her 
choice, so I don't think Tesco needs  to add interest  to its claim settlement.
developments
Tesco accepted  my provisional decision;  Miss M didn't. She made a number of further 
comments and provided some additional evidence  including,  amongst other  things, a 
narrative of facts and a supporting statement from her mum. I don't intend to summarise all 
of her points  here and instead will address  those  which I see as being key to my findings  on 
whether or not Tesco treated her fairly below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the avoidance  of doubt Ill say that I 
considered every piece  of evidence on file before arriving at my provisional  decision. And 
Ive reviewed the file in full again,  including all Miss Ms additional  comments  and supporting  
evidence in response to that provisional  decision,  before arriving at my final conclusion. 
Having done so I don't intend to change my provisional findings.
Ref: DRN91112175Miss M said she found my provisional decision grossly unfair. She said it contains factual 
mistakes and isn't objective. She added that she is at a disadvantage due to her lack of 
knowledge of the system and lack of access to trade  guides.   
I understand that Miss M - like many  consumers who approach us for help - is unlikely to 
have any detailed knowledge of the insurance process and I wouldnt expect  her to. I also 
appreciate that shes unlikely  to have had access to information sources like the trade  
guides when bringing her complaint. But that doesn't mean  she's been treated unfairly. 
It may also help if I explain that we offer an informal dispute resolution process.  So were an 
alternative to the courts  not a substitute for them. And I aim to make  my decisions as clear 
and concise as possible. And while Ive considered very carefully all the points raised, Im 
not required to make a finding on each and every  point  made,  nor to set out in detail each 
and every action, comment or concern. Instead, I focus on the events that are crucial to my 
decision making in respect of the points at the heart of the complaint. So where I haven't 
referred to an event or made a finding on a comment or concern  its not because  I haven't 
considered it, but is because I don't  think I need  to refer to it when coming  to my conclusions  
on a fair and reasonable outcome.  
background information 
Miss M said that omissions from my provisional  decision mean  that its misleading. For 
example she said I didn't  refer to the fact that Tescos initial valuation of her car was for 
£1,650 (not £1,847.50)   before its £300 pre-accident damage deduction. And she said 
weve suggested this valuation (£1,650)  doesn't exist. She believes this earlier valuation is 
evidence that Tesco was demonstrably unfair and misrepresented one of the trade guides 
valuations. She said that by omitting  this earlier valuation Ive shown that Tesco  has acted 
more appropriately  than it did. But I have to disagree.
Im not sure why Miss M thinks  weve suggested  the earlier valuation didn't exist.  As, while 
we didn't previously  have  a screen  print from the trade guide of it on file, there  is reference  to 
it. But, in any event,  I didn't refer to it in my provisional decision because Tesco quickly 
amended it. I appreciate  that well over two years  has passed since Miss M made her claim; 
so it might help if I remind Miss M of the how the events, concerning the valuation,  unfolded.  
Tesco did initially value the car at £1,650 before deductions. That valuation was based on 
the average mileage  for a car of that age. It seems the reason Tesco  used an average 
mileage was that the cars LED mileage display wasn't working  and Tesco couldn't read it. 
The £1,650 was based on the trade  guides valuation for a car of that ages average 
mileage. I've checked the trade guide  and confirm that valuation was accurate. 
Miss M then spoke with Tesco and told it what the mileage was more  likely to be. Tesco  then 
revalued the car based on the mileage figure Miss M had given to it. And that increased  the 
overall valuation  before deductions. This all took place over a short  period of time and Tesco  
didn't refer to the earlier valuation, based on average mileage,  again. So while I saw this 
earlier valuation, I noted it was quickly disregarded. I certainly didn't think it was evidence of 
Tesco making a mistake, deliberately misrepresenting  the trade guides valuation nor being 
demonstrably unfair.  And I didn't think it was something Tesco needed  to apologise  for. So I 
saw no reason to refer to it in my provisional  decision.
Similarly, Miss M said that our adjudicator  didn't initially  think that Tescos valuation was fair 
and said that it should increase it by £84. But, after Tesco  gave her further  information  she 
Ref: DRN91112176changed her view. And Miss M thinks it important  that my summary reflected this. But I think  
shes mistaken.
We operate a two stage process, the first is consideration  by an adjudicator (who, these 
days, are known as investigators). And if either party is unhappy  with the adjudicators 
assessment then the second stage is a final decision by an ombudsman like myself. And for 
every case  that is passed to me, I look at it afresh  and I arrive at my decisions entirely 
independently from the adjudicators. So exactly what  decision the adjudicator has arrived  at 
doesn't influence my own decision. And while I provided an, extremely  brief, summary of our 
investigators assessment, noting  that she eventually concluded that Tescos valuation was 
fair, I did so only for context. Her assessment of the complaint including that shed changed 
her opinion on it, didn't  affect my decision. So there  was no reason for me to refer to her 
change of opinion,  when arriving at my own independent findings.
pre-accident damage  
Miss Ms repeated that the car didn't have any pre-accident damage.  So she maintains it 
was unfair  for Tesco to make a deduction  for that. Shes pointed  out that in her initial  call to 
report the incident she said that the car didn't  have  any pre-accident damage.  And Im aware 
thats the case. But at other  points  Miss M referred to her car suffering from scratches that 
she considered  to be usual wear  and tear for a car of its age. I accept  that Miss M didn't 
think of the scratches  as anything but wear  and tear. And she doesn't think  those are 
significant enough to affect the price,  and certainly not by £300. Shes also pointed  out that 
Tesco only labelled the photos with what it considered to be pre-accident damage  at a later 
date. And she says that there was nothing to suggest that the scratches  were  there  
previously, and that they were superficial. 
In contrast  Tesco clearly did feel that the damage  to the car was substantial. And its clearly 
visible on the images which Tesco shared with Miss M at an early stage. And Tescos  
engineers clearly thought the damage  was significant enough to warrant a reduction on the 
value of the car. And, from a lay perspective I agree with that conclusion. I think the images  
show areas of damage that are beyond the type of wear a car of that age is likely to have. 
So I think it was reasonable for Tesco to say that this damage would affect the value  of the 
car. 
Miss Ms also said that Tesco hasn't proved that the scratches were  pre-existing. But without 
images of the car taken either before or immediately after the accident I don't think it would 
be possible  for Tesco to prove the damage  was pre-existing. Instead what I need to think  
about is whether  or not it was pre-existing based in the balance of probabilities.  Its notable  
the areas of the disputed damage arent  anywhere near the rest of the accident damage. So 
its clear that when looking at the car Tescos  engineers have concluded that the damage  
wasnt accident related  and was pre-existing.  
Miss M, supported by a statement from her mum, said that while  shes  commented that the 
scratches aren't substantial doesn't mean that she accepts that they were there prior to the 
accident. She says the damage  wasn't there previously. And she thinks it must  have been 
caused by the recovery  or storage agents  in the week or so between the accident happening 
and the photos being taken. And the independent engineer she instructed supported that 
view, saying that the damage looked fresh  and not consistent with pre-existing damage.  And 
Ive thought about this very carefully.  But for the reasons that I gave in my provisional 
decision I think the damage was most likely pre-existing. 
Ref: DRN91112177I should say I accept that Miss Ms engineer gave his professional  opinion.  That opinion  was 
different to that of Tescos  engineers that the damage was pre-existing. But its not 
uncommon for there to be contradictory  evidence  before me. Where that's the case, I have 
to arrive at a conclusion  on which evidence I find more persuasive. And, as indicated  earlier, 
Miss M had previously referred to the damage  as simply being wear and tear and only what 
would be expected from a car of its age. She didn't say that this was entirely new damage 
until months later. So I think, on balance, its likely it was pre-existing.  
Turning to the costs  to repair  the damage. Miss M said shed  asked the garage who had 
previously given her a repair estimate  written on a compliments slip to resubmit  its costing 
on headed paper,  which  its now done.  Miss Ms also shown us evidence  that she sent the 
garage photos from which to provide its estimate. But I note that the revised estimate  is still 
extremely light on detail. And while it does now mention repair to the quarter panel and has a 
separate entry for VAT,  it doesn't breakdown its costings into likely costs for materials,  
labour etc. And I should  explain that the reason Tesco provided a second estimate for the 
repair work required, using industry  recognised software, was because  our adjudicator noted 
that Tescos first engineer similarly  hadn't  provided a breakdown of costs.  So we asked  to 
see that so that we could see how it had arrived at those. And owing to a lack of detail I don't 
find the newly submitted  repair estimate from Miss Ms garage persuasive. 
Miss Ms also,  quite correctly, pointed out that software is only as accurate as the 
information input  to it. And shes said Tescos engineers don't have the appropriate 
engineering qualifications. But as I pointed  out in my earlier decision Tescos second 
engineer is an associate  member  of two well recognised automotive  engineering institutions, 
which do require relevant qualifications and experience. For example to become an 
associate of one of those  organisations,  according to its website, the engineer would  need  to 
have the relevant training  and pass its exams. So I think that Tescos engineer  did have the 
relevant experience to use the software appropriately. It follows  that I think Tesco  had 
reasonable evidence that Miss Ms car had suffered damage unrelated to the accident, and 
that damage would  likely reduce the value  of the car. And I think  its deduction from that 
valuation was reasonable. 
valuation
Mis Ms said more weight should  be applied to the evidence, such  as adverts etc, that are 
available to the public. But as I said in my provisional decision we find the trade guides more 
reliable than adverts. Thats because adverts are often inflated  to allow  for negotiation or to 
give a seller room to manoeuvre to sweeten the deal. So the price a car is advertised  for 
isn't necessarily reflective of the price it sells for. If in fact it sells at all. A seller may advertise 
a car for whatever  price  they think might  entice someone to show  interest  in it. And there will 
always be some  buyers who overpay, compared to the market value of a car. Also Miss M 
said the adverts she provided  all indicated that cars would likely sell for higher prices than 
the trade guides valuations. But Tesco also provided valuations for cars with lower mileage 
selling for less than its valuation  (before  deductions). So there  will always be a range of 
prices. And the trade guides  use extensive  research to arrive at their values.  So I, generally, 
find their valuations more  persuasive. 
Further, Miss Ms referred to comments  on our website that says we have noted that selling 
prices are coming nearer  to advertised prices.  But thats a fairly recent development. And 
while I've considered all the adverts  on file, they don't persuade me, in this case,  that the 
Ref: DRN91112178trade guides base  valuations  were  fundamentally unfair at the time that Mis Ms car was a 
total loss. 
Also, as I said in my provisional decision the trade  guides  valuations  are based on 
cars being in showroom  condition (for their age and mileage) and with a full service  history. 
So, a service history won't increase the price of a car beyond  that given in the guides. 
Miss Ms also suggested the valuations should  be adjusted for the region she lives in. Ive 
seen the independent  engineer said he increased the value for Miss Ms car, in part, 
because she lived in an area where car values are geographically strong. I've also noted 
Miss Ms comment  that availability of second  hand cars in her area are low. But those 
comments don't persuade  me that the trade guides haven't produced fair valuations, based  
as they are on national  sales across  the entire country.
Further, as I said in my provisional decision, valuing second hand  cars isn't an exact science 
and as such there is a certain measure of subjectivity to it. And, in this case, between  the 
trade guides, as quoted in the independent engineer's report,  theres a variance of some 
£362 between  the highest and lowest price. And Ill repeat that my role isn't to provide a 
precise valuation,  its to establish if Tesco  has provided a valuation  that is within  a range  in 
which the cars actual  market value is likely  to sit. In this case  Tescos  valuation (before 
deductions) was £1,847.50, That figure  falls squarely within  the range of valuations the 
independent engineer found in the trade  guides.  And I find Tescos valuation  to be fair. 
liability
In response to my provisional decision Miss M said that the matter of liability  still isn't 
resolved. She said that from recent correspondence it appears that someone at Tesco  had 
mistakenly input the liability decision as being  her fault and not the other drivers. She said 
this has caused  her new insurer to charge her an additional premium. And understandably  
she wants Tesco to put things right. 
When Miss M brought  her complaint to us one of her concerns was that Tesco had taken too 
long to resolve the liability question.  But, previously, the actual liability decision hasn't been 
an issue. In fact I'd seen  evidence on Tescos file that it had already  marked  Miss Ms claim 
as non-fault and allowed  her no claims discount. So the question  of who Tescos  considered  
to be at fault for the accident wasn't something I considered. I note it wasn't  something that 
our adjudicator commented on either.  
Miss Ms told me what she wants to happen to put things right. But an ombudsmans 
decision is the final stage  in the complaint process (unless a consumer wishes to pursue an 
alternative route  for example through the courts). And, generally, before well consider a 
complaint a business must be given the opportunity to respond to it. And if a business 
resolves a consumers concerns theres no need  for that consumer to refer their complaint to 
us. But, if the consumer remains unhappy after the businesss complaint response,  they can 
bring their complaint  to us and one of our investigators will consider it. That process may 
then lead-on to a final decision  by an ombudsman.  But, as far as Im aware, Miss Ms 
complaint that Tescos  has categorised  the claim incorrectly,  and the additional expense 
shes incurred because  of that, isnt something  that has gone through  the earlier stages of 
the complaints  process. So while I can understand her concerns, I don't  think  it would be 
appropriate for me to comment on this matter now.
communication, mistakes  and advice.
Ref: DRN91112179Ms Ms said the £50 compensation I provisionally awarded doesnt come  close to 
compensate her for the impact of Tescos mistakes, delays and poor communication.  And 
shes referred to a number of incidents  which she believes  fall into these categories. 
However, I don't agree that all of the things  she complained about, including Tescos 
valuations or a deduction for pre-accident damage  are evidence of poor service.  Miss Ms 
also referred to other points, for example a lack of advice given in a phone call, where she 
believes Tescos service  could have been better.  But some  of these points aren't things  that 
shes previously complained about.  And I think its worthy of mention that not every complaint 
about poor service  merits compensation.  And I'm not persuaded by Miss Ms recent  
evidence that I need to change the compensation sum I awarded in my provisional  decision.  
interim payment
Miss Ms said that Tesco didn't make it clear  that an interim payment wouldn't  prejudice her 
position. But if Miss M had any doubts about  the implication of such a payment then she 
could easily  have asked.  She's had many opportunities to do so and I note that our 
adjudicator referred  to the offer of an interim payment in both April and August 2019.  And 
both before and since then Miss M has put numerous questions  and requests for clarification 
to Tesco  and us. So if she had wanted  further clarification concerning an interim payment 
she could have asked  Tesco  or this office for that. I don't think its Tescos  fault she didn't do 
so. It follows  that I remain satisfied that Tesco  doesn't need to add interest to its claim 
settlement.
Im aware that in a recent exchange Tesco told Miss M that, if she accepted an interim 
payment, it would dispose of her car. This wasn't a point that I addressed in my provisional 
findings. But it might  help if I explain that its fairly standard  procedure  that once  an insurers 
settled a claim, including on an interim basis, then the car becomes its property and it may 
dispose of it as it wishes. And as insurers may be incurring storage charges they might want  
to dispose of the car fairly  quickly. But this wouldnt usually prevent  a consumer from 
continuing to pursue  any complaint, either through this office or the courts. Thats  because, 
often, by the time an interim payment is offered, both sides have had the opportunity  to 
either physically examine  the car or to have an engineer prepare a report based  on images. 
And that should  allow the consumer to pursue  any complaint they might have about a 
valuation dispute.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require Tesco Underwriting 
Limited to pay Miss M £50 to address her distress  and inconvenience arising from its 
handling of her claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 March  2021.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN911121710
Ref: DRN9111217