K820x#14complaint
Mr D complained because  TSB Bank plc recorded a CIFAS marker against his name.  He 
said it wasnt fair, and he also complained  that he hadnt been  told about it or exactly  why 
TSB had applied it. 
background
An account  in Mr Ds name was opened  with TSB on 22 February 2017. A number of 
transactions went through the account.  On 14 March  2017 TSB wrote to Mr D. The letter  
said We need to make sure that our accounts are being managed  as well as we would 
expect and are not a potential risk to our business.  A recent  risk assessment on your 
account has highlighted concerns, and as a result  we have taken the decision to close your 
account with immediate effect.
In autumn 2018,  Mr D contacted TSB. He said another bank had told him that TSB had put a 
marker against him. Mr D wanted this removed because he said hed never had an account 
with TSB. Mr D said it had all come about  after hed recently tried to open a business 
account online with TSB.
TSB replied that it was confident the 2017 account had belonged to Mr D because the 
details matched his personal details to a high degree. It said it hadnt been  offering online 
opening of business accounts  for some  months, so it was unsure how Mr D could have 
started an online business account application.  And TSB said that it had exercised its right to 
end the relationship on the account Mr D opened in February 2017  account  on 14 March 
2017. TSB said it had done nothing wrong in the action it took or the way in which  it did so.
Mr D wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Mr D told the investigator that hed tried to open  a business account  with another bank, but 
this was rejected.  He said that bank had told him that TSB had applied a CIFAS  marker 
against his name, but he didnt understand what hed done wrong for TSB to apply  this 
marker. 
CIFAS is a member based fraud  prevention agency.  It has a large  database which records  
information to protect  financial  businesses and their customers against fraud.  
Mr D told the investigator that his step-brother had previously used his details to apply for 
something, but he was no longer in contact with him. Mr D said hed never  received a card or 
PIN for the disputed 2017 account. 
The investigator spoke  to Mr D again during her investigation. There  were betting 
transactions on the disputed account,  and shed contacted the betting  firm. Theyd shown 
that Mr Ds betting profile had been  linked to the disputed account. Mr D then said he didnt 
remember opening the TSB account,  but accepted  that he must have done. 
But Mr D said he didnt understand how the activity  on the account could have been 
fraudulent. He said his complaint was now that he didnt think the CIFAS marker  was fair. He 
was unhappy  that he hadnt  been told about  it, and exactly why TSB had applied it.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint.  She explained that the bar for recording a 
CIFAS marker  is high.  The bank  must  have a good  reason  to believe it could have suffered a 
Ref: DRN95799942loss, and / or it reasonably believes it has grounds to press criminal  charges as a result  of 
the activity on the account. This has to be more than just a suspicion or concern.
The investigator also considered the transactions on the disputed  account. She considered  
the evidence showed it was Mr D who carried out the transactions. She believed  TSB had 
acted fairly  in line with the account  terms and conditions  when it had closed Mr Ds account 
immediately. And she considered the CIFAS marker should stay. 
Mr D wasnt satisfied. He said his main  point was why the CIFAS marker had been  put on 
him in 2017. He said these markers can only be added if the company  has evidence to bring 
forward criminal  charges.  TSB hadnt informed him about the marker. As a result of the 
CIFAS marker,  Mr D wouldnt be able to open any bank accounts  for 6 years, and his 
existing accounts  had been  closed.  Several other  banks had closed  his accounts as well, 
even though TSB had said it hadnt  told other banks what it had done.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
During the investigation, Mr D accepted that he must have opened the TSB current  account 
in 2017. So I dont need to consider  that in detail. But for completeness, Id add that I 
consider that the evidence points to the fact that it was Mr D who opened  it and carried out 
the transactions.
Mr D says his main  point is why the CIFAS  marker was put on him in 2017.
CIFAS is a membership organisation and among other activities  it runs a National Fraud 
Database. Members can record information  about  their customers  on the database,  and 
view the information  recorded by other businesses.  
CIFAS operates with set principles which  member  organisations must adopt.  And the test for 
whether or not an organisation can enter a CIFAS marker is high. The CIFAS website sets 
out that the standard of proof includes:
-Reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud  or financial  crime has been committed or 
attempted;
-The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous, such that the member could 
confidently report the persons conduct to the police;
-The conduct must meet the criteria for one of the case  types (the category of 
marker);
-The organisation must have rejected, withdrawn or terminated a product on the basis  
of fraud.
I have looked  carefully  at the confidential information which TSB supplied in response to our 
requests for information. Having done  so, I consider that TSB was justified in placing the 
CIFAS marker  against  Mr Ds name. I do not consider it would be right for me to disclose the 
full reasons. The category under which it was registered will remain for six years.
Mr D said that he believes TSB told other  organisations what  it had done. But all CIFAS 
markers are shared with other member organisations  thats what the CIFAS  membership  
Ref: DRN95799943organisation is all about. So if the other  organisations which closed Mr Ds accounts  were 
also members  of CIFAS, thats probably  how they identified the fraud  marker.
Organisations which  are members of CIFAS  dont  have to notify customers if they record  
information about them on the CIFAS. So TSB didnt have to write  to Mr D, as he believes,  to 
tell him it had recorded a CIFAS  marker  against  his name.
I realise that Mr D thinks that TSB should  have told him that it had recorded information with 
CIFAS about him. But, as Ive explained   theres no obligation on TSB to have done that 
here. Ive found  that TSB was reasonable in recording the information it has here.  But I also 
have to have regard for the purpose of recording information like this. Given  this, I cant  see 
that it would  be right for this service to share,  or tell TSB to share, this information with Mr D.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9579994