K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained about the settlement offer their home  insurer,  Aviva 
Insurance Limited, made  to them  for a water  leak claim.
background
There was a leak in March 2019 at Mr and Mrs Ps home. Aviva  was contacted and it 
appointed a loss adjuster who visited the home. Mr and Mrs P felt he was vague and didnt 
trust Aviva to carry out repairs: they wanted to use their own contractor and were 
disappointed that the loss adjuster  tried to persuade them to use Avivas contractors. The 
loss adjuster made an offer of settlement to Mr and Mrs P which they felt was low. There 
was no breakdown of the offer and they werent  told they could accept it as an interim  
payment to allow them to start work. Meanwhile,  as of 6 April 2019, their belongings were  
placed in storage.
Upon receipt of estimates from Mr and Mrs P, Aviva agreed to uplift its settlement. But it 
maintained that its final offer, which was based  on what it would  have cost it to do the work,  
was fair. Whilst it also noted  that Mr and Mrs P said there was other work the original  
estimates and scopes didnt account  for, it said it had offered an independent  assessment  to 
resolve this issue but Mr and Mrs P had refused.
Aviva said that part of its settlement was a sum of £475 for storage for April and May 2019. 
But in May it told Mr and Mrs P that it would consider paying storage over a longer period if 
they could show  that the work  had taken longer than the eight-weeks  allowed for by the 
payment of £475.  It was also in May that Aviva  told Mr and Mrs P they could accept its 
settlement as an interim amount whilst  their complaint was considered (following their 
referring it to us). Aviva confirmed it had paid £97 for van rental  covering the cost of hire 
for taking  goods  to and from storage. 
In reviewing Mr and Mrs Ps complaint, Aviva accepted its loss adjuster had caused some  
delays and offered  £100 compensation. It also said it would pay £250 as a disturbance  
allowance for the eight-weeks Mr and Mrs P had been without a kitchen. 
When Mr and Mrs P complained to us they put their costs, including an extra two months 
storage costing £475 and £300  for a skip, at about £1,500 more than the sum Aviva had 
paid to them. Mrs P said her health  had been affected and sent us some doctors fitness for 
work notes.  When we asked Aviva, it confirmed the storage had only been  agreed up until 
the end of May, but that its adjuster had indicated that if Mrs P could  show  further storage 
was reasonably due this could be reviewed, and that its settlement included  £280 for a skip. 
Our investigator explained that we could  only look at matters up to the point  of Avivas final 
response at the end of May 2019.  He noted  that Mr and Mrs P had wanted to use their own 
contractors and, in that scenario, we would  usually let an insurer  settle  based  on what it 
would have cost it to do the work. He explained that he didnt think  Mrs P had shown her 
health had been affected by any failure  of Aviva.
Mrs P felt it was unfair for us to decide  how her health had or hadnt been affected. She said 
if Aviva  had wanted to restrict the storage settlement to a certain period it should have been  
clear about  this. Mr and Mrs Ps complaint was passed to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN90247722my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva is entitled to make payment, in this situation  and under the policy terms, based on 
what it would  have  cost it to do the work. It includes work which  I think  would usually  be 
necessary following a leak like this one. I know Mr and Mrs P say some further work was 
found to be needed but I see they refused the opportunity of having an independent person 
assess the necessary  work and associated scopes  and quotes. Avivas offer to undertake 
such an assessment was a fair way of resolving  that dispute  so Im not going to make it do 
anything more. 
Avivas cost for the work is about £1,000 short of Mr and Mrs Ps summary of costs  
(excluding the second sum of £475 for the extra period of storage). I see from the complaint 
correspondence that the skip cost differed by £20. Differences like this are indicative of a 
situation where the insurer has paid based on its costs. That is because  the insurer, by dint 
of industry contracts  and the like, usually  pays less for work than a policyholder will be 
charged by a contractor  in the general market place. And because  the costs  charged to the 
insurer are part of commercial contracts these  are considered to be confidential  meaning 
the insurer doesnt have to share a breakdown of its costs with the policyholder. As 
mentioned above  Aviva  is allowed  to settle  Mr and Mrs Ps claim in this way.
Avivas claim  settlement was somewhat  delayed.  It should have provided  payment at an 
earlier stage with an explanation that such could be accepted as an interim payment. It only 
did this at the end of May 2019,  by which point the storage costs  its settlement covered had 
already been used  up. However,  Aviva can review the storage costs which were incurred 
beyond the end of May 2019  the point at which Aviva issued its final response  and which  
I can only look up until. Mr and Mrs P should contact it directly for it to do this. And when it 
then reviews this it will need  to consider whether its late settlement payment at the end of 
May 2019 affected Mr and Mrs Ps ability to complete works within the eight-weeks  of 
storage it had previously  allowed for (and that began in April 2019). At this time it may also 
like to think further about whether any further  payment  in respect  of an extension  for the 
period over which the disturbance allowance  was paid is due.
I can see Mr and Mrs P have been  upset by this matter. Mrs P has shown that shes been ill. 
But Mrs P hasnt shown  that her ill health  has resulted from any failure  by Aviva.  Any claim 
involves a certain amount of upset for, and involvement from, a policyholder and in a 
situation where the policyholder is asking  the insurer to settle their costs this usually requires  
further work  on the part of the policyholder to evidence what they are asking for, and extra  
time for the insurer  to consider that evidence.  That said, I see Aviva accepts some delay 
during April and May was caused by its loss adjuster. Its paid £100 compensation for that. 
I think thats reasonable in the circumstances.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Aviva  Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2020.
Ref: DRN90247723Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9024772