K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
Mr F bought  the policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint  because:
 Mr F ticked a box on his credit card application to show he wanted the PPI. And the 
PPI was described as an optional feature on the application.  So I think Lloyds made 
Mr F aware  that he had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
 Lloyds may have recommended the PPI to Mr F. He had very little sick pay entitlement  
and savings worth less than two months  of his take-home pay. The PPI wouldve paid 
10% of his credit card balance for up to 12 months if he couldnt  work. This couldve 
saved him from falling into arrears after his sick pay and savings ran out and he had no 
other way to keep  up with repayments.  So it seems  to have been right for him.
 Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr F about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Mr F doesnt appear to have  been  affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to him. For example, while  he was self-
employed this wouldnt  have  made it any harder  for him to make  a claim. So I dont 
think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Fs comments. But these points  dont change  my conclusion. I 
appreciate that Mr F doesnt recall agreeing to the PPI, but the evidence from the time 
makes me think he did. It may just be that hes forgotten about it, which would  be 
understandable given  how long ago it was. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9095539