K820x#14complaint
Mr Y took out a Gold Added Value Account  (GAVA)  with Bank of Scotland  plc (Bank  of 
Scotland) in September 2012  and he says it was mis-sold.
background
Mr Y took out the following accounts  with Bank  of Scotland:
Account Type Date of sale/change
Current Fee free April 2010
Gold AVA Fee charged September 2012
Current Classis Fee free March 2019
Mr Y says the GAVA was unsuitable for him.  He says that he hardly used the benefits  and 
wants his account  fees returned.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Bank of Scotland mis-sold the account.  Mr Y disagrees  so 
the case has come to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ys complaint.
Ill first consider whether Mr Y knew he had a choice about taking out the GAVA; then 
whether Bank of Scotland  acted correctly when  making the sale.
Bank of Scotland has provided  evidence that Mr Y had had a fee free bank account for over 
two years before he took out the GAVA. And fee free bank accounts were widely advertised 
and available  from Bank of Scotland and other  financial  institutions.  So, I think  its more likely 
than not that he would have been aware  that fee free bank accounts were available  to him 
from Bank of Scotland and others at the time of the sale. 
So, in my view he was aware he had a choice about  whether to take out the GAVA for a 
monthly fee or not and he chose to do so.
Bank of Scotland advised Mr Y to take out the GAVA which  was sold in a branch. So, the 
requirement on Bank of Scotland  was to provide enough information to Mr Y to make an 
informed choice about the GAVA and to check whether the account was suitable for him.
The GAVAs  benefits  include  worldwide travel  insurance, AA car breakdown cover (whether 
the driver  or owner  of the car or not), mobile  phone insurance, and Sentinel card protection. 
The GAVA cost £12 per month.
I dont know exactly how the GAVA was presented to Mr Y, but Bank  of Scotland was trying  
to sell Mr Y the account, so I think its more likely than not that Bank of Scotland explained  
the benefits in some  detail.  Bank  of Scotland provided Mr Y with a booklet about the GAVA, 
and Mr Y used some  of the benefits,  for example registering for the mobile phone  insurance.
Ref: DRN94088532So, I think its more likely  than not that he knew enough about what  he was buying  for him to 
decide that it was worth  his while to do so, and that if he knew  more  it wouldnt have put him 
off buying the GAVA.
When he took out the GAVA, Bank of Scotland needed to ensure it was suitable for him. I 
dont know how well it did this, but Mr Y says he travelled  abroad  up to three  times a year,  
he had car and he had the benefit of the AA car breakdown whether he was the owner or 
driver of a car or not. Mr Y registered for and was covered by the mobile  phone  insurance on 
two occasions  and there was no aspect of the GAVAs  benefits that he wasnt  eligible for. 
So, I think the GAVA was suitable for him. 
In response to our adjudicators view Mr Y says he had significant medical conditions from 
before the sale in September 2012  that might have excluded him from using the travel 
insurance. However, the travel insurance didnt exclude pre-existing medical conditions,  it 
only required  the applicant to declare them. Bank  of Scotland has provided the discussion 
summary document from the sale which implies that Mr Y was told about the need to do so. 
But even if not, Im aware of the nature of Mr Ys medical conditions and I think its more 
likely than not he would have obtained cover  either  for free or for a small additional premium 
if he had declared  them  at the time of sale. So, Im not persuaded that Mr Y would have 
been put off taking out the GAVA  had he in fact been told fully about the travel insurance.
So overall, I dont  think that Bank of Scotland mis-sold the GAVA  to Mr Y or that he lost out 
as a result  of anything  Bank of Scotland did or didnt do.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9408853