K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Qmetric Group  Limited  failed to provide him with comprehensive  free 
home emergency and legal  cover  when he was purchasing  a home insurance policy. He 
also complains about the poor customer service he feels he received.
background
Mr C purchased a home insurance policy with Qmetric via an online price  comparison 
website on 3 March  2019. The policy was due to commence on 1 April 2019. One of the 
benefits of the policy  was that it came with a free home emergency  policy  and a free legal 
assistance policy. Both policies provided  free basic cover during the first year of cover. 
On 6 March 2019,  Mr C called Qmetric to discuss  the policy excesses for the home 
emergency and legal  assistance  policies.  The conversation  continued to include a 
discussion about the details of the optional additional (comprehensive)  home  emergency  
and legal assistance policies Qmetric also offered. 
Mr C then raised a complaint with Qmetric. He said he believed  hed purchased  the 
comprehensive policies  not the basic ones. Qmetric confirmed that there was no option, 
when purchasing a home insurance policy online,  to also purchase  the comprehensive home 
emergency and legal  assistance  policies.  To do that, Qmetric said Mr C wouldve needed to 
telephone it. 
Mr C said hed been mis-sold the free basic policies.  He was also unhappy that hed have to 
pay an additional premium of £99.90 if he wanted to upgrade the free basic  policies to the 
comprehensive ones.  He said he understood the comprehensive cover was included  for 
free.
Qmetric looked into Mr Cs complaint and said during his online journey  it had been  made  
clear what  cover the free basic policies included and what they didnt. And it said when  Mr C 
selected the option to proceed with his purchase he was directed from the price comparison 
website to its own website  where  he was provided  with a policy summary of cover  before 
finalising his purchase. It said these both set out what  the basic  policies included by way of 
cover. Also prior to purchase, Qmetric included information which  stated that if Mr C wanted  
to extend his basic cover to comprehensive cover then he needed to contact it by phone  to 
discuss the option. 
After the online journey  had finished,  Qmetric went on to say that itd sent Mr C two separate  
confirmation emails (also on 3 March  2019)  for both of the basic policies, attached  to which  
were the policy  wordings,  policy  schedules, policy summaries  and a statement about the 
cover. It said Mr C had been advised to read the documents to ensure he understood the 
cover hed selected and was happy it met his needs. So Qmetric said it was happy  it had 
made him aware before  he purchased  the policies what cover was provided and that hed 
been told he could  contact it directly to extend the cover should he so wish.  
During the course of Mr Cs complaint to Qmetric there were  numerous calls between the 
two of them. Mr C was unhappy with the conduct  of a number of the advisers he spoke to 
and he complained to Qmetric about  it. Aside  from one unfortunate example given by one of 
its advisers during  a call, Qmetric didnt think the conduct of any of its staff had been  rude or 
unhelpful. For the unfortunate example one of its advisers had given, it noted  that it had 
Ref: DRN97713892immediately been  withdrawn and an apology made and it offered  Mr C compensation of £20 
which he declined. 
Mr C also complained to Qmetric that it had breached data regulations. Qmetric looked into 
this complaint but didnt think itd done anything wrong. And Mr C said Qmetric had used 
delay tactics when  he decided to cancel his policy (on 20 March 2019)  and required a full 
refund. Qmetric looked into this complaint  too but said it had actioned  the refund immediately 
on the same  day the policy was cancelled and, as stated in its terms and conditions, it does 
advise to allow 3-5 working days for receipt of funds. So it didnt uphold this complaint either.  
Unhappy with the outcome of Qmetrics investigation, Mr C complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into his complaint but didnt think Qmetric had treated  him unfairly  or 
unreasonably so he didnt recommend the complaint  was upheld.  
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sale of Mr Cs policy was what is known as a non-advised sale. That means no advice 
is given by the insurer to the purchaser and it is the purchasers responsibility to make  sure 
the cover  they select meets their needs.  It also means the insurer is in no way responsible 
for the cover thats been selected. All the insurer has to show is that it provided clear  
information, prior to the purchase, which allows the purchaser to fully understand the cover  
he or she is selecting. 
Qmetric has provided us with evidence (in the form of screen shots, emails, policy  
documentation etc.) to show  the journey Mr C took when selecting  and purchasing  the 
policy. 
Im satisfied, from the evidence Ive seen, that Qmetric discharged  its responsibility  to 
provide Mr C with clear information  so that he could  make  an informed choice about the 
cover he was purchasing.  Mr C says he understood that he was getting the comprehensive 
home emergency and legal  assistance policies as free bolt-ons to his home  insurance  policy. 
Im unable to agree  with him. All the information  provided to him  both on the price 
comparisons website and Qmetrics own website  clearly set out (on more  than one 
occasion) what cover  he was getting for free. And the key information documents emailed to 
him immediately after hed completed his online journey clearly  set out the level of cover  
provided to him for free. 
Im satisfied that before finalising his purchase, Mr C was advised  by Qmetric that if he 
wished to extend his cover  he needed  to call it to discuss the option. That being  the case, its 
reasonable to assume that such an invitation wouldnt have been inserted into the online 
journey if such cover  had been included for free.  
So Ive seen  no evidence  that could allow me to reasonably conclude that Mr C had been 
misled into believing  he was getting  the comprehensive cover for free or that he was 
mis-sold his policy. Ive seen no option during the online journey for him to have selected 
comprehensive cover  so Im unable  to fairly  and reasonably agree - as he claims - that this 
was the cover he selected
Ref: DRN97713893Ive looked into Mr Cs complaint about the level of customer service  he received from 
Qmetric and Im unable to agree that its advisers were rude or unprofessional towards him. 
I note that an unfortunately worded example of a situation was given to Mr C during  the 
course of one call but I its clear  that Qmetrics adviser immediately apologised. I can also 
see Qmetric apologised again  in its final response letter  to Mr C and offered Mr C 
compensation of £20 which he declined.  I think that Qmetrics response to this particular 
episode was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Ive also seen no evidence of any delay tactics in refunding the premium Mr C had paid 
when he decided to cancel his policy. Qmetric could do no more than action the refund on 
the day it was requested,  which  it did. And its terms and conditions make  it clear that, when  
cancelling a policy, refunds can take 3-5 working  days. Thats not an unreasonable  amount 
of time to make a customer wait for a refund. 
Ive noted Mr Cs complaint about  Qmetric breaching GDPR. Thats not something I can 
consider here as its not a complaint about  a regulated activity. As I can see that Mr C is 
already aware,  complaints about data protection breaches must be made to the Information 
Commissioners Office.  So Im not going to consider that aspect of Mr Cs complaint here. 
Finally, Ive noted that Mr C recently said to our investigator that he wanted this service  to 
award him £50 for the stress he endured and the phone calls he made.  Whilst I can make an 
award of compensation, Im only able to do so where Im satisfied that the business  the 
complaint is about  has done something  wrong. Im not persuaded that thats the case here.
Taking all the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint into account, Im unable  to fairly and 
reasonably uphold it for the reasons Ive given above. I appreciate  Mr Cs strength of feeling 
about his experience so I accept that my decision will come as a disappointment to him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9771389