K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied  with finance  from BMW  
Financial Services (GB) Limited.
background
In May 2018  Mr Z was supplied with a used  car and entered into a hire purchase  agreement 
with BMWFS. At the point of supply the car was approximately two years  old and had 
covered approximately 20,500 miles.
Mr Z says he was told by the supplying  dealer  that he wouldnt need to worry about brakes 
or tyres as these would be checked  and replaced  as necessary before he collected  the car. 
He says he agreed with the dealership that it would service the car and put it through an 
MOT.
In November 2018 Mr Z took the car for an end of warranty check. He was advised that the 
rear tyres were almost  completely worn  on the inner  edge and that the brake pads needed 
replacement.
Mr Z complained to the supplying dealer. He felt that the tyres had worn unevenly.  The 
dealers response was that this had been  caused by Mr Zs driving style.  It offered to replace 
one tyre and carry out a wheel alignment at no cost to Mr Z.
Mr Z wasnt happy with this and complained to BMWFS. In its final response BMWFS  said 
there was no evidence that the issues complained about by Mr Z had been present at the 
point of supply.
Mr Z wasnt happy with this response and complained to this service.  As well as the 
complaint about  tyres and brakes, Mr Z raised a further complaint point relating to a 
paintwork protection product which he felt had been mis-sold to him. He was also unhappy 
that hed been told the car would  have a full service  before he collected it, whereas it had 
only been put through an approved used car inspection.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that whilst  she could see that the rear 
tyres were worn  unevenly  in November 2018, the car had passed an MOT in May 2018 and 
therefore it wasnt unreasonable  to have left the tyres in place. The investigator didnt agree 
that the speed at which the tyres had worn showed that there  was a fault. She felt the 
uneven wear was more likely to have been due to poor wheel alignment. In relation to the 
brake discs,  the investigator said there  wasnt  any evidence to show that these were  faulty  
when Mr Z got the car. The investigator looked at whether  the car had been  misrepresented 
to Mr Z but said there wasnt  any evidence  to show that the car was to be supplied with new 
tyres and brakes.  She concluded  that BMWFS didnt need  to refund Mr Z for the cost of 
repairs.
Mr Z didnt  agree. He said the car had been  supplied to him o the understanding  that all four 
tyres would be replaced and with a verbal guarantee from the dealer that the car wouldnt 
incur any maintenance  costs in the first year. He said hed been  told that the car would have 
a full service before  he collected it. He said the paint protection  product was mis-sold  to him 
because it didnt meet his needs and he felt that the dealership hadnt  removed  the chips  
and scratches as it had agreed to do before applying the product.
Ref: DRN94256862my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BMWFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres  an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality.  Satisfactory is what a  reasonable person would regard 
as acceptable,  taking into account factors such as the price paid, fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability. I would expect a 
second hand car, such as that supplied  to Mr Z, to have a degree of wear and tear. So in 
order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the issues  with the tyres and 
brakes were  inherent defects as opposed  to wear and tear.
In considering whether Mr Zs car had a fault,  Ive looked at the component parts which  were 
affected. Component  parts such as tyres and brakes are generally  parts  which I would 
expect to require  replacement from time to time.  So Id need to be satisfied that the parts  
were faulty  at the point of supply, rather than having suffered deterioration due to wear and 
tear.
Ive looked at the available evidence in order to decide whether the tyres and brakes were 
faulty at the point of supply. Theres no dispute  that the rear tyres were  worn in November 
2018. But the fact that the car passed an MOT in May 2018  without the rear tyres needing 
replacement suggests  to me that the tyres  were  in satisfactory condition  at the point of 
supply.
I appreciate that Mr Z feels  that the tyres  have worn  too quickly.  But I havent seen any 
evidence to persuade me that this was due to a fault. Moreover, I can see from the report 
produced in November 2018 that the rear tyres were worn  on the inner edges. This is 
suggestive of incorrect wheel alignment.  The fact that an alignment has now been carried  
out and Mr Z hasnt experienced any further issues with uneven wear  to the tyres supports 
my view that the issues were caused  by this. Incorrect wheel alignment isnt a fault or a 
manufacturing defect.  Its something which a car driver would be expected  to check 
regularly.
In relation to the front brake  discs,  theres no dispute  that they required replacement  in 
November 2018.  But as with the tyres,  the fact that the car passed the MOT in May 2018  
without any issues being noted with regards  to the brakes suggests to me that they were in 
satisfactory condition at the point of supply. Its more  likely that the brakes required 
replacement due to wear and tear. 
Ive taken into account what Mr Z has said about what the dealership told him when he 
agreed to purchase  the car. Amongst other  things,  Mr Z says he was told that all four tyres 
would be replaced  and that the car would have a full service. Hes also said that the dealer 
promised that he wouldnt incur maintenance costs in the first year.
I wasnt present when Mr Z agreed to purchase  the car so I cant be certain of exactly what 
he discussed with the dealership. I havent seen  the original advertisement for the car so I 
cant say whether it was advertised as having four new tyres or as being in any particular 
condition. Whilst I dont  dispute what Mr Z has told this service, it would be very unusual for 
a dealership to give a guarantee that a second  hand car wouldnt incur any maintenance 
costs in the first year. A used car is, by definition, likely to require more  maintenance and 
repair than a brand new car. Even  if the dealer did provide Mr Z with such  a guarantee, I 
Ref: DRN94256863dont think this statement  amounts to a misrepresentation or an untrue statement of fact, but 
rather an expression of the dealers opinion.
Ive looked at the emails between Mr Z and the dealer. I can see that Mr Z asked the dealer 
to confirm that the new tyres were  on. The dealer replied that front  tyres have been 
replaced; rear tyres were at 4.5mm.  So even if there was a initial  discussion about replacing  
all four tyres,  its clear  from these emails that the dealer replaced only those tyres which  
needed replacing (the front ones)  and that Mr Z, having been advised  of this, went ahead 
with the agreement anyway. Because of this, Im unable to say the car was misrepresented.
Ive also taken into account what Mr Z has said about the car being sold to him without a full 
service. I havent seen any information  to suggest that a full service  was agreed. I can see 
that the dealer agreed to carry out an approved used vehicle check  (AUV). The work carried  
out as a result of the AUV included  replacing the two front tyres, replenishing the Ad Blue 
CBS reset,  MOT test, refurbishment of two alloys and touching  up of bodywork. Because I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest  that the dealer was obliged to do anything more  than 
the AUV check  Im  unable to say that a full service shouldve been carried  out.
Mr Z has complained about the suitability of the paintwork product he purchased with the 
car. Hes also questioned whether the dealer removed the chips  and scratches on the car 
before the product was applied.
The work carried out by the dealer as part of the AUV check  includes re-touching  the 
bodywork. I think its likely that this relates  to the chips and scratches Mr Z has mentioned.  If 
the chips and scratches  hadnt been  removed, I wouldve expected Mr Z to notice this 
sooner. On the available  evidence Im unable  to conclude that the dealer  didnt  remove  the 
chips and scratches.
In relation to the paintwork protection product itself, Mr Z has said that it doesnt meet his 
needs because  it doesnt cover the swirl marks which  have appeared following the car being 
washed. He feels  that the product was mis-sold.
Ive looked at the information which was provided to Mr Z about the product. I can see that 
the dealer sent him a link to a video about the product. Mr Z has confirmed that he watched 
this, but says he didnt receive any paperwork relating to the product, including  information 
about exclusions, until after he had purchased the car.
Ive looked at the guarantee  and I can see that it excludes scratching and swirl marks 
caused by hand held and automated car washes. The terms and conditions can be viewed 
on the product  website  so I think Mr Z could have looked at these before deciding whether or 
not to purchase  the product. Even  if Mr Z didnt look at the exclusions before he purchased 
the product,  he was provided with the information  very shortly  thereafter, and I think that he 
therefore knew  or ought to have known   that he needed to take care where  and how the 
car was washed.
As well as what Ive said above,  I havent  seen anything to suggest  that the dealer made any 
particular representations about  the product or its suitability. In order  for me to be satisfied 
that there  was a misrepresentation, Id need to be certain that the dealer made an untrue 
statement of fact which induced Mr Z to purchase  the product.  Ive not seen any information 
to persuade me of that. 
Ref: DRN94256864For the reasons  Ive given, Im unable to uphold the complaint. I wont  be asking BMWFS  to 
do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9425686