K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2007. Mr W says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI Capital One had to make  it clear to Mr W that he had a choice about it. 
Mr W says he wasnt  aware that PPI was added  to his account. But he hasnt given us much  
detail about what  happened or what was said during the sale.
Capital One says the PPI was sold during a phone call to activate Mr Ws credit  card.  And 
its sent us a copy of its record from the sale which shows that Mr W chose to take PPI.
Capital One has also sent us a copy of the script it says its advisor wouldve followed during 
the call with Mr W. And this script  instructs  the advisor to make sure the customer is aware 
the policy is optional  and to gain their explicit consent to take it out.
Based on the evidence  I have available and what I understand about  Capital Ones  sales  
practices at the time, I think its likely that this script  was largely followed in Mr Ws call with 
Capital One. And so I think its likely  that Capital One did make  it clear to Mr W that he had a 
choice about the PPI, and that he chose to take it.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Capital One gave  Mr W any personalised advice about the 
PPI. So I dont think it recommended the PPI to him. This means  it didnt have to check  if it 
was right for him. But it did have to make  sure he got the information he needed to decide if 
the PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like Mr W was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And the 
policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than the sick pay hes told us he wouldve 
been entitled to. So it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong. It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put 
Mr W off taking it out.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr W, 
that was unfair.
Ref: DRN98989922To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2019
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9898992