K821x#15complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about his mobile  phone insurance policy  with Asurion Europe Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in February 2019, part of which is copied 
below: 
Mr S took out this insurance  policy with Asurion when he bought a phone in 2014. He 
bought another phone with another Asurion  insurance policy in 2015.  One of these was for 
his grandchild and one for him.
In March 2017, Mr S upgraded his phone and says he asked for the insurance to be 
transferred to cover the new phone. This was not done. His insurance policy continued, and 
he continued to pay the monthly  premiums for it, but it covered the old unused  handset  only.  
Mr S says the new phone  was damaged  in June 2017 but when he tried to claim under the 
policy found that the cover had not been  transferred. He has spoken  to Asurion a few days 
earlier and was told that the upgraded phone  was covered. He relied on that information and 
has suffered a loss as a direct result. 
Mr S is unhappy that he has continued to pay for a policy that was not providing him with the 
cover he wanted. He says he would never have continued the policy for a phone  that has not 
used, no longer has and is currently worth  around £12.50.
Asurion says it never told Mr S that the cover was transferred. It continued to provide cover 
for the old phone and therefore he was receiving  the insurance  cover he was paying for. He 
could have cancelled  it at any time,  if he no longer wanted it. He has asked for the premiums  
to be returned,  for three years, or a replacement for the new phone. If he had known the 
upgraded phone wasnt covered, hed have arranged another policy  and cancelled the policy 
with Asurion. 
Asurion says the policy documents make clear  that cover will renew automatically for up to 
five years.  And that: if you choose insurance again  when you upgrade  your phone with 
[our supplier],  we'll cancel cover  on your old phone and send you another welcome  pack  
confirming your cover start date, premium and excess fee for the new phone.  Otherwise, 
we'll continue cover for your old phone until you contact us to cancel.
It therefore says it has acted in line with those  policy terms. Asurion does  however,  
acknowledge that when he first called to report the matter, Mr S was told there was cover for 
the two phones.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She didnt think it should be upheld  as she 
didnt think there was evidence that Asurion new Mr S wanted to take out cover for the new 
upgraded phone. 
Mr S doesnt  accept the investigators assessment and so the matter has been passed to 
me. 
Ref: DRN96744552my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not entirely clear  from the information provided to me, which  phone Mr S was using and 
which one was purchased for his grandchild. 
Asurion has said that it has acted in line with its policy terms. Mr S has said he did not have 
the original phone for some years but it looks like he upgraded it in March 2017.  The policy 
does say it will automatically  renew and I can see it would be easy for consumers to be 
uncertain about matters  when they upgrade while retaining the same contract. 
I am satisfied Mr S wished  to cancel the insurance policy and have a new one for the 
upgraded phone and if he had realised this is what he had to do at the time, he would have 
done it and Asurion would have accepted the risk. So, even  if Mr S did not take the 
necessary steps  to cancel the insurance and take out a new policy,  it seems to me that 
Asurion should  register the upgraded phone and reinstate the policy  (and deal with the 
claim) if Mr S wishes it to do so. 
Alternatively, as Mr S says the 2014 was no longer  used, Asurion should refund the 
premiums paid for that phone since the date it was upgraded. I accept that policyholders  
may own and/or use more  than one phone. However there  is no evidence Mr S continued to 
use the 2014 phone after the upgrade.  Therefore, I am satisfied that there  was effectively no 
risk being  insured under this policy. So if Mr S would prefer, Asurion should refund the 
premiums paid for this policy since the date he upgraded his phone  together  with interest  at 
our usual rate of 8% per annum (Mr S puts this at £144 but it seems it was only between  
March and June  2017); and the sum of £100  compensation. 
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require Asurion  Europe Limited to: 
either refund the premiums paid for this policy since the date Mr S upgraded his 
phone, together with interest at our usual  rate of 8% simple per annum; or reinstate 
the policy for the upgraded phone and deal with the claim; and 
pay the sum of £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  to him 
by its handling  of this matter.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Asurion has responded and said that it will agree to provide a refund of the premiums  paid
and pay the £100 compensation but wont agree to reinstate the insurance for the upgraded 
device. It says Mr S did not select insurance for this device and it has not issued any policy 
documentation for this device and the premium payable would have been different.
Mr S has also responded. He has confirmed that he accepts the compensation proposed 
and intends to use it to have the phone repaired and then insure elsewhere. 
Ref: DRN96744553my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accept  my provisional  decision  in the main, I see no reason to change my 
findings. Asurion  does however dispute  one aspect  of my proposed award. It says it wont 
agree to insure the upgraded phone, as the premium would have been different. 
It appears that Mr S would rather accept the refund of the premiums he paid on the unused 
original phone, and compensation in any event.  However, as I considered that the error in 
not registering the upgraded phone was in part due to the ambiguity of the policy documents, 
I do think that Asurion  should reinstate the cover if Mr S wishes.  I agree however  that if he 
wants the cover to continue and his claim to be met, then any additional premium that would 
have been charged on the policy would also have to be paid from the date of the upgrade. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Asurion Europe Limited to: 
either refund the premiums paid for this policy since the date Mr S upgraded his 
phone, together with interest at our usual  rate of 8% simple per annum; or reinstate 
the policy for the upgraded phone (upon payment  by Mr S of any difference in 
premium) and deal with the claim;  and  
pay the sum of £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  to him 
by its handling  of this matter.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9674455