K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold  him a packaged bank 
account, called the Additions account in 1997.  He paid a monthly fee for the account and 
received several  potential  benefits in return.  He thinks  that Barclays  should refund him all the 
fees he paid, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Cs complaint and didnt think  that 
Barclays had mis-sold the Additions  account to him. 
Mr C didnt agree with the adjudicators  findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about Mr Cs complaint.  Ive 
looked into everything that Mr C and Barclays  have  told us or sent us about the case and 
Ive decided not to uphold  it. Ill explain why. 
Mr C has banked with Barclays for quite a while. He opened a fee-free account in 1984,  
switched to the Additions account in 1997, and changed back  to a fee-free account in 2009.
The crux of Mr Cs complaint is that he believes that in 1997 Barclays wouldnt let him keep  
the fee-free account but told him he had to switch to the Additions account. Hes told us that 
he went into one of Barclays  branches  on other business and was asked to meet  an adviser.  
Hes said that the adviser  first tried to sell him a loan, which  he didnt take, and then told him 
that because of (his) overdraft  (he) had to change to an Additions  account. Hes said 
that Barclays told him this even  though  he explained to them  that he didnt want  or need any 
of the other potential  benefits that came with the Additions account. Hes told us that 
Barclays forced the account on to him and that his financial situation at the time was such 
that he couldnt open an account with another bank. 
Barclays has not accepted that it forced  the account onto Mr C. It agrees that it sold the 
account to him during a meeting at one of its branches, but it thinks  it did so fairly. 
On our questionnaire,  Mr C indicated that Barclays recommended the Additions  account to 
him, although he has since said that as Barclays told him he had to take the Additions 
account, it wasnt so much a recommendation as forced selling.  Barclays has told us that it 
didnt recommend the account, but sold it to Mr C on an information only basis.  
Forced  selling is always wrong,  and I will return to that later,  but if Barclays  recommended 
the account to Mr C, then I would  have expected  it to check that the account was a 
reasonable choice for his financial situation and to tell him about it clearly and fairly so he 
could decide if he wanted it. If Barclays sold the account on an information only basis,  it 
would still have had to describe things fairly, but it wouldnt have had to check  Mr Cs 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN93564302Its now over twenty years  since Barclays sold the account to Mr C and I cant tell for certain 
what happened during the meeting. However,  as part of our investigation into this case,  Mr C 
held quite a long phone conversation with our adjudicator  during which he told us what  he 
remembers. I have listened  to our recording of this call and Mr C discussed the way he used 
his account at that time and explained  that before (and after) he took the Additions  account 
he over drew  his account regularly, although  he wasnt always  in it. 
Barclays has also sent us a brief record from its internal systems and there is a note dated 
January 1997  which  appears to have been  completed either during or shortly after the 
meeting. The note says Customer has received  central mailing  to Additions.  Please confirm  
and agree application and then adds  Additions  already sanctioned.  Please sanction  £500 
overdraft which is already in place on (his) current account. 
From what  Mr C has told us and from the note Barclays  has sent us, it seems to me that 
there was a significant discussion at the meeting and Im satisfied that despite  Barclays  
comments, it probably did recommend the account  to Mr C, or at least gave  that impression; 
so I have reviewed the case  on this basis.  It also seems  to me that the extent  to which  Mr C 
used an overdraft was probably an important part of the discussion at the meeting. 
At that time,  I understand that Barclays charged  customers with its fee-free account  £5 each 
month if they went overdrawn, as well as the interest  charges. The monthly cost of the 
Additions account was also £5, but there was no overdraft charge and customers  did not 
have to pay interest on the first £100 of the overdraft. So its quite possible that it may have 
looked at the time as if Mr C could be better off with the Additions account  than if he stayed 
with the fee-free account. Although Mr C may not have wanted  or needed any of the other 
features of the Additions account,  given the way he was using  his overdraft, I think it was 
probably reasonable for Barclays to recommend he change to the Additions  account, 
providing it let him have  the final choice. This brings  me back  to the question of whether 
Barclays forced Mr C to buy the Additions  account or gave him the choice to keep his fee-
free account, which as I mentioned earlier is the crux of his complaint.  
Apart from Mr Cs recollections, which I accept have been very clear,  there  isnt a great deal 
of other  evidence to suggest that Barclays forced Mr C to take the Additions  account. I can 
see that Mr C has done his best to remember what happened at the meeting, but where I 
have been able to check the facts, some of them have been inconsistent  with what Mr C has 
told us. For example, in the phone call with our adjudicator, Mr C said that he remembered 
discussing the car breakdown cover that came with the account. But Barclays  didnt make  
this a feature  of the Additions account  until several  years later than 1997; and I think it 
unlikely that Barclays  would have raised  it at that time. 
Similarly, I havent seen any reasons why Barclays would  suddenly decide to withdraw  its 
fee-free account  from Mr C, after hed held it for over a decade. I think its more likely  that 
Barclays recommended  the Additions account  to Mr C and that he chose to take it based  on 
this recommendation.  I accept that Barclays may have  made  a strong  recommendation to Mr 
C, but this is not the same  as forcing him to change accounts. 
Of course,  I cant  be certain that Barclays got everything right for Mr C, and I accept  that it 
may not have explained everything about the Additions account to him as clearly  as it should 
have done. But Im satisfied that at the time it may well have seemed to be a cheaper option 
for Mr C (depending on exactly how he went on to use his overdraft) and I think  it was 
Ref: DRN93564303reasonable for Barclays to recommend the account to him. So I dont think  that Barclays mis-
sold the Additions account  to Mr C. 
In the phone call with our adjudicator, Mr C mentioned that Barclays  also sold his wife an 
Additions account, and that they were  waiting for the outcome of this case  before deciding  
whether to complain  about her account. This is, of course, a matter for Mr Cs wife, but I 
would like to clarify for Mr C that we consider each case separately on its individual merits 
and that his wife is free to make a complaint to Barclays and then to use our service if she so 
wishes. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint about Barclays 
Bank UK PLC. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020. 
Steve Townsley 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9356430