K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1995. The policy  was added  to Mrs Ms 
Marks & Spencer charge card account when she applied for the card by post.  It cost 64p for 
every £100  owed on the account. If Mrs M had successfully claimed on the policy for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have paid out 15% of the account balance  
each month  until Mrs M either went  back to work  or the balance was cleared. The policy also 
provided life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
 Ive seen Mrs Ms charge card application. There was a separate  section  about  PPI 
which included a box to tick if the applicant wanted PPI. The box is ticked on Mrs Ms 
application, and her name  is filled in in a box marked Full Name  of insured person. It 
was clear from the application form that PPI was optional.  Taking everything into 
account, Im satisfied, on balance, that Mrs M chose to take out the PPI, knowing that 
she didnt have  to  although I can understand why she may no longer remember this.
 Allianz didnt advise Mrs M to take out the policy. This means it didnt need to check it 
was suitable for her circumstances. It was for Mrs M to decide  whether or not to take 
the PPI. But Allianz did need to give Mrs M enough information  to allow  her to make an 
informed decision about whether  or not to buy the policy.
 Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been.  But Im satisfied  that she chose to take out the policy.  So it looks  as 
if she wanted this type of cover.  Based on what Mrs Ms told us about her 
circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  
that wouldve  made  it more difficult for her to make a successful claim. As she couldve 
benefitted from everything  the policy  offered,  I dont  think having more information  
about these things wouldve affected her decision to take out the policy.
 Mrs Ms told us that she wouldve got six months worth of sick pay from her job. But 
the policy  would have paid out on top of this, and potentially for longer than shed have 
received full pay for. It wouldve allowed her to use her work benefits to meet  her other 
household expenses. So taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs Ms other 
means meant  that she didnt need  the PPI cover. And I think  the policy could have 
been useful to her.
Ref: DRN93600182 The policy was competitively priced  and Ive seen nothing  to suggest that Mrs M 
couldnt afford  it. For the reasons  Ive explained, even if Mrs M had been given clearer 
information about  the cost and benefits  of the policy, I think it likely that she wouldve 
still have taken out the policy.  So, I cant see that she has lost out because  of anything 
that Allianz mightve  done wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9360018