K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt tell him that to qualify for the Help to 
Buy ISA bonus,  there  was a purchase price  limit for the property he would be buying.
background
Mr P decided to invest money he was given as a gift for his wedding  in a Help to Buy ISA for 
a house purchase. When Mr P opened the account, he did so in branch, and agreed to the 
terms and conditions of the account.  
When Mr Ps solicitor  applied for the bonus  from HMRC when completing the house 
purchase for him, they were informed that as the property was outside of London and over 
£250,000, he wouldnt be eligible for the bonus.  Mr P had factored getting the bonus into the 
finances needed for the property purchase, and says he had to borrow  the money  off family 
to complete the sale.
He complained to Nationwide,  but they said Mr P signed the declaration  agreeing hed seen 
a copy of the schemes rules, or a link to the rules.  And the rules make it clear  the property 
purchase limits. Mr P then contacted  our service for help.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as he couldnt see Nationwide  had missed 
giving Mr P any information on the scheme  rules for the Help to Buy ISA. Mr P disagreed - 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so Im not upholding the 
complaint  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the documents Mr P was given at the time he applied for the Help to Buy ISA. 
Under the Declaration for Help to Buy ISA, Mr P has signed to say;
I have been supplied with, or have had made available to me, a copy  of the Scheme  Rules,  
or have  been  provided with, or had made available to me, a link to a website where the 
Scheme Rules can be accessed,  and I agree to be bound from the date of this agreement  as 
an Eligible Customer by the Scheme Rules, as such may be amended and/or restarted from 
time to time.
This shows Mr P agreed hed been given the relevant information about the Scheme Rules. 
Amongst other things, these rules  say;
the Purchase Price is: 
(A) in the case  of a property located  in London,  not more  than £450,000; or 
(B) in the case  of a property located  outside London, not more  than £250,000;
So I think Nationwide made Mr P aware  there  were  rules linked to the way the Help to Buy 
ISA worked at the time he set up the account.
Ref: DRN98611712Had Mr P, or anyone acting on his behalf when completing the house purchase looked  up 
these rules, they wouldve seen the property he was looking to buy was over the limit to 
qualify for the bonus for house purchases  outside of London - which  was £250,000.
Whilst I appreciate Mr P was disappointed  to find out he didnt qualify for the bonus, I think  
the information Nationwide gave him was clear,  and wouldve made him reasonably aware  of 
all the necessary information he needed  to make  an informed  choice about how the scheme 
worked. And this includes information about  the schemes maximum house purchase limits. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ps.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
 
Helen Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9861171