K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that the length of a hire purchase  agreement she got from Black Horse  
Limited was misrepresented.  
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 21 June  2019. A copy of my provisional decision is attached and this forms 
part of my final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  what  Id decided  about this complaint and what I 
intended to do  subject to any further  submissions from the parties. Both parties have now 
had the chance to consider my provisional  findings.  Black Horse has nothing further to add 
but Mrs C is unhappy  with my provisional  view. She says (in summary) 
this was the first time she took out car credit in many years and she last worked  in 
the finance industry over twenty years  ago;
the salesperson  took the minimum amount of information  for the proposal  when she 
phoned to ask Mrs C to collect the car early. Mrs C doesnt recall  compliance  process  
being carried out at that time - they didnt have a conversation  about key facts, 
affordability or a minimum term of 36 months;
the salesperson  avoided  a difficult conversation by failing to tell Mrs C that the term 
was 36 months in order to complete the handover  as quickly as possible so she 
could get back  to selling on a busy weekend;  
the signing process breached FCA regulations as Mrs C wasnt given the opportunity  
to read pre-contract information (PCCI)  and the salesperson  should  have read aloud  
compliance statements  and agreement terms - or advised  Mrs C to read information 
displayed on the screen. Instead  Mrs C was just asked to 'click here' as the sales  
person was in a rush to get the handover done - which should be clear  from the time 
stamps on the system;
a copy of the hire purchase agreement (HPA) should have been printed and provided  
on the day of signing.  Mrs C might have  clicked  to confirm  she had received that but 
she didnt get a paper copy until Black Horse sent one in the post;
Black  Horse did give her the option of settling in full at one point but it intimated she 
couldnt make monthly overpayments - shed have  to pay a lump sum and she 
understood an admin charge would  apply;
Black  Horse told her another credit check would  be needed if it was to re-write the 
credit agreement. She was reluctant to have two searches  and agreements within a 
short period of time on her record and Black Horse never said it could remove  the 
first search; 
Mrs C intended to pay for this car in cash along with her part exchange. She had the 
money in the bank  as shed just sold another vehicle. The car she bought here was 
more expensive than anticipated. So she took time to decide whether to pay more 
cash into the deal or take out finance  and decided on the finance option;
she would not have taken out the finance  if she had known the term was 36 months  - 
either for speed or convenience. Instead,  she would have paid the balance in full by 
debit card and then decided whether to replenish funds through a personal loan or by 
selling shares - or not at all. 
Mrs C remains  of the view that she should be put back to the position she expected  to be in 
at the time of purchase.
Ref: DRN92791202my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available  evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I want to assure Mrs C that I have considered all of her submissions very carefully. I dont 
underestimate how strongly she feels about  this matter. I realise this decision is likely to 
come as a disappointment  but I am afraid  nothing  shes said has changed my mind.  
As I explained in my provisional findings,  I cant be certain what was said exactly  before 
Mrs C took out this HPA.  Mrs C accepts she went through the electronic signing process  on 
the day she went to collect the car. Ive reviewed that process and Im satisfied Mrs C would 
have had the opportunity to read the PCCI and the HPA. And I am satisfied that Black Horse 
complied with its obligations when it sent Mrs C a copy of the paperwork by post.  
In my provisional conclusions I set out why Im not persuaded there was a misrepresentation 
here that induced Mrs C to take out this HPA. But, even if I were  to accept that there  was, 
the appropriate remedy would be to put Mrs C back in the position she wouldve been in if 
the misrepresentation hadnt been  made.  I cant require Black  Horse to take steps to put 
Mrs C in the position she would have been  in if that misrepresentation were true. This means  
Im unable to direct  Black Horse to reduce the HPA term to 30 months, which  is, I think, what 
Mrs C would really like me to do. 
I remain of the view that Mrs C had the option to end this agreement if she wanted to. I 
appreciate Mrs C had various reasons for deciding not to do so but I am not persuaded this 
means Black Horse did something wrong. For the reasons Ive given already, I am not 
satisfied that there are enough fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. Mrs C 
is not obliged  to accept my decision.  In which case, its open to her to pursue  this matter by 
other means  should she wish to do so. 
my final decision
My decision  is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN92791203copy provisional decision
complaint
Mrs C complains that the length of a hire purchase agreement  she got from Black Horse  Limited  was 
misrepresented.  
background
Mrs C took out this hire purchase  agreement (HPA) for a car she acquired  in April last year.  She had 
to pay a balance of around £4,000 and wasnt sure if she wanted to fund that herself  or take out some 
sort of finance. She wanted to pay over two years ideally but the dealer said the minimum  term was 
30 months. Mrs C told the dealer she wanted to go ahead for the shorter term and signed the HPA 
electronically assuming this was 30 months. When Mrs C got her paper copy of the HPA in the post, 
she realised  the term was 36 months and complained to Black  Horse. 
Black Horse doesnt  think the dealer would have quoted a 30 month term as theres no sign of that 
according to their systems.  The dealer says it told Mrs C it would get her the shortest  term available  
and that was 36 months. Black Horse says the term is clearly set out on the HPA Mrs C signed  and 
she shouldnt reasonably have been misled. Black Horse paid Mrs C £25 for failing to provide  enough 
information about its complaint process  but doesnt think it should  have to do anything  further.   
Our investigator is satisfied  that this dealer sometimes offered finance for less than 36 months - it just 
couldn't do so on this occasion. He thinks its more likely  than not Mrs C was told the minimum term 
was 30 months  and the HPA was misrepresented. But, hes not persuaded Mrs C would have  done 
things differently if that misrepresentation hadnt been  made. And he doesnt recommend this 
complaint should be upheld.
Mrs C was unhappy that Black  Horse  sent her another copy  of the HPA with the 36 month term 
highlighted and paid her £25 compensation. She says she didnt have an issue with the complaint call 
and returned the £25. She doesnt agree with our investigators conclusions - she says (in summary): 
she was told 30 months was the minimum  term and accepted that for convenience and 
speed; 
she would have arranged a 24 month personal  loan elsewhere  to fund the balance if 30 
months hadnt been offered;
she has to pay an additional £348 because this finance was mis-sold;
it would have  been  inconvenient to end the HPA and she should have the 30 month term she 
was told shed  get; and 
she would like some course of action  to put her into the position she expected to be in when  
she took out this HPA.
She asked  for an ombudsman to review the matter.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what  I consider is most likely  to have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.  
I have spoken to Mrs C and its clear she feels very strongly that what happened here is unfair. I can 
see that she raised the matter of the 36 month term soon after she received the paper  copy  of the 
HPA. And I have no doubt that she believed the agreement she signed  at the dealership had a 
shorter, 30 month term. 
Ref: DRN92791204Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA)  says a lender  like Black Horse may be liable for 
whats said in pre-contract  discussions - like the ones Mrs C had with the dealer here. I think  the crux 
of this complaint is Mrs C considers the dealer  misrepresented the length of the HPA term. And Im 
satisfied I can consider that in this complaint against Black Horse. 
For me to uphold the complaint, Id need to be satisfied that the dealer probably told Mrs C something 
that wasnt true and that untrue statement induced her to take out this HPA. I think  Mrs C would 
ideally like me to order Black  Horse to give her a HPA with a 30 month term.  So I should make it clear 
at the outset  that, even if I accept theres been a misrepresentation, the appropriate remedy  would be 
to put Mrs C back in the position she wouldve  been  in if the misrepresentation hadnt been made. I 
cant require Black  Horse to take steps to put her in the position she would  have been in if that 
misrepresentation was true. 
I have considered what each of the parties says happened. I cant be certain  what was said exactly  on 
the day of the test drive but both parties seem to acknowledge that the question of the minimum term 
came up. I dont have much information from the salesperson Mrs C spoke to. If I understand the 
dealer correctly, it essentially says Mrs C was told she could have the minimum term available and 
that was 36 months. 
Mrs C, on the other  hand, says she asked the dealer about repaying the finance over 24 months.  And 
the salesperson  said the minimum term was 30 months and provided two quotes  - one for 30 months 
at £148 a month  and another for 36 months at £133 a month.  
Ive seen an email that suggests finance with a 30 month term was generally available in most 
cases. It looks as if the dealer couldnt offer that to Mrs C because  it would have been uneconomic. I 
think the salesperson  Mrs C spoke  probably didnt realise  that on the day of the test drive. Mrs C says 
the quote  was verbal so it looks as if a formal  quote wasnt  generated - which would explain  why it 
doesnt appear on Black  Horses internal system. 
Mrs C seems to have a fairly  clear and detailed recollection of what was discussed with the 
salesperson. Thats probably not surprising  as buying a new cars an infrequent event  for her - 
whereas a car salesperson probably  has many such discussions every day. 
On balance, I think  its more likely than not Mrs C was told the minimum  term available  was 30 
months, on the day of the test drive. And I accept Mrs C meant 30 months when she told the dealer 
she wanted  to go ahead with the finance option  for the shorter term, a few days later. I appreciate 
the dealer says a HPA for 30 months  just wasnt available  but, having told Mrs C the minimum  term 
was 30 months  a few days earlier, I think  it would have been  reasonable to explain  this to Mrs C 
before she accepted the HPA.   
Mrs C says there was no further  discussion about the HPA terms on the day she went  to collect the 
car. And she signed an electronic version of the HPA without reading it - assuming the money was 
repayable over 30 months, based on previous conversations. 
Black Horse has supplied information that shows the signing process Mrs C would  have been taken 
through before  she signed this HPA. It looks  as if Mrs C would have been given  the chance to read 
pre contract  credit  information  (PCCI)  - intended to highlight the key features of the HPA - and then 
asked to confirm
shed had that opportunity  to do so; 
some sections of the PCCI had been read aloud to her;
shed been given the opportunity to ask questions; and 
the dealer had explained the payments she was required to meet. 
Ref: DRN92791205As far as I can see, the first page of the HPA would  also have been displayed  beside the box where 
Mrs C had to click to accept the terms. It looks as if Mrs C also had the option to scroll down  and read 
through the agreement if she wanted to. I think both the term of the HPA and the monthly  cost are set 
out fairly prominently on the first page.
Mrs C doesnt remember much about signing the agreement.  She says she was just told to click some 
boxes so thats what she did. I understand Mrs C was excited to pick up her new car but that doesnt 
take away  from the fact that she was borrowing a relatively substantial sum. She hadnt seen any 
paperwork up to this point  and a few days  had passed between her discussions with the dealer and 
signing the HPA. In these particular circumstances, I think it would  have been reasonable for Mrs C to 
check that the main terms of the HPA were  in line with what shed  been told. 
Im not persuaded  it would  have been  unduly difficult to do so. Mrs C says the length of this HPA was 
particularly important to her. And I think even a very brief check would have alerted her to the fact that 
this HPA was for 36 not 30 months and shed have to pay £133 a month - not the £148 she expected. 
Its difficult to reasonably conclude  that the duration of the HPA was misrepresented in this situation. 
But, even if I were  satisfied  that was the case, Ive got to consider whether  this misrepresentation  
induced Mrs C to take out the HPA.  
Mrs C told us in correspondence that she would  have  taken out a personal loan if she hadnt been 
offered a 30 month agreement.  But, when I asked about that that she said she would  have probably  
paid cash instead  and then liquidated some shares to replenish her savings.
I cant  be certain what would have  happened. But it looks as if Mrs C still had time to withdraw  from 
this agreement  when she received the hard copy of the HPA.  I asked why she didnt settle the 
balance by other means at that stage and she told me she didnt think  about  that. She thought Black 
Horse should  give her the agreement  she was expecting as a matter of principle and felt Black 
Horses response was unhelpful when  it refused to do that. 
I can see Black  Horse  made several alternative suggestions when Mrs C first got in touch  in early 
May. These  included  early  settlement for just over £4,000,  making routine over-payments to reduce 
the term or applying for a new 30 month agreement. I understand Mrs C didnt want to do any of that. 
She felt it was unreasonable  to expect her to apply  for a new agreement  when Black Horse  already 
had her details - which would  have  involved another credit check. And she didnt see why she should 
have the inconvenience of arranging some  sort of early settlement. 
I have no doubt that Mrs C is unhappy with the process shes been through. I accept things havent 
been perfect and I think the dealer probably  could have done more  to clarify what  was on offer here. 
But, taking everything Ive seen so far into account,  I am not satisfied that the length of the HPA was 
the key factor in Mrs Cs decision to take out this finance. I think its more likely she took several 
things, including  speed and convenience, into account. 
On balance, I think  its more likely than not Mrs C would  still have taken out this HPA even if the 
dealer hadnt said a 30 month  term was available. So, on the current  evidence,  Im not persuaded  
there are enough fair and reasonable grounds to find that Black Horse should provide a refund or do 
anything further.  
I invite both parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any comments or evidence by 
the date below. After that date I will review all of the available evidence  and make my final decision. 
my provisional  decision
Subject to any submissions  I may receive  from the parties by 21 June 2019, my provisional  decision 
is I do not intend to uphold this complaint
Ref: DRN9279120