K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Mr S have  complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined  a claim made 
under their static caravan  insurance policy. 
background
Mr H and Mr S have  a static caravan that they visit periodically. In March 2018,  they 
discovered that there was a leak and the caravan was damaged as a result. On 
16 March 2018  Mr H called Great Lakes to notify it of the damage.
A visit was arranged for 10 April 2018 and the loss adjuster, who Ill refer to as L, 
considered the leak had most likely arisen due to a blocked pipe. As the damage  appeared 
to be covered under the policy,  Mr H and Mr S were advised to obtain an estimate for 
repairs, carried out by a company Ill call K.
K provided  an estimate  to Great Lakes dated  24 May 2018.  In the estimate,  K identified that 
the source of the leak was in fact a failed seal. In light of this information, Great  Lakes 
declined the claim. This was communicated in a letter dated 6 June 2018; it explained that 
damage due to water leaking through seals was excluded  under the policy.
Mr H was unhappy with the decision to decline the claim. He said the water leak had caused 
damage for some time that could not be identified  by someone without specialist knowledge.  
Mr H said he had submitted the claim as soon as possible but the slow response by L led to 
further interior damage.
Great Lakes didnt change its decision  so Mr H and Mr S referred their complaint  to our 
service. Theyd paid for the caravan to be repaired in August 2018,  but they said theyd  lost 
five months of enjoyment of it because of the delays. They still felt it was unreasonable for 
Great Lakes to decline the claim as they couldnt have prevented  the damage from occurring 
and reported it as soon as they noticed it. They added that L had caused damage to the 
caravan during the initial inspection.
Our investigator considered the complaint  but didnt uphold it. He believed  Great  Lakes had 
applied the policy terms fairly  the damage wasnt covered because it was caused by a 
failed seal. He also didnt  think  that there was any unreasonable delay  in L assessing the 
damage. Regarding the damage caused  by L, he thought this was necessary to assess the 
extent of the damage to the caravan.
Mr H and Mr S didnt  accept the investigators view. They felt it was unreasonable to expect  
them to remove parts of the fabric of the structure to confirm or not whether the seals were  
intact. They added that there was no evidence of damage on their last long term visit, from 
17 December 2017 to 2 January 2018. They  felt it was impossible to comply  with the terms 
of the contract  and said they d maintained and serviced the caravan to a high standard. 
Furthermore, Mr H and Mrs S said they had been  misled at the outset by L, who indicated 
that the damage would  be covered. So, they were unable to proceed with the repair  for some 
five months after reporting  the incident.  
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has been  passed to me to make a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN92194542my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator. I know this will be very disappointing for Mr H 
and Mr S to hear, but Ill explain why.
Mr H and Mr Ss policy sets out what is and isnt covered under the insurance. Under section  
1  Caravan and Contents, it says the following is not covered:
-Loss or damage caused by:
ii) Water leaking in through windows, doors, ventilators, body  joints  or seals
Ls initial  report states:
From our initial enquiries, we are satisfied that the damage has been caused as a result of 
the rainwater pipe blocking and allowing water to penetrate the caravan structure.  It is 
unlikely that this is the result of failed seals and can be considered  under the terms
However, Ks report says:
A leaking corner (caused  by a failed seal), has allowed  water  into the caravan, which has 
gone un-noticed,  below the underlay,  which  has a plastic  membrane on both sides. The 
water has spread across  the rear elevation and offside  elevation approximately  7ft both 
directions. Fungus has then grown  out of the carpet  in the en-suite.
Whilst the two reports conflict in terms of the cause of the water ingress, I think it was 
reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on Ks report.  I say this because  K is a specialist caravan 
repair company so it should be considered more  of an expert  than a general loss adjuster. 
As per the above terms, damage  caused by water  leaking through a seal isnt covered,  so 
I think it was fair for Great Lakes  to decline the claim.
I appreciate Mr H and Mr S feel this is unfair  theyve questioned how they couldve been 
aware of any problem with the seal and taken any action to prevent the damage.  I have 
sympathy for them  as I agree it wouldve been difficult  for them  to have foreseen the damage 
and taken preventative  measures.  But ultimately  their insurance doesnt cover  every 
scenario, whether reasonably foreseen  or not. The insurer is entitled to decide which risks it 
is willing to cover, and provided this is clearly set out in the policy  terms, I dont think  its 
unreasonable to exclude  damage of this nature.
Mr H and Mr S have  said they shouldve been warned about this term, but its clearly set out 
in the policy  terms.  If they feel this shouldve been highlighted when they took the policy  out, 
this is something theyd need to pursue separately  with the business that sold it to them.
Ive considered Mr H and Mr Ss point  about  the damage caused  by L when it inspected  the 
caravan. I think damage of this nature shouldve been expected, given the water damage 
couldnt have  been inspected without  being exposed. I also think this damage wouldve 
occurred as a necessary  part of any quote  for repairs. So, I think  the cost of repairing this 
damage wouldve  always had to be borne by Mr H and Mr S.
I appreciate how disappointing  it wouldve been  for Mr H and Mrs S to have  initially  been told 
the damage was covered. But it seems it took an experts view to identify the true cause of 
Ref: DRN92194543the leak. Ive considered  whether Mr H and Mrs S wouldve been in a different position if this 
had been identified straight  away. But given  Mr H and Mr S disputed the decline of the claim, 
and didnt instruct K to carry out the repairs until the complaint process had been exhausted, 
I still think theyd have  been in a similar  position.  And ultimately theyd still have needed  to 
pay for the repairs and wouldnt have been able to use the caravan until this had been  
completed.
Ive also considered whether Mr H and Mr S experienced any other unreasonable  delays.
I can see they reported the damage on 16 March 2018 and L was first in contact with them  
on 20 March 2018. L didnt visit the caravan until 10 April 2018, but it appears the delay here 
was finding a mutually agreeable  date for all parties.  Ls report  was completed on 
16 April 2018. There does  appear  to be a delay  between then and K providing the estimate 
on 24 May 2018. But I wouldnt seek to hold Great Lakes responsible for this delay, 
particularly if the issue preventing Ks earlier attendance was also finding a mutually 
agreeable date.  The claim decision was then communicated on 6 June 2018.
Overall, I dont  think there were any unreasonable delays that I can attribute to Great Lakes 
whilst the claim  was being considered. I understand Mr H and Mr S complained on 
13 June 2018  and they didnt receive a final response until 8 August 2018. But under the 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys Dispute Resolution Rules, Great  Lakes had up to eight weeks 
to provide a final response. As the response to the complaint was issued within eight weeks,  
I cant fairly criticise the time it took Great Lakes  to provide it. 
Mr H and Mr S didnt  start repairs until after the complaint process was exhausted and I can 
see why they chose to do this. But as they knew the claim  had been declined, I think  they 
had a duty to mitigate their losses at this point. Had they started  the repairs after the claim 
had been declined they wouldve been  able to use the caravan sooner. This wouldnt  have  
affected any right to complain about  the decision or to recover their losses.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9219454