K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about charges that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (trading as
Audi Finance) (AF) asked him to pay when he ended a hire purchase agreement (HPA) and
returned the car he acquired under it.
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 9 July 2020.  A copy of my provisional  decision is attached and this forms part 
of my final decision. In my provisional  decision I explained what Id decided  about this 
complaint and what I intended  to do  subject to any further submissions from the parties   
and I invited both parties  to let me have  any further  comments by 9 August 2020. 
AF accepted my provisional  decision but Mr M doesnt agree. He sent a detailed response 
and Ive summarised what he said below. 
Mr M considers the crux of this dispute  is the point at which ownership of the car was 
transferred back to AF. He feels that cannot be disputed as he met with the dealer on the 
27th February 2018 to complete the voluntarily termination of the financial agreement. He 
says he completed the V5 and handed the signed section to the dealer with the logbook  and 
keys. The dealer checked the car, mentioned  the damaged alloys and said AF might raise  
charges but Mr M told the dealer he would take his chances. 
Mr M says AF must have  given  the dealer its proxy to accept the car and end the HPA at this 
point. He asks why AF didnt collect the next direct  debit due under the HPA, if thats not the 
case. Mr M considers this shows that AF accepted his legal responsibility for the car had 
come to an end  the HPA had terminated  and been replaced with a new finance  agreement 
for a different  vehicle. He thinks the suggestion that AF would allow  him to drive the vehicle 
without charge shows we have  not looked at this objectively.
Mr M doesnt accept the damage charged for - he says photographs he provided  were taken 
a few days before the car was returned and show there was no damage to the tyres or 
dents. Notwithstanding this however, he thinks it was wrong of AF to raise  the invoice for 
damage charges  when  it did. He says this invoice  was provided more  than six weeks after 
the car was returned to the dealer. AF did not communicate with him during this time and Mr 
M considers  the invoice is false,  was raised  outside  of the regulatory prescribed period of 28 
days and should  be time barred. He finds it frustrating that we havent taken this on board 
and considers I have  ignored relevant facts. He thinks the timing of the invoice  alone  means  
this complaint should be upheld.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Mr Ms comments carefully but I am afraid what he said hasnt changed 
my mind. For the reasons I set out in my provisional  decision  I am not persuaded there are 
sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint.  
Mr M acquired this car under a HPA which means  AF retained ownership  of the vehicle 
throughout. The V5 that Mr M refers to is a document issued by the DVLA  to the registered  
Ref: DRN91891802keeper. As I explained in my provisional  decision,  I can see it was probably convenient for 
Mr M to leave  the car with the dealer  - along with the keys and the completed V5 - at the end 
of February 2018.  But I cant  reasonably conclude that this means the car was returned  to, 
or collected by, AF at that point. 
I am satisfied the crux of the matter is when Mr Ms responsibility for the car ended. For the 
reasons Ive given  already, I think AF made it reasonably clear  to Mr M that he remained 
responsible for the vehicle until it was collected  - and collection would be undertaken by B on 
AFs behalf, not the dealer. 
I appreciate Mr M feels the dealer took the car back - as AFs proxy.  But Ive seen nothing to 
show thats what happened.  Mr M acknowledges the dealer  told him that AF might apply 
damage charges  when  he dropped  the car off at the end of February and he said hed take 
his chances. Its difficult  to see why this exchange  would take place if the dealer was taking 
the car back  on AFs behalf. Likewise, there  would  be no reason for Mr M to chase AF (in 
early March) about collecting the car, if it had already been collected by the dealer.   
For the reasons  Ive given already, Im satisfied that B collected and inspected the car on 
behalf of AF on 28 March 2018.  AF sent an invoice for related damage charges less than 
four weeks  later. And I cant reasonably find it acted outside the relevant industry guidance  
from the BVRLA, in this respect. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think there  are enough fair and reasonable grounds to 
require AF to reduce  or waive the remaining damage charges. And I am unable to 
reasonably require AF to do anything further  in response to this complaint. 
I understand Mr M has strong feelings about this matter and I realise  this decision is likely to 
come as a disappointment. But Mr M is not obliged to accept what Ive said,  in which  case it 
remains open to him to pursue the matter by other  means should he wish to do so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2020.
Claire Jackson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN91891803copy provisional decision
complaint
M complains about charges that Volkswagen  Financial Services (UK) Limited (trading as
Audi Finance)  (AF) asked him to pay when he ended a hire purchase agreement  (HPA)  and
returned the car he acquired under it.
background
Mr M got this car in June  2015. He told AF he wanted to end the HPA in February 2018 by
way of a process known  as voluntary termination (VT). He dropped the car off at a
dealership around  the 27 February 2018  and AF arranged for a third party (that Ill call B) to
inspect and collect  it a month  later.
The inspector found there was damage present and repair costs were  estimated at nearly
£800 (plus  VAT)  as follows:-
1. bonnet  front paint  chips - touch in & flat/polish £21.00
2. quarter panel right hand rear 1st dent per vehicle  repair and refinish £138.00
3. tyre LHF lead in question cut replace £235.93
4. tyre LHR lead in question cut replace  £235.93
5. wheel  LHF lead in question  scratched refurb alloy wheel £36.00
6. wheel  LHR lead in question scratched refurb alloy wheel £36.00
7. wheel  RHF lead in question scratched refurb alloy wheel £36.00
8. wheel  RHR lead in question  scratched  refurb alloy wheel £36.00
AF sent Mr M an invoice for these  charges in April 2018.  Mr M agreed to pay for the
damaged alloys but he considers the car was otherwise returned  in good condition  He
considers the rest of the charges are unfair and he felt it was wrong of AF to raise this
invoice and take payment.
Mr M complained to AF and it removed the first charge - as the inspection photographs  didnt
clearly show  that this damage went beyond fair wear and tear under  guidance from the
British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association (BVRLA). AF was satisfied however that
charges 2, 3 and 4 were  applied properly and Mr M should  pay for this damage.  So, Mr M
referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators  considered the evidence. He doesnt recommend the complaint
should be upheld. Hes satisfied the damage charged for was present when  the car was
returned to AF. He thinks it goes  beyond  fair wear  and tear under  the BVRLA guidelines.
Hes satisfied  Mr M is responsible for that. And hes not persuaded it would be fair to require
AF to remove or reduce the charges.
Mr M was unhappy with this outcome so he asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
He says (in summary):-
the damage charges  AF applied initially  bear a striking resemblance to the loss that AF 
probably made as a result of his decision to VT the HPA - as the amount he was 
asked to pay is about  the same as the difference between the cars book value and
the outstanding balance on the finance;
he doesnt  accept the car was damaged  when he dropped it off with the dealer  he
thinks any tyre damage present could  have  been  caused by the dealer moving the
car in the snowy conditions prevailing at the time;
AF should  be required to provide evidence that the work charged for was carried out
and AF may be guilty of false accounting by raising a VAT invoice for refurbishment
work that wasnt undertaken;
its unreasonable  to expect Mr M to pay full retail price for repairs  as AF could have
had the damage rectified at a lower price  and its unfair, in any event, to expect Mr
Ref: DRN91891804M to pay for new tyres on a three year old car. It would have been reasonable to
charge 25% of the amount  AF charged, at most;
Section 99 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA)  says termination  of a [finance]
agreementdoesnt affect any liability  under  the agreement which  has accrued
before the termination but this HPA ended when Mr M dropped the car off  which  is
clear from the fact that AF didnt charge Mr M for March  (even  though the car wasnt
until near the end of that month) and AF also financed Mr Ms new car;
the BVRLA fair wear and tear guidance doesnt allow AF to estimate repair  costs that
commensurate with any loss or shortfall on finance; and
he would like to know if AF profited from his HPA and how much the car was sold for.
Mr M also notes  that the BVRLA guidance says
"If [a customer] cannot be present during  the collection  of the vehicle, or if other conditions,
e.g. poor weather  prevent the vehicle from being  inspected, the finance company  will issue a
written condition  report of the vehicle and advise of any charges that may subsequently
become due. together with summary details of those charges, including repair  method. along
with photographic  evidence. If the BVRLA member intends to apply charges, the driver must
be advised of those charges no later than four weeks after the vehicle was collected or
returned.
Mr M delivered the car to the dealership on the 27th February  2018 but AF did not provide
the condition report until 13th April 2018. Mr M considers  this was outside the four week
period set out above and therefore out of time under the relevant  industry  guidance.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have spoken to Mr M and I can see that he feels very strongly about what happened here. I
have no doubt it was frustrating to receive an invoice  for damage charges when, as far as he
was concerned, he returned  this car in very good condition. And I understand Mr M feels that
AF applied these charges  in an effort to recoup  the loss it sustained  when he decided  to VT
the HPA  not because the damage  in question was present or impacted on the value of the
car.
The role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service is to resolve disputes between  financial
businesses and their customers informally.  And its my job to consider the evidence  provided
by both parties, without taking sides, and decide what I think is a fair and reasonable
outcome in all of the circumstances of this particular complaint.
In doing so I must have regard to relevant  law and industry guidance, amongst other things.
And, where evidence is incomplete  or inconsistent (as some of it is here),  I make my findings
on the balance of probabilities  - in other words, what I think is most  likely based on the
evidence I have seen  and the wider circumstances.
Mr M has gone to some  trouble to provide  very detailed  submissions. And I want to assure
him, if I dont  address every point that hes raised, its not because  I havent thought  about it.
I have considered everything hes said and sent to us. But Im going  to concentrate  in this
decision on what I think is relevant and material  to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
I should  also make it clear  at the outset that I am not a regulator. I dont have the power to
investigate the way AF runs its business  on a day to day basis. Its not up to me to punish
AF or any individual employee. If Mr M has concerns about the way that AF has raised a
particular invoice from a tax perspective,  thats something he would have to take up with the
relevant authority.
Ref: DRN91891805voluntary termination
The right to VT this sort of finance agreement is, as Mr M has pointed  out, set out under
section 99 of the CCA. Section 99 says (broadly speaking) a borrower can end a HPA by
giving notice and termination does not affect  any liability  under the HPA which has accrued
before termination.
Section 100 of the CCA goes on to set out the financial consequences  of termination under
section 99. Section 100 provides that a borrower is liable for half the total amount payable.
And, if the borrower has contravened any obligation  to take reasonable care of the goods,
the amount payable shall be increased by the sum needed to recompense the creditor for
that contravention.
In summary then, VT doesnt affect  any liability  Mr M had before the HPA ended and AF is
entitled to be compensated if Mr M hasnt taken reasonable care of the car  in line with his
obligations under the HPA. And I think this is reflected in the terms of the HPA that Mr M
signed which  says You have the right to terminate this agreement. To do so you should
write to the person you make payments to. They will then be entitled to the return  of the car
and to half the amount payable  under  this agreementif you have already paid this amount
plus any overdue instalments and taken reasonable care of the goods you will not have to
pay any more.
returning the car to AF
As far as I can see, Mr M told AF he wanted to VT the HPA on or about  19 February  2018.  I
think the crux of this complaint is that he considers  any liability he had for the car ended the
day he dropped it off at the dealership. He thinks the damage AF wants to charge  him for
now wasnt present then and its wrong for AF to hold him responsible for any damage that
occurred after that.
I accept Mr M was entitled  to VT this HPA but I am not persuaded this means he no longer
had any responsibility for the car after he left the car at the dealership. I appreciate  Mr M
may have reached  some arrangement with the dealer about dropping the car off in this way.
I understand he was due to collect a new car from the same dealer within a day or so. I can
see this was probably  convenient for Mr M and the dealer.
It looks as if Mr M considers the car was in effect  returned to AF at this point.  Im satisfied
however that the dealer was not part of AF. And I think AF made  it reasonably clear to Mr M
that he would be responsible  for the car until it was collected by B. Ive seen  customer
contact notes  that AF provided from the relevant time (which seem relatively detailed  and
contemporaneous with events).  Im satisfied that Mr M spoke to a call handler on 19
February 2018 about VT and he was told that AF used B to inspect and collect vehicles  -
and reminded that he remained responsible for the car until B did so.
According to AFs contact  notes  Mr M was also sent a VT information pack on 20 February
2018. I think  this probably set out the hand  back process and provided another  reminder that
Mr M was responsible for the car until it was collected by B. And I can see Mr M spoke to AF
again near the end of February when he was reminded that he would need to keep the car
taxed and insured until B collected it.
I think  this reflects the terms of the HPA that Mr M signed   which provide  that he was
required to keep the car in his possession and control, maintain it in good repair and
condition commensurate withage and mileage  and be responsible for any damage to, or
deterioration of, the vehicle..in excess of fair wear and tear until it was returned to AF.
I think  Mr M understood that B, not the dealer, would  collect  and inspect the car on behalf of
AF. Ive seen an email that Mr M sent to the dealer on 12 March 2018 where he says (and I
Ref: DRN91891806paraphrase) he hopes the car would  stay safe and the inspection will prove painless. Mr M
has also told us that he chased B about collection  in mid-March   and its difficult to see why
hed do that if he thought he had no further liability for the car as the dealer had accepted the
car on AFs behalf at the end of February.
I understand AF didnt take any monthly payments after Mr M gave notice that he wanted to
VT the finance. But I wouldnt  expect AF to require Mr M to make additional monthly hire
payments - unless he continued to use the car. Im not persuaded  this means Mr M had no
further liability  for the vehicle. Likewise  Im not persuaded the fact that AF agreed to provide
new finance  to Mr M around the same  time means he was no longer  responsible for the car.
I am satisfied  that B collected the car on behalf of AF on 28 March 2018. For the reasons
Ive explained above, I think Mr M remained responsible for the car until this happened. I
understand B had tried to collect the car earlier  on or but it wasnt present on site - according
to an email from Mr M to the dealer dated 23 March 2018.  If Mr M thinks the car was
damaged after he left it with the dealership, thats  something he may wish to take up with the
dealer direct. But Im afraid any agreement between Mr M and the dealer about  this is
outside of my remit here.
damage present  on collection
Mr M accepts  the charges  numbered 5 to 8 above and AF has waived  the first charges so
Im only considering charges 2,3 and 4 in this decision.  Mr M has supplied photographs that
he took before  he dropped the car off. I cant be certain when these were  taken exactly  and I
dont think theyre as clear as the photographs  taken at the inspection  on 28 March  2018. I
can see the alloy scratches - that Mr M accepts were present - relatively clearly but I cant
find an image that shows the damage to the tyre walls was not present at this stage.
Ive also considered the photographs taken at the inspection.  Im satisfied cuts to the
sidewalls of two tyres and a dent on the right-hand  quarter panel  are clearly visible. I have
considered this damage against the BVRLA guidelines which say (insofar as it is relevant)
dents up to 10mm in diameter are acceptable and there must be no damage to sidewalls or
tread of the tyres. I cant be certain  when the damage occurred exactly. But, looking at the
inspection photographs,  Im satisfied it was present when the car was collected by B on
behalf of AF.
I think  this damage is relatively  significant. Im satisfied  it goes  beyond  what could
reasonably be considered  fair wear and tear. And I am not persuaded  it is unreasonable for
AF to expect Mr M to pay it in this situation.
charges
AF estimates replacement tyres would  cost £235.93  each  and it would cost about  £138 to fix
the dent. I understand Mr M feels  this is unfair. He wants AF to prove  it had the car repaired.
And, if it didnt, he feels it is unreasonable for AF to charge this amount for repairs or
replacement parts. He says AF wouldnt have to pay the full retail price for repairs. He thinks
the cost to trade would be significantly less. And, given  the car was nearly three years old
when it was returned, it would be unreasonable to expect him to pay more than 25% of these
charges - to reflect  the cost of used tyres in particular.
I am not persuaded that AF was obliged  to carry out repairs before it sold this car. The
BVRLA guidance says damage charges are applied  at the end of this sort of agreement  -
when a car was not looked after as agreed under the finance - to compensate the lender for
the cost of rectifying related damage. And these charges can still be applied if the lender
decides not to repair before a car is sold.
Im satisfied AF was entitled  to be compensated for any failure by Mr M to return the car in
Ref: DRN91891807line with his obligations to keep  the car in good repair and condition  under the HPA and
under the provisions of the CCA. I understand Mr M feels the amount charged here doesnt
accurately reflect any loss AF may have incurred - and he would like to know how much the
car sold for exactly. I dont  have  that information. And Im not persuaded I need it to make a
fair and reasonable decision - in these particular  circumstances.
I think  a number of different  factors are likely  to affect  the price a car sells for on any given
day at auction. Its fair to assume that one of those  factors  is likely to be the condition of the
bodywork and tyres. And I am satisfied the damage present here probably  would have
adversely impacted on the price paid - as any prospective buyer would  be able to see that
this car had a dent and needed new tyres.
I think  prospective buyers would be likely  to pay less for this car than another  of the same
model, age and mileage without this damage  present.  I cant however reasonably  conclude
that a dent and damaged  tyres are the only things that any prospective purchaser would
consider when deciding how much to pay for this car. And I am not persuaded that the sale
price here should be the sole factor in determining  whether the charges  that AF has applied
are reasonable.
When we asked AF for information it told us that estimates for repairs and replacement parts
are based on historic  repair costs and take account of the effect  that damage is likely to have
on the residual value of a vehicle. AF says its charges  include estimated labour costs and
original branded parts  which are usually  available  to AF, these are on the lower end of the
industry spectrum, and they are also reviewed regularly and discounted  to ensure they dont
generate a revenue stream  for the business.
Ive got no reason to doubt what AF says. I also note this car was new at the start of the
HPA and cost over £40,000. I dont think its unusual for repairs  to cost more  for this sort of
higher end vehicle than for a less expensive car  especially when it comes to the cost of
replacing tyres. Im not persuaded,  on balance, that AFs estimated repair  costs here are
excessive.
Mr M has pointed out that he could have had this work done at less cost  and I accept  that
may well be the case. But Im satisfied that Mr M had the opportunity to do so if he wanted to
before the car was collected.  Mr M told us he discussed this with the dealer when he
decided to VT the car. He says the dealer  mentioned  the scratched alloys and explained  that
Mr M could have these repaired or leave it to the inspector to evaluate the cost.
Mr M chose not to have the alloys  fixed   despite the dealers  comments. I appreciate  that
was because he didnt  think the charges would be too high. But Im satisfied  that Mr M was
aware that the car would be inspected by B on collection and he could be charged for
rectifying any damage present  beyond fair wear and tear. I think  - as Mr M has
acknowledged - that was a risk he decided  to take. And I cant  fairly find he was deprived of
the chance to have the car repaired prior to collection.
I am satisfied  that AF informed  Mr M about the damage charges in the middle  of April 2018.
This was less than four weeks after collection and within  the four week period set out in the
BVRLA guidance that Mr M has mentioned. I am not persuaded that AF has breached the
BVLRA guidance in this respect.
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I dont think the charges AF has applied are
disproportionate or unreasonable. I cant fairly  find AF was wrong to apply these  charges.
And Im not persuaded it would  be fair or reasonable to require AF to waive or reduce them -
or do anything  further in response to this complaint.
I realise these  provisional findings are likely  to come as a disappointment to Mr M and Im
sorry about  that. But this is not my final decision and I invite  both parties  to consider what
Ref: DRN91891808Ive said and let me have  any new evidence or submissions  they havent  made  previously by
the date below. After that Ill look at everything again and make my final decision.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions that I may receive from the parties  by 9 August 2020,  my
provisional decision  is that I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN9189180