K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1999 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Scottish Widows at the 
time) mis-sold  them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr and Mrs S aware  that the PPI was optional and gain their consent 
before adding it to their account.
Mr and Mrs S completed a mortgage application which had a separate section relating to 
PPI. Mr and Mrs S have noted that this section of the form stated that PPI premiums were  
usually included in the monthly payment detailed in the mortgage offer. They  say this led 
them to feel they had to take the PPI as part of the mortgage.  They  also say that there  was 
no information about how much the PPI would cost on the form, and that there was no quote 
provided before they had to agree to take out the PPI. When  they received their mortgage 
offer, they note that the PPI was included in the special conditions, and that this reinforced 
their belief that it was a required  part of the mortgage. 
But looking  at the mortgage application, I can see that the PPI section  stated that information 
about the cover would be sent to applicants either  before or with the mortgage  offer,  and 
they could reserve  their right to be excluded from the cover if they didnt want  it. Lloyds has 
said that an MPPI application  would have been sent to Mr and Mrs S at that time for them  to 
confirm if they wanted  the cover, and has given us some examples of what that application 
would have looked like. 
I also note that next to where they were asked to work out how much cover they wanted 
there was an option to call Lloyds for a quotation  before going any further. I dont know  for 
sure whether  Mr and Mrs S ever spoke to Lloyds  about the PPI. But I can see that Mr and 
Mrs S requested £1,250 per month benefit  on the application form, and it seems  that before 
the mortgage completed this was reduced to £770 of cover, so it seems likely  that some  
correspondence about the cover  did take place.
Lastly, I can see that shortly after the mortgage  began Dr S wrote to Lloyds as he was 
concerned that the PPI premiums werent  being taken  from his account. If Mr and Mrs S 
hadnt wanted the PPI then its not clear why they would  have  been  chasing Lloyds to take 
payment for it.
With all Ive seen, I think it would have  been clear to Dr and Mrs M that they had a choice 
about taking the PPI, that they were given the opportunity to receive  a quote of how much it 
would cost, and that they chose to take it knowing they didnt have to.
Ref: DRN93633202The mortgage application may have  said that PPI was strongly recommended,  but I dont 
think thats the same as Lloyds making  a personal recommendation that Mr and Mrs S take 
the PPI. So Lloyds didnt have to check if it was right for them. But it did have to make sure 
they got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it, so it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. And based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like they were  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. 
And while I appreciate  Mr and Mrs S both had good sick pay, the policy  would have paid out 
for up to 12 months, so longer than theyve said their full sick pay would have lasted. Mr and 
Mrs S have also said that they had some savings, but the PPI would have meant those  
savings were available for other essential expenditure. So given that the mortgage was a 
serious financial commitment secured against  their home,  I think  the PPI could have been 
useful for them  if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put them off taking out the cover.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs S have said, but their points dont change 
my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9363320