K821x#15complaint 
Mrs S complains that Covea Insurance  Plc (Covea) have mishandled her buildings 
insurance claim.
background
Mrs S holds a buildings insurance  policy  with Covea.  She made a claim in March 2017 for an 
escape of water which rendered her property uninhabitable. Covea accepted  the claim, but 
Mrs S has been dissatisfied with various elements of the service she received from the 
insurer and their approved contractors,  as well as the time it was taking to undertake  the 
required works. 
Mrs S has raised a number of issues that shes unhappy with. I dont  intend  to recount all the 
failings in detail,  as the poor service Mrs S received does not appear to be in dispute  
between the parties.  But in summary, Mrs S has experienced  various forms of poor service 
that have led to unavoidable delays  of around  two months  resulting from a lack of 
communication and a lack of planning that resulted in numerous  visits to her property having  
to be made  before any work could properly begin.  And in addition,  certain jobs that were 
supposed to have been completed had to be looked  at again, such as areas of the property 
that hadnt been dried properly.
Due to the ongoing issues, Mrs S cancelled the works arranged through  Covea and their 
approved contractors and opted for a cash settlement in September  2017 so that she could 
oversee the works herself.  But Mrs S says that Coveas handling of her claim has caused 
her a significant amount of distress  and inconvenience, which  she would like to be 
compensated for. As well as the emotional harm  caused by the delays  and poor service, 
Mrs S says she had been unable  to work  after taking the cash  settlement,  as she had to 
spend the majority  of her time project  manging the repairs. So she submits  that the insurer  
should reimburse her loss of earnings  as well, which shes  calculated to be around £5,000.
Covea apologised  for the poor service Mrs S had received and acknowledged  that it had 
fallen below an acceptable standard, so they offered an amount of £300 compensation in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.  But they declined to cover Mrs Ss 
loss of earnings, as they said it was her choice  to get involved with the repairs to the extent 
that she did. Unhappy  with this, Mrs S referred  her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He didnt think  it would be fair to ask Covea to cover 
Mrs Ss loss of earnings, but he didnt think that £300 compensation was proportionate when 
considering the distress  and inconvenience suffered. So the investigator awarded  a further 
£300. Both Mrs S and Covea disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it, 
as I think the additional  £300  compensation recommended by the investigator  is fair in the 
circumstances. 
Covea dont agree that any further compensation is due; they feel theyve adequately 
compensated Mrs S with their offer of £300.  The power to make  an award for distress and 
inconvenience is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Ref: DRN96160052Handbook, which sets out that I can award  fair compensation  for distress or inconvenience  
experienced by a customer. But such an award  must be a proportionate reflection of the 
impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in assessing  what a 
proportionate award ought to be in any given case,  its important  to pay particular regard to 
the specific impact the firms failings have had on the individual  concerned. 
An award of £300, for example, would be appropriate where the wrongful actions of Covea 
and their agents have  caused moderate inconvenience or upset. But having considered all 
the evidence and submissions in this case  including the specific impact  on Mrs S herself  
I consider that a significant amount of distress  and inconvenience has been caused, so I 
think a more substantial  award is warranted  in this case.
Mrs S has told us, for example, that her prolonged displacement has been particularly 
stressful for her daughter,  who suffers from mental  health issues,  as she has been unable to 
meet with her care team  in a relaxed and stable home environment.  Mrs S says she has also 
been suffering  with stress as a result of the situation  and has had to receive counselling.  In 
addition, Mrs S says she had to spend  a significant amount of time chasing Covea, and their 
contractors, which has made it difficult for her to run her business due to a lack of time, 
stress and concentration.
Mrs S has described how dealing with the ongoing  issues with the repair works has left her 
physically and emotionally drained,  isolated  and with a limited  social  life. And it appears that 
the delays and wrongful actions of Covea have  prolonged and added to the distress of what 
was already a highly stressful  period. So in the circumstances, I consider a total award of 
£600 (including the £300 already offered by Covea) to be fair compensation in the 
circumstances.
Mrs S says Covea also ought to cover her loss of earnings, as she says shes  been left with 
no time in which  to operate her business as a result of her effectively having to project 
manage the repair work. I appreciate that Mrs S felt compelled to oversee the work herself  
after the problems  she encountered previously, but this was ultimately  something  that Mrs S 
chose to be involved with to the extent  that she was. And I havent  seen enough  to persuade  
me that the works required this level of supervision,  such that Mrs S would be unable to 
carry out her business. So I wont be asking Covea  them to compensate  her for this. 
I also note that Mrs S has raised points in relation to her kitchen having to be replaced as a 
result of the way in which the asbestos  was removed from her property. But as this did not 
form part of Mrs Ss original complaint, it will need  to be raised  with Covea in the first 
instance.
Id like to assure Mrs S and Covea  that Ive considered everything each party has said in 
relation to their side of the dispute.  And having  considered the individual  impact  the poor 
service had on Mrs S, I consider a further  award  of £300 to be fair in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I direct Covea Insurance Plc to pay a total of £600  
compensation (including the £300 already  offered)  within 28 days  of being notified  by us of 
Mrs Ss acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Ref: DRN96160053Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9616005