K822xcomplaint
Mr V has complained about Scottish Widows Limited. He is unhappy about the way it has 
managed his State Earnings-Relation Pension  (SERPS) pension policy and the payments 
that have been applied  to it.
background 
Mr V was advised to take out a SERPS  with Scottish  Widows  in 1991. Scottish Widows were 
not responsible  for the advice. According  to Scottish  Widows  records annual  statements were 
sent to Mr V. Some years later Mr V set up a stakeholder pension with Scottish Widows.
In 2012 Mr V changed his address online. From this point onwards, statements were sent to 
Mr Vs new address. But in July 2017, Mr Vs statement was returned to Scottish Widows by 
the Royal Mail saying  that the addressee had gone  away. 
Mr V called Scottish Widows in May 2017  to update  his address. However, as Mr V only 
gave the reference number for his stakeholder pension during the call; the address on his 
SERPS pension  was not changed and remained as his previous address.
During the call, Mr V also questioned his contracted out payments and Scottish Widows 
stated they would look into the matter.  Scottish  Widows  then wrote  to Mr V in June 2017 
saying they are unable to locate any paperwork regarding  his contracting  out of SERPS.
Mr V complained in August 2018, he said that he hadnt received the amount  of SERPS 
payments he was expecting and he felt Scottish Widows were unable  to help him find the 
paperwork for his SERPS policy. On 3 September 2018, during a phone call between  
Scottish Widows  and Mr V it was established  that Mr V had two policies with Scottish  
Widows. It was apparent  that the address linked with Mr Vs SERPS policy  had not been 
updated. Therefore,  the Scottish  Widows system did not pick up the fact that both policies 
belonged to Mr V. 
Scottish Widows  upheld  the complaint. It said that SERPS payments had been applied  correctly, 
but agreed that the level of service  he had received was not satisfactory. It offered £150 for any 
inconvenience caused. Mr V didnt accept  and referred the complaint  to this service.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and felt it should be upheld in part. He said 
that based on the information he had seen, the SERPS payments were  applied correctly. He 
also noted that Mr V has been in touch with HMRC to verify the SERPS payments. 
The adjudicator also noted that the SERPS policy was sold by a separate  business and 
therefore, should Mr V want to complain about  the advice he received  that complaint would 
have to be directed  to that business.
The adjudicator did initially conclude that Scottish Widows should increase  their offer to Mr V 
to £300 due to the length  of time they took to find his policy. Mr V contacted Scottish Widows 
and discussed  his SERPS policy in May 2017.  The adjudicator noted that that Scottish 
Widows only wrote to Mr V in November 2017  saying  they could not locate his policy. 
However, based on further information  provided  by Scottish Widows, it was established  that 
it had written to Mr V in June 2017. 
Ref: DRN99908452It was also apparent that the letter from June 2017  invited  Mr V to contact them  should he 
have further information regarding his SERPS  policy and Mr V didnt do that until                        
28 August 2018.  As Scottish  Widows  then located Mr Vs policy  on 3 September 2018, the 
adjudicator concluded the initial offer of £150 which Scottish Widows had made was fair.
Mr V didnt agree and said he had contacted Scottish Widows numerous times  during this 
period and had emails  to prove  it. However he did not provide any evidence  of this when asked.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator. Im satisfied that Scottish Widows made a mistake when it failed 
to change the address it held for both of Mr Vs policies.  But I think the offer it has made of 
£150 is fair compensation in all the circumstances.
Scottish Widows  wasnt responsible for the advice Mr V received to set up the SERPS  
policy. But it was responsible for managing  the policy. There  is a suggestion that HMRC has 
been asked to audit the SERPS payments for this policy but Ive not seen evidence of the 
outcome of that audit, if it has taken place. So Ive seen nothing  to suggest that any 
payments have been misapplied.
Scottish Widows  agrees that Mr Vs address ought to have been changed in relation  to all 
his policies when  it was changed  for his stakeholder pension. What I need  to consider is the 
impact of that failure. It seems that Mr V was told in June 2017 that a SERPS policy couldnt 
be traced and was asked  to provide  any further information. Then, according to Scottish  
Widows, there was no further  issue until a complaint was raised  on 28 August 2018.  After 
that complaint  was made there was a telephone conversation with Mr V on the following day. 
During that conversation he was able to say that he recalled his SERPS pension policy 
reference began with the number four. With that information the policy  was identified and this 
was confirmed on 3 September  2018.
Had Scottish Widows  handled the change of address properly, Mr V wouldnt have been  left 
in the dark about his SERPS policy up to September 2018. But there is also some weight to 
the argument that had he made enquiry earlier after the letter  in June 2017 and provided the 
extra details he had, the policy would have been found much  sooner. Probably within days,  
as was actually  the case once the additional  information was provided.
I know Mr V says that he did correspond with Scottish Widows between June 2017  and 
August 2018 which caused him additional inconvenience. But Scottish Widows says that it 
has no records of this correspondence and Mr V hasnt provided the evidence  he says he 
has. So I dont  think I can safely  conclude that there was additional correspondence and 
therefore additional time wasted with the inconvenience  that causes.
So overall, I agree that the offer of £150 is fair in these circumstances. I think this adequately 
reflects the degree of trouble and inconvenience caused to Mr V by Scottish Widows mistake 
in not changing the address  held for all policies.
Ref: DRN99908453my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint because I consider the offer of £150 to be fair. Scottish Widows 
Limited should pay this sum to Mr V if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9990845