K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Black  Horse Limited didnt  properly  check  that a hire purchase 
agreement for a caravan was affordable for her.
background
In April 2017 Mrs S made enquiries about purchasing  a caravan located in a holiday park.  A 
telephone application for a four year hire purchase agreement was made  to Black Horse. 
The total cost of the agreement was for around £20,000 with monthly repayments of £385.
Black Horse  approved Mrs Ss application but she says that for the past two years  she has 
struggled to cover the payments  of that credit  agreement  and has had to borrow money  to 
pay it. Mrs S also says that Black  Horse didnt conduct full checks  into her income and 
outgoings nor did it take account of the expenses associated  with owning the caravan such 
as the ground  rent and utilities.  If it had, Mrs S says Black Horse would have known the loan 
was unaffordable for her.
Mrs S complained to Black Horse that the hire purchase agreement  had been irresponsibly 
sold to her. She said she wanted to be reimbursed  for all the charges and interest that she 
had incurred as a result.
Black Horse  didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. It said sufficient checks had been carried  out 
prior to the finance being proposed and that had Mrs S thought  the repayments were  
unaffordable she had been under no obligation  to return  to the caravan park and acquire the 
caravan.
Black Horse  said Mrs Ss income  and outgoings  had been  discussed and recorded on the 
application. Mrs S had also been  credit  scored.  Mrs S had signed the credit agreement  to 
show she was happy with the figures.  It said Mrs S hadnt raised that the loan was 
unaffordable before  and had been  paying  it which  indicated  it had been affordable  but that 
she may now have experienced a change in her personal circumstances such  as an 
increase in site fees.
Mrs S was unhappy at Black Horses response and complained to this service.  Our 
investigator didnt  recommend that Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. He said he thought 
Black Horse  had dealt with Mrs S fairly.  
Our investigator said looking at the figures recorded on the income and expenses form the 
income figures matched those contained in the bank  statements provided by Mrs S. There  
was an error  as they were shown as monthly  figures but it was reasonable to assume  that 
they were actually yearly.  He said that he couldnt  say the income figures  considered by 
Black Horse  were inaccurate.
 
Our investigator said that although Mrs Ss partners income was shown Black Horse  didnt 
process joint applications and so although the form showed two incomes Black Horse  hadnt 
relied on that information when processing  Mrs Ss application.
Our investigator said there werent  set checks a lender had to carry out. But checks  should  
be proportionate to the size of the loan, the repayments and the customers  lending  history. 
A credit check had been run on Mrs S and nothing of concern  had been  found. Black Horse  
Ref: DRN93517072had also used an average cost of living figure of £406 per month when assessing Mrs S 
disposable income.
Our investigator said taking account of Mrs Ss annual  income,  deducting her housing  costs 
and the average  cost of living figure  and the amount of the loan there was still around £400 
per month remaining. He said this wasnt an unreasonable amount to have remaining as 
disposable income.
Our investigator also said he didnt think it would be fair for Black Horse  to take account of 
the associated  costs of taking  on a caravan at a park site. He said it would be reasonable to 
have assumed Mrs S would have made  herself aware of any additional  costs  that may be 
incurred by having a caravan at this site.
He noted that Black  Horse had offered for Mrs S to return the caravan with no further  liability  
as part of a voluntary termination. If Mrs S was struggling to make the payments then she 
could end the agreement at this point.
Mrs S disagreed with our investigators  view.  She said that looking at her bank statements 
her outgoings were far higher than those calculated for and the loan had been  unaffordable 
from the start. She also said that she hadnt raised the issue  with Black  Horse before 
because shed been advised she needed to keep paying and that she could only have 
arranged for a three-month payment holiday which would have left her owing  more  for longer 
and bad credit. Mrs S said she could only give the caravan back after paying off half the 
agreement and her ex-partner could be liable for her debt.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S says that when  she visited the caravan site she agreed for a credit  check  to be run on 
her as she was interested in acquiring  a caravan.. She says she hadnt seen the Income 
and Expenditure  form that had been  completed  and it wasnt  signed by her. This form had 
also included her ex-partners income even though they had separated around a year 
before. Mrs S also says she was concerned about  the Customer  proposal form as this said 
her ex-partner had lived at her address and owned the property which he didnt and that she 
worked full time when  she only worked part-time.
Ive seen from the evidence that the original  plan was for a joint holiday home purchase with 
the finance to be in Mrs Ss ex-partners name.  However he was declined  for the finance and 
the application proceeded in Mrs Ss name  only. The application was made  over the phone  
to the caravan park and the paperwork appears  to have been completed for a joint loan. So I 
think its likely that either  Mrs Ss ex-partner was either present at some point and provided 
details or that Mrs S did.
Mrs S has also provided a copy of an email  from Black Horse  shed received under a data 
protection request which said that the park had completed proposal  documents but the 
income was joint and the document  unsigned.  Black Horse had requested signed 
documentation which  she said were  never  provided though the credit was still issued.
Ref: DRN93517073Looking at the Income and Expenditure  form which is a handwritten document  I can 
understand how this has raised concerns for Mrs S. It shows a number of figures under the 
heading monthly income details  though  the figures underneath are actually Mrs Ss annual  
income. However the figures do match those that were shown on the bank statements 
provided by Mrs S so I cant  say they were  inaccurate. It also shows a figure  for her 
mortgage which was 50% of the amount Mrs S said she actually paid. The form then shows  
the gross  annual income for the second customer and that the other 50% of the mortgage  
costs are met by them.
The Proposal form shows Mrs S as married with one dependent  and in full time work. It 
also provides details of Mrs Ss ex-partner  and says he is also an owner  of her home. 
Looking at the bank statements provided  by Mrs S, I can see that her income is equal to 
£17,500 per year. Black Horse says that despite  the references to Mrs Ss ex-partners 
income in the documentation these werent taken  into account. Only Mrs Ss income  and 
outgoings were  assessed  for the hire purchase agreement.  It was never dealt  with as a joint 
application. However the electronic proposal  records provided by Black Horse shows  that it 
was Mrs Ss ex-partners income that was entered into the system and not hers.  Black Horse  
says that if it had used  Mrs Ss own income it didnt think the outcome would have been 
different. 
Mrs S says Black Horse,  by using its average  allowance for outgoings, hasnt accurately 
reflected the expenses  she actually has. If it had asked for copies of her wage slips and 
bank statements it would  have been aware  that the loan was unaffordable  for her.
I think it was reasonable  for Black Horse  to use an average allowance  when  assessing   
Mrs Ss potential  disposable income.  This is because I think  it was entitled to rely on the 
information provided that Mrs Ss income wasnt the sole income  into the home at the time 
and that another person  was contributing. As set out by our investigator when deducting the 
allowance and housing  costs there  was around  £750 remaining before the loan cost was 
deducted. I think this shows that the loan was affordable  on Mrs Ss income. 
Ms S says she has had to borrow money to cover the loan but Ive also seen that one of the 
reasons Mrs S says has struggled to keep  up with the payments was the additional costs 
that came  with having the caravan. These costs were nearly equal to the monthly costs of 
the agreement  itself but I think that it would be reasonable to have expected that Mrs S 
would have made enquiries  about these before she entered into the agreement. And I dont 
think I can reasonably hold Black Horse  responsible  for not advising Mrs S about these 
potential extra costs.
I think most  people would expect to rent their caravans out during the year to help offset the 
costs of owning one in a holiday park. Ive seen that Mrs S rented hers out and made an 
income from that though she says it wasnt enough to cover the costs. But looking at the 
income Mrs S has received in the period  she has had the caravan it would appear that the 
rental income would  have  offset a large proportion of those costs.
Ive seen that any potential rental income  wasnt taken into account by Black Horse  when  it 
considered the affordability of the loan for Mrs S. So I think its reasonable to consider the 
rental income and the additional costs  as separate to the issue  of the affordability of the 
actual credit.
So I dont  agree that Black Horse should have undertaken more checks about Mrs Ss 
income and outgoings. I think the checks it carried out by Black Horse were  proportionate in 
Ref: DRN93517074the circumstances and so I dont think it acted  irresponsibly in providing the credit agreement 
to Mrs S. Im not upholding  Mrs Ss complaint and Im not asking it to reimburse any charges  
or interest  to her. 
Ive seen that Black Horse  has offered for Mrs S to hand the caravan back and cancel the 
agreement with nothing  further to pay and I think that is a fair resolution  to this complaint.  So 
Im not intending to ask Black Horse  to do more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 December  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9351707