K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the customer service hes received from Lloyds Bank PLC when he 
raised a disputed transaction on his credit  card.
background
Mr B used his Lloyds credit card to purchase supplies from a third party.  I believe  there  was 
some confusion as to whether these supplies should be delivered  free of charge or not. 
Ultimately these supplies were never  delivered  to Mr B. 
As I understand, Mr B raised  a complaint about  this disputed payment directly  with Lloyds. 
Lloyds advised  Mr B to cancel the credit card hed used to place the order.  Lloyds 
subsequently spoke to the third party who agreed to give Mr B a full refund. However since 
his credit card had been cancelled, he was told to contact the third party directly to arrange 
this refund. Mr B didnt  feel comfortable doing this and a complaint has been  brought  to our 
service.
An investigator has already looked  at this matter.  The investigator  contacted  the third party 
and theyve now agreed to issue Mr B a cheque in respect of the full amount. This is so Mr B 
doesnt need to liaise with them directly.  Overall the investigator felt the actions of Lloyds 
had been fair and reasonable. And he noted  Lloyds was offering Mr B £50 compensation for 
recognition of any customer service failings.  He didnt  think they needed to do anything  
further to resolve  this matter.  
As Mr B is still unhappy with this outcome, the complaint  has now been  referred  to me for 
consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I must make it clear  that Im looking into the actions of Lloyds only.  And whilst I have looked 
at all the evidence  which has been sent to our service, my decision focuses  on what  I think 
are the key points in dispute.
The third party hasnt  disputed that the goods  werent delivered. They have now agreed  to 
send a cheque  to Mr B for the full amount in question. This means he doesnt need to liaise 
with them  directly.
Lloyds has offered Mr B £50 compensation for recognition that their customer service  could 
have been better. I think this amount is reasonable. I dont think there were any serious 
failings by Lloyds.  Ultimately Mr B did authorise the transaction in question.  I appreciate Mr 
B feels very strongly that hes spent  lots of time on this matter  and incurred considerable 
expenses by pursuing this claim. But these havent  been detailed in any form and I dont 
think its fair to hold Lloyds liable for such costs.
Mr B thinks  this matter couldve been  resolved much sooner if Lloyds had read all of his 
correspondence and handled the matter differently. Just like the investigator  I think the 
actions overall of Lloyds  have  been fair. I dont think theyve provided  misleading information 
Ref: DRN92532792to Mr B. So I wont be asking them to do anything further. I think the £50 compensation 
already offered is sufficient. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9253279