K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Lloyds Bank  plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs H bought the policy to protect  her repayments when she took out a loan. It was at a 
meeting in 2001 in one of the banks branches. The loan included an amount to pay for the 
policy. And it provided Mrs H with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
On Mrs Hs credit agreement the cost of the PPI was set out separately under the 
heading Optional Loan Protection Insurance loan. And lower down the form, under the 
heading Optional Loan Protection, the options to select  or decline PPI were set out with 
equal prominence.  Mrs H indicated that she wanted  it. Mrs H says Lloyds failed to tell 
her she could  look elsewhere for an alternative policy, but this wasnt  something Lloyds 
had to do. So, overall I think  Lloyds made  Mrs H aware she had a choice about  buying 
PPI, and she chose  to take it out. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs H. And it seems to have  been  suitable for her 
based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. Mrs H was entitled  to six 
months full pay if she was sick. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to this - for up 
to the term of the loan for accident and sickness claims and for up to 12 months for 
unemployment claims.  Mrs Hs representative argues that as the loan was only for 12 
months her sick pay was sufficient protection.  But I disagree. If she had been  unable to 
work beyond  the time she received sick pay for, I think the PPI would have been useful 
for her. She could have had no income for a number  of months so having the loan 
repayments covered would have been valuable. Overall, I think the PPI wouldve been 
useful for Mrs H if she was sick or lost her job. 
The cash  price of the policy and the monthly cost were  shown on the agreement  but 
the interest payable wasnt set out separately. But as the PPI was competitively priced 
and apparently affordable, I dont think Mrs H wouldve made a different decision if shed 
been given clearer  cost information. The missing interest payment was less than £1 per 
month, so it seems unlikely knowing this would have made a difference  to Mrs Hs 
decision. And given how long the policy couldve paid out for, if Mrs H made a 
successful claim she couldve got back quite a bit more  than she paid for it.
Ref: DRN96726362Mrs H wouldve  only got back a limited refund of the PPI premium  if she cancelled  the 
policy early. But I havent  seen  anything from the time the policy  was sold to suggest  
she thought shed repay  the loan early.  So I dont  think  this meant the policy wasnt  right 
for her.
Its possible  Lloyds didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But Mrs H 
doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of those things (such  as type of 
employment contract  or pre-existing  medical  conditions). So I think its unlikely she 
wouldve made  a different decision if better  information had been provided   overall, 
I think she would still have taken  out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mrs H has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9672636