K821x#15complaint
Ms D is unhappy with the way her property was repaired by Lloyds Bank General Insurance  
Limited after she made a claim under her home  insurance policy for damage caused by a 
water leak.
background
A cellar in Ms Ds home has been converted into a home cinema room. In 2015 Ms D made  
a claim after there was a water leak in that part of the property.
Lloyds found the leak had been  caused by a burst water pipe. Its contractor repaired the 
damage.
In 2016 Ms D said water was still getting into the basement. Lloyds arranged for a drainage 
expert to carry out a CCTV survey of Ms Ds drains.  It found  several  faults and carried  out 
further repairs. Despite  those works the drains  became blocked again a few months later.
The drainage expert  did another CCTV survey  but it says this time it went  past the boundary  
of Ms Ds property. It said Ms Ds foul water  was going out into a land drain instead of the 
original foul drainage system. It believed the blockages were in the land drain which  wasnt 
fit for purpose.  It thought  the property also had inadequate  surface  water  drainage  due to 
drains being altered when the cellar was renovated by Ms D and that meant ground  water 
was getting into the property.
Ms D wanted Lloyds to pay for a second  expert  opinion as she thought  its contractor had 
damaged her drains. Lloyds refused. It said Ms Ds drains werent  fit for purpose  and that 
wasnt due to any work carried out by its contractor.
During its investigations Lloyds had exposed  a disconnected drainage pipe in Ms Ds 
basement bathroom. It offered to reconnect this (but said it wouldnt accept liability for any 
future problems with damp connected  with this) or to make a cash  settlement of £1,500 to 
enable Ms D to have this work carried out. It agreed  that there was some  poor workmanship 
on the part of its original contractor and paid £125 compensation for this and other service 
failings. It offered a cash settlement for the repairs to the rest of the property and damage  to 
contents.
Ms D complained to this service. She thinks Lloyds contractor damaged her drains. She 
says she now has an exposed drainage pipe in her bathroom, water  coming  up through the 
cellar floor and a sewage system that blocks up constantly. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. 
An extract  from my provisional decision is set out below:
Its not my role to determine  the cause of the blockages in Ms Ds drains  - thats the role of 
the expert whove inspected  her property. What I have to decide is whether Lloyds acted 
fairly and reasonably in its handling of her claim, including its decision to:
rely on its drainage  survey and not pay for a second opinion;
Ref: DRN99687382to reconnect the open drain but only on the basis that it wasnt liable for any future  
problems or make  a cash  settlement  for this work;  and
pay £125 for service  failings.
Ill deal with each  of these in turn.
Ms D has explained  why she thinks Lloyds contractor could have caused problems by 
putting rubble  into the drain  and reconnecting the pipes wrongly. I can see that Lloyds 
drainage expert visited Ms Ds property more than ten times and carried out a number of 
CCTV surveys  and dye tests. I think its investigations were  thorough  and its report was 
detailed. Since Lloyds hasnt seen any expert evidence which contradicts the findings of its 
drainage expert,  I think it was reasonable of it not to agree to pay for an independent third 
party to carry out further investigations.
With regard to the pipe that was exposed in Ms Ds basement bathroom, Lloyds drainage 
expert said it would  need  to install  a manhole and connect this to the rest of the drainage  
system. But it said it wouldnt  agree to be liable if there were any problems in future arising  
from this as Ms Ds cellar walls and floor hadnt  been waterproofed and there was existing  
evidence of water entering  the cellar.
Unfortunately for Ms D, in the opinion of Lloyds drainage expert, her foul and surface water 
drains arent  fit for purpose. It suggested this was due to alterations made when her cellar 
was converted  into additional living space. In addition it says her cellar isnt fully water-proof. 
Therere already  signs of water getting  in. So it seems  to me reasonably likely that more 
ground water might  get into the property in future. In view of this and the difficulty  in proving 
that these works hadnt caused  any future problem with damp, I can understand Lloyds not 
wanting to be liable  for any further  issues with damp that Ms D might have. I dont think  it 
was unreasonable for it to say it wouldnt be liable  for any future problems with the land drain  
in this area.
Ms D has suffered a great deal of inconvenience and stress in the course of her claim. In 
awarding compensation Im only looking at the extent  to which  Lloyds made this worse  than 
it needed to be. Lloyds  hasnt disputed that there was a great deal of poor workmanship on 
the part of its original contractor, including faulty  installation of a shower  tray and hand  basin 
and not carrying  out proper timber  treatment. I can understand why Ms D thought  they were 
trying to cut corners at every opportunity. This meant the works  took six months instead of 
two and ruined  Christmas for Ms D and her family.  In addition  the drainage expert took 
several months to establish the true cause  of Ms Ds drainage problems. This meant that 
she kept having blockages in her system  over that period which  caused  her further 
inconvenience and stress. I think the sum of £1,000  recommended by our investigator is 
appropriate to compensate Ms D for that.
responses to my provisional  findings
Lloyds agreed  to the increase in compensation to £1,000.
Ms D accepted my provisional decision but had concerns as to the amount of the claim costs 
including sums which  had been  spent  in redoing the poor workmanship originally carried out 
by Lloyds contractor.  
Ref: DRN99687383my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Ms Ds concerns about  the cost of her claim but unfortunately the external  
database on which claims are recorded  must include all the insurers  costs even if that 
includes costs to put right things that have gone  wrong. Ive taken into account the trouble 
this might cause Ms D in future when considering the amount of compensation I think Lloyds 
should pay her. 
Overall the responses  to my provisional  findings dont cause me to change  my provisional 
findings as set out above and so they are now the findings of this my final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  to pay Ms D 
£1,000 compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused her by its poor workmanship 
and delays.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9968738