K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that his claim  (under his household insurance policy)  for the theft of items 
from a car was declined  by Zurich Insurance PLC.
background
Mr S partners car was broken into and her handbag stolen. He made a claim for the 
handbag and its contents under his household  insurance policy.  
Mr S explained that his partners employment meant that the boot was full of work 
equipment, so the handbag couldnt have been  stored in it. In addition, as the glove box was 
compartmentalised, the bag couldnt fit into that either. He went  on to explain that the area 
his partner was working  in was not a good  one and it wasnt safe for her to take the bag with 
her when making her visit. As such, she stored  it and a work laptop under the seats of the 
car. The thief broke the passenger window when committing the theft.
Zurich declined the claim. It said that there was only cover for items in an unattended car if 
the items  were in a locked and covered boot or glove compartment and there  was evidence 
of forcible and violent  entry into the vehicle. As Mr S had confirmed the handbag was under 
the seat, it said that there was no cover  available.
Mr S didnt accept Zurichs answer.  He pointed  to a case-study on our website which  
effectively said that to decline a claim because of non-compliance with a policy term; that 
non-compliance had to have been  material to the loss. Mr S said that the non-compliance 
(not putting  the bag in a concealed boot or glove compartment) wasnt  material because the 
bag had been completely  concealed beneath  the seat.
Zurich maintained its position. Whilst it didnt tell Mr S its view on the materiality  issue, it did 
consider it and made notes in its file. It thought it unlikely that the bag would have been fully 
concealed beneath the seat of the car. Mr S referred the complaint to this service.  One of 
our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt  recommend that it be upheld. Mr S 
didnt accept the investigators view as he maintained  that the non-compliance with the 
policy term was not material to the loss. As such,  the complaint was referred  to me for 
consideration.
As we hadnt  directly  considered the materiality issue Mr S had raised, I asked for some 
further information. Mr S confirmed what type of car the bag was stolen from and provided 
photographs of his partner with the bag in question. Following this I issued my provisional 
decision on 21 December 2018. In that document I explained my conclusions  and reasoning.  
The below is an excerpt of my findings.
I have read the policy terms and conditions in this case  and I am satisfied that there would 
potentially be cover for the items  stolen,  but there was a requirement  for those items to be 
concealed from sight in a boot or a glove box. 
It is clear that the items werent  concealed  where the policy  required them to be. So on a 
simple interpretation  of the policy  terms,  there  was no cover  available. However, Mr S was 
right when he pointed  out that we generally consider  that it is not appropriate for an insurer  
to decline a claim where the non-compliance with a policy  term or condition isnt material to 
the loss. So if the bag was completely concealed  in some way, other  than in a boot or glove 
box, then we may consider it unreasonable for the insurer to decline the claim.
Ref: DRN97405622As such,  I must consider  whether  not being  stowed in the specified  locations in the car was 
material to the loss of the handbag.  Mr S has confirmed the make  and model of the car the 
bag was stolen  from  it was a small car. He has also provided photographs of the handbag  
in question. 
Zurich has said that it considers  the handbag not being in the boot was material  to the loss, 
as it doesnt consider the bag could  have been  completely  concealed under the seat. Having 
looked at photographs of the handbag, I am inclined to agree with it. The handbag is of a 
considerable size and I am not persuaded that it would have fitted  completely under  the seat 
of a small car without  considerable effort and possibly damage to the bag. Given that this 
was not a cheap bag and, from Mr S comments, had considerable value to his partner,  
I doubt that she would have risked  damaging the bag.
As such,  whilst I accept that Mr S partner took the best precautions  she could in the 
circumstances, I think  it is likely that the bag not being in the boot or glove box was material  
to her car being  broken  into and the bag stolen. As such, I dont consider that Zurich 
declining the claim was inappropriate. 
Zurich confirmed it had received  my provisional  decision and that it had nothing further to 
add.
Mr S didnt accept my findings.  He provided  photographic  and video evidence  that a bag 
from the same manufacturer could be concealed  under the seat of the car. He also pointed  
out that given  his girlfriends employment,  she is very conscious  that should  her work laptop 
be stolen there would be considerable data-protection concerns. As such, she is very 
conscious of the need  to conceal  items left in the car. Mr S also said that she was more than 
aware that the area she was working  in was undesirable with a high crime rate, and so 
would have known  to take extra precautions. 
Mr S feels  that this case has wider implications  for how health  workers in the community 
should deal with personal and work  property when working. He says this is due to safety  
concerns should  they be forced  to take valuable equipment  and property into a patients 
house when working alone in areas with high crime levels. Mr S went on to say that they 
bought their insurance for a number or reasons, but one was that it covered their valuables 
away from their home and when left in the car. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted what  Mr S says about professionals in the health industry and their safety. 
However, that is something  for their employers and them as individuals  to consider. An 
insurer is entitled to decide what risks it is willing  to accept.  If a policyholder or member of 
their family isnt able to comply with the requirements under a policy, then it would be for 
them to look for alternative cover  that meets their needs.
I have looked  at the photographs and video Mr S provided. This is obviously a different bag 
and, whilst he has said that it is very similar in type and size to the one stolen, I am not 
satisfied that it is from the photographic evidence. I say this as the photograph Mr S provided 
of the bag being used  on a bridge suggests  the shape and structure of the two bags are 
Ref: DRN97405623notably different.  As such, I remain  of the opinion that it is unlikely that the bag was fully 
concealed under  the seat of the car. Given that the non-compliance with the requirement to 
store such  items in the boot or glove compartment was material to the loss, it remains that 
I dont find that Zurich acted inappropriately when  declining  the claim.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
28 February 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9740562