K820x#14complaint
Mr T and Ms S complain  they were  mis-sold  a mortgage by an appointed representative of 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited.
background
Mr T and Ms S had a mortgage. Acting on L&Gs advice, they re-mortgaged to another  
lender, borrowing an additional £9,000 for home improvements and consolidating a credit  
card balance of just under £2,000. 
Theyre now represented by a claims management  company  (CMC),  which  says the 
mortgage was mis-sold.  It says Mr T and Ms S didnt want  or need a re-mortgage. If they 
wanted further funds they could have taken a personal loan. It didnt think the debt 
consolidation was suitable either.  And it complained about the fees the broker charged.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so the CMC asked for an 
ombudsman to consider  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T and Ms S wanted to borrow additional  money for home improvements. The suitability 
report records that they wanted to borrow more than £9,000, but that was the most that was 
available to them. Raising  that amount on a personal loan would have been significantly 
more expensive each  month than doing  so through a mortgage  and I dont have any 
evidence that it would  have been granted if they had applied  for one. 
Although the fact find records  that Mr T and Ms S had surplus  income each month, it only 
takes account of basic  expenditure  there  is no discretionary or leisure  spending recorded 
at all  and so I dont think the record of their outgoings is accurate. I think  the fact that they 
were limited in what they could borrow suggests that they were,  in reality, approaching  the 
margins of what was affordable.
In that context, therefore, I dont think raising  the money they wanted  (or, at least, as much  
of it as possible) through the mortgage was unsuitable. And adding the credit card to the 
mortgage helped  keep the monthly costs of doing so down. I dont uphold  the complaint 
about the mortgage recommendation.
Ive looked carefully  at what the CMC says.  But Ive seen no evidence  the broker  charged 
Mr T and Ms S a legal administration fee. The completion statement records  a fee of that 
description. But theres no evidence it was paid to the broker (its not itemised with the other  
fees the solicitor  paid to the broker out of the mortgage advance),  and theres  no other 
record of the solicitors costs. I think this fee is likely to be the costs paid to the solicitor for 
the conveyancing, not a fee paid to the broker, in this case. I dont therefore think it would be 
fair to ask L&G to repay it. I note L&G has offered to pay Mr T and Ms S the commission it 
received from the solicitor, together with £100 compensation, and I think  thats  fair.
Ref: DRN94893132my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I think  Legal & General Partnership 
Services Limited has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 June 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9489313