K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with his home insurer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) following 
a claim he made to it when he found  a water leak and damage at his home.
background
On 5 March 2018 Mr M found water coming through his dining room ceiling, and when he 
checked the bedroom above that was wet too, also with water coming through the ceiling. 
Mr M found a pipe had leaked in the loft. He called RSA.
RSA explained  that he needed to get the pipe fixed.  It was noted that the loft, spare 
bedroom and the dining room were  damaged,  the rest of the house  was dry but had no 
heating or water. Mrs M told RSA they had a plumber on the way but would stay at their 
sons home that night.
On 6 March Mrs M spoke to RSA again  and confirmed the leak was stopped  the previous 
evening.
Mrs M spoke  to the loss adjuster on 7 March.  Mrs M confirmed  the heating  was on but they 
werent staying at home. The call handler  asked Mrs M why that was given the house now 
had heating  was it because of the bed that had been soaked  by the leak? Mrs M agreed 
that was the case  and the handler said Mrs M could buy a replacement bed to allow  them to 
stay in their home. Mrs M asked about  damp clothing that was starting to smell.  The handler 
said the clothes  could be washed. But also told Mrs M to keep any damaged  items for the 
adjuster to look at. 
RSA began drying the property and clothing  items were taken away  for cleaning.  Other  items  
were disposed of with RSA later offering  settlement for them. Mr and Mrs M asked for the 
claim to be settled in cash rather than have any work or repairs  done.  RSA agreed to do that 
but pointed out clothes  had been cleaned and restored. 
Mr M said the cleaned clothes now had no value  they had been brand new but cleaning  
had made  them second hand.  He said hed been  going to use these as gifts to people and 
now couldnt do that. He asked for £3,000 to compensate him for this loss. He also said the 
items that Mrs M had been told to wash had been damaged during washing and theyd been 
disposed of by them, as theyd been advised  to by the loss adjuster. He said he wanted 
compensation of around £900 for these items. Mr M also said that theyd had to stay away  
from home, that the loss adjuster had told them to leave the house, and his friend had 
charged him £95 a day for staying in his house.  He wanted RSA to reimburse  his cost for 
this. Mr M asked  for compensation as this had all caused him a lot of upset, and he felt RSA 
had made  insulting  remarks to him as well. 
RSA replied and explained that the clothes had been restored to the same  condition as they 
were before,  that Mr M shouldnt have disposed of damaged clothing,  and that there had 
been no need for Mr and Mrs M to stay away from home. RSA said the only thing it would do 
was pay Mr M £20, being what it wouldve cost it to clean  the disposed  of clothing.
Mr M complained to us. Initially,  based  on call notes from RSAs file, our investigator felt 
RSA should pay to replace the clothing  that Mr and Mrs M had been thrown away.  But when 
he was provided  call recordings  which evidenced  exactly what  had been discussed, he 
changed his mind.
Ref: DRN92635442Our investigator explained that the call recordings showed that Mrs M was told to keep  
damaged items. As she hadnt,  he felt RSAs position had been prejudiced. Regarding the 
restored clothing  he felt there was no evidence it had been new or had lost value due to 
being cleaned.  Our investigator thought Mr Ms house had been  habitable  and noted  that in 
none of the calls had RSA agreed to pay accommodation costs. 
Mr M was unhappy, he felt our investigator had just copied RSAs opinion and that he hadnt  
listed to the points Mr M had made. Our investigator confirmed he had done and clarified 
that he didnt think RSA should  pay any compensation  because  he didnt think  it had done  
anything wrong. Nor did he feel it had made  insulting  remarks.  
Mr M was still unhappy. He said RSA had agreed for him to stay with his son and he, at the 
very least,  was entitled to claim for that. He said the drying equipment with their, cables and 
pipes were everywhere  the kitchen and bathroom  sink, as well as the toilet  had pipes 
draining into them, so couldnt be used. The equipment  was also noisy and the house was 
much colder than usual.  Mr M said RSA knew his clothes were all new and their having been  
cleaned meant they were  now not new and couldnt be used by him as intended. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  With regret  for any upset this causes 
Mr M, Im not minded to uphold his complaint.  
alternative accommodation
An insurer  only has to re-house a policyholder if their home is uninhabitable.  That usually 
means no heating  or hot-water and/or  access to the kitchen and bathroom. Mr Ms home, 
after the first day, once  the plumber had been  that evening,  had all of that.
The pipes and cables  were likely inconvenient  but they werent trailing all over the house. 
The pipes that were draining in the sinks  werent large or cumbersome and could easily  have 
been moved when  the sinks needed using.  Im not persuaded any were draining into the 
toilet  but again if they were they could have been  moved. Mr M says he wasnt confident 
about switching  the machines off and on but I dont see he ever raised  this with RSA.  In any 
event I dont see that would be any more difficult than switching the wall socket on and off. 
The whole house wasnt wet  only two rooms  and the loft were  affected. And the property 
only took around ten-days to dry. The heating was working, as confirmed  by Mrs M during 
the call on 7 March.  So Im not persuaded that the house was too wet or cold to stay in. 
I know Mr M says he was told to leave his home. I think there  was a suggestion that staying 
away on the first night unit the heating was restored was a good idea. But there was no 
suggesting that Mr and Mrs Ms son was going  to charge them to stay over. And I think  that 
would be unlikely thing  for a relative  to do when  family members  are in need  of assistance. 
There was no other  agreement by RSA or its loss adjuster that I have  contemporaneous 
evidence of that shows Mr M was told to stay away from home  or that an agreement was 
made for alternative accommodation costs to be paid for. Mr Ms testimony  in this respect 
isnt sufficient to make  me think this most likely  happened, not in light of the call recordings 
Ref: DRN92635443we do have and many notes that record there  was no need for Mr and Mrs M to stay away 
from home. 
Im not going  to make RSA pay anything in this respect. I think it acted fairly and reasonably  
when it said the home  was habitable, and I note it also agreed  for the bed to be replaced 
early in case this was preventing Mr and Mrs M from sleeping at home (even though  this 
was actually the spare bed). Whilst Mr and Mrs M did stay away with good cause the first 
night Ive not seen evidence they had a cost for this and I dont find it likely  that they would 
have been charged for this by their son. Im not going to make RSA pay anything.
restored clothing
Mr M has a policy which  allows RSA to choose to repair or replace items. Only if something 
cant be repaired must RSA replace it. Washing clothes to restore (or repair)  them  is quite 
standard in the industry. The clothes  being washed wouldnt prevent Mr or Mrs M from using  
and wearing them in the future. I understand that Mr M may not feel that these  can be given  
as gifts now but Ive not seen that the clothes look used or any different  to how they did 
before the leak and their being taken  away for cleaning. 
I understand that Mr M feels he is entitled  to receive  compensation  for what he perceives he 
has lost in this respect. Unfortunately for Mr M I dont agree with him that he has proven the 
loss he has reported.  He hasnt shown that the clothes were  brand new,  or that they were 
returned to him in anything less than the same condition they were in before the leak 
occurred. Im not going to make RSA do anything  in this respect.
disposed of clothing
Mr M took pictures when  the leak was found  that showed some clothing items on the bed 
that was soaked.  Ive heard Mrs M being  told by the loss adjuster that she can wash  these 
clothes. However, Mr M then says he was told to dispose of the items  if they didnt clean. 
That is not what I have  heard in the call recordings.  On the contrary  Mrs M was told to keep  
any damaged items for the loss adjuster to look at.
I think its reasonable for RSA to say it wanted to have chance  to look at these items. It may 
well be that it could  have  restored them. At the very least it would have allowed it the chance 
to assess the clothes and what the likely  cost of their replacement was. As it is, it didnt have 
chance to do any of that. RSA has said it would have cost it £20 to clean  the items and has 
offered to pay this to Mr M. In the circumstances, without evidence of how the clothes were 
damaged (beyond  what Mr M has said)  or what value they were, I think thats reasonable.
For the avoidance of doubt I have seen the photos of the items on the bed. However, I dont 
think its possible from these to determine the number and nature of the clothing items in 
question. I certainly  dont  think  these photos could or should reasonably have been used to 
assess the value  of these items. 
insulting remarks
Mr M has said that RSA has referred to him wanting  to claim because he feels he is out of 
pocket. Mr M says this is not true and is insulting.  
I understand Mr M is upset by this comment.  But Im not persuaded that any ill intent was 
meant by the writer. This type of phrasing  is quite  common in insurance claims  the premise 
Ref: DRN92635444of insurance is really to ensure the policyholder doesnt have to pay out of their own pocket 
for repairs and replacements. I think its possible that Mr M may have misunderstood this 
comment but I dont  think  RSA did anything wrong.
Ive considered all of the written correspondence between Mr and Mrs M and RSA, including 
its loss adjuster, as well as recordings of some of the telephone conversations.  Im satisfied 
that all comments and communications  were professional and none were insulting.
compensation
This service doesnt expect insurers to compensate policyholders merely because theyve 
had a loss and suffered inconvenience. But we would require an insurer  to pay 
compensation if it had failed  the policyholder in some way and caused them upset. Having 
considered everything  that happened here, Im not persuaded that RSA did fail Mr M. 
Therefore, Im not going  to award any compensation to him.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9263544