K820x#14complaint
Miss T in unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has terminated a claim she made 
on her employers group income protection policy. 
background
In 2015 Miss T stopped working due to illness. She claimed on her employers group income  
protection scheme. They paid her a benefit  under the policy from August 2015. They 
terminated it in March 2019.  The decision to terminate the claim was based on surveillance 
footage taken in December 2018. 
The footage  was referred to the independent medical examiner (IME)  who had examined 
Miss T in July 2018.  In July the IME said that Miss T wasnt  fit to work due to her symptoms. 
Having reviewed the footage, the IME changed  her mind and said Miss T was fit to work. Her 
benefits were stopped  and Aviva exercised their discretion to remove  Miss T from her 
employers group policy. 
Miss T complained that at the time the footage was taken she was receiving temporary  relief  
from her symptoms and pointed out that there was six months  between  the IME report  and 
the footage. Miss T is unhappy that Aviva is treating her as if her claim was fraudulent. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint as 
she didnt think that Avivas decision to end the claim was unreasonable,  based on the 
differences between  Miss Ts capability described in July 2018 and what  was shown  on the 
surveillance footage.  The investigator  explained  Aviva had sought the IMEs input before 
ending the claim  and said the further medical  evidence provided by Miss T didnt change  her 
thoughts about the outcome of the complaint as it didnt directly relate to her ability  to work at 
the time the claim  was terminated.  Finally,  she didnt think it was unreasonable  for Aviva to 
remove Miss T from the policy as there were inconsistencies between the medical  report  and 
the footage. 
Miss T didnt agree. She says she was bedridden for the six to eight weeks before the 
footage was taken and that she hadnt  experienced some of her symptoms  because of side 
effects from other medication.  She provided  a further letter  from her GP commenting on her 
medical conditions.  So I need to make  a decision.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy defines  incapacity as: 
Incapacity or Incapacitated  shall mean  that a member is incapacitated, by reason of 
illness or injury, when the insurer is satisfied that the employee is incapable of
performing the material and substantial duties of his or her own occupation and is not 
following any other occupation.
And Aviva has the right to terminate cover  with immediate effect:
Ref: DRN92132492in respect of any or all members, by notice if the employer  has failed in its duty of 
utmost good  faith by supplying misleading,  incorrect, or incomplete  information or 
in respect of any member  if that employee has failed in that said duty.  
Miss Ts normal  role included advising customers,  operating tills and unloading deliveries. 
Her employer reduced her hours  to part-time and she was then given mainly sedentary  
tasks, such as not handling heavy  stock or deliveries. 
Miss T had a history  of back pain and received a diagnosis of psoriatic arthropy in 2012. In 
July 2015 she told the IME that she wasnt coping  with her joints and she was also having 
increasing problems  with her bowels which led to her become  absent from work. She 
explained that she had a number of problems including: 
She couldnt get out the house  regularly because of incontinence 
When she ate something she needed  to use the toilet  urgently
She was often incontinent  during  the day and night  
She stayed at home all day other than to complete the school run, go to medical 
appointments or sometimes  to the bank
She shopped online or got others to do it for her
She was unable to bend or stretch due to the pain. 
The IME concluded Miss Ts function was incompatible with regular  effective work  despite 
the lack of any clear  medical explanation for her symptoms. She went on to say that Miss Ts 
reported functional  level wasnt  compatible with a mobile, active  role despite  lacking  a clear 
medical explanation to explain  her symptoms. The IME concluded  the main disabling feature 
was Miss Ts incontinence  and she wasnt fit for her own occupation as a sales advisor in a 
large shop.  
Aviva has a responsibility to handle  claims promptly and fairly. Where Aviva has accepted a 
claim it is Avivas  responsibility to demonstrate that it is fair to terminate it. Im satisfied that it 
has done so in this case: 
Aviva  obtained surveillance  of Miss T over a number of days. She was seen leaving 
the house on a number of occasions  which contradicts what  she told the IME about  
her day to day activities
Miss T was videoed completing  a range of activities which were  inconsistent with the 
information given  to the IME. For example,  she was seen bending into a trolley, 
taking items off the supermarket  shelf, carrying shopping and pushing  her child in a 
trolley. And on the days she was under  surveillance she left the house and went  
shopping on most days. All of this contradicts Miss Ts description to the IME of her 
abilities 
Ref: DRN92132493The footage  also doesnt support Miss Ts description of the impact of incontinence 
on her day to day life. For example, she was seen visiting  a fast food restaurant and 
eating in her car. Miss T says that this was because her stomach was empty 
because shed been vomiting  due to other side effects. Miss T was subject to 
surveillance over a number of days and the evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest  that 
she was experiencing symptoms of vomiting.  In fact shes seen  eating  in her car on 
more than one occasion, is out shopping and going to the post office. So I dont find 
her comments in relation  to this a persuasive  explanation 
Aviva  referred the footage back to the IME which is what Id expect them to do. In 
response the IME said that Miss T was fit to work based  on the video surveillance 
and there was no indication of any incapacity that would prevent her from doing so 
on a full time basis. Whilst the IME noted that Miss T used a stick she also noted 
Miss T was clearly  able to bend, carry, reach and stretch repeatedly and safely. The 
IME also said that the level of mobility  shown was inconsistent with how Miss T 
presented at the assessment. So I think Aviva  acted fairly by asking  an appropriately 
qualified consultant to comment on the footage  before terminating the claim 
Given the IMEs comments, and the footage, I dont think  it was unreasonable for 
Aviva to terminate the claim  and exercise their discretion to terminate the policy as 
set out in the policy terms. I also dont think it was unreasonable to conclude that 
Miss T hadnt acted  in line with the duty of good faith set out in the policy given the 
inconsistencies in what Miss T reported  to the IME and what  is seen in the footage
Ive taken into account the medical  evidence provided by Miss T but it doesnt 
change my thoughts  about the outcome here. The most recent letter from her GP 
doesnt comment in much specific detail on her ability to carry out work  related 
functions at the time the footage  was taken.  The GPs letter  is based  on Miss Ts 
reporting of her symptoms. And, having  reviewed the footage, I dont think it supports 
the severity of the symptoms Miss T said she was experiencing in terms of her 
mobility and incontinence. Ive found the surveillance footage, which  has been 
reviewed by a medical expert, to be more persuasive  in the circumstances of this 
case
Im aware that Miss T is very upset that she feels she is being accused  of acting 
fraudulently. Im not suggesting that is the case, and its not my role to do so. 
However, I dont think Aviva has treated her unfairly based on the evidence Ive seen. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  
Im required  to ask Miss T to accept or reject my decision before 29 February 2020. 
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9213249