K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains National  Westminster Bank  plc mis-sold a monthly  premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 2003 with a mortgage. 
The policy covered Miss D if she couldnt work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Miss D disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ds case.
From the evidence I have  seen I dont think that National Westminster recommended  the 
policy to Miss D, so the key question I need to consider is:
- Did the bank  give Miss D information  that was clear,  fair and not misleading in order 
to put her in a position where she could make an informed choice about the 
insurance she was buying?
If the answer  to this question is no, then I need  to consider whether Miss D is worse off as a 
result. That is, would she have done  something different  such  as not taking out the policy  
if there had been  no problems  with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Miss Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
From what  Ive seen, I think its likely that National Westminster made Miss D aware the PPI 
was optional and she chose to take it. I say this because the mortgage application she 
completed included  a section headed  Mortgage Repayments Protector that said Do you 
want Mortgage Repayments Protector?. The question was answered  Yes on Miss Ds 
application. 
The PPI cost was also listed  as Mortgage  Repayments Protector  Premium (Optional) on the 
mortgage quotation Miss D received from the bank.
So from what Ive seen,  I think National Westminster  made Miss D aware  that the PPI was 
optional and she chose  to take it out.
It seems  Miss D wouldve  known how much she would be paying for the PPI and found  it 
acceptable. The policy was competitively  priced and apparently affordable.  So I think it 
unlikely that Miss D would  have made  a different decision  if better information about  the cost 
had been provided.
Ref: DRN94357822Miss D satisfied the eligibility requirements  of the policy when taking it out. And her 
circumstances do not suggest she would have  been caught by any of the conditions  limiting 
the policys main benefits (such as those affecting  people with pre-existing  medical  
conditions). 
In summary,  I think Miss D agreed to take out the cover, knowing she didnt have to. And 
given it provided  broadly  what  I think she expected  when she agreed to it, I dont think she 
would have made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if she had been 
better informed.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9435782