K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains Stonebridge International Insurance Ltd (Stonebridge) mis-sold her an 
Accidental Death policy.
  
background
In June 2004 an Accidental  Death policy was taken out in Ms Hs name. Ms H says she has 
no recollection of the policy being  taken out, and she only realised she had this cover when 
she saw the premiums being debited from her account in 2018. 
Stonebridge say according to their records Ms Hs husband agreed to take out the policy 
over the phone, making Ms H the main person insured  and himself  a secondary person 
insured. Stonebridge say that it was also given authority to debit  the policies premiums from 
Ms Hs chosen account. So, Stonebridge doesnt  think its done anything wrong. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Ms Hs complaint. He felt there  was enough evidence to show 
Stonebridge had spoken to Ms Hs husband  over the phone  in June 2004 where it sold the 
policy. He also felt there wasnt enough evidence  to conclude the policy  was added without 
Ms Hs knowledge or consent. Because Ms H didnt  agree, this complaint has been  passed 
to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld,  Ill explain why. 
Ms H says she has no recollection of the policy being taken out and so she believes it was 
added without her knowledge  and consent.  She also told us she only realised she had this 
policy when she contacted Stonebridge to enquire  about a direct debit she didnt recognise. 
Ive thought about what she has said, but the policy was sold a long time ago  around 15 
years ago  which  is something  I must keep in mind  when deciding what I think is more  likely 
to have happened. 
Stonebridge has provided its system screen shots  to show it has a record of a call to Ms Hs 
husband in June 2004, but unfortunately there is no longer a call recording for me to listen 
to. However, I am persuaded that this evidence  shows that a call did take place. The screen 
shots also show that the policy commenced on this date to cover Ms H for accidental  death, 
and Ms Hs husband as an additional policy holder.  Stonebridge say Ms H must have agreed 
to the policy  as it was then provided  with account details and permission to deduct the 
premiums from her chosen account. 
Stonebridge has also provided a copy of a policy certificate which it says wouldve been sent 
to Ms H following the sale, along with some additional policy documents. Ms H says they 
moved address  in 2018, however, Ive seen no reason  to think the information sent her in 
2004 wasnt received.  And I think its likely that Ms H wouldve got in contact to question  the 
policy information if she hadnt agreed to it over the phone. 
So, having  considered all the evidence  available, I am not persuaded that the policy was 
added to Ms Hs account without her knowledge or consent. 
Ref: DRN91991082Ms H says she didnt need this policy  as both her and her husband  already had sufficient life 
cover. But this policy wouldve paid out in addition to any other policies they had. And in any 
event, this policy was also sold on a non-advised basis, so Stonebridge werent required to 
sell Ms H a policy  that was suitable for her, it was up to them to decide if the policy was right 
for them. So, it follows then that I dont think the policy was mis-sold.     
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think this policy was mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9199108