K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland plc provide poor customer  service  and gave an 
incorrect balance when  she was seeking to reduce her overdraft.
background
Mrs M has held a current account with BoS for several years. She has encountered some 
financial difficulties and in October 2018 she made  several calls to the bank. During these 
calls she was transferred to different members of staff and had to go through security 
questions several  times. She wanted  to reduce her overdraft and was told that her balance 
was £1,789 in debit,  but some money had been paid in and the actual balance was in credit.
Mrs M paid in £1,650  and this was then cancelled by the bank as the account  was in credit. 
At this time Mrs M made  several payments from the account which  totalled £1,792. Mrs M 
complained and the bank  apologised for the confusion and wrote  off any charges  she 
incurred and paid her £125  compensation. 
Mrs M brought her complaint to this service and said the bank  had caused  her to get into 
debt by giving her the incorrect  balance and this had led her to spend more than she could  
afford. She suggested it cover  £650 and she pay bank the remaining £1,000  at £100 per 
month.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. She agreed  that the bank  had made  an error, but she also said Mrs M had a 
responsibility to monitor  her account  and to have an understanding of how much she held in 
it. The investigator noted that the money Mrs M had paid out was taken  within three days  
and she thought it likely that she had intended to make those payments regardless. She also 
noted that the money went to other dreditors and so she didnt think  this had an impact on 
her overall indebtedness.
Mrs M didnt  agree. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate it was unhelpful  that the bank gave Mrs M incorrect  information  and that this 
followed several hours on the phone.  However, I share the investigators  opinion that an 
account holder  has the responsibility for their account. While I do not expect Mrs M to have 
been aware for the precise  sum she had given she was seeking to reduce her overdraft I 
think it reasonable for her to have  been  broadly aware of the state of the account. 
The bank rectified the errors the same  day and has paid her £125  which  I consider to be fair 
and reasonable.  As the investigator noted,  the money was used to reduce her debts 
elsewhere and so her overall positon has not been  affected. 
I also note that she had to spend some time on the phone and feels the level of customer  
service offered by the bank was poor. I can see why she feels  this and I think that the 
payment of £125  also covers this aspect of her complaint. I would  add that I am aware that 
Mrs M has had cause  to complain for a subsequent issue and that the bank  has paid her 
further compensation. I have not considered this as I believe it to be a separate  complaint.
Ref: DRN96918382my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, in the sense that I make no order  or 
award. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9691838