K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  about the way that J D Williams & Company Limited handled  her catalogue  
shopping account. 
Ms B wants J D Williams to refund interest and charges and amend her credit  file.
background
Ms B has a catalogue  account with J D Williams.  In 2019, Ms B complained  to J D Williams  
after it charged her additional delivery  costs and failed to credit returned  items back  to her 
account.
Ms B wanted J D Williams  to freeze  the interest  and charges on her account until her 
concerns had been dealt  with. 
Before this service became involved, J D Williams agreed that it had made a mistake  when it 
didnt credit one returned  item to her account.  And also when it credited a cheaper item back  
to Ms Bs account instead  of a full priced  one. J D Williams refunded the correct  amounts 
including any interest incurred on the account in relation to the items. J D Williams  also paid 
Ms B £20 for telephone  charges she spent  trying to resolve the problem.
J D Williams explained that the additional  delivery  charges  had been  correctly applied but 
refunded two amounts as a gesture of goodwill.
J D Williams said that it had told Ms B that it wasnt prepared to freeze the interest  and 
charges on her account.
The investigator didnt  recommend that Ms Bs complaint be upheld. She agreed that 
J D Williams had made a mistake when it didnt  properly  credit items back  to Ms Bs account. 
But the investigator was satisfied that J D Williams had already done enough to put things 
right.
The investigator didnt  think that J D Williams made a mistake when it applied additional 
delivery charges  to her account.
The investigator didnt  think that it was unreasonable of J D Williams not to freeze interest  
and charges on Ms Bs account.
Ms B is unhappy with the investigators recommendation. She says she told J D Williams 
that once the problem  was sorted  out, she would pay the account in full. But J D Williams 
ignored her and dragged matters out without responding to her emails or sending  its final 
response.
Overall Ms B is very unhappy  that J D Williams didnt  freeze  her account during the time that 
she was trying to get it to sort the problems out.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN92807582Ms B hasnt objected to the investigators  recommendation in respect of the delivery  charges  
and account credits.  As I agree with what the investigator said about  these  aspects of Ms Bs 
complaint, I dont intend to say anything further about them.
Ms B has said that she isnt happy with how J D Williams  responded to her complaint. But 
strictly speaking  we dont have the power to look at how financial businesses deal with 
complaint handling as its not a regulated activity under  the rules that govern this service. So 
even if I did think J D Williams didnt do things well in this regard, I wouldnt be able to 
uphold Ms Bs concerns or make an award. 
This leaves  me to deal with Ms Bs complaint that J D Williams  continued to apply interest 
and charges to her account during its investigation. And that J D Williams has unfairly 
refused to remove the charges and interest  and amend her credit file.
It looks as though Ms B cancelled her direct debit to J D Williams  around  19 February 2019 
in response to the account handling problems  from the month before. Although I appreciate  
that Ms B was frustrated with the way J D Williams was handling her complaint, I cant  say 
that it did anything  wrong  when  it continued to apply interest and charges in line with the 
terms of her account.
J D Williams wrote to Ms B on 25 April 2019  detailing the steps it had taken to resolve  the 
problems with the incorrect crediting of items and to set out its position on the delivery 
charges. Im satisfied that J D Williams made  it clear  that all statements were automatically  
generated and that a payment would be required towards the items that Ms B had kept.  And 
Ms B seems to have been aware  that the missed payments  would impact  her credit file. 
Overall, I cant reasonably require J D Williams to remove or refund the interest or charges 
on Ms Bs account. And I dont find that it should amend her credit  file. I appreciate that this 
is likely  to disappoint Ms B.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
 
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9280758