K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that TSB Bank  Plc (TSB) wont refund  five payments he made after falling 
victim to a scam.
background
Mr A says that in May 2018  he was contacted via a social media  site, by someone he 
believed to be a broker. Mr A says he was presented with an investment opportunity  in 
relation to forex trading. He decided to invest £700 and made a transfer on the 18 May 2018. 
Mr A says he was contacted later that same day and told that he had made a profit on his 
investment, but that he would need to pay fees to get the funds released including  a 
premium fee and a CHAPS payment fee. Mr A ended up making a further four transfers  on 
the 18 and 19 May 2018 which he says were required in order to release his funds  to him. 
These are all of the transactions  Mr A says he paid to the scammer.
Mr A says he was initially promised hed receive the funds the next day, but then was told it 
had been delayed as the CHAPS payment fee was received late. Mr A says that by 20 May 
2018 hed became suspicious  as he still hadnt  received his funds, so he contacted  the 
broker and confronted him. Mr A says the broker told him that no one could help him, and he 
realised that hed been scammed.
Mr A tried to get in touch with TSB on the 20 May but says he couldnt get through to anyone  
until about an hour later. Mr A says he also contacted the Police and Action  Fraud.
Mr A also says that:
over the following week he had difficulty getting in touch with TSB and getting  an 
update on their investigation
he spent hours on hold waiting to be put through to someone,  and even took time off 
work so that he could  visit his local branch on several occasions
he feels these delays  prevented TSB from being able to recover  his funds.
TSB say that the customer service Mr A received was poor. They  had migrated to a new IT 
platform in April 2018 which caused severe IT issues for them, and as a result  they had a 
considerable backlog of complaints. Date Time Payment reference
Type of 
transactionAmount
18.5.2018 13:51 SG Faster payment £   700.00
18.5.2018 18:18 IHB Faster payment £3,600.81
18.5.2018 FH Faster payment £1,660.00
18.5.2018 20:22 JT Faster Payment £1,600.00
19.5.2018 13:04 LM Faster Payment £2,000.00
Total transferred £9,560.81
Ref: DRN96822392When TSB got in touch  with Mr A, they told him that no funds  were  recoverable from his 
transfers as all of the funds were removed from the beneficiary accounts  within  minutes of 
the transfers being received. So, even if Mr A had been successful in getting  in touch with 
them on his first call, they still wouldnt have been  able to recover  any funds. As such TSB 
declined to refund any of the transfers.
But they made an offer of £500  to recognise  the trouble and upset caused by the poor 
service, as well as an additional £50 for any potential  expenses,  so £550 in total. They  also 
said that if Mr A could evidence that his expenses were more  than £50, they would consider 
increasing this. 
Mr A disagreed with TSBs response and brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr As complaint and didnt uphold  it. They  said based on the 
evidence provided  they werent persuaded that a genuine scam had taken place. So, they 
didnt recommend that TSB should refund Mr A. And they felt the £550 already offered by 
TSB was appropriate for the poor service he received.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion  and asked for an ombudsman to review  the 
case, so the case  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As part of this Im required to take into 
account relevant:  law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards;  codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  
But that is not the end of the story:  
the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty)
regulated firms  like TSB are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6). 
Ref: DRN96822393And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice,  which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available. 
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
So, taking all of this into account, in this case I need  to decide whether TSB acted fairly  and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mr A when he made the transfers of £9,560.81.
Ive started by looking at whether there is sufficient evidence that Mr A was the victim  of a 
scam.
was Mr A the victim of a scam?
Mr A has told us he became aware  of the investment opportunity  via a social media  site, and 
that he was in touch with a person who he believes  was a broker.  
Mr A has provided us with a number of screen  shots  from social media messaging showing 
the conversation  between  himself and this third party. But, having reviewed what Mr A has 
given us, Im not satisfied  there is enough evidence to show  that he was the victim of a 
scam. And Ill explain why.
Mr A has provided some  messages, but it clearly isnt all the messages that he had with this 
third party. Mr A has told us he lost his phone  so only has access to some of the messages  
and hasnt been able to provide any messages from when he first got in touch with the third 
party. Also, that the person who sent him the messages on social media messaging isnt 
there anymore and the page doesnt exist. 
So, there are no messages or evidence to show what Mr A was told at the outset before 
making the £700 transfer, what Mr A thought he was investing  in, or what  opportunity  Mr A 
was responding  to. This makes  it very difficult to understand  whether Mr A was the victim of 
a scam, whether  Mr A invested  in a genuine forex  trading opportunity  and simply didnt get 
the return he expected or whether it was another situation altogether  that may not involve  
Mr A being  the victim  of a scam.
Ref: DRN96822394Also, Mr A sent his payments to five different accounts, held in five different names. Mr A 
has been unable  to provide any messages which  show how he was given the account  
information, or what he was told about  why the funds  were going to five different parties. I 
appreciate that Mr A says that he was told these were contacts or people acting for the 
broker. But this doesnt seem to fit with what  Mr As said about investing with one broker  and 
making payments  relating to one particular trade.
Mr A also says he was told he had to pay a fee to get his funds released and provided an 
email to support  this. But this email references  payments totalling £9,500 and not the 
£9,560.81 that was actually transferred. Also,  it talks about an investment of £700,  but then a 
premium of £3,600,  a CHAPS fee of £3,200  and then an additional £2,000  with no 
explanation what  this final charge is for. Its unclear why if the chaps fee was £3,600 this was 
paid in two separate payments to two separate accounts in different names  none of which  
match any of the previous  payments  that had been made with are supposed  to relate  to the 
one trade.   
Ive also reviewed the screen shots Mr A has provided which he says are his conversation  
with the broker.  One of the screen shots shows an account balance  of £600 with the wording 
opt into trading and shows  a pending  account balance of £10,000.  But this doesnt  match  
with Mr As testimony that he invested  £700  initially, or indeed  the email he got which talks 
about £700 as well. Also, there  is nothing  on this screen shot that shows that it was Mr As 
investment or an account related to Mr A. And, I have difficulty understanding  why Mr A 
would send a total of nearly £10,000 (mostly  in fees) to get back a very similar amount of 
money  as this screen shot suggests  an account  balance of just over £10,700.
And, I note that the email  Mr A gave us came from a generic email  service provider, which  
allows people to open an account  for free, whereas at the bottom of the email a company 
name has been used which is no way related to the email address the email came  from. 
Usually if an email was coming from a broker who worked for a regulated company  which 
is whats suggested in this email  then Id expect the email address to have some  
connection to that company. And, while this email sets out all the fees which  Mr A says he 
was asked to pay, there is no explanation of why the fees are so high and it doesnt  indicate 
that Mr A will be refunded these fees  which is what  Mr A says he was told.
Also, when I compared  the timings of some of the messages on the screen shots  against  
when Mr A made his final transfer of £2,000, it appears Mr A was already  voicing concerns 
to the broker about  giving this amount of money  to a stranger, and yet he made  a further  
payment of £2,000 after the message where he says this. And there is nothing in the screen 
shots that indicates why he made  the final payment only a few hours later or asking him to 
make that final payment.
Mr A has also sent us a screen shot which  he says shows a threat he received for trying to 
take action to get his money back,  but the name on this social  media account doesnt match 
any of the other names on the other screen  shots  or account transfers that Mr A has 
provided.
In summary,  the screen shots  we have show some conversation  between  Mr A and another 
party but they dont show how the conversation  started, or what was discussed,  why Mr A 
was sending money, what Mr A expected in return for the money, or why Mr A would send 
five separate payments over the course  of two days. 
Ref: DRN96822395I appreciate that Mr A is going  to be disappointed  but based  on the evidence Ive been given 
there isnt enough  to persuade me that Mr A was the victim  of a scam. Mr A has authorised  
these payments, and even if he mayve subsequently had a change of heart,  I cant fairly ask 
TSB to refund Mr A in the circumstances of this case.
could TSB have retrieved  the funds
Mr A has said that if TSB had got in touch with the receiving  bank  when he first called them  
that they mayve  been able to recover some  of the funds he transferred. However,  as Im not 
persuaded that Mr A was the victim of a scam,  I dont think TSB ought to have  tried to recall 
the payments  in the way he suggests.
TSB have  acknowledged  that the service  Mr A received when he got in touch  with them,  
wasnt at the level they would expect.  Having considered everything,  I think  the £550 theyve 
already offered Mr A is reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2020.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9682239