K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002 by phone. Miss M says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Capital One had to make Miss M aware  the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  Capital One has provided a copy of the script it expected its 
representatives to follow at the time it sold the policy to Miss M. The script directed  the 
representative to present  the policy as optional and gain consent before adding  it to the card.  
I cant be certain of how closely the representative  followed the script  in Miss Ms case  but I 
think it most likely represents what was discussed  during  the call. So I think Capital  One 
made it clear  that Miss M didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she may not remember  this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss M got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means she had 
available of making her repayments, which included help from parents and government 
benefits. While Miss Ms parents would have wanted to help,  their ability  to do so would  have 
been dependant on their circumstances  at the time,  which  could have changed. The PPI 
would also have paid out in addition  to the other benefits Miss M would have received.
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Ms circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell 
Miss M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss M has said, but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN94531132my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss M any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9453113