K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Miss B says Capital One (Europe)  plc (Capital One) mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss B was sold her policy during a credit  card activation call. Capital Ones sales  script 
suggests the salesperson shouldve made it clear  the PPI was optional and got the 
customers agreement to it before adding it to their account.  Having looked at everything 
provided, Ive not seen anything  to suggest  the usual  sales process wasnt  followed in 
this case. And while Ive thought about what Miss B says about  having no recollection  of 
PPI being discussed, I have to think about  this in the context that the policy  was sold a 
very long time ago. So overall I think its more likely than not that Capital One made it 
clear the PPI policy was optional and Miss B chose to take it.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss B so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Miss B got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  And it doesnt look like Miss B was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover  either.  So I think that it wouldve been  useful for her if something went 
wrong especially  as what shes  said suggests she didnt  have any other  means of 
making her payments should  she have had to stop working  suddenly.  It also looks like 
the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking out the cover in the first place.  
All of the above means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to    
Miss B.
But Capital One will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss B because:  
When the policy  was sold,  Capital  One expected to get a high level of commission  and 
profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss B about  
that. Because Capital  One didnt  tell Miss B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss B has said. But these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN97500392what Capital  One needs to do
Capital One has to pay back to Miss B any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Capital One should  also pay back  to Miss B any extra  interest 
she paid because of that.
Capital One should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Miss B the difference 
between what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital One should also pay Miss B 8%* 
simple interest if Miss B paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss B can claim back  the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
Miss B has been in an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA), and her insolvency 
practitioner has an interest in the compensation. Capital One should take into account the 
terms of the IVA when  making any payment and Miss B should keep this in mind  if she 
accepts my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss B any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has agreed to do, or 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9750039