K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains $27 was deducted  from a $100  payment  he made to a credit  card he has 
with American Express Services Europe  Limited (Amex). 
Mr Y also complains that Amex provided  unclear information about what he needed to pay. 
background
Mr Y opened  an Amex credit card in 2018 via his bank. In May 2018 Amex  sent Mr Y a 
statement which said he needed  to make  a payment of $20.56. Mr Y went  on to send $100 
to Amex but $27 was deducted so only $73 was paid onto his account. Mr Ys bankers also 
made a payment of $20.56 on his behalf  in May 2018. 
In the following months  Mr Y was sent some  emails that incorrectly said the currency  of his 
credit card was Sterling, not United States Dollars. Mr Y says the emails are confusing  as 
they asked him to make a payment even though he had an arrangement in place for his 
bankers to do that on his behalf. 
Mr Y complained but Amex didnt agree it had made an error. Amex explained it had only 
received $73 when Mr Y sent a payment in May 2018 and that its intermediary bank doesnt 
charge commission or fees for handling  payments from its customers.  
Mr Y remained unhappy  about whatd happened so he referred his complaint to this service. 
An adjudicator looked at the complaint but felt Amex had dealt with it fairly. They said Amex  
hadnt charged Mr Y for making the payment to his account and thought  it was likely an 
intermediary bank had done so. They accepted there were some  errors in the emails Mr Y 
received from Amex but thought he could  withdraw from that service if he thought the 
information he was being sent was unnecessary. 
Mr Y didnt agree. He responded and said as Amex had misled  him into making an 
unnecessary payment  it should cover his loss of $27. He also felt that the timing of Amexs 
emails was unreasonable and information  they contained was confusing. Mr Y requested  an 
appeal so his complaints been  passed  to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several issues here so Ill look at each in turn. Im going to begin  by looking at 
whether Amex was responsible for the $27 charge  deducted from his $100  payment. Amex 
has confirmed that neither  it nor banks that act on its behalf deduct  a fee or commission from 
incoming payments. And Ive not seen any evidence to show that Amex  has deducted $27 
from Mr Ys payment here. Ive looked at the receipt Mr Y provided from his bank and it says 
he agrees to pay charges arising  from making the payment. From what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied Amex didnt  deduct $27 from Mr Ys $100  payment.  
Ref: DRN95782802Mr Y says his main point  is that Amex misled  him into making the payment which then led to 
a loss. But I have  to take into account that this was a new credit  card arranged by Mr Ys 
bank. As part of that process, Mr Ys bank put an arrangement in place whereby it makes  
payments on his behalf each month. At the top of Mr Ys statement it says Please make 
sure your payment of US 20.56 reaches us by 16/05/18 unless you have  an existing 
arrangement with your bankers. 
Given how new the card was at this point, I think Mr Y wouldve been aware that his bankers 
had set up an arrangement to pay it on his behalf. And as Amex wasnt part of the account  
opening process, I dont  think it was its responsibility  to explain how that process would work 
beyond giving the information  it did within Mr Ys statement. Whilst Mr Y went on to make  a 
separate payment, Ive not found that was caused by an error by Amex. 
Amex sends emails to customers whove signed  up for a service to let them  know  when a 
payment risks being late. Amex sends  those emails to all customers  signed  up for the 
service whether they have an arrangement with their bankers or pay directly. I appreciate 
Mr Y feels  theyre misleading  but Ive not found  that to be the case.  I accept the emails are 
generic in nature but they do say that if a payments already been arranged  the message 
can be ignored. 
I agree  Amex misquoted the currency of Mr Ys card but the error was quickly cleared up by 
email a short time later. As the adjudicator said, Mr Y has the option of withdrawing from this 
service if doesnt want to receive these emails in the future.  
Ive found no evidence to show Amex charged Mr Y for making his payment in May 2018. As 
Mr Y had already  set up an automatic payment  with his bank there wasnt  any need for him 
to send a separate payment in May 2018. Ive also not found that the information  Amex sent 
is unclear or misleading. I appreciate there  were  some minor  errors in Amexs  emails but the 
issue was quickly dealt  with and Mr Y has the option of withdrawing  from that service.  
Looking at everything thats  been supplied by both Mr Y and Amex  Ive not found it made a 
mistake so Im not telling it to take any further  action to resolve  this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.  
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9578280