K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs L bought  the policy  in 2001  at the same time as taking a credit card. She says she was 
sold the PPI during a phone conversation. Lloyds thinks Mrs L applied  for her card and PPI 
during a conversation at a bank  branch.
At the time of the sale, Mrs L was employed  as an account clerk  and had been  there  two 
years. Shes told us she was entitled  to less than three months  full sick pay and redundancy 
pay. Shes also told us she didnt have any other  means with which to pay her card if she 
couldnt work and was in good  health  at the time.  
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment, and also had life cover,  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful unemployment or disability claim, it 
offered to pay 5% of Mrs Ls card balance for 11 months and clear her outstanding balance  if 
the claim lasted 12 months. The life cover would, subject to its terms, clear  the account  
balance on death.  From what Ive seen, the policy at the start cost around 75p (Lloyds  says 
it was no more than 79p) per £100  of the monthly outstanding balance  and attracted interest.  
Lloyds says the premium  had to continue being  paid during a successful claim. Lloyds has 
sent us evidence to show that the credit  card account closed in 2006.
Mrs Ls representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf. I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mrs Ls representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs L wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Ls representatives believe there to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Lloyds  should  have told Mrs L about 
the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs L and the impact they would 
have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Mrs L received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators 
Ref: DRN99696062opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ls. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN99696063While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of Mrs Ls 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Ls complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mrs L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mrs L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs L, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs L suffered loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs L and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs L know she had a choice?
Ref: DRN99696064Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI was optional.  Mrs L says she had no interest in PPI and 
says it was just included as part of the package with her card.  But the credit  card application 
form listed PPI under  the heading Optional features. It also had boxes to tick to say either  
Yes or No to the PPI. On Mrs Ls form, which she signed to take the card,  the Yes box is 
ticked  and I think she wouldve known  the No box could be ticked instead if she didnt 
want the cover. Taking everything  into account,  I think its more likely  Mrs L knew  the policy  
was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it gave  advice during this sale. Mrs L says it didnt. But if Lloyds did give advice, 
Lloyds had to do more. With this in mind,  I think its fair to proceed on the basis that Lloyds 
gave advice. This means it had to advise Mrs L with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs L. There is no record of what Lloyds  discussed  in relation to the 
policy. Lloyds had some  limited information  about  Mrs Ls financial circumstances,  but there 
is no specific evidence to show  it took steps to establish whether  Mrs L would have been  
caught by the significant  exclusions  and limitations  which might have meant the policy did 
not fully meet her needs. For example,  theres nothing to suggest Lloyds considered whether 
Mrs L had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded that Lloyds did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs L given her circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs L, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs L met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Mrs L had a need for the policy  it seems  likely  her ability to continue to meet  her card 
payments would have  been put under strain if she were not working for an extended 
period of time  even allowing for the redundancy benefits and sick pay she would have 
been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs L.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs L. There  was 
nothing about  her employment  or occupation which would have made  it difficult  for her to 
claim. And she hasnt  told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that couldve 
affected her ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover  for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim for 
disability or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mrs Ls circumstances and 
the fact the policy  could have cleared her outstanding card balance.
Ref: DRN99696065the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mrs L sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
I think it unlikely Mrs L wouldve taken the policy without any sense of what it was. Im 
satisfied its more likely than not she was given a very broad description  of what the PPI was 
intended to cover (that is, it would protect  her card payments if she were unable  to work due 
to disability or unemployment). I think Mrs L wouldve been told this, at the very least, during 
the discussion with Lloyds. Also her credit card application said the PPI was protection so 
you can continue to meet  your minimum credit card payments even if you cant  work due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment  which wouldve given her some  idea of what  it was. 
And I think it unlikely Mrs L would thought the PPI was free and likely she wouldve had 
some understanding of how much it cost before agreeing to take it.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mrs L 
agreed to take the policy.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs L, Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mrs L. Im not persuaded  that Lloyds gave Mrs L all of the information  she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ls representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ls. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Ls representative considers to be poor value   and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs L about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ls representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
Ref: DRN99696066claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs L has suggested. And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mrs L? To what extent did Mrs L suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs L. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs L suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mrs L would have 
still taken the policy,  had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Lloyds took the steps  it should  have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mrs L, I have  found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs L has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mrs L would  have acted  differently,  or whether she would have taken the policy  in any event.
Mrs L says she would not have taken it and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs L had some interest in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  offered the PPI or advised her there  was a 
suitable product  she could  buy that would protect  her credit card payments if she were 
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, she concluded she wanted  
that product.  But she made that decision based  on incomplete information,  meaning what 
she thought she was getting  is not exactly what she got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ls circumstances  at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs L ought reasonably  to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But I accept that Lloyds didnt make clear  the on-going cost information.  So, while Mrs L 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not 
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take the policy on and found acceptable. Possibly the most significant  differences 
between what she thought she had bought and what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded disability occurring  within 12 months  of the policy  start arising from 
any health  issue Mrs L knew  or shouldve known about at the start or for which shed seen 
or arranged to see a medical practitioner  in the 12 before the policy start;
Ref: DRN99696067The policy limited,  and in some situations  excluded, unemployment cover if Mrs L wasnt 
a permanent  employee; and
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs L be unable to do her own 
work or any work which in the insurers  view she was or might  reasonably  become  
qualified for in view of her training,  education and ability.
I do accept there is a possibility that the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mrs L pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs L from taking the policy.  
But the evidence  about Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she would 
have been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  Mrs L didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I think she still had some good 
reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs L would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim. 
If Mrs L had known she could only claim for disability if she were  not only unable to do her 
own job but also unable  to do any job which in the insurers view she was or might become 
qualified for in view of her training, education  and ability, it might have played  into her 
thinking about what to do. And I accept  it may have given her pause for thought  but given 
her circumstances, on balance I think she wouldve still been interested in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs L wouldve  still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what  she thought she was 
getting and I think  it couldve  provided a useful  benefit at a difficult  time, notwithstanding her 
employment benefits. And in those circumstances, I consider  it more  likely than not that she 
would have taken  the policy in any event.   
Mrs Ls representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
Ref: DRN99696068should be presumed Mrs L would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs L 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs L believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs L in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken the policy,  Im satisfied 
that, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not she would still have taken the PPI had 
she been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she was buying. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude 
Lloyds should  pay Mrs L compensation,  as that would  put her in a better position than she 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Im also aware that Mrs L thinks  Lloyds  misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mrs L, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2001 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ls representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs L and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs L in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Ref: DRN99696069Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9969606