K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from British Gas Insurance Limited  (BG) when
it wasnt able to repair his boiler as the model wasnt on its service  list.
background
Mr S has for a number  of years had a HomeCare policy from BG. In 2017 he had a new
boiler fitted, and he assumed it would be covered by his HomeCare policy.
In July 2018, the boiler developed a fault.  The central heating was coming  on whenever his
hot water  came on. This was leading to excessive energy  bills during the summer.
A BG engineer attended on 21 July 2018.  He diagnosed a faulty diverter valve  but he wasnt
able to replace  this as Mr Ss model  of boiler  wasnt on BGs service list for maintenance or
spares at that time. He classed the boiler  as at risk and advised him not to use it. Mr S
says the engineer recommended  that he contact the boilers manufacturer to have it repaired
under warranty.
Mr S contacted the boiler manufacturers. They asked for a report from BG regarding the
fault, and the name and registration of the gas fitter whod fitted and commissioned the
boiler. BG initially provided  an email but it didnt state BGs diagnosis of the fault.  Mr S tried
to find out details of the fitters  registration.
BGs records show that on 15 and 24 August 2018  it was noted as urgent that Mr S wanted
details of the engineers visit on 21 July. They also show  that on 27 August Mr S contacted it
again to tell it he still needed  something  from it confirming what the fault was.
Mr S still hadnt received  anything from BG by 8 October, so wrote to chase for a response.
Mr S raised a complaint with BG and BGs records show  that on 4 December 2018 it phoned
him to discuss his complaint. This confirms that Mr S told it that he still needed the 
engineers job report stating what was needed for a repair so he could claim under the 
manufacturers warranty which he said was due to run out in January 2019.  Mr S said the 
boiler had been installed  in January 2017.  He also said he needed  to have heating as his 
wife was disabled.
On 4 January,  BG called Mr S again and told him hed receive the engineers job report that
afternoon. A letter was sent to Mr S that day which quoted directly  from Mr Ss service
record and confirmed Hot water passing down central heating.  CHB  not service  listed with
[BG]- confirmed with tech. Installer  returning. Mr S had been  waiting over five and a half
months for this.
On that same day BG responded to Mr Ss complaint. It acknowledged  that it had let him
down in that it had failed  for so long to provide its engineers report and diagnosis. It
apologised, but didnt  offer any other redress and said the complaint was now closed.
Mr Ss boiler was repaired by the manufacturers on 16 January 2019 at a cost of £124.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. Mr S wants BG to pay for the repair of his boiler.
He also wants BG to refund to him the premiums  hed paid to BG for the period over which
BG couldnt undertake any repairs to his boiler  as it wasnt listed with it.
Ref: DRN93306622After our investigator contacted BG, it confirmed that the level of service it had provided to
Mr S wasnt  at the level it would normally expect. It offered to pay the cost of the third party
repair of his boiler on certain conditions. It wanted to be provided with:
 A copy of the invoice for the repair, and to be satisfied that the work done was work  
that was covered by Mr Ss HomeCare policy
 Confirmation from the manufacturer  of Mr Ss boiler that it required something  in 
writing from BG before it would attend  to Mr Ss boiler
 Confirmation of when  his warranty expired
It also offered to refund to him payments hed made to BG for boiler cover for the period
when it wasnt on BGs  service list back to the date of the engineers visit on 21 July 2018.
It also offered a goodwill payment of £50 for the delay in getting  the document  to Mr S.
Mr S says he doesnt accept reimbursement of the cost of covering his boiler only from 21
July 2018. He thinks the refund should  be from the date the boiler was installed. He wasnt
able to provide  official confirmation of when this was, but has provided  a message dated 18
January 2017  from his installers stating that someone would be attending  the next day to
commission his boiler. He doesnt  accept  £50 as compensation for the delay.
Our investigators view was that BG should reimburse to Mr S the cost of the boiler repair
(£124) and refund the payments Mr S had made (boiler cover only) back to 21 July 2018.
She also considered  that BG should pay the £50 it had offered for the delays.
In response to our investigators view, BG said that it didnt agree that it should pay for the
cost of the boiler repair as well as reimburse  that part of the payments made  to BG for boiler
cover. It said that by paying for the repair it would be honouring cover  under the policy, so it
shouldnt then be asked  to refund payments for that cover. It offered to either refund
payments backdated  to 21 July 2018  or to cover  the repair cost and refund payments made
after the date of the repair. It would  also pay £50 as a goodwill gesture.
As neither party agreed with our investigators view, the matter was passed to me as an
ombudsman to make a decision.
I initially made a provisional decision in this case in which I said that if Mr S could provide 
further information, I would consider whether, in the light of this, my  provisional decision  was 
still fair and reasonable. I received a response  to this from BG but I did not receive  any 
response from Mr S.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to uphold  Mr Ss complaint
but to make  a different  award to that suggested  by our investigator, and Ill explain  why.
Mr S wants  BG to refund  to him the premiums hes paid since  his boiler was fitted in January
2017 for a service  that BG cant provide for his particular make and model of boiler. I asked
BG why it had only offered to refund Mr S his premiums from 21 July 2018 rather  than from
when the boiler  was fitted. It explained that it had been able to undertake work on this boiler 
up until 21 July 2018 but thereafter it couldnt  as it wasnt service  listed.  Ive verified  from 
BGs records that it undertook work on this boiler on 25 November 2017 and again on 16 
July 2018.
Ref: DRN93306623I consider it would be fair for Mr S to receive  reimbursement  of the premiums hes paid from
21 July 2018 to the extent  that these  relate  to his boiler as from that date BG hasnt been
able to provide  full service for it. I dont think it would be fair to go back further  than that as
BG had been able to deal with the boiler  issues that Mr S had had before that date. BG has
said that Mr S paid a total of £147.27 in premiums for central heating and boiler controls
cover between July and December 2018. Hes had no such  cover  since January 2019.
Having rectified this overpayment to reflect  that Mr Ss boiler wasnt effectively covered by
BG from 21 July 2018, I dont think it would be appropriate for BG to also reimburse to Mr S
the cost of the repair undertaken  by the manufacturer  on 16 January 2019.
Turning to Mr Ss complaint about  BGs responsibility for the delay in getting his boiler
repaired, I made some further enquiries  of Mr S and BG. Mr S says that after BG told him on
21 July 2018 that it couldnt repair his boiler as it wasnt  service listed  with it, he contacted
the boilers manufacturers to see if theyd  repair it under warranty.
Mr S says that the response from the boiler  manufacturers was that before he could claim on
their warranty for his repair, theyd require  two things. Firstly, they wanted  information from
BG as to its diagnosis of the fault. Secondly, they wanted the name and registration of the
gas fitter whod fitted and commissioned  the boiler  to confirm he was competent.
So both of these  were needed before a repair  could  be undertaken under warranty.  I need to
consider whether it was BG that held up the repair.
Mr S says he spent many  months  trying to get the details  of the gas fitter and his registration
number via the main  contractor for his property  without  success.  He says he eventually
managed to get in touch with the contactor via the HSE and found  that the fitter wasnt  gas
registered. So Mr S wouldve known then that he didnt  have  the benefit of the warranty  he
assumed he had.
I asked Mr S what date he learnt  that his boiler wasnt covered by a warranty because the
fitter wasnt qualified. Hes provided  conflicting information about this. He initially  said mid-
June 2018, and then corrected this to mid-July 2018. But hes also said that it took a
considerable amount of time to ascertain the qualifications of the original fitter. He hasnt
provided a specific  date, so I cant say whether  this information was received before or after
BG provided  information about the fault on 4 January  2019.
Mr S says that his family were without  the benefit  of their central heating until 16 January
2019. He says that had to rely on convector  heaters and a gas fire, both of which wouldve
been very expensive  to use as a main source  of heating. He says hes run up a £1500 debt
to BG for heating and his credit  rating  has been affected.
Although BG didnt  provide details of the fault until 4 January  2019,  it may not have been
responsible for the delay in the boiler  being  repaired, and for the excessive heating  costs
that Mr S says he incurred.
So on the basis of the information  I have, Im not able to say that BG is responsible  for the
delay in Mr S getting his boiler fixed or for the stress and inconvenience that Mr S says he
and his family experienced, nor for the extra heating costs he incurred.
BG has accepted that it delayed in providing Mr S with the information he asked for
Ref: DRN93306624regarding the fault. Although this delay might not in the end have made  any material
difference to Mr S getting his boiler repaired, I dont think  BG knew  that. Mr S had chased for
the information on a number of occasions,  expressing the importance  to his familys health  of
having central heating as colder weather approached. BG has offered £50 compensation for
this and I think this is reasonable on the basis of the information I have.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im upholding Mr Ss complaint and I require
British Gas Insurance Limited to refund to Mr S the premiums  he paid for boiler cover
between July and December 2018 in the total sum of £147.27 and interest on each
instalment of premium  from the date it was paid at 8% simple.
I also require British  Gas Insurance  Limited  to pay Mr S £50 compensation.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2020.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9330662