K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) didnt do enough to help him 
when he fell victim to a scam. He feels Halifax could have done more to prevent the payment 
going through, or to recover the money from the scammer.
Background
In May 2018, Mr B was contacted on social media  by someone he thought was a relative. 
This person told Mr B that they were trying  to sell goods online  but were  having difficulty  with 
their PayPal account, so they asked if Mr B could receive the payments from their buyer into 
his PayPal account, and then forward them on. At this stage Mr B had no reason to believe 
he wasnt dealing with his relative, so he agreed.  Unfortunately,  the person Mr B was dealing 
with was actually  a scammer. 
As agreed,  the scammer transferred £298.29  to Mr Bs PayPal  account,  Mr B then 
transferred this into his current account on 6 May 2018, and then made a faster payment of 
this amount out to the scammer that same day, who was still posing as his relative. Mr B 
then received two further payments from the scammer into his PayPal account, but while  he 
did transfer these  into his current account, Mr B was starting to get suspicious, so he didnt 
complete the process of forwarding the funds on to the scammer. Mr B contacted Halifax  on 
10 May 2018 to explain  that he had been scammed and to see what  they could do to help. 
All three payments were  ultimately recalled by PayPal as fraudulent, which left Mr B £298.29 
out of pocket, 
Halifax contacted  the scammers bank straight  away to see if any of Mr Bs money  could be 
retrieved. There was then some discussion between the scammers bank and Halifax  about  
the payment,  but ultimately, the scammers bank confirmed that all but £1.99 of Mr Bs 
money had already been spent by the time they were notified of the scam. The £1.99  was 
returned to Mr B.
Mr B was unhappy with how Halifax handled things, so he referred his complaint to us. One 
of our adjudicators looked at what had happened  and explained  to Mr B that he felt Halifax 
had done all they could to try and help, so he didnt  think they needed to do anything more.
Mr B disagreed; he thinks Halifax should be doing more to protect  its customers  from scams 
like this, and that Halifax should have put more pressure on the scammers bank to recover  
the money he lost.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
Having done so, I think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in allowing  the transfer to leave 
Mr Bs account. And I think  it took appropriate steps  to try and recover funds from the 
beneficiary bank. So I dont think I can fairly say Halifax  should reimburse Mr B with the 
£298.29 he lost. Ill explain  why in more detail.
Ref: DRN99072842In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. When  Mr B 
made the payment, he didnt know he was dealing with a scammer,  so he sent the money in 
good faith. This means that  at the time  he wanted the payment to go ahead and 
authorised it to be made.  And I have  taken that into account when deciding what  is fair and 
reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Halifax are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer.  
In this case, I need to decide  whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr B when he transferred  £298.29 or whether  it should have  done  more than it did.
But I dont think there was anything suspicious or unusual about the payment that would 
have suggested  to Halifax that Mr B was being  scammed. The amount of the payment that 
Mr B made wasnt particularly out of character for him  Mr B regularly made payments for 
similar or higher amounts.  So, having reviewed Mr Bs account activity in the months leading 
up to the transaction I dont think it was sufficiently  suspicious  to indicate to Halifax that it 
Ref: DRN99072843wasnt legitimate. Which means  that, in the circumstances,  I dont think Halifax did anything 
wrong by following the instructions Mr B gave  and sending the money.
When Mr B told Halifax that hed been scammed  they acted quickly, contacting the 
scammers bank  straightaway to see if any of Mr Bs money  was still in the receiving account 
and could be retrieved.  Unfortunately, by that time, most of Mr Bs money had gone  Ive 
seen records from the scammers bank  to show that the majority of the funds had been spent 
by the end of the day on 7 May 2018, three days before Mr B notified Halifax  that he had 
been scammed. Any further investigations into what happened to the money after it left the 
scammers account werent the responsibility of Halifax, and it wouldnt have unrestricted 
access to that information. So, contacting the scammers bank to try and retrieve his money  
was all Halifax could do to help Mr B at that stage.
Its unfortunate that Mr B has lost out, and I understand that this whole experience will have 
been hugely upsetting  for him. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say that 
Halifax should have  done more to prevent  Mr B losing his money. I cant  hold Halifax 
responsible for the actions of the beneficiary bank, and I think they did all they could to help 
Mr B once they knew what had happened. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Halifax  to 
compensate Mr B for his loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9907284