K820x#14complaint
This complaint concerns  the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled  a buildings and 
contents insurance claim.
Mr M originally brought this complaint represented by a family member (Ill call Ms M). Sadly,  
during the time weve been investigating  the matter  Mr M passed away. The complaint  has 
been continued by the Executor of Mr Ms estate  represented by the same family member.
References to UKI include the acts and omissions  of its agents.
background
In mid-December 2017 the insured property suffered extensive water  damage while  Mr and 
Mrs M were away. The policy was in Mr Ms name  but Ms M contacted  UKI to notify it of the 
damage and to start the claim process.
Ms M has submitted a detailed letter setting out the chronology and progress of the claim.  
And as set out, the summary concerns are about the lack of oversight by UKI which  has led 
to delays and poor service. Ms M, in the complaint form, says that to put things right she 
would like an explanation  as to why the claim was so badly managed delaying repairs to the 
house. And she wanted compensation  for Mr and Mrs M.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but didnt think  it should  be upheld.  She 
explained UKI had accepted some delays  in the early part of the claim and had paid a total 
of £500 compensation to reflect this. The investigator thought  this was fair explaining that 
there was an apparent  breakdown in communication between UKI and its suppliers and 
some issues  were  unforeseen.  The buildings part of the claim was settled in mid-April  and 
the contents in mid-May. 
The investigator said it was inevitable inconvenience  would be caused given the extent of 
damage and as Mr and Mrs M had to move into alternative accommodation, which  Ms M 
arranged. And while  the investigator  thought UKI could have handled things better, she 
considered the £500 compensation to be fair in all the circumstances.
Ms M was disappointed  with the investigators  opinion and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. In particular, Ms M feels £500 is insulting for the way UKI treated Mr 
and Mrs M and her too. And she would like a full explanation  on the unforeseen 
circumstances as she feels  delays  were due to extreme incompetence. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is relevant to consider the duty placed  on insurers by industry  rules  (Insurance: Conduct of 
Business sourcebook ICOBS), particularly ICOBS  8.1.1;
An insurer  must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress;
Ref: DRN93028802(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The type of claim in this case was always  going to cause a significant amount of 
inconvenience and distress. The entirety of the property was affected  by the damage and 
significant repairs were  required, with a large amount of contents  damaged  too. UKI 
instructed agents  to assess the claim, inspect the property and start some works. Ms M had 
intended to and did indeed use her own choice  of contractor and surveyor  to carry out a 
substantial amount of work. 
From looking  at all the information  its apparent that Ms M instigated  much contact and 
wasnt happy with responses or response times. I note the presence of asbestos was 
suspected and this required specialist instruction. And UKI had, in my view, promptly  given 
instructions for experts to start the inspection and planning work  including the asbestos, 
stripping out and schedule of works. 
Ms Ms contractors costs were deemed  excessively high and indeed  were reduced 
significantly. And I note settlements were  agreed  in April and May, so four and months after 
claim notification  respective to each  part of the claim.
UKI accepts  that some delays occurred and so the issue  for me is what  fair and reasonable 
compensation is in all the circumstances.
Ms M feels she basically project  managed the entire  claim and I can see how involved she 
was. Ive no doubt she found  the matter stressful and time-consuming. The compensation 
though is for the impact on the policyholder  as they are UKIs customer  under the policy.  
Ms M was the representative, not a customer under the insurance policy. There were  some 
delays early on, and I can see that there  were  short periods where agents were  out of the 
office and this delayed responses  and progress updates. A claim such  as this one involves a 
number of suppliers  and parties.  And while matters are being dealt with it can seem as 
though nothing is happening  processes  are in place for authorisation and if matters  need 
clarified these impact on timeliness. But the policyholder would ordinarily be updated on a 
day by day basis.
While there  were some issues that UKI could, and should, have been more  on top of I am 
satisfied that £500  compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. It reflects,  
in my view,  the impact  of being  out of the home  longer than was expected. 
my final decision
Im satisfied U K Insurance  Limiteds offer of £500 is fair reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My decision  is that U K Insurance Limited should pay this if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the Executor of the 
estate of the late Mr M to accept or reject  my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9302880