K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly refused their travel  insurance claim 
when their flight was cancelled.
background 
Mr and Mrs T were  due to return from a holiday in July 2018 when their flight  was cancelled. 
The airline couldnt offer another flight for several days so Mr and Mrs T booked a different 
mode of transport home. They  left their destination  around ten hours  after their intended 
departure.
Mr and Mrs T made a claim under the travel  insurance policy but AXA declined  it. It said 
even though their flight had been  cancelled and they would  have been  delayed several days,  
they had taken alternative arrangements  to get home. So they didnt experience a 12 hour 
delay and as a result they werent  entitled  to claim under the delayed departure  section  of 
the policy.
AXA said Mr and Mrs T would have been entitled  to claim  for their alternative mode of 
transport they booked under a different section of the policy. But they hadnt  paid an 
additional premium  to include this cover.  
Mr and Mrs T complained to our service and the investigator thought the complaint should 
be upheld. She thought  AXA should reassess the claim.
AXA didnt agree. It said it would only cover actual  losses, not what  might  have happened.  It 
also said Mr and Mrs T hadnt shown their flight cancellation was one that was covered 
under the policy.  So it didnt accept  it needed  to do anything differently.
Ive already told AXA I think it should  pay Mr and Mrs T £250 under the delayed departure  
section of the policy. I was satisfied that the flight had been cancelled as a result of weather, 
which is one of the things covered by the delayed departure section of the policy. So          
Mr and Mrs T could  claim under this part of the policy.  Whilst Mr and Mrs T didnt experience 
a delay of several  days, this was because  they paid for their own transport home.  So I said 
their actions effectively saved AXA from paying £250 under the policy, which I thought it 
would be fair to pay.
AXA didnt agree. It said it didnt pay claims on a hypothetical basis and a payment of £250  
would be excessive when  they recovered their flight costs from the airline. AXA said           
Mr and Mrs T hadnt originally provided  the information from the airline about why the flight 
had been cancelled, so it hadnt been  considered. AXA said it was more  reasonable for it to 
make a payment  of £100 to compensate for a 12 hour delay only. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs Ts flight was cancelled, the airline said theyd need to book a new flight, 
but the next available one wasnt for three  days.  
Ref: DRN93843172Mr and Mrs Ts policy says it will pay £50 per person covered,  if the transport they are 
booked on is delayed  or cancelled and they experience a delay  of more than 12 hours.  After  
such time, it will pay £50 for each 12 hour delay up to a maximum of £250. This benefit is 
only payable  if the transport is delayed for certain reasons, one of which is weather. 
Mr and Mrs T provided a letter from the airline  confirming the flight  was cancelled  because  of 
adverse weather. This matches news reports Ive seen of adverse weather that affected 
parts of Europe  when Mr and Mrs T were due to travel home. I dont  know why Mr and Mrs T 
didnt send this to AXA, but from the responses  Ive seen AXA told them it wouldnt cover the 
claim in any event. And based  on this letter and the news reports, Im satisfied the weather  
was the most likely cause  of the cancellation. Which means  Mr and Mrs T would be entitled 
to the benefit under  the delayed departure section of the policy. 
Due to family commitments, Mr and Mrs T didnt wait for the replacement flight, and they 
booked alternative  transport home. This departed around ten hours after their original  flight  
time. So I accept Mr and Mrs T didnt experience a delay of more than 12 hours, but I still 
think AXA should pay £250 under the policy. 
AXA says it doesnt  pay claims  based on a hypothetical, but I dont think this is a 
hypothetical situation. Im satisfied Mr and Mrs T would  have  experienced a delay of three 
days if they hadnt made their own arrangements at their own expense. And had they waited 
for a replacement flight AXA would have paid the benefit to them. The maximum amount 
AXA will pay out if £250. Based on the amount of time Mr and Mrs T would have been  
delayed, Im satisfied this is the amount  AXA would  have  paid if theyd  waited for the 
replacement flight.  So I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for AXA to 
pay £250 to Mr and Mrs T.
Ref: DRN93843173my final decision
My final decision is that AXA Insurance UK Plc needs to pay Mr and Mrs T £250 to settle the 
claim.
It should also pay interest on this amount at 8% from the date of the missed  flight until the 
date of settlement.1
It should do this within 28 days  of us telling it Mr and Mrs T have accepted my final decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
1 Income tax may be payable on any interest paid.  If AXA Insurance  Plc deducts  income  tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr and Mrs T how much has been taken  off.  AXA Insurance  Plc should give Mr 
and Mrs T a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9384317