K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide), over its handling of a 
chargeback claim. 
background
In late 2017 Mr G booked  a holiday for March 2018  through an airline. He paid for his flights  
and accommodation  in four transactions, using his Nationwide VISA  card. 
In March 2018, the day before his planned  trip, Mr G tried to access  his travel account to 
check in and to print out travel documents. He was unable to do so. 
Mr G contacted Nationwide  and requested that the payments for the holiday be charged 
back to him as he believed he was unable  to go on the holiday without his printed 
documents. 
He informed staff at Nationwide that the trip was booked for April 2018. 
Staff at Nationwide  requested evidence of the booking and details of why Mr G was unable  
to use it. 
Mr G provided  evidence  to Nationwide, showing that the trip was booked  for March 2018. 
Mr G received a text message acknowledging receipt of his dispute  Mr G later spoke to staff 
and was advised that the dispute  would  take up to 10 working days  to be resolved and that 
his payment would  be returned to his account within that time.  
A few days  later Mr G received a further text message saying that Nationwide had started  to 
refund his account. 
Mr Gs account was not refunded and he made a number of calls to Nationwide chasing  up 
his claim.  During  these  he was asked to re-send  his evidence of the booking.  
During Mr Gs chasing calls the advice he received changed. He was told that Nationwide  
would not be able to initiate a claim until 15 days after the goods  or services should  have  
been received  (in Mid March), and that this was a requirement of VISAs scheme.  
Mr G made  further chasing  calls to Nationwide and spoke to several members of staff, 
including a manager. 
Mr G submitted a complaint and subsequently received a text message saying that he would 
receive a call back by late March. He did not receive  this call. 
In early April Nationwide wrote to Mr G, refusing his claim for chargeback of the holiday cost. 
It set out that chargeback could not be used when the transaction had been  correctly 
processed and the dispute was instead between  the cardholder and merchant. 
Shortly after this, Nationwide sent Mr G its final response to his complaint. This letter  
acknowledged that Mr G had received conflicting advice, including  incorrect  information, and 
that some  of the staff members he had spoken  to had not provided  the level of customer 
service that it expected.  Nationwide offered Mr G £75 compensation to reflect this. 
Ref: DRN95528622In respect of the chargeback claim, Nationwide confirmed that VISA did require it to wait 15 
days after the service  was due before it could initiate a claim. It also set out its view that the 
service had been provided  to Mr G, even though he had not taken up the flights and 
accommodation. Nationwide therefore  said it could not dispute the charge further.  
Mr G was not happy with this response and contacted  us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and set out a view to the parties. That 
was that the business had not done anything significantly wrong and he did not recommend 
the business do anything further.  
Mr G was not satisfied with that view and asked  that an ombudsman consider his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have, in particular  listened to the available calls, and I have seen the evidence of text 
messages sent to Mr G. 
I understand Mr Gs disappointment  and frustration, both at the loss of the cost of his holiday 
when he was unable  to access his travel account, and then when he later believed that he 
would be reimbursed only to then learn that he would not. 
Nationwide has explained that it considered that the flights and accommodation remained 
reserved to Mr G and his family, even  if they did not use them.  It therefore concluded that his 
dispute does not fall within the description of goods  and services  not provided.  
Nationwide considered that there was no realistic  prospect of the claim being successful 
under this category, and it says that there is no other category of claim which  covers  this 
scenario. Nationwide therefore did not refer the dispute on and advises Mr G to take up his 
complaint with the airline about his problems accessing his account. 
I do not disagree with Nationwides  conclusion  since the services Mr G had paid for were the 
flights and the accommodation. These appear to have remained open for him to use, and the 
evidence he provided  in his screen  shots  contained sufficient information for him to take up 
the flights and accommodation, even without  a print out. 
I therefore agree that the dispute does not fall into the category of services not provided, but 
is instead a dispute between Mr G and his travel company. As a result I do not think  that 
Nationwide has done anything wrong  in rejecting  Mr Gs chargeback claim in line with the 
terms of the scheme.  
In respect of the customer service Mr G received, I accept,  and Nationwide has 
acknowledged, that Mr G was given inaccurate information during  the processing of his 
claim, which led him to believe his claim would be successful. I also accept that the later 
change in this information caused  Mr G distress  and inconvenience. 
This was then compounded when Nationwide did not return calls as it promised to do. 
Ref: DRN95528623I have listened  to the available  calls and understand that Mr G felt that two members  of staff 
in particular were unprofessional towards  him. He also felt that staff members in the 
background were  laughing at him during  one of his calls. 
I appreciate that the calls with the particular  members  of staff became tense, but I did not 
hear evidence  of particular rudeness. I noted that there was background laughter and this 
was explained  at the time as general laughter  in a workplace. I did not think this laughter 
was directed at Mr G. 
Nationwide offered Mr G £75 compensation to reflect the customer  service failings, and I 
think this is a fair and reasonable  offer.
I understand that Mr G thinks this is inadequate  to reflect  his distress and inconvenience but 
I have borne in mind  that the majority  of Mr Gs upset will be disappointment  in not being 
able to recover his expended money. Nationwide was not obliged to allow his claim, and it 
has given a reasonable explanation for its decision to refuse  the claim. It would not be fair to 
attribute all of Mr Gs upset to Nationwides service  failings when the majority of that upset 
flowed from a decision Nationwide  was entitled  to make. 
Nationwide has credited £75 compensation to Mr Gs account and I would not ask it to do 
anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I consider that Nationwide  Building  Society  has made a 
reasonable offer to compensate Mr G for its poor service, and I would not ask it to do 
anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9552862