K820x#14complaint
Mrs P has complained about Cia Insurance Services Limited (Cia) which sold her a home  
insurance policy. When Mrs P made  a claim to her insurer, the insurer relied  on an exclusion 
to reject her claim for jewellery which she hadnt been fully aware of and Mrs P thinks  Cia 
should have told her about  it.
Reference to Mrs P includes conversations Cia had with her husband Mr P. 
background
Mrs P agreed to take out an insurance  policy in July 2017. Later that year Mrs P was the 
victim of a burglary. A number of her contents  were stolen so Mrs P tried to claim with her 
insurer but the claim for her jewellery and watches was rejected because  they werent  kept 
in a safe. When Mrs Ps insurer  wouldnt change its mind she complained  to Cia. Cia looked 
into the complaint  but didnt agree that it failed  to make Mrs P aware of the need to buy a 
safe.  
Mrs P complained to us and said Cia hadnt told her about the policy  exclusion.  Specifically  
she says Cia failed to state she wouldnt be covered if her items  were not kept in a safe at 
her house.  Mrs P says if she was aware  she would have installed a safe at her home.  Our 
investigator reviewed the complaint but felt Cia had made Mrs P aware  of the exclusion.  
Mrs P disagreed. She feels Cia should have made it clear during the sales process her 
jewellery should have been kept in a safe at her home in order  to be covered by her policy. 
So the complaint has now been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking Cia to 
take any further steps to resolve this complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly I wanted to say how sorry I am to hear of the burglary that took place at Mrs Ps home 
and the effect  this has had on her. 
I have to decide whether Mrs Ps policy was mis-sold  to her on the basis she wasnt told her 
jewellery wouldnt be covered for theft unless  it was kept in a safe. As this was an advised 
sale, Cia have a responsibility to provide Mrs P with information that was clear,  not 
misleading and provide  a policy that is suitable for her needs. Cia can recommend a policy 
which isnt entirely suitable as long as it makes it clear this is the case and why so Mrs P can 
make an informed choice.  Therefore Ive looked  at what information was provided to Mrs P 
both before and after the sale of the policy.  
Ive listened to the sales calls that took place with Mrs P. Mrs P is correct when she 
mentions Cia was made aware there wasnt a safe at her home. However,  Im not satisfied 
this means Cia couldnt offer her a policy  which asks that valuables be locked in a safe. As 
long as it explains why these need to be locked away so Mrs P can make an informed 
choice.  
During the sale Cia made  Mrs P aware  it was concerned about  the risk of claiming for her 
contents due to theft because of having  an expensive watch. And the importance  having a 
Ref: DRN91229352safe would  have if they needed to claim. I also think Cia sufficiently drew Mrs Ps attention  to 
this key condition  during  the sales calls. 
The exclusion the insurer relied upon to reject Mrs Ps claim is below; 
Endorsement F518  Jewellery & Watches
We will not pay any claim for loss or damage  resulting from theft or loss of jewellery and/or 
watches unless they are;
being worn by you
deposited in a bank
deposited in the main  security safe of a hotel
carried by hand  AND  under your personal supervision
in your home  security  safe
Mrs P says Cia didnt  make her aware  of the need to keep her jewellery  in the safe. Having 
listened to the call I dont agree. Im satisfied  the whole exclusion was sufficiently clear and 
brought to her attention.  And as Mrs P had mentioned a very expensive item I dont think it 
was unsuitable  to recommend a policy where a safe was needed.  
Mrs P has said she would have purchased a safe if she had known about the exclusion. 
Even though  Mrs P has now purchased  a safe following the robbery, Im not persuaded 
Mrs P would have acted any differently after the sale. Im satisfied the exclusion was brought 
to her attention in relation  to jewellery and watches.  And there were various conversations  
about a £10,500 watch not being covered during the sales call if it wasnt  kept in a safe. Cia 
also mentioned  that having such a watch can bring  unwanted  attention  and other claims for 
stolen items.  But Mrs P still didnt feel she needed to purchase  a safe despite being warned 
about this. 
Cia has also shown it sent the documents to Mrs P. The exclusion was on the policy 
schedule and Im satisfied these were  sent to Mrs P. If Mrs P didnt want  to purchase a safe 
or the cover then the policy could have  been  cancelled within  the cooling off period. 
Overall Im satisfied Cia made it clear  Mrs P needed a safe for jewellery and watches. And 
the reasons why this was necessary were explained to her.  
Cia has mentioned it did make a mistake when  setting  up the policy  limits on the level of 
cover for Mrs Ps valuables. I can see that Cia has now agreed to amend these in line with 
what was originally agreed. But as this hasnt had an effect on the claim Mrs P made  Im not 
going to ask Cia to do anything more in relation  to this error. 
I realise this will be a disappointment for Mrs P, but based on what  Ive seen, I dont think the 
complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Ref: DRN91229353Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9122935