K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has recorded  a default related to his 
personal loan on his credit file  even though he had previously agreed an arrangement  to 
pay.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 4 April 2019.  A copy  of it is attached  and it 
forms part of this final decision. The full background to the complaint is set out in my 
provisional decision and as such I wont reiterate it here.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was planning on not upholding the complaint. I 
asked Mr P and HSBC to let me know if there was anything else they wanted me to 
consider.
HSBC didnt have  anything to add, although  it noted my comments  about the call recording 
but hasnt been able to provide  the relevant recording. Mr P said it wasnt the outcome he 
would have liked but had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information for me to consider, I see no reason to 
change my provisional findings.  
my final decision
For the same reasons  Ive already given in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ps 
complaint against  HSBC  UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN90209702copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has recorded  a default  related  to his personal  loan 
on his credit file  even though he had previously  agreed an arrangement to pay.
background
In October 2014 HSBC wrote to Mr P to inform him that the direct debit for his loan repayments had 
been cancelled. Thereafter  Mr P set up a debt management plan (DMP)  with a debt charity to make 
payments to all his creditors on his behalf. This included  payments of £169.82 per month to HSBC. 
This figure  was reviewed  by the debt charity and changed to £173.35 in November 2015  and £176.21  
in October 2016  both of these  changes  were  acknowledged by HSBC.
However, in February 2016 HSBC wrote to Mr P about the arrears on his loan which were over £900.   
It also  in a separate  letter  explained that it would continue  to try to recover these arrears  and 
issued a default notice.  Further similar letters were sent in June and November  2016,  and in 
December 2016 HSBC closed the loan account and passed  it to its in-house  recoveries team.
In January 2017 the debt charity advised HSBC  that Mr Ps payments would remain  at £176.21,  and 
they were changed again to £225.99 in April 2017. Mr Ps debt was transferred to another  business  in 
October 2017 and he repaid the outstanding amount  in January 2019. 
In 2018 Mr P asked HSBC to explain why it had issued him with a default when  he had a DMP  in 
place. HSBC  said it had acknowledged the DMP in its letters  but it had followed the correct  process in 
closing the account  and recording the default.   It also explained that Mr Ps payment offer under the 
DMP was less than the contractual  payments so the terms of the original loan agreement  had been 
broken and arrears  had continued to build until the account  was defaulted. 
Mr P then explained  to HSBC that when  he contacted it in January 2017 one of its advisers had told 
him that the default should  be backdated  to the date the DMP was first put in place  namely  
October 2014. So even if a default was registered it should have been from that date.  But HSBC  said 
that wasnt the case, so as Mr P remained unhappy with this response he brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint  and said it should  be upheld.  He thought  that 
Mr Ps credit  file should  have been marked as in a debt management  plan and should  only have 
been recorded as in default if Mr P had been  unable  to maintain his DMP, which wasnt the case. He 
thought HSBC should  make  arrangements to have  Mr Ps credit file amended accordingly  and pay 
£100 for any inconvenience  caused.
HSBC didnt  agree. It said that although it had agreed the DMP, arrears  still accrued on the account   
and it had a duty to reflect  Mr Ps credit position, as well as a right to try to recover the arrears, and 
register a default if appropriate. 
As no resolution could be found the case has been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see that Mr P feels  strongly that HSBC  shouldnt have registered  a default  against him or at 
least that it should have been recorded in 2014. And I have  some sympathy for his position as he 
believed setting up a DMP would prevent  a default  being registered.  But I dont think HSBC has done 
anything wrong here  which I know will disappoint  Mr P, so Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN90209703The central  point of Mr Ps complaint is that he believed  by setting  up a DMP - he was trying to 
repay his debt, and shouldnt have incurred  a default against him. But HSBC  says  although it 
acknowledged the DMP, it still had a duty to recover any arrears and to register a default  if it was 
appropriate, considering the amount of arrears and whether  it was reasonable  they were going  to be 
repaid.
The Information Commissioners  Office guidance around DMPs says that A debt management 
programme (DMP)  is when a third party debt adviser negotiates a repayment schedule  for all or a 
number of a consumers credit  agreements. If the plan is accepted by the lender, the record filed at 
the credit reference agencies must reflect that the consumer is on a DMP. For such accounts arrears 
may continue  to be calculated in accordance  with the contracted  terms, but the account marked as 
under a DMP. 
So I think HSBC acted fairly in making Mr P aware  of the increasing arrears, and what the 
consequences of this might be.
I also note that the DMP agreement  Mr P signed  with the debt charity said my creditors may continue 
their collection activity,  charge interest or other fees against  me. If I miss or reduce  my payment to 
you, my creditors may suspend any agreement reached with them. 
So although Mr P didnt miss any payments under  the DMP the agreement did confirm that the 
collection activity might  continue   which is what HSBC did. So I dont think HSBC has done anything  
wrong there. 
Ive then gone  on to consider if HSBC should have registered the default when it did in 2016, or 
alternatively in 2014 when the DMP was set up. In these circumstances  where  Mr P was clearly  
suffering financial difficulties, I would expect HSBC to act sympathetically and positively. 
And I think it did that by accepting the DMP and continuing to make Mr P aware  of the arrears  and 
trying to resolve that issue. So I dont think it would have been fair for HSBC to have registered the 
default in 2014, as Mr P hadnt been given the opportunity to demonstrate if he could pay off his loan 
balance and arrears. I note in early 2015 the arrears amounted to less than £500. 
But by 2016  when  HSBC recorded the default  the arrears were over £1,300 and HSBC  had sent 
Mr P a number of letters about the matter. So I think at that time it was clear  that it wasnt a 
sustainable situation and HSBC was unable  to avoid the default any longer.  I dont think Mr P had 
been able to demonstrate that he was in a position to make any reduction to the outstanding  arrears 
and it would seem an inevitable conclusion  that HSBC would need to act by recording a default.  Ive 
borne in mind that HSBC  had a duty to accurately reflect Mr Ps credit activity, which  I think it did by 
December 2016 as the account  clearly had significant arrears.
Ultimately here Ive considered if HSBC acted fairly to Mr P. I think it did by letting him try to resolve 
matters with the DMP and then to run the DMP for two years to see if it would  allow him to pay his 
outstanding arrears. But I dont think it would have been reasonable to expect  HSBC to allow  that 
situation to run indefinitely, and I think it was reasonable  for HSBC to close the account  and register a 
default when it did.
Mr P has said that when  he spoke with HSBC  early in 2017 it said it would backdate the default to 
when the DMP started in 2014. And Ive carefully  considered Mr Ps point here  and whether its 
possible he was given incorrect  information, which  might have  raised his expectations of when the 
loan would be defaulted and therefore also when the default might end. But HSBC hasnt been able to 
provide that call recording so its not possible  for me to be sure of what was said.
Ive no reason to dispute what Mr P has said he was told, but I think, on balance, even if he was given 
incorrect information it wouldnt have affected  the actions that HSBC took.  I dont think HSBC acted  
unfairly by not registering the default in 2014   giving  Mr P the chance  to pay off his arrears and avoid 
that situation. 
Ref: DRN90209704And by 2016  I think the default was inevitable given the amount of arrears  and Mr Ps ability  to repay  
them. So whilst I accept it was unfortunate  if Mr P thinks he was incorrectly told the default  would  be 
backdated, I dont have enough evidence to decide that had any material effect  on the actions that 
followed.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  Im minded not to uphold Mr Ps complaint against HSBC UK Bank  Plc.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9020970