K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Canada Square  Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
Mr R bought the policy in 2002 at the same  time as taking out a credit card online. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint because:
 The online application  required Mr R to select a yes or no box to show if he wanted  PPI 
before he could proceed with the application.  Mr R selected  the yes box. So I think  
Canada Square made Mr R aware  that he had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that 
he chose to take it. I appreciate he doesnt remember  this, which  is understandable 
given how long ago it was. 
 Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. 
 Its possible the information Canada Square  gave  Mr R about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But Mr R doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the 
main things  the policy didnt cover   and based on what  I know  about his 
circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been useful to him. While he had some 
sick pay through his work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this and for longer. And 
he had no other  way to make repayments if he was unable to work. So I dont think  
better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Rs comments.  But these points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9996382