K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr R says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Barclays had to make Mr R aware  the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before adding 
it to his card. I cant be certain what was said at the time Mr R applied  for his card and PPI 
but Barclays has provided a copy of the available paperwork. Mr Rs credit  card application 
form had a separate section for PPI with options to accept or decline the policy.  The option 
to take PPI has been selected and the application has been  signed by Mr R in agreement  
with the selections that were made on it. So I think Barclays made it clear that Mr R didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
may not remember this.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr R so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him. 
Mr R has told us that he was entitled to sick pay when he took the PPI, he had some  savings 
and an alternative  policy,  so he didnt need the PPI. But the policy  would have paid out in 
addition to Mr Rs sick pay, and for longer.  It would  also have allowed Mr R to keep his 
savings in place  to be used towards  any other  expenses he may have had. Mr R has also 
told us these savings  were to be used towards  a house deposit so I dont think he would 
have wanted to rely on them if he was unable to make his card repayments.  Although  Mr R 
has told us he had alternative cover at the time he took the PPI he hasnt been  able to 
evidence the type, and level of cover he had. So I cant say his other policy  would have 
meant he didnt need  PPI.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Rs circumstances  at the time,  he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think it was right for him.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN92013202Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9201320