K821x#15complaint
Mr R says Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group mis-sold him a motorbike insurance  policy.
background
In my provisional decision of 22 August 2019  (a copy of which  Ive attached  to this final 
decision), I explained why I intended to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R has accepted my decision. Adrian Flux has sent in some comments saying why it 
doesnt accept  my decision.
So Mr Rs complaint has now come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided  to 
uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Adrian Flux thinks my provisional  decision means  Ive upheld Mr Rs mis-selling  complaint 
because he was able to make a false declaration that [he] had read and agreed to the 
Terms and Conditions, Policy Wording, Terms of trading  and Product Information. 
But thats not what my decision  says. It says Adrian Flux had a duty to give Mr R clear 
enough information about the policy before he bought it for him to be able to make  an 
informed choice about whether it was right for him. And it says  for the reasons I gave  in the 
decision and from the information Id seen  about  Mr Rs online journey  that he was able to 
buy the policy without  having the important garaging endorsement highlighted to him. I dont 
think its fair and reasonable of Adrian Flux to say Mr R was aware  of and accepted  the 
endorsement by ticking a box that said he accepted four separate documents  the terms 
and conditions of the policy, the policy wording,  the terms of trading and the product 
information.
So Adrian Fluxs comments dont change my conclusions on this complaint.
Adrian Flux has also asked if we can direct  it to any published decisions on similar 
complaints and if the outcome of this complaint wouldve been different if it had given a 
written quotation, including the garaging endorsement, and got Mr Rs acceptance of it. 
Adrian Flux can search our website for decisions, if it wishes. All I can say is that Ive looked 
at this complaint  on its particular facts and circumstances and have reached an outcome that 
I think is fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN91896602my final decision
For the reasons  I gave  in my provisional decision of 22 August 2019, I uphold  Mr Rs 
complaint and direct Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group to:
Take the place  of Mr Rs insurer and settle  his claim as at the date of the theft of his 
motorbike in line with the remaining terms and conditions of his motorbike insurance 
policy.
Pay Mr R £200 for the distress  and inconvenience it has caused  him. Adrian Flux 
Insurance Services Group  must  pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date we 
tell it Mr R accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  
on the compensation from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
*If Adrian  Flux Insurance Services Limited considers its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to withhold income tax from this interest, it should tell Mr R how much interest its 
taken off. It should also give Mr R a tax certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN91896603COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION OF 22 AUGUST 2019
complaint
Mr R says Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group mis-sold him a motorbike  insurance policy.
background
Mr R bought  his motorbike insurance by following a link from a comparison website then getting an 
online quote  from Adrian  Flux.
Mr Rs motorbike was stolen when  it was parked outside his house and it hasnt been found. He 
claimed on his insurance policy for the theft.  But Mr Rs insurer wouldnt pay his claim because his 
insurance policy said he wasnt  covered  for loss if his motorbike was parked within 500 metres of his 
home, unless  it was kept in a private locked garage or building.
Mr R says he didnt know about this endorsement  when he bought  the policy.  He says if he had he 
mightve changed  his mind about buying it, or parked  his motorbike in his garage at all times.
The investigator who looked at Mr Rs complaint upheld it. She didnt think Adrian Flux had given Mr 
R clear enough information  about the endorsement and she thought  conflicting documents  Adrian  
Flux sent Mr R after the sale also prejudiced his position.
Adrian Flux disagrees and so Mr Rs complaint has come to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, and based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold  Mr Rs complaint.  I dont think 
Adrian Flux gave Mr R clear  enough information about the policys garaging endorsement  before he 
bought it for him to be able to make an informed decision  about whether  it was right for him.
Ive looked closely at the online journey I understand Mr R wouldve taken when he bought the policy. 
He went to a comparison  website and then clicked  through to the quote  he wanted to accept.  Theres 
nothing on the comparison  site about  the policy  requiring Mr R to keep his motorbike in a locked 
garage when it was parked close to his home so as to be covered for loss.
Having clicked to accept  the quote he wanted, Mr R was sent to Adrian Fluxs  website, which  is where 
he bought the policy. Adrian Flux has sent us a screenshot of what Mr R wouldve seen just before he 
agreed to buy it. Theres lots of information  about the insurance on the screen. But theres nothing 
about where  Mr Rs motorbike needs to be kept to be covered  for loss.
There was, though,  a section with various boxes Mr R had to tick before he could buy the policy. One 
of these boxes said he agreed  to the terms and conditions of the policy, to the policy wording and to 
the terms of trading. And there were hyperlinks Mr R could click on to view all three of these  
documents. 
If Mr R had clicked on the link to the terms and conditions  of the policy, hed have seen it said (among 
other things) he wouldnt  be covered for the loss of his motorbike if it was parked within 500 metres  of 
his home, unless it was kept in a private locked garage or building. But from what Ive seen,  and from 
what Adrian Flux has told us, I dont think Mr R had to click on the link before he could carry  on buying 
the policy.  And Ive seen  nothing  to suggest he did actually click on it. So I think  its likely Mr R 
Ref: DRN91896604accepted the quote and bought the policy  without knowing  hed need to keep his motorbike locked in 
his garage at all times if he wanted  it to be covered  for loss within  500 metres of his home.
Adrian Flux says Mr R had to tick a box to say hed agreed to the terms and conditions of the policy, 
which included the garaging  endorsement. It says it thinks  its fair to expect Mr R to read what  he was 
agreeing to and, if he chose to blindly  accept the terms and conditions, that isnt a failing on its part. 
I dont agree. As Ive said,  Adrian Flux had a duty to give Mr R clear enough information  about  the 
policy before  he bought it for him to be able to make an informed choice about  whether  it was right for 
him. Mr R says the garaging  endorsement  was important to him and that, if hed known about it, either 
hed have shopped around for another policy that didnt  have one or made  sure he kept his motorbike 
in his locked garage. But he was able to buy the policy without having  this important term highlighted  
to him. I think  it shouldve been and, as a consequence,  I think Adrian Flux mis-sold  him the policy. 
And thats my reason  for upholding Mr Rs complaint.
After the sale,  Mr R was sent some  e-mails from Adrian Flux which it says included  his policy 
information and which wouldve referred to the garaging endorsement. But none of the e-mails Ive 
seen were specifically about how Mr Rs motorbike was to be kept  they were  more to do with other 
information Adrian Flux still needed from him to complete  his insurance  application. So, from what Ive 
seen so far, I dont think theyd have drawn Mr Rs attention to the endorsement. And in any case, 
even if Adrian  Flux had sent Mr R clear information  after the sale this wouldnt,  in my view,  be likely to 
cure the failings during the sales process itself. So none of these  things change my conclusions so far 
on Mr Rs complaint.
Its clear from the correspondence Ive seen on this complaint that Mr R has been distressed  and 
inconvenienced by how Adrian Flux has treated  him. It mustve been  both upsetting and inconvenient 
for him to have his claim turned down by his insurer and then also to have long and detailed  
correspondence with Adrian Flux about the garaging endorsement and the policy  sale. It seems there 
were also some issues with Adrian Flux sending him the wrong policy terms and conditions at one 
stage. So I think its fair and reasonable  for Adrian  Flux to pay Mr R £200 in compensation  for the 
distress and inconvenience  its caused him. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I intend to uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct Adrian Flux Insurance 
Services Group to:
Take  the place of Mr Rs insurer and settle his claim as at the date of the theft of his 
motorbike in line with the remaining terms and conditions of his motorbike insurance policy.
Pay Mr R £200 for the distress and inconvenience  it has caused him. Adrian Flux Insurance 
Services Group must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date we tell it Mr R accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest  on the compensation  from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.*
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
*If Adrian Flux Insurance Services Limited considers its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
withhold income tax from this interest, it should tell Mr R how much interest its taken  off. It should 
also give Mr R a tax certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs.
Ref: DRN9189660