K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
2009. Mr S says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr S took out a PPI policy in 2009 alongside further  borrowing against his mortgage.  The 
policy wouldve covered  Mr Ss mortgage  repayments for up to 12 months  if he was to unwell 
to work or became  unemployed. He paid monthly for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr S couldnt remember how the policy was sold to him and hes said it was added to his 
mortgage without  his consent. But I think Santander  made him aware that the policy  was 
optional and that he agreed to take it out  even if he doesnt  recall this now.
Santanders records indicate Mr S took out the PPI during a telephone conversation  so 
I think its most likely the PPI was sold during a telephone call. But it hasnt  got a 
recording of that conversation. This isnt surprising  given that the call took place 10 years 
ago. As there isnt a recording, I dont know what was said, so in situations like this I need  
to consider what I think is most likely to have happened.
Based on what we know about  how Santander sold similar policies at the same  time 
as Mr Ss policy  was sold, it seems likely that the script the adviser would  have been 
following during  the call wouldve prompted  them to explain the policy  was optional. And 
it would  have asked  Mr S if they wanted the cover before it was arranged.  This policy  was 
taken out some years after Mr Ss mortgage had started   so I think  he would have known 
this policy  was not a condition of his lending.
Santander has also sent us a copy of the welcome letter that was sent to Mr S after the 
policy was arranged. It says that a direct  debit had been set up to pay for the policy, 
which appears  to  have  been  separate  from  any  payment  for  the  mortgage. Mr S 
would have had to sign a separate direct  debit mandate in order  for this payment  to 
have been set up. And I havent seen anything to suggest Mr S queried these payments 
leaving his account  at the time.
Santander didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr S got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
Ref: DRN98959262affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:  
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should  also pay back to Mr S any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr S the extra they paid each month because the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay 
Mr S 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9895926