K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited  have handled 
his car insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes their agents.
background
Mr G got points for speeding in February  2016.  When he renewed his car insurance  policy  
with Advantage  in October 2016,  he didnt tell them about the points. His renewal premium 
was set on the basis of there being no points.
In early July 2017,  Mr G had an accident  and his car was a total loss. Advantage said that 
the pre-accident  market value of the car was £7,600, which  Mr G accepted.  But soon after 
the accident, Advantage found out about the points. They  said that had they known about it, 
Mr Gs premium would  have  been 31% higher  than what he actually paid. They told Mr G 
that as he failed to tell them at the start of the policy, they would only deal with his claim on a 
proportionate basis. So they paid 69% of his claim.
Advantage wrote to Mr G on 13 and 27 July 2017  and said they had amended his policy with 
the points and that he would be charged  an additional premium of £59.26, which would  be 
added to his monthly  direct debit instalments. They said the additional premium was to cover 
him for the remaining period of his policy to ensure any future claims he might have would 
be dealt with in full and not reduced  proportionately.  But payment for the additional premium 
wasnt taken from Mr Gs account.  Mr G paid the additional premium  himself on 27 
September 2017, around two weeks before the policy was due to end.
Mr G wasnt happy so he complained. He said he paid an additional premium  of £500 and it 
was unfair  for Advantage to only pay a proportion of his settlement for the car. He also said 
that while he was happy with the final £7,600 valuation for his car, the initial  amounts offered 
by Advantage,  such as £5,000 and £5,500,  were  too low. 
Advantage looked into his complaint but didnt uphold it. Mr G didn't think  that was fair and 
brought his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. In relation to 
the total loss valuation  of the car, our adjudicator didnt think that Advantage had done  
anything wrong. He said that the evidence he had seen suggested Advantages first offer 
was for £7,500,  which they later increased to £7,600, which Mr G accepted. In relation to the 
proportionate settlement  and additional premium, our Adjudicator felt that Advantage hadnt 
dealt with Mr G fairly. He said that by charging  Mr G an additional premium  of £59.26, that 
meant he had paid 79% of the correct  premium he should have had he disclosed his points. 
So Advantage were  wrong to pay 69% of the claim and they should have paid 79% of it. He 
recommended that Advantage  pay the shortfall  together with interest. As Advantage didnt 
agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 19 February 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mr G, but Im only intending to uphold his complaint in part. Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN94959632In his complaint,  Mr G has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered  all 
those carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus  on what I consider to be the key 
issues. My role is to decide  if Advantage  have dealt with Mr G in a fair and 
reasonable way.
total loss valuation of the car
Mr G said he wasnt happy with the way Advantage dealt with the valuation of his car. 
He said the initial amounts,  £5,000  and £5,500, they offered were  far too low. But 
Advantage dont  agree  with Mr G and they said their first offer was £7,500, which  
was in keeping  with the suggestion of the engineer  who examined  the car. I have 
seen the engineers report and it did say the value  of the car for settlement was 
£7,500. And they later increased  that amount. Ive also seen that Advantage looked 
at a number of car trade  guides to see what the market value of Mr Gs car was 
immediately before the accident. A number of valuations were given by the guides, 
but Advantage went with the highest  one which was £7,600. So I think  the way 
Advantage valued Mr Gs car was reasonable. And other than what Mr G has said, I 
havent seen any evidence that Advantage made offers of £5,000 and £5,500. So Im 
not intending to uphold  this part of the complaint.
premium calculation
Mr G believes  the calculation of his premium when taking into account the speeding 
points was unfair. It might help if I explain that we're not the industry regulator. That 
means it's not my role to tell an insurer how much they can charge for their policies. 
And our service  generally takes  the view that, providing they treat people  fairly - that 
is they treat customers with similar circumstances in the same way - insurers are 
entitled to charge what they feel they need  to in order to cover a risk.
The premium Mr G should have  paid had he disclosed the points was substantially 
higher than what he originally paid, so I can understand why he was concerned.  But 
just because it was higher,  I don't  think that means that Advantage have treated him 
unfairly. Advantage provided me with information  to show how Mr Gs premium was 
calculated. That information is commercially  sensitive so I can't share  it with Mr G. 
But having  looked at it carefully, Im satisfied that Advantage treated Mr G in the 
same way as they would other policyholders in similar circumstances. So I think they 
calculated his premium  reasonably.
When setting premiums  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders 
will make a claim and how much  they will have to pay out for those. And its not down 
to me to tell insurers what factors they should take into account when assessing  risk, 
nor how to go about those  assessments. Different  insurers will have different views 
on what presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially a matter of 
commercial judgement, balancing risk against the need to compete with other  
policies on offer, and not something we would usually think  its fair to interfere with. 
I can understand why Mr G thinks the higher  premium was unfair  because  he had 
points. But each insurer will have their own methods of calculating risk. Im aware 
that many  insurers feel that policyholders  with points  for speeding are at a higher risk 
of being involved  in fault accidents in the future  than drivers without points. As 
insurance is essentially an assessment of risk, I dont think  theres anything  wrong  
with insurers considering whether or not certain individuals  fall into higher risk 
Ref: DRN94959633groupings. So I cant say Mr G has been  singled out or treated differently  to others in 
similar circumstances. 
proportionate settlement  and charging  the additional premium
Advantage have  suggested that what Mr G did amounted to, what  is known in the 
insurance industry, a careless misrepresentation. And theres  specific  legislation  - the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets 
out what insurers may do in such a situation. It says that where there  has been 
careless misrepresentation  and there  is a claim,  insurers  may settle  the claim on a 
proportionate basis (or apply other  exclusions or limitations they would otherwise 
have applied).  
In Mr Gs case, Advantage  settled his claim by paying 69% of it. Thats  because  Mr G 
had only paid 69% of the premium he should have.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to charge an additional premium. Advantage said 
that the additional premium they asked  for in July 2017 was to cover the remaining 
period of the policy for Mr Gs benefit, so that were  he to have another claim he 
would have full cover rather than only get a proportionate settlement. But at the time 
Advantage asked  for the additional premium, they were aware that an engineer had 
already examined  the car and declared  it a total loss. So Advantaged  asked Mr G to 
pay an additional premium to cover him going  forward on the car that could no longer  
be insured because it was a total loss. So Advantage shouldnt  have asked for the 
additional premium.
While the letters in July 2017 from Advantage to Mr G suggest  that Advantage were  
unilaterally amending  his direct debit payments to take the additional premium, I 
understand that never actually happened. But on 27 September 2017, Mr G paid the 
additional premium  of £59.26. That additional  premium had been calculated in July 
2017 on the basis of the car that had become a total loss. But Mr G got another car 
that Advantage added  to his policy on 5 August  2017. Advantage amended  the policy  
to cover that other car and charged  Mr G an additional premium  for the mid-term 
adjustment. So I dont  think  the additional premium of £59.26  requested in July going 
forward could have  been accurate given the policy premium had been adjusted  in 
August 2017 to take account  of the other car. That would mean the £59.26  additional 
premium paid by Mr G on 27 September 2017 wasnt correct.  I also note that when 
the £59.26 additional  premium was calculated in July to cover  the remainder of the 
policy period, the policy  still had around three months to run. But when Mr G paid it 
on 27 September 2017, the policy had under two weeks left to run.
Ref: DRN94959634While our adjudicator was correct in saying the additional premium when added to 
the original premium amounted to around 79% of the premium Mr G should have 
paid, I dont intend to ask Advantage  to increase their proportionate  settlement. 
Advantage settling  Mr Gs claim proportionately  at 69% was reasonable and is what 
CIDRA says should happen. But charging  an additional premium isnt something  
CIDRA allows. So I dont  think  Advantage were reasonable in asking for the 
additional premium  or taking payment  from Mr G. 
I intend to ask Advantage to refund Mr G the additional  premium of £59.26. I also 
intend to require Advantage to pay simple  interest  at 8% a year from the date Mr G 
paid the additional premium until hes refunded. 
For completeness, Mr G told our service that the additional premium he paid was 
£500. But other than what he has told us, I havent seen any evidence  to support 
that. The evidence  I have seen shows that the additional premium  he paid was 
£59.26.
recovery of his car
Mr G told us that hes also unhappy with how Advantage dealt with the recovery  of 
his car after the accident. I have seen that Advantage offered to pay Mr G £150 to 
reimburse him for arranging the recovery  of his car himself. But I understand that 
Advantage havent responded to this complaint previously. So I think if its something 
Mr G wants to pursue, Advantage should issue him with a final response letter on 
their position  regarding this matter and if Mr G is not happy with the outcome, we can 
consider the complaint.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Neither Advantage nor Mr G made  any 
comments. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited  to refund Mr G the additional premium of £59.26.  Advantage 
should also pay simple  interest at 8% on that amount  from the date Mr G paid the additional 
premium on 27 September 2017 until hes reimbursed1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN949596351 If Advantage consider that theyre  required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Mr G how much theyve taken  off. They should also give Mr G a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN9495963