K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about Sabre  Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Sabre includes their agents.
background
Mr F took out car insurance  with Sabre through a comparison website. His cover  started  on 
6 January 2019 and the cost of his premium was just over £330.
During the application for the policy Mr F was asked if he had Any motoring convictions, 
driving licence  endorsements  or fixed penalty  points within the last 5 years? Mr F answered 
no.
Soon after the policy  started  Sabre did some checks and found out that Mr F had two sets of 
penalty points  and driving licence endorsements  for four motoring offences, two in July 2015  
and two in November 2015. Sabre  said Mr F should have disclosed those when he applied  
for his policy. And had Sabre known about  those motoring offences  Mr Fs premium  would 
have cost more.
Sabre recalculated the premium taking into account the motoring offences and told Mr F 
there would be an additional  premium (AP) of over £500. That meant Mr Fs total premium 
for the year would be almost £900. Mr F wasnt happy and said he didnt tell Sabre about his 
motoring offences  because they were  over three years ago and he didnt think he had to 
disclose them because  they had expired.  Mr F said even if he told Sabre about the 
motoring offences  they shouldnt have  increased  his premium. 
Sabre told Mr F that he would have to make an additional payment and the AP would be 
spread over his monthly payments. But he was told in a letter dated 14 January 2019, that 
he could cancel his policy if he wasnt happy.  He was still within the 14 day cooling  off 
period. But Mr F didnt do that but continued  with the policy.
Mr F didnt  think  Sabre  had treated him fairly, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators  looked into it. He felt that Sabre hadnt done anything  wrong.  As   
Mr F didnt  agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr F, but Im not going to uphold  his complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr F said that as his driving offences  were  over three years ago, they had expired and he 
didnt have to disclose them. But Mr F is mistaken.  He was asked a clear  question.  Sabre 
wanted to know  if he had any motoring convictions, driving licence endorsements  or fixed  
penalty points  within the last 5 years.
Mr F was given  penalty points for the two sets of motoring offences he had. They were also 
endorsed on his licence, so he also had driving licence endorsements. And they were 
Ref: DRN92296942within five years of when he applied for the policy, so he should have disclosed them.  Mr F 
thought they expired after three years. But he was required to disclose them for five years.
The New Guidance on the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 (the Guidance),  states under 
What are the rehabilitation periods  for motoring offences?:
An endorsement [my emphasis]  for a road traffic offence listed  in Schedule  2 to the 
Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988,  imposed either by the court or by means of a fixed  
penalty notice  (FPN)  is a sentence for the purposes of the 1974 Act and may become 
spent after 5 years  [my emphasis] (or two and half years where the offender  is under 
18). Road traffic  legislation specifically provides for a FPN [fixed  penalty  notice]  in 
these circumstances  to be treated as a conviction  and dealt with as such under the 
1974 Act. Penalty points and a driving  disqualification imposed by the court  on 
conviction may become spent when they cease to have effect (penalty points have 
effect for three years  as set out in road traffic legislation). Where the court  imposes 
more than one sentence  or penalty for the offence  then the longest rehabilitation 
period determines  when  the conviction  may become spent.  
Immediately after the above text, the Guidance gives  the following example:
An adult is convicted of a road traffic  offence,  and the court imposes  a fine 
(rehabilitation period 1 year), an endorsement (rehabilitation period 5 years),  penalty 
points (rehabilitation  period 3 years) and driving disqualification for 1 year 
(rehabilitation period 1 year); the rehabilitation period  for this conviction will be 5 
years because the endorsement  carries the longest  rehabilitation  period.

Once the conviction becomes spent,  the person is not required to declare it when 
applying for most jobs, or (motor) insurance.
Because Mr F had two sets of endorsement  the rehabilitation period was five years  for each. 
He was therefore required to disclose those  for five years.
Sabre have said that Mr F not disclosing his motoring  offences amounted  to, what is known 
in the insurance  industry, a careless misrepresentation. And theres specific  legislation  - the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out 
what insurers may do in such a situation.  It says that insurers may:
 cancel the policy; or
 tell the consumer that they will settle any future claims on a proportionate basis  (or 
apply other  exclusions  or limitations it would otherwise have  applied).  But if the consumer 
isn't happy  with that approach, they (the consumer)  can cancel the policy  themselves.
But while CIDRA  gives the insurer the option of cancelling the policy  where there has been a 
careless misrepresentation,  we think its fair for an insurer to explain to the policyholder 
theres a problem and give them the option of paying the AP in order to keep the policy  going 
and to settle any future claim in full instead of settling the claim proportionately or otherwise  
to cancel the policy themselves. Thats because the insurer cancelling the policy will have 
serious consequences for the policyholder because they will have to declare it when they 
want to take out insurance in the future.
Under CIDRA, Mr F had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.  To 
assess whether or not Mr F took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, I have to 
Ref: DRN92296943look to see if Sabres  question was clear. The question Mr F was asked during the 
application process was did he have Any motoring convictions, driving licence 
endorsements or fixed penalty points within the last 5 years? . Mr F answered no. I think  
the question was clear  and that Mr F should have answered yes and told Sabre about his 
motoring offences.  Im therefore satisfied he made  a careless  misrepresentation.
Around a week  after the policy started  the broker wrote to Mr F and told him if he was 
unhappy he could  cancel his policy. I think that was reasonable. At the time Mr F was still 
within the cooling off period. But Mr F chose not to cancel  the policy and instead continued 
to pay his instalments  which had been increased to take into account the AP. 
I will now turn to the issue of the additional  premium  (AP). When Sabre found out about     
Mr Fs motoring offences they recalculated his premium and said it cost over £500 more.   
Mr F didnt  agree and said he shouldnt  have been charged anymore.
It might help if I explain that we're not the industry  regulator. That means it's not my role to 
tell an insurer how much they can charge for their policies. And our service generally  takes  
the view that, providing they treat people fairly - that is they treat customers  with similar 
circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to 
in order to cover a risk.
We asked Sabre to provide  details showing how they calculated  the AP. That information  is 
commercially sensitive,  so its not something  insurers publish or share with policyholders 
because it might give their competitors a commercial advantage. But we look carefully  to see 
if calculations are made in a fair way and that insurers treat customers  in similar 
circumstances the same. Having done  so, Im satisfied that Sabre treated Mr F in the same 
way as they would other  policyholders  in similar circumstances. So I think  they calculated his 
premium reasonably.
Mr Fs premium did go up significantly. So I can understand why he was concerned.  But just 
because Mr Fs premium  increased, I don't think that means  that Sabre have treated him 
unfairly. When calculating  premiums, insurers take into consideration a very large number of 
risk factors.  In other words,  they assess the level of risk each policyholder poses and the 
likelihood of them making a claim in the future by looking  at many different factors.  It might 
help if I give just a few examples of the hundreds  of factors insurers  consider: the type of car 
insured; where  the car is kept; the policyholders occupation; the policyholders age; the type 
of licence the policyholder  has; the length  of time the car has been  owned; the number of 
years the policyholder has been  driving; motoring offences; and past driving incidents the 
policyholder has been involved in. But its not down to me to tell insurers what factors  they 
should take into account when assessing risk, nor how to go about  those assessments. 
Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk and the extent of those. 
Thats essentially a matter  of commercial judgement, balancing  risk against  the need  to 
compete with other policies on offer, and not something we would usually think  its fair to 
interfere with. 
Some insurers say that statistically  policyholders  with recent  motoring offences  pose a 
higher risk. As insurance is essentially an assessment of risk, I dont think theres anything  
wrong with insurers considering whether  or not certain individuals fall into higher risk 
groupings. As mentioned above,  there  are hundreds  of factors  insurers take into account to 
work out each individuals risk factor. And past motoring offences are also a key part of that 
assessment. 
Ref: DRN92296944my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2020.  
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9229694