K821x#15This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr K says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ks signed  credit agreement. On it there is a section related to PPI 
and the box opting  for the policy  has a printed  cross in it. As this policy  was sold in a 
face-to-face meeting  I think its likely this selection came  about as a result of a 
conversation between Halifax and Mr K, where PPI was discussed. Mr K has signed  the 
form so I think  its likely to reflect what he wanted. And theres nothing on the form to 
suggest the PPI was compulsory. I cant know for certain what happened  during the sale,  
but on balance  I think its likely  Halifax made it clear that Mr K didnt have to take out the 
PPI and he chose  to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr K so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. Mr K 
says he had a diagnosed  medical condition at the time the policy was taken out. But 
based on what Mr K has told us about  his medical condition, the relatively limited impact 
that it seems to have  had on his life and that he controlled it by medication, I still think 
that the recommendation to take PPI was suitable and the policy was right for him. I say 
this because I think that the chances of Mr K needing to claim for this medical condition 
were relatively low and that hed still want to be covered for all of the other  reasons why 
he might  be unwell  and unable to work  potentially for a lot longer. 
Based  on what Ive seen of his wider circumstances at the time,  I still think that the 
recommendation was suitable and the policy was right for Mr K. For example  he wasnt  
affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to 
have had a need  for the cover.   
Mr K says he was in full time employment  at the time of sale and says he had employee 
benefits including some sick pay he couldve relied on. He also says he had savings he 
couldve relied on to make his repayments.  But the PPI wouldve paid out on top of any 
sick pay he wouldve received and for up to 12 months if he was unable  to work because  
of accident or sickness. It also wouldve paid out for up to 10 months if he lost his job. 
And having the policy meant Mr M could use his savings to cover  other  necessary  
expenses at what could be a difficult time if he found himself out of work. So I think  he 
wouldve found the policy useful. 
Mr K feels strongly he was not given all the information he shouldve  been. And I agree 
its possible the information Halifax gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN97809552This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr K paid for it. But Halifax has already paid Mr K back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9780955