K820x#14complaint
Mrs Js unhappy with the time its taken Admiral Insurance  Company Limited to deal with a 
claim on her motor  insurance policy, the way its dealt with it and its poor customer service.
background
Admiral said, in summary, in its final response  that there had been instances when the claim 
hadnt been handled to the standard expected and required  to assist Mrs J. It apologised for 
this and said it was sending her a cheque  for £300 to compensate for the distress and 
inconvenience shed  been caused by having  to deal with the matter and the poor claims 
handling that had taken  place. 
Mrs J doesnt think this is enough. She wants  more compensation including for the distress  
and inconvenience  shes been caused.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said in summary:
Mrs J feels  Admiral has unnecessarily delayed the handling of her claim. There was 
an initial delay in getting her car to the authorised repairer as another  party said it 
was handling  the repairs. Once the car was released an independent engineer had to 
be instructed and Mrs J disagreed with the findings. Given  everything,  the time taken 
to handle the claim was reasonable. As a gesture of goodwill Admiral agreed to 
repair some  non accident damage to a tyre and associated work.  It has also agreed 
its claims process wasnt what would be expected and offered £300 compensation. 
Thats fair and reasonable.
Mrs J lost the use of her car while the claim was being handled but she was given 
courtesy and hire cars until hers was returned.  That was adequate. Admirals policy 
also says it will not compensate for loss of use and a courtesy  car will not be on like-
forlike basis.
Admiral has treated Mrs J fairly. And although the claim couldve been handled more 
efficiently its offer of £300 compensation as well as repairing some non accident 
related damage  is fair. He will not be asking it to pay her any more  compensation.
Mrs J remains  very unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review. In summary she 
says the way Admiral  handled things delayed her claim, it didnt properly record or 
investigate her claim, the provision of a courtesy car was contractual not a favour and she 
never asked  for a like-for-  like one. She also says she didnt bring the complaint for 
compensation or money.  She did so in the hope Admiral will be held to account and prevent 
its customers from being maltreated.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs J has provided  detailed  submissions  to support her complaint. Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
Ref: DRN91257922Mrs J recently  said in response to the adjudicators view that she didnt  bring the complaint 
to us for compensation or money. But in the complaint form she initially  submitted to us she 
was asked how she wants the business to put things right.  She replied To seek  proper 
redress for me in relation  to my finance payments for an asset  which I did not have the use 
of it over three  months  due solely to the failings of the insurance company. Had the accident 
been correctly  recorded from the outset, the repairs  would normally  take a matter  of weeks  
and not months.
On the basis of this initial  complaint I agree with the adjudicator that Admiral  isnt obliged  to 
reimburse her for loss of use of her car. Thats because the policy terms specifically  exclude  
compensation for such a loss and they also say a courtesy car will be provided  albeit not a 
like-for-like basis. Mrs J was given a courtesy car as promised. As such I think Admiral  has 
acted in line with the policy terms and conditions  in this case.
Even so its clear that Admiral couldve handled  some aspects of Mrs Js claim  better and 
this mightve led to her claim  taking  a little longer to finalise than expected. 
Admiral has apologised  for this and offered  to pay Mrs J £300 compensation for any distress 
and inconvenience  caused. Taking everything  into account, including  the level of awards we 
make I think  that is fair. And I dont reasonably think I can require Admiral to pay her any 
more.
Mrs J also now says she brought the complaint  in the hope Admiral  will be held to account 
and to prevent  its customers from being maltreated . But this service  isnt a regulator.  We 
cant fine or punish a business or require  it to change it practices and procedures. General 
issues about how the insurance  industry works are a matter for the Financial Conduct 
Authority.
Overall, although I recognise  Mrs Js frustration and strength of feeling I dont see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9125792