K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a loan together with Nationwide in October  2000.  At the same time, 
Nationwide sold them a PPI policy  that covered Mr P only.
Mr and Mrs P borrowed extra to pay for the policy upfront and this amount was added to the 
loan and attracted  interest. The policy covered the loan repayments  if Mr P lost his job or 
couldnt work. It also offered him life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed.  Their  main 
complaints are that the PPI was added without their knowledge or consent and they say that 
if PPI been offered to them they would  have declined  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
The loan agreement  they signed shows that Mr P was insured for disability,  unemployment 
and life. It included  a separate section headed Optional Credit  Insurance and details of the 
amount of cover they bought are filled in. Mr and Mrs P mightve  forgotten  some of these 
details from the sale as this happened a long time ago. But I think  Mr and Mrs P wouldve 
seen all this information  when signing the agreement. I cant be sure exactly  what  mightve 
been discussed when they arranged their loan. But if PPI hadnt been something they 
wanted I think Mr and Mrs P probably  wouldve asked Nationwide  about it when they saw the 
loan agreement prepared  for them to sign. I havent  seen any evidence that this happened. 
On balance, I find that Mr and Mrs P wouldve been  aware that PPI was included in their 
loan agreement and they chose to take it out knowing it was optional.
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs P. This means  Nationwide  didnt 
have to make sure the PPI was suitable  for them. But it did have to provide clear enough 
information for Mr and Mrs P to be able to decide whether to buy it. 
Mr P was eligible for the policy.  He wasnt affected by any of the main conditions  that 
mightve limited the policys  benefit  to him. So I dont think  that having more information  
about this wouldve made any difference to Mr and Mrs Ps decision to take it out. The policy 
also provided a proportionate  refund when Mr and Mrs P repaid their loan early, so they 
didnt lose out financially  when they did that.   
Ref: DRN91901692Ive taken into account what Mr P told us about  his sick pay entitlement from work. But if he 
had an accident,  or was disabled and he couldnt  go back  to work, then the policy wouldve 
paid out until the loan was repaid. And PPI wouldve paid Mr and Mrs Ps loan payments  for 
up to 12 months per claim if Mr P lost his job unexpectedly and he was out of work.  So 
I think PPI couldve been a useful benefit  in their particular circumstances.
The loan agreement  explains how much the loan and the policy cost as well as giving full 
details of the interest on the policy. So I think Mr and Mrs P wouldve known how much  
theyd pay for PPI when  they took it out.
I cant be sure Nationwide did everything  it shouldve done when it sold this policy. But 
Mr and Mrs P took out PPI when they didnt  have to  so they appear  to have wanted the 
cover. Given  the benefits it offered in their particular  situation I think  Mr and Mrs P still 
wouldve bought  the insurance  if Nationwide had given them  clearer information. 
Overall, I dont  find that Nationwide did anything wrong that made Mr and Mrs P worse  off. 
So theres nothing  it needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9190169