K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely  Loans irresponsibly lent him 
money which was unaffordable.
background
Mr D took out the loan in 2016  and says he told Likely Loans that he had gambling 
transactions recorded on his bank statement. He says he was encouraged to apply for the 
loan and Likely Loans didnt ask to see the account  statement. Mr D says he had taken out 
two other  loans in the six months before this loan and had defaulted on other credit 
agreements, all of which should have been obvious  to Likely  Loans.  He also says he asked 
Likely Loans for evidence of the expenditure information it used to assess  the affordability of 
the loan but its been  unable to provide it. Mr D says he understated his expenses  to 
Likely Loans and says he was borrowing from family in order to continue  gambling.
Likely Loans says it told Mr D before he made the loan application that it would credit score 
his application  and would not take into account his gambling. It says it checked the 
affordability of the loan and relied on Mr D providing it with accurate information. Likely  
Loans says the loan for £4,500 was affordable and Mr D told it he was earning £38,500 a 
year. It says its tried to help Mr D with his financial difficulties by agreeing repayment plans 
and allowing breathing space for repayments. Likely Loans  says Mr D made  the first three 
loan repayments  but he told it that he had lost his job in December 2016.
Mr D brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold it and thought Likely  
Loans had dealt fairly with the complaint. The adjudicator thought  the loan was affordable 
based on Mr Ds income and outgoings recorded on his credit file and thought  the problem 
was caused by Mr D losing his job. The adjudicator didnt think Mr D had told Likely Loans 
that he had a gambling problem and thought it had tried to help him when he was unable to 
make the loan repayments.
Mr D doesnt accept  that view and says Likely Loans  should provide details of his 
expenditure that it used to assess the loan application. He says Likely  Loans didnt request 
his account statements and says his salary  details were not accurate. He also says there 
was adverse information recorded on his credit  file at this time and Likely Loans should have 
carried out a detailed check of the information he provided. Mr D would like the interest 
removed from the loan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise  that Mr D will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly he feels about whats happened. 
I accept the issue  of lending to someone  that has a gambling problem is difficult as gambling 
is not an illegal activity.  I can see that Mr D asked Likely Loans if the gambling transactions 
recorded on his bank statement would affect  his application to which Likely  Loans  told him 
they wouldnt be, as the application  would be credit  scored. So Im satisfied that Mr D didnt 
tell Likely  Loans  that he had a gambling problem or addiction and Im also satisfied that 
Likely Loans couldnt reasonably have known about  that problem unless Mr D told it. I have 
also looked at Likely Loans e-mail to Mr D about  this and I dont  think  it encouraged him to 
Ref: DRN94688732apply for the loan but simply told him it wouldnt take into account  the gambling  transactions. 
I think it was Mr Ds decision to the then apply for the loan.
I have looked  at Mr Ds application and can see that he told Likely  Loans he was earning  
about £38,500. I appreciate that Mr D says he understated his expenses  and doesnt  
recognise that income figure. But I think on the face of it the loan was affordable  and Likely 
Loans isnt responsible for Mr D providing  inaccurate information. 
I accept that any credit  application should  be assessed and I appreciate that Mr D would like 
details of his expenditure  that Likely Loans used in that assessment. But Im satisfied  that its 
up to Likely  Loans  to make a commercial business  decision on how it makes  a loan 
assessment and thats not something  I can fairly  interfere in. Im also satisfied that Likely  
Loans  has told us that it looked at affordability  by looking  at Mr Ds credit file and Ive not 
seen any evidence that suggests it didnt  do so.
Ive looked at Mr Ds credit file from the time the loan was taken out and I can see that it 
appears his credit score was assessed at 629 which I can see is significantly higher than it 
later become. I can also see that Mr D did take out two short  term loans in 2016  which  were  
both repaid and that he had other credit agreements in which  regular repayments were  being 
made. I accept Mr D did have defaults registered on his file but can also see that they were 
registered some time before this application and appear to have been  recorded as settled on 
his credit file. Overall Im satisfied that, whilst Mr Ds credit file has some adverse information  
recorded on it, there is nothing recorded on it which would make me conclude Likely Loans 
lending was unaffordable  and irresponsible.
Ive listened to the call between the parties  at the end of 2016 and Im satisfied that Mr D told 
Likely Loans the repayments were  affordable and that he was waiting for his redundancy 
payment. I think on balance that the loan became unaffordable due to Mr D unfortunately 
losing his job. I say that as I think Mr D made the first three  loan payments which I think  
suggests the loan was affordable when it was taken out. I can also see from Mr Ds credit file 
that he got into arrears  on other credit agreements in 2017.
Lenders should treat customers that experience financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. I find that Likely Loans did act in such a way here.  I can see that it agreed 
repayment plans  with Mr D and allowed a breathing space for payments to be made.
Overall Im satisfied that at the time the loan was taken out it was affordable and that Likely 
Loans didnt act irresponsibly by approving it. So I cant fairly order  Likely Loans to remove 
the interest from this loan.  For the reasons Ive explained I think the problem was largely 
caused by Mr D losing his job and so I think this brings an end to what  we, in trying to sort 
out this complaint informally,  can do.
Ref: DRN94688733my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9468873