K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs M bought the policy in August  2000 alongside a credit  card.  Mrs M thought  shed applied 
for the card at the bank  although NatWest cant tell from its records. Thats  not surprising as 
the sale took place a long time ago. So, to be as fair as possible to Mrs M, our adjudicator  
looked at whether the way PPI was sold wouldve made any difference  to the outcome. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  the complaint. Mrs M disagrees.
Mrs M mainly says she doesnt recall any discussion about PPI and she didnt know she had 
it. Mrs M also told us that she didnt need PPI as she had other means to rely on if she 
wasnt working. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case. 
Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
NatWest no longer has anything signed by Mrs M that shows how she took out her credit 
card with PPI. It has provided us with a sample  credit card application form. I think its likely 
that Mrs M wouldve signed a form like this when she applied for her credit card. This shows  
that Mrs M wouldve had to say if she wanted  to have PPI added  on if she had taken  out her 
card at one of the banks branches, which she says is what  happened.  
Ive no reason to think that Mrs M isnt right when she says she took out her card at the 
bank. But even if shes mistaken about this, and its possible she couldve taken out the card 
by completing a postal  application, then she still wouldve had to fill in a similar form. 
In order to uphold  this complaint Id have to find it likely that Mrs M wasnt given a fair choice  
about PPI or that it was added to her account without her consent.  Looking at the paperwork 
she wouldve completed, I think its likely that NatWest made  Mrs M aware that the PPI was 
optional with her credit  card and she chose to have it as she wanted to protect her card 
monthly repayments. So the bank added PPI to her account at her request - although I can 
completely understand why, so many  years later, she may not remember this. 
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI. But it still had to make  sure that Mrs M had enough 
information to make a proper decision  about  whether PPI was right for her. Looking  at her 
circumstances at the time, I think it was. 
Ref: DRN94864832Ive taken into account that Mrs Ms employer wouldve paid her 6 months  full sick pay 
followed by 6 months half pay. But the policy couldve paid out in full for up to 12 months  for 
each accident  and sickness claim.  So the PPI provided better  protection  than she couldve 
relied on getting through her employer.  And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing 
Mrs M with a useful benefit  at a difficult time  especially bearing in mind that she mightve 
had some extra costs  as a result  of being sick or disabled. 
PPI wouldve  also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mrs M lost her job and 
became unexpectedly  unemployed.
PPI provided more dependable  cover than relying  on other people to pay her credit  card 
bills. I cant be sure that she wouldve  been able to sell her car for enough money to pay her 
credit card  and having PPI meant she wasnt  at risk of having to sell her car at all just to 
pay her monthly credit  card bills.
Although she had good redundancy benefits,  this wouldnt have helped Mrs M if shed had 
an accident or was disabled  and unable to go back to work.
Mrs M mentioned having some shares  she couldve sold. But having PPI meant  Mrs M 
wouldve been able to keep her shares  as part of a long term investment. And she wouldnt 
have had to think  about selling these  in a hurry at whatever price  was achievable just to pay 
a credit card bill at the end of the month. 
Ive also taken into account that Mrs M had some other insurance set up and generous  
death in service benefit through  her work. But PPI provided a different sort of cover  and paid 
out in different circumstances. Ive seen nothing  to suggest that the PPI she took out with her 
credit card duplicated any of the other  protection  she had.
And although shes mentioned also having  some  savings,  I dont  feel that I can safely  rely on 
this information.  I dont know, for example,  how much Mrs M actually  had saved up or if any 
savings mightve been  tied up in a long term account or what  she mightve been saving for. 
This information hasnt  been provided. So I cant assume Mrs M wouldve had ready access  
to enough money  to make PPI unsuitable  when she took out her credit card. So this 
information doesnt change my decision.  
Based on all the information Ive seen, I think Mrs M couldve benefitted from the policy.
Its possible some of the information  NatWest gave Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she was eligible for the cover. And it doesnt  look as if Mrs M wouldve 
been affected by any of the main things  the policy didnt cover.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mrs M when she bought the policy.  But, from 
what Ive seen, Mrs M hasnt suggested that she couldnt afford the monthly premiums.  So 
I dont think better information  wouldve put her off buying the PPI. 
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mrs M still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed  been  better  informed as the 
policy gave her useful  protection in her particular  situation.
This means  I dont  find that Mrs M has lost out as a result of anything  that NatWest mightve 
done wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN94864833my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9486483