K820x#14Complaint
Miss N complains that Nationwide Building Society rejected her account switch  request. And 
this led to her being without her funds for over a week. Shed like compensation for the 
impact of this. 
Background
In October  2019 Miss N applied to Nationwide for a current  account  switch. On the 
27 October 2019 Miss N was asked to provide proof of her identity and on the 
29 October 2019 Miss N visited her local branch. She was told shed misspelt  her name, so 
needed to reapply for her account. Miss N reapplied was then told on the 6 November 2019 
her application  hadnt been  successful. 
Despite Nationwide  telling Miss N her application hadnt been  successful on the 
12 November 2019 the balance of Miss Ns account  was transferred from her current  bank,  
Ill call A, to Nationwide. And Miss N didnt have access to these funds until they were  
returned to her sending bank  A on the 19 November 2019. 
Miss N complained to Nationwide. The bank  said theyd acted fairly in declining Miss Ns 
application but they accepted they could have done  more in letting A know Miss Ns 
application wasnt successful. Nationwide offered £125 compensation in recognition of this. 
Miss N didnt accept Nationwides offer and complained to our service. 
One of our investigators  looked into Miss Ns complaint.  In summary she thought that 
Nationwide should  have communicated more effectively with A to let them  know  Miss Ns 
switch hadnt been successful. But she thought the £125 compensation offered  was fair. 
Miss N didnt accept our investigators opinion and said:
-£125 is unfair for the ordeal they put me through
-She suffered  mental impact and loss of funds
-She spent a significant amount  of time at the banks and sorting  out her direct  debits
-She was worried about not getting a new bank account and her credit score
As Miss N didnt accept  our investigators  opinion its been referred to me for a decision. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for similar reasons. 
Nationwide have provided evidence of why they decided to reject  Miss Ns application. And 
Im satisfied its fair for them to have done so. I realise this will be disappointing to Miss N but 
the bank can make commercial decisions about who it offers  banking  services to. They cant 
unfairly discriminate  against a consumer.  But they can decide whether they want  to do 
business with an individual.  Thats because they have the commercial freedom to decide 
who theyd like to contract  with. And Im satisfied that in Miss Cs case  NatWest exercised its 
commercial freedom legitimately when it decided to reject the switch application.
But this isnt really  Miss Ns main complaint. Shes more concerned about what  happened  
with her funds, and I understand why that is the case.
Ref: DRN90156602Miss N was originally told on the 7 November 2019  her account switch to Nationwide hadnt 
been successful.  So for this reason  quite  reasonably  didnt expect her funds to leave bank A 
and transfer to Nationwide. Ive looked into what happened here and I cant  see a 
satisfactory explanation  as to why Nationwide didnt notify A sooner, and therefore prevent 
the funds being sent.  Nationwide have accepted this by offering £125  compensation. 
Ive thought about whether £125  is fair compensation for Miss N. I understand that Miss N 
suffered emotional  distress and anxiety about  the location of her funds, and I appreciate this 
was a worrying time for her. This included having concerns about her credit score and the 
inability to open a bank  account in the future. Which I agree  were understandable concerns 
for Miss N to have.  But Ive not seen any additional evidence  to show how Miss N was 
impacted, including the incurring of bank charges or a long term impact on her credit score. 
So for that reason Im satisfied £125  is sufficient compensation.  
I understand that Nationwides offer of £125  compensation is still available.  Miss N will need  
to contact Nationwide directly to accept  this offer. 
My Final  Decision
My Final  Decision is I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June  2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9015660