K820x#14complaint
S, a limited  company, complains that Barclays Bank  UK PLC wrongly suspended its 
business account. S is represented by its director, who Ill call Mr B. Mr B asks for 
compensation.
background
Barclays suspended  Ss accounts from late May to mid June 2018.  Mr B says this was 
because of a malicious  complaint made by a third party. He says the compensation offered 
by Barclays isnt enough for the difficulty and stress this caused. Hed also Like Barclays to 
confirm why it suspended the account.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said the terms 
and conditions of the account  allow Barclays to block the account.  It doesnt have to explain 
why. The account  statements  showed  there was little activity on the account before the 
block. Theres no evidence of any declined transactions while  the block was in place or that 
it caused financial loss. The investigator  said, in the circumstances, the £150 compensation 
offered by Barclays was fair and reasonable.
S didnt  agree. Mr B said the investigator  hadnt  considered all of the issues. He explained 
his concerns about how Barclays had dealt with accounts in his own and family  members 
names and the effect this had on him and his family. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Barclays blocked Ss accounts in late May 2018.  It said it did this while  it reviewed the 
accounts. Barclays says it doesnt  have to say what triggered the review. However, as it 
cant confirm that it completed the review within its internal timescales,  it offered £150  
compensation.
As a limited  company, S has separate legal personality. This complaint  is about  Ss account, 
so S is the complainant. This means I cant consider Mr Bs concerns about  how Barclays  
dealt with his own accounts in this decision (this is being considered  separately).  Nor can I 
take into account the effect of Barclays actions  on third parties   such  as Mr B and his 
family. I can only consider  how Barclays dealt  with Ss accounts and the effect  it had on S. 
As a limited  company, S doesnt feel distress  or embarrassment. I havent seen any 
evidence that S suffered any financial loss as a result of its accounts being blocked.  I think,  
in the circumstances, Barclays offer of £150  for the inconvenience caused is fair and 
reasonable.
I leave it to Ss directors to decide  whether to accept the compensation offered by Barclays.
Ref: DRN96642542my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find the compensation offered by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9664254