K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L took out a packaged bank account  with National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) in April 2017 for which they were charged a monthly fee. They  say it was mis-
sold.
background
Mr and Mrs L took out the following  joint accounts  with NatWest:
Account Date of sale Fee paid?
Current Plus December 1997 No
Advantage Gold Account January 1999 Yes
Advantage Premier December 2000 Yes
Current Plus July 2001 No
Advantage Gold Account August 2001 Yes
Current Plus August 2003 No
Reward Platinum account  (RPA) April 2017 Yes
Reward Private January 2019 No
Reward account January 2019 No
Mr and Mrs L say that when they took out the RPA they thought  they would not be paying a 
fee for it, and they have not used the benefits from it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the RPA was mis-sold  but Mr and Mrs L disagree so the case  
has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
Mr and Mrs L are clear  that this complaint is only about the sale of the RPA in April 2017.  
They say they may have  other issues about their accounts but they have not yet taken these 
up with NatWest and they understand that they would need to do so before this service 
could consider them.
Mr and Mrs L are also clear that they knew they had a choice whether to take out the RPA or 
not. Their complaint is that they were told in 2017 by NatWest that their Black Credit  Card 
was being stopped as a product. Mr and Mrs L say they only had the Black Credit  Card  for 
the Airmile/Yourpoints rewards. They say they were told by NatWest that if they took out an 
RPA together  with a Reward  Platinum  Credit Card they would  not be charged fees for either 
and that is the only reason why they opened the RPA. 
NatWest says the RPA was opened online.  Mr and Mrs L say the RPA was opened  in a 
discussion on the phone. 
Ive looked at NatWests evidence  that Mr and Mrs Ls RPA was opened online, and I think  
its more likely than not that it was. I say this because NatWests  electronic record shows 
Ref: DRN90646732that the account was opened online on 20 April 2017 and it has a list of questions  that Mr 
and Mrs L appear to have  answered  on line. NatWest has said it has no record of a paper 
application for the account which it would still expect to have if the application wasnt done 
on line. Mr and Mrs L have looked  at NatWests electronic record  and say that this is a 
record of when the account was closed online.  But no dates on the record  tie up with the 
time the account  was downgraded in January 2019,  so I dont agree with them.
Mr and Mrs L have argued  that they could not have changed the current  account and Black 
Credit Card  they held in 2017 to a Reward  Platinum Account  and a Platinum Credit Card by 
applying on line, therefore it must  have been done  by a NatWest staff member on the phone. 
But, as they have said, their Black  Credit Card was being closed by NatWest.  And the 
evidence from NatWest  shows  that they upgraded  their existing Current Plus account to a 
Reward Platinum Account  and then applied for a Platinum Credit  Card, which could  be done 
online.
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Ls evidence that a call took place with NatWest  on 21 April 2017 
and Im satisfied that their personal telephone statements show that Mr L did make one call 
to NatWest that day calling the NatWests membership service teams  number.  
NatWests membership service is run by a third party on behalf of NatWest. The third party  
has a copy of the call made to them  by Mr L on 21 April. It has sent us a written synopsis of 
the call from which it is clear  that account  fees were not discussed. The record also shows  
the call was forwarded on 21 April to the NatWest  my rewards  team  but NatWest has not 
been able to trace a recording of the forwarded call. So NatWest is not able to prove it 
didnt discuss the fees that day with Mr L.
But my role is not to ask either party to prove  their position. My role is to look at what I think 
most likely happened  based on the evidence available. And although  I dont doubt  Mr Ls 
honest recollections, I think its more likely than not that Mr Ls memory is mistaken and Nat 
West didnt offer to waive both fees. I say this for the following reasons. 
Nat West is clear that it has never offered a deal where both the fees of the RPA and the 
Platinum Credit Card would be waived. And Ive seen no evidence  that it offered  such a deal 
to other  customers.
The RPA benefits  included worldwide family travel insurance, mobile phone insurance,  UK 
car breakdown service,  taste card membership,  a travel service and a travel money service.
Ive concluded  above that Mr L took out the RPA online on 20 April; and I think  the online 
application process and the information  pack they received afterwards made  it clear  what the 
benefits were and that they would be charged  fees for the RPA.  There is no indication in the 
documents they received  that all the fees for the RPA and the Platinum  Reward Credit Card  
would be refunded to them for any reason. And I think that if theyd  expected to get both for 
free, they wouldve  quickly noticed they were  paying  a fee for the RPA as it appeared on 
their statements and they would have queried it with NatWest  soon after the sale.
As it was an online sale, NatWest wasnt required to check  the RPA was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs L. But I think it was suitable  for them and of interest to them  because  they registered  for 
mobile phone insurance;  they had a car and had previously used the car breakdown service 
on three occasions when registered  on a previous account; and they travelled  regularly.  
Ref: DRN90646733Mr and Mrs L have said that they had pre-existing medical conditions that meant they 
couldnt use the travel insurance. NatWests record of the online account application 
questions shows that Mr and Mrs L entered they didnt have any pre-existing medical  
conditions. Even so, the travel insurance didnt  exclude pre-existing medical conditions; it 
only required  the insured persons to declare them. And had they done so I think its more 
likely than not that Mr and Mrs L would have been covered either for no additional  charge or 
for a small competitive additional  premium.   Both  the online application process and the 
welcome booklet showed that this was how the cover worked and had it been a problem for 
Mr and Mrs L, again, I would have expected them to query this soon after the time of sale.
I understand that Mr and Mrs L say that they had alternative provision for these benefits, but 
there was nothing to stop them terminating  that provision and using the RPAs benefits.
So, although  I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs L, I think that Mr and Mrs L 
chose to take out the RPA having been  given enough information by NatWest to decide  that 
they wanted it; it was suitable for them and they knew they had to pay a fee for it. So I cant  
uphold their complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9064673