K821x#15Complaint
Mrs B has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) unfairly  applied  increased interest, 
fees and charges to her overdraft which caused financial difficulty. Shes unhappy  with what  
Lloyds has agreed  to do to put things right for her.
Background 
Mrs B complained about Lloyds changes to its overdraft pricing structure and said this led to 
her experiencing financial  difficulty. One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and 
thought that Lloyds rework Mrs Bs account  to remove the effect of all the interest fees and 
charges which  were added to her overdraft (and hadnt already been refunded)  from the 
point that the overdraft  charging structure changed in November 2017.  
Lloyds accepted our adjudicators view and worked out that Mrs Bs outstanding  balance 
would reduce. But Mrs B disagreed. She wanted the interest,  fees and charges paid to her 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mrs B is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her
complaint. Ill explain  why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where  a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect it to put the consumer in the position they would be in if that 
wrong hadnt taken  place.  And in an ideal  world, wed tell a business to put a consumer  in 
the position theyd now be in if they hadnt  been  given the credit  they shouldnt  have.
So where a business continued  to allow a consumer to use a credit facility  which  it should  
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt  paid any further  interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit  
from the point the lender ought  to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest 
and charges were  paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, the amount  Mrs B has been left with an outstanding balance  even though  the 
credits shes made to the account have been factored in and shes  been refunded all of the 
interest, fees and charges applied. So while Mrs B has been left with a balance on her 
overdraft and she might be unhappy with this, Lloyds  has done what  Id normally  expect it to 
do here.
That said,  we do look at each case individually and on its own particular  merits. And while 
we have a general  approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit  it shouldnt have (such as here),  we can and will tell it to do 
something different  and/or something  more if theres  a strong reason to say thats  what  
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances  of that individual case.
Ref: DRN97742932Mrs B says Lloyds should do something different here. She wants the refunded  interest 
fees and charges paid to her as Lloyds sold the debt to a third-party debt purchaser. Ive 
thought about what Mrs B has said. But Mrs B didnt actually pay the interest,  fees and 
charges Lloyds shouldnt have added  to her overdraft. That is why Mrs B is still left with a 
balance to repay, to the third-party  debt purchaser,  even after all adjustments  have been  
made. 
A firm is only able to refund amounts to a customer that they have paid. And as Mrs B 
never paid the interest, fees and charges she now wants  Lloyds to pay her, I dont  think it is 
fair and reasonable for me to ask Lloyds to give these funds to her. So while I understand 
why Mrs B may be unhappy at not receiving  any compensation here and at being left with an 
albeit reduced  balance to repay to the third-party  debt purchaser,  I dont  think that these are 
in themselves compelling reasons for me to depart from our usual approach  here.
Ive also considered what Mrs B has said about the loss of her overdraft and the impact  this 
has had. However, Mrs Bs overdraft had already  become unsustainable for her by 
November 2017  and there was little prospect of her being able to adhere to the terms and 
conditions at this point. This is why our adjudicator told Lloyds it was unfair for it to have  
charged the fees it did from this point onwards. So while Mrs B might  not have wanted  
Lloyds to take the action it did, as a responsible lender, I dont  think  it would have been fair 
for Lloyds  to have allowed Mrs B to continue using an overdraft which was unsustainable. 
In these circumstances, I think that Lloyds ought  to have started  the process for taking the 
action it did, or similar  equivalent steps, in November 2017. This means  the decision to 
backdate the default  to February  2018 is fair and reasonable and I dont think Lloyds needs 
to pay any additional  compensation for Mrs Bs loss of her overdraft facility either. 
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already agreed  to do to put 
things right for Mrs B is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of her case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything  more. As this is the case,  its up to Mrs B to decide whether she 
wishes to accept Lloyds  offer.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im satisfied  that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed  
to do to put things  right for Mrs B is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her case. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9774293