K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Amigo Loans  Ltd (Amigo) failed to carry out the correct 
procedures when considering whether their daughter Miss F should be a guarantor on a loan 
taken out by a third party C. They feel that Amigo should not have allowed her to become a 
guarantor. They want Miss F to be removed as guarantor from the loan and her credit file 
amended. 
background
C made an online application for a loan in September 2018  and Miss F agreed to be 
guarantor. An income and expenditure form was completed and digitally signed confirming 
the person signing  understood their responsibilities as guarantor. 
Miss F says she did not enter the details herself, she did not sign the agreement,  and was 
unaware of her duties  as a guarantor. But Miss F did speak with an advisor  from Amigo  on 
the telephone and discussed her responsibilities as guarantor, as well as her financial 
circumstances. During  the call she confirmed she had signed  the guarantee form and said 
she was employed  and earning £1,300  pcm. Miss F did not tell the advisor that she had any 
mental health condition.
Amigo carried out some checks. They checked  her salary against  the national  average for 
her job and found it to be in line with that average. Amigos checks  showed  that Miss F had 
sufficient disposable  income, and they also assessed she had the ability  to repay the loan 
through a system called OI. After Miss F had passed Amigos checks  the loan was paid 
directly into Miss Fs account  so that she could  transfer it to C. Miss F was given 14 days  to 
return the loan and for the agreement to be cancelled  if she wished to do so, but she did not.
Mr F said Amigo has not acted responsibly in allowing Miss F to be guarantor.  He thought  
the checks on Miss Fs income were insufficient  as she was not in fact working full time, and 
that direct  checks ought to have been  made with her employer. He also suggested  that 
Miss F was not medically fit to be guarantor  and has provided a proforma  note from Miss Fs 
doctor confirming she has anxiety and depression. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think Amigo  had done  anything Mr and 
Mrs F disagreed and asked for the complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not repeat our investigators 
background summary since  it is accurate  and full. My own background summary  has been 
necessarily brief to avoid repetition. So if I havent  mentioned something  it is not that Ive 
ignored it, rather that I think its not relevant.  This approach allows  me to concentrate  upon 
the determinative issues and avoiding becoming distracted by those which  are peripheral.
I think we have an unfortunate situation  here and Im sorry to hear of the position Miss F has 
found herself in. Mr and Mrs F believe that C has acted fraudulently. As far as my 
considerations go, it is only relevant  if I find that Amigo were aware, or should  have  been  
aware, of Miss F being coerced into standing as guarantor. Mr F also argues that as Miss F 
suffered from a mental health condition she didnt  have the capacity to act as a guarantor.
Ref: DRN91468052Ive seen the information provided to Miss F before she agreed to be guarantor, and Ive 
listened to the call she had with Amigo. It is clear  to me that Miss F understood her 
guarantor responsibilities during that call, so I cant see there  is any reason why Amigo  
would think Miss F wasnt aware  of, or didnt  understand  those responsibilities.  And I also 
note that Miss F did not make Amigo aware of her mental health  condition at that time either.
I have considered the medical proforma  note Mr F has produced. It states her condition  but 
does not address how that condition affects her capacity to enter  into contractual  
arrangements. 
Having a mental health condition does not mean that a person shouldnt  have  access to 
financial products, in fact for a business  to make a decision  based on having a condition  
alone would  be discriminatory. What needs to be considered by a business  is whether the 
person has the capacity  to make their own decisions and can understand the product they 
are taking out. In the absence of any evidence  showing that Miss F didnt have the capacity 
to enter  into the guarantee  agreement  she is presumed by the law to have that capacity. So 
think Miss F understood the agreement  and her responsibilities under it.
I do understand why Mr and Mrs F feel Miss F has been coerced into being  a guarantor, but 
at the time of the agreement Amigo werent aware  of that, and nor can I say there is any 
evidence to suggest that they should have  been. So I dont think I can reasonably say they 
ought to have known something  was wrong  and that Miss F was potentially  being unduly 
influenced. 
Had Amigo had the full picture of Miss Fs circumstances it might have come to a different 
conclusion but it was entitled to rely on the information it was given at the time by Miss F. 
And Miss F had the opportunity to contact Amigo at a later stage to tell them there  was 
something wrong, but she did not. 
Ultimately, I do think Amigo carried out sufficient checks  on Miss Fs suitability to act as a 
guarantor. I know  Mr and Mrs F dispute  that, but I think  there was no reason for Amigo  to 
believe that the information provided on the income and expenditure form, as confirmed by 
Miss F on the telephone, was not incorrect or indeed not even completed by her. 
So in conclusion, I cant say that Amigo have done  anything wrong as it acted in good  faith 
based on the information Miss F provided.  I am satisfied that it carried out sufficient 
reasonable checks to find out as much as it could about Miss Fs circumstances and I dont 
think it wouldve known if Miss F was being  unduly influenced. So, Im not satisfied that 
Amigo has treated Miss F unfairly, so Im not going  to ask it to do anything  further .
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Amigo Loans  Ltd. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr and Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9146805