K820x#14complaint
Mr M says he was misled by Aviva  Life & Pension  UK Limited when  they told him he could 
access his pension but changed their mind after the first few payments. If he had known he 
couldnt access his pension he wouldnt have moved  abroad and incurred huge costs in the 
process.
background
Mr M phoned Aviva in January 2019  to enquire about the option to take a lump sum from his 
personal pension.  He was informed that because he was under the age of 55 he could only 
receive benefits if he couldnt work  due to ill health.  Mr M had a mental health condition  and 
couldnt work, so it was agreed Aviva would send him an information  pack about his pension 
and a declaration  of ill-health which would need to be signed by his GP.
Mr M wanted to withdraw a lump sum of £15,000 tax free. He chose to move  £60,000  
pension plan to income drawdown  which allowed him to take the tax-free cash  lump  and 
withdraw the remaining 75% (£45,000) as income  as and when he needed it (crystallised  
funds). The remainder of his pension plan remained uncrystallised, so still qualified for 25% 
tax-free cash (uncrystallised  funds).
Mr Ms GP signed the ill health declaration provided  by Aviva and Mr M received £15,000 as 
a tax-free lump sum from his pension at the end of January. 
Mr M then requested £1,000 tax free cash in February. He was told he would need a new ill 
health declaration every  time he was crystallising benefits, so he decided  to take £1,000  
from his crystallised funds as income instead.  
In March he withdrew £5,000 from his crystallised  funds.  In April he asked  for his remaining  
tax-free cash and £15,000 in income. Aviva asked  for a new ill health  declaration  from Mr M 
as he was crystallising more funds.  Mr M provided a new declaration  and received the 
payments he requested.
Around a week  later he asked for another £10,000  which he received. He then immediately 
asked for another £15,000.  
Aviva was concerned  about the frequency and urgency of withdrawals and that Mr M has 
said the pension  wasnt his main income.  As part of anti-money laundering and anti-fraud 
checks, Aviva saw that Mr Ms LinkedIn profile  showed that he was working  for a company 
abroad since January  2019. 
Aviva questioned Mr M about this and he explained that this was his parents company and 
that he only lent his name  to the company to make it look bigger. He explained he wasnt 
working and sent in bank statements to show that he wasnt  receiving any income  apart from 
payments from Aviva.
Aviva didnt think this was sufficient to show that Mr M still met the ill health  requirements 
which are defined by the Finance Act 2004 as follows:
Schedule 28 of the Finance Act 2004  (Part  1) says:
Ill-health condition
Ref: DRN962358121 For the purposes  of this Part the ill-health condition is met if
(a)the scheme administrator has received evidence from a registered medical 
practitioner that the member is (and will continue to be) incapable  of carrying  on the 
member's occupation because of physical or mental impairment, and
(b)the member has in fact ceased  to carry on the member's occupation.
They asked Mr M for further information from his GP to confirm details of his medical 
condition, how it prevented him from working  in his occupation and when (if at all) he could 
return to work.
Mr M provided a letter from his GP in late May which said Mr M couldnt work at present. 
They then spoke to the GP who said Mr M could not work at the moment but could return  to 
work. Aviva says the GP told them a return to work  was down to Mr Ms recovery  process.
Aviva explained  the information provided  didnt confirm that Mr M wouldnt be able to return  
to his occupation in future  which is a requirement  for early retirement on ill health  grounds. 
On this basis they decided to stop any further payments and are intending to report  the 
previous payments to HMRC as unauthorised  payments which  would attract a 55% charge, 
as Mr M on the information  provided-  never  met the ill health  requirements.
Mr M moved  abroad  in May 2019 which he said cost him a lot of money. Amongst other 
things he paid considerable  costs  for shipping his belongings  including  a couple  of cars 
overseas. He says if Aviva had told him from the start that he didnt qualify for early 
retirement, he never would have  paid for these  things  and he would have stayed in the UK 
where he would have been  entitled  to benefits. He says he is now stuck abroad  without  any 
money for medication or counselling and he wants Aviva to pay for his return to the UK. 
He also doesnt  understand why he should  pay for unauthorised payments when it was 
Aviva who authorised the payments in the first place.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said it was reasonable for Aviva to stop the 
payments when they didnt receive  persuasive  evidence to show  that Mr M could never work 
in his previous  occupation  again. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman decision. Since then he has also provided  a 
detailed report from an occupational health manager based in his country of residence 
abroad which explains how his condition affects him and his ability to work in his previous 
occupation. This was provided to Aviva, however, they didnt accept it as it wasnt issued by 
a registered medical  practitioner as defined by the Finance Act which  says:
A registered medical practitioner means a fully registered person within the meaning of the 
Medical Act 1983.  However, in circumstances where the member in ill-health or serious ill-
health is overseas,  the term registered medical practitioner may also be interpreted  for the 
purpose of the tax rules as including a certificate from someone with equivalent overseas 
qualifications.
They say an occupational therapist isnt a registered  medical  practitioner  in the UK and so 
the report from an occupational therapist abroad cant  be accepted either. They  said if Mr M 
provides confirmation  from a registered GP (or equivalent if abroad) confirming that he wont 
Ref: DRN96235813be able to return to work  in his previous occupation  due to his ill health, they will consider his 
claim for continued payments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to say that I have sympathy for Mr Ms situation. He was told he could access his 
pension benefits  and received payments on several occasions from Aviva. So I can 
understand that he planned around this and spent considerable  amounts on arrangements  
for his move  abroad.  I appreciate it must have been a shock  when Aviva told him payments 
would be stopped and previous payments might attract an unauthorised  payment charge 
from HMRC. I also understand  that he now finds himself in a difficult situation where hes 
stuck abroad without any income  and do believe him when he says he wouldnt have moved  
if Aviva  had refused  payments from the start.
However, I need to decide whether in my opinion Aviva have acted incorrectly  or unfairly 
when they stopped payments and decided to report previous payments to HMRC and I dont 
think they have.  Ill explain why.
When Mr M requested access to his pension,  Aviva sent Mr M an ill health declaration for his 
GP to complete. The GP signed the declaration which  confirmed Mr Ms details and said 
Mr M is, and will continue  to be, incapable of carrying on their occupation ofbecause of 
physical or mental  impairment, and they have in fact ceased to carry on their occupation. 
A new, identical, declaration was submitted in April when Mr M crystallised further  funds. 
The declarations met the requirements  as set out in the Finance Act 2004 and as far as I can 
see Aviva  have had no reason  to question that this declaration wasnt right. So when Aviva  
told Mr M he would  be able to withdraw money  from his pension they did this in good  faith.
Mr M did ask for large payments frequently  in a short timeframe-between January and April 
he withdrew over £50,000- and he was asking Aviva  to process  them urgently. Aviva have 
obligations under  anti-fraud and money-laundering regulations to make sure their customers  
are protected and money  is paid out securely,  particularly  if someone lives abroad. So I can 
understand their concerns and that they did further checks. During  these checks they found 
Mr Ms LinkedIn  profile showing he had been  working since January. 
Aviva needs  to ensure that payments to their customers are authorised by HMRC, so in this 
case that Mr M is eligible  for early retirement on ill health grounds.  So when they saw Mr Ms 
LinkedIn profile  I think it was reasonable to proceed  with more detailed  checks.
I agree  with Aviva that the letter  issued  by Mr Ms GP in May didnt confirm whether  Mr M 
could return to his occupation in future.  It only said Mr M couldnt work at present. And 
when Aviva spoke to the GP they say he couldnt  confirm that Mr M wouldnt be able to 
return to his work in future as it would depend  on his wellbeing and recovery  process.
I also agree  that the occupational health  report that Mr M provided doesnt  meet  the 
requirements set out by the Finance Act 2004, so I dont expect Aviva to accept this, even if 
Mr M says his occupational pension scheme  did accept this report.
Ref: DRN96235814With the information provided so far, it seems  Mr M never qualified  for ill health early 
retirement. Aviva have said that they believe Mr M when he says he hasnt worked  since 
January and they have no doubt  that he suffers from a mental  health condition  and isnt able 
to work at the moment. However, in order to qualify for early  retirement  on ill health grounds 
there also needs to be confirmation from a doctor that Mr M will continue to be incapable to 
work. HMRCs pension  tax manual clarifies this further and says an ill health pension  can 
only be paid to a person  if they will not be capable  of returning to that occupation at a future 
date.
And the GP who provided the first two declarations now says he cant  confirm that Mr M will 
continue to be incapable to work in his occupation. This contradicts his confirmations on the 
first two declarations. Aviva cant ignore this new information and based on the evidence  
they have been provided with so far, I think its reasonable for Aviva to find Mr M never met 
this requirement.
I want to be clear that I have no doubt Mr M is suffering from a mental health condition and 
that he is now in a difficult situation  living abroad without any income. I also dont think  Mr M 
did anything wrong  when he provided  the first two ill health declarations. He thought he 
would qualify for ill heath retirement and provided the declaration  as instructed by Aviva. 
However, equally, I dont  think  its fair to blame  Aviva for this unfortunate situation.  
As explained above it was reasonable for Aviva  to accept the first two ill health  declarations  
from Mr Ms GP, so I dont  think they mis-led him when they said he could access  his 
pension. And that the GP has now changed  his stance on whether Mr M can ever return to 
work isnt their fault either.
Based on the information Aviva has so far, they consider the payments made  to Mr M 
unauthorised payments  (as defined by HMRC)  as they were made to Mr M before the age of 
55 and he didnt qualify  for early  retirement.
I wouldnt expect Aviva to make any further unauthorised payments to Mr M, so I dont  think  
they did anything  wrong when they stopped payments to Mr M. Aviva  is also obliged  to 
report unauthorised  payments  to HMRC, so they are right to report  all payments they had 
already made to Mr M. The decision of who is charged for these payments and to what 
extent lies with HMRC.
Aviva have said they will consider evidence from a registered GP in the UK- or an equivalent 
doctor in Mr Ms country of residence- which confirms- amongst other things- Mr Ms medical 
condition, whether his condition  has significantly changed since  January and whether Mr M 
will ever be capable to work in this occupation again. We will send Mr M the exact 
requirements in separate correspondence.
I understand Mr Ms concerns that any prognosis with mental health conditions  might not be 
as clear cut as with physical impairments.  And I appreciate it might in some  cases  not be 
possible to completely exclude the even remote possibility someone could recover at a 
future date.  However, in order to be eligible for ill health retirement  the doctor- at the time 
they make  their assessment- needs  to be satisfied the incapacity to work in a persons 
current occupation is permanent. 
I recommend Mr M to provide the required evidence to Aviva.
my final decision
Ref: DRN96235815I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9623581