K822xcomplaint
Mrs S complains about the charges LeasePlan UK Limited (LeasePlan) asked her to pay 
when she returned  her car at the end of a lease. She also says they should have managed 
her complaint about the charges better.
background 
Mrs S has benefitted from her husbands representation during this complaint. I thank him for 
his input. For ease  I have referred  to Mrs S within this document as the finance  agreement is 
in her name.
Mrs S took receipt of a new car in March 2014.  She financed the deal through a hire 
agreement with LeasePlan. At the end of the hire period the car was inspected  and 
LeasePlan identified several areas  of damage. They said that Mrs Ss contract with them 
required her to pay to put the car back in a good condition. So they sent her a bill for the 
damage.
Mrs S disputed the £2,299 bill. She told LeasePlan the damage was simply wear  and tear 
that could be expected  on a car that was three and a half years  old and had completed 
36,000 miles. She was also unhappy that it took so long for LeasePlan to respond  to her 
queries and that they continued to harass  her with calls when shed explained she was 
stressed and anxious and had told them they should  contact her husband instead.
LeasePlan reviewed  the areas  of damage the inspector had evidenced  with photographs in 
his report. They thought  most of the charges were in excess of what was considered fair 
wear and tear under their guidelines. However,  they didnt think  four charges, totalling  £540, 
had been properly evidenced and they therefore  removed  them  from the bill. They said the 
final bill of £1,759  was still due.
But Mrs S disagreed and she therefore  referred  her complaint to this service  where our 
investigator provided his view. He explained  that the industry guidelines,  on what is 
considered fair wear  and tear when a lease  car is returned, are provided  by the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  (BVRLA). So he reviewed each area of damage 
against that standard. He thought there was clear evidence that each area of damage was in 
excess of what would  be considered fair wear and tear and he therefore didnt think  
LeasePlan had been  unreasonable  when making the charges they had.
He explained  that customer service and complaint handling  alone werent regulated  areas 
this service would  usually consider. But, as they were  directly linked to the regulated activity, 
he thought it reasonable to consider them here.  He thought mistakes had been made. He 
reviewed messages between Mrs S and LeasePlan and noted that, despite being informed 
on several occasions to contact her husband, they had continued to chase  Mrs S for 
payment. As shed  told them  she was distressed by the situation  he thought they could have 
been more sympathetic. He also noted that there  had been a significant delay in responding 
to Mrs Ss concerns. In particular he noted  that she disputed the charges in May 2019  but 
didnt receive a response until December of that year. He understood that LeasePlan had 
offered to reduce the invoice by £75 and provide a £50 shopping  voucher  but he didnt think  
that was sufficient compensation for these issues. He suggested they offer £250 in 
compensation in addition  to the £50 shopping  voucher and he suggested this was paid 
directly to Mrs S rather than being deducted from the outstanding debt.
Ref: DRN97899182LeasePlan thought this was too much. They said theyd  already credited the £75 and had 
provided the voucher and they thought  an additional  £100 would be enough. Mrs S didnt 
accept the investigators  view either. She thought the age and mileage  of the car hadnt been 
taken into account;  the business  could have attempted cheaper repairs  to polish out any 
defects and the paintwork on the car was far too easily damaged.  She thought the 
compensation was too low considering  the anxiety that had been caused  and she therefore 
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mrs S so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs S acquired her car under a hire agreement. The hire agreement is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of Mrs Ss finance agreement with LeasePlan explained that the car would need 
to be returned  in good and substantial repair and condition at all times making good any 
damage to the vehicle. 
LeasePlan provided their own return standard but our investigator is right to say wed usually 
consider what was a fair condition by reference  to the industry  guidelines provided by the 
BVRLA. 
So Ive considered the damage that is evidenced in the inspectors report against the BVRLA  
standard. I think there is evidence that each  area of damage is beyond what  would be 
considered fair wear  and tear on a car that was new,  or even nearly new, at the point of 
supply. I wont repeat the investigators comments on the damage but I have considered 
each area in detail  and I agree with his view and for the same reasons. 
Mrs S says that LeasePlan could have  polished the car and therefore reduced the cost of the 
repairs necessary. I understand her concern but it was for Mrs S to return the car in the 
requisite condition and, if it wasnt, then LeasePlan  were able to charge her for 
refurbishment. The charges they have  made  are in line with others Ive seen them and their 
competitors charge for similar damage in other cases. Im not persuaded  they are therefore 
excessive.
Mrs S also says that the paintwork  on her car was too readily damaged. She suggests  its a 
manufacturing problem  but Ive not seen sufficient evidence thats  the case  and I therefore 
think it would  be unfair to suggest LeasePlan take this into account.
Ref: DRN97899183It is clear that Mrs S has been inconvenienced  by LeasePlans  actions and I would agree 
with the investigator  that, although complaint handling and customer  service arent regulated 
activities, it would be fair to consider them here in so far as they related to the regulated 
activity (the hire agreement).
There was a significant delay when responding to Mrs S when she disputed the charges. 
The eventual response could have considered Mrs Ss points more  thoroughly  particularly 
with respect to her concerns about the cost for scratches. LeasePlan continued to call and 
contact her when she had explained  she was distressed and when she had already  asked  
them to contact her husband. I think they could have been more  sympathetic and supportive.  
So, in the circumstances, I think LeasePlan should  compensate Mrs S for the distress and 
inconvenience their actions have caused  but I think £250 is about right here.  This should be 
paid directly to Mrs S. If LeasePlan  have  already  paid, or debited  from the account balance, 
the £75 compensation they offered, they may deduct this from the £250 compensation Im 
ordering.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell LeasePlan UK 
Limited to pay Mrs S £250 (less  £75 if this has already been paid) to compensate her for the 
distress and inconvenience shes experienced. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9789918