K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains about the service  that shes received from Capital One (Europe)  plc in 
connection with her credit card account.
background
Miss W has a credit  card account with Capital One that she opened in October  2017.  She 
had continuous  payment  authorities set up on the account and she contacted  it in March 
2018 to cancel two of them. But before it had actioned that request  a payment of £35.62 was 
authorised to one of the recipients. Capital One claimed a refund of that payment and it told 
Miss W what  was happening  but the payment wasnt credited back to Miss Ws account  
until about three months later.  
She complained to Capital One about  the payment  and that it had declined  her request for 
an increase in her credit  limit. Capital One apologised for what had happened and credited 
£30 compensation  to Miss Ws account. But Miss W wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He thought  that £30 
was a fair award  to recognise the frustration that Miss W had been caused by the way that 
Capital One had dealt with the payment from her account. And he didnt think that it had 
done anything  wrong when handling her request for a credit limit increase.
Miss W has asked  for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in 
summary, that: 
Capital One made  several mistakes relating to the issues that shes  raised and that 
£30 compensation  isnt sufficient for the time that shes  spent dealing  with this;
it didnt tell her about the compensation before it was credited to her account;
shed had no issues with her account before Capital Ones mistakes  but shes now 
been charged due to its mistakes; and
it failed to reply to all of her latest  correspondence, a sorry wouldve been  the 
minimum she expected and another £30 (minimum) compensation would be 
sufficient.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W sent an e-mail  to Capital One at the beginning of March  2018 saying that she 
wanted to stop two continuous payment authorities that were set up on her account. But by 
the time that it had taken action to stop those payments  one of the payments of £35.62  had 
already been authorised and couldnt be stopped  by Capital  One.  So it then claimed  a refund 
of £35.62 from the recipient.
Capital One says that it was contacted by Miss W and it explained to her what was 
happening. Capital  One successfully defended the recipients  challenge  of the chargeback 
later that month and it e-mailed Miss W to update her and said that any interest or fees that 
had been charged would  be refunded. 
Ref: DRN93393392It sent a letter to Miss W in May 2018  which  said that it had monitored the pending purchase 
but in error didn't request the refund  of the payment that had been made from the recipient 
and said:  we're truly sorry this happened. And it then credited £30 to Miss Ws account. 
She contacted it about that credit  and it said that, as part of the resolution of her dispute, the 
complaint manager  that shed spoken  to had agreed  to credit her account with £30 
compensation.
And in its final response letter that was sent to Miss W at the end of May 2018 it said:  Our 
complaints handler  felt that as the service you received  didnt meet the standards  wed 
expect you to experience  from this team,  and to apologise theyve credited £30.00 to your 
account.
There have clearly been some issues arsing  from Miss Ws request to stop two continuous  
payment authorities. Capital One has apologised for that, the payment that couldnt be 
stopped has been refunded to her account and it says that it has refunded all interest and 
fees that have  been charged as a result of that payment being made. And Capital One has 
credited £30 compensation to Miss Ws account. Those issues  will have caused distress and 
inconvenience for Miss W. But I consider that Capital One has responded to those issues 
fairly and reasonably. And Im not persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to 
require it to pay any further compensation to Miss W  or to take any other action in 
response to her complaint about  the continuous payment authorities.
Miss W has also complained that Capital  One wont increase her credit  limit. It explained  its 
approach to raising credit limits and the reasons that it wouldnt be increasing the credit limit 
on Miss Ws account at that time in the final response letter that it sent to her about that 
issue in early May 2018. 
Its a commercial decision for a credit  provider to decide whether or not to increase a 
customers credit limit  and theres  no requirement  for it to increase a customers credit limit 
when its asked to do so. This service doesnt normally  interfere with a credit providers 
legitimate commercial decisions.  And I see no reason to interfere with Capital Ones  decision 
not to increase Miss Ws credit limit in these circumstances. So Im not persuaded that 
Capital One acted incorrectly when it declined to increase Miss Ws credit  limit. And Im not 
persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require it to take any other  action in 
response to the issues that Miss W is now experiencing with her account. But if Miss W is 
now suffering any financial difficulties, its required to respond  to those difficulties promptly 
and sympathetically.
Miss W has also complained that she has difficulty using the phone. Capital One also said in 
its early May 2018 final response letter that it had put a stop to the majority of outbound calls 
on Miss Ws account and that it had put a note on her account to say that if an issue does 
arise that required it to call her it would send  a secure message or e-mail instead.
Miss W says that Capital One has continued  to phone her  and I can understand that will 
have caused her distress  and inconvenience. But Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Capital One to pay her any further compensation because of 
those calls.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN93393393Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 July 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9339339