K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains about Barclays Bank  PLC (Barclays) and its handling of its decision to 
close his personal  bank accounts.  Mr Z wants Barclays to explain its rationale for closing  his 
accounts, compensation for his inconvenience and compensation for any payments he 
missed due to the closure of his accounts. 
background
Mr Z was a long standing customer of Barclays, having held accounts with the business  for 
more than 30 years. He held both personal  and business accounts with Barclays.
In July 2018, Barclays decided to close Mr Zs business  accounts and wrote to him, giving  
him notice  of the account closures. Mr Z received these  notices.  
Shortly afterwards, Barclays decided to close Mr Zs personal accounts. Barclays wrote to 
Mr Z in early August  2018 giving notice of the closure of his accounts which would  take 
place in early October.
This was addressed  correctly, and with the same address as the July notices had used. 
Mr Z did not receive the notice. 
The account  closures did not take place on the date specified in the notice, but took place 
approximately a week later. 
Mr Z learned  that his accounts had been closed when he tried to carry out a transaction  and 
was unable to do so. 
Mr Z complained to Barclays immediately. 
Barclays sent him its final response letter approximately a week  later. Mr Z did not receive 
that response but understood  from email correspondence that his complaint  was not upheld. 
He then referred his complaint to us. 
He indicated that after the closure  of his accounts  he took approximately  two weeks  to 
arrange another bank account, and then it took a further week to pay in the funds which  had 
been left in the closed  accounts. 
Mr Z felt that he had been unfairly treated by Barclays and that he had been discriminated 
against. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out a view to the parties.  This 
was that the evidence available  showed that Barclays had sent out notice  of the decision, to 
the correct address, and in line with its terms and conditions.  He therefore did not think that 
there was evidence of Barclays  having  done anything wrong and he did not recommend it 
take any further action.  
Mr Z was not happy with that view and set out further comments. He asked that an 
ombudsman decide  the complaint, and that they listen to his call and comments  before 
making a decision.  
Ref: DRN98871152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have had particular  regard to the terms and conditions, and have listened to Mr Zs call with 
our adjudicator. 
I understand Mr Zs strength of feeling on the matter, and that he feels  that Barclays system 
of sending out notices on withdrawal of essential  services, by a non guaranteed  delivery  
method is flawed. 
I appreciate Mr Zs frustration, and acknowledge  that, due to him not receiving  the notice, he 
was ultimately without a bank account  for around 3 weeks. During  this time he was unable to 
access his funds and was worried that he would  be losing out on income which would be 
rejected by Barclays. 
Mr Z wants a ruling that says Barclays has acted unfairly, and that its system  is not fit for 
purpose. 
Our services role is not to rule on the processes operated by banks  (that is the role of the 
regulator), but instead we look at individual situations and consider whether there is 
evidence that the business did anything wrong towards the individual,  in the particular 
circumstances. 
Businesses are entitled to decide  who they want to have as customers, so long as they do 
not apply discriminatory  reasons to the decision to close  a customers  account.  
Mr Z has said hat he feels he was discriminated against, however  I have not seen any 
evidence of an improper reason for the account  closures. 
Barclays publishes its terms and conditions.  These  permit it to take the decision to close  a 
customers accounts, so long as it gives appropriate  notice.  The notice required varies 
depending on the reason  for closure,  but in the circumstances two months  notice was 
required. 
Barclays has provided evidence of a notice, dated  in early August and properly addressed, 
giving notice of the account closure in early October. 
The evidence therefore supports that Barclays gave its required notice. 
Mr Z argues that Barclays should have sent the notice by another method, guaranteeing  its 
receipt, or should  have followed up to check it had been received. He says that not 
guaranteeing receipt is unfair. 
I appreciate Mr Zs view, and acknowledge  that he did not receive  the notice, but I do not 
think that the business acted unreasonably  in sending the notice by post. 
Mr Z said that if there  is any chance that a notice may not be delivered then the method is 
not fit for purpose.  
Ref: DRN98871153I do not agree with that view, and am looking at whether  the service provided  was 
reasonable, rather than guaranteed, or flawless. 
Post is a reliable service  and, when correspondence properly addressed (as it was here) 
businesses, businesses can be reasonably confident in delivery of letters  by post. 
Accordingly, I think that Barclays was entitled  to make the decision to close the accounts, 
and it acted reasonably in posting the notice to Mr Zs address.  
Whilst I understand Mr Z will be disappointed by this decision, I do not think  that there is 
evidence of Barclays acting unreasonably,  and so I do not uphold the complaint. 
The consequence of this decision is that, although I appreciate that Mr Z was caused  
significant inconvenience by the seemingly sudden closure of his accounts,  I cannot say this 
was Barclays fault. As a result I do not ask Barclays to do anything  further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint and do not ask Barclays  Bank  
PLC to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9887115