K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Cash On Go Limited trading as Peachy irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about two instalment loans Peachy provided to Mr C between  January and 
May 2018. Loan 1 was taken in January  2018 and it was for £250.  Mr C was due to repay it 
in six monthly instalments  and the highest instalment payment was around £89.38.  Loan  2 
was taken in May 2018 and it was for £450. Mr C also needed to repay it in six monthly 
instalments and the highest instalment was £145.15. As I understand it, Mr C repaid loan 1 
early and is now repaying loan 2 through a debt management plan. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint  and thought Peachys checks  for both loans 
went far enough. Mr C disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Peachy needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Peachy should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators view because he thought Peachys checks didnt go far 
enough and it should have been aware that he was borrowing  from other payday lenders  
and so it shouldnt  have lent to him.
Ref: DRN99828482Peachy has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving  any of the 
loans. It has said it asked  Mr C about  his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of £3,300.  Peachy also checked  Mr Cs normal  
monthly living costs. For loans 1 Mr C declared  these  as £2,200. And for loan 2 he said they 
were £2,500. Peachy says it also searched Mr Cs credit file but it hasnt provided the results 
of its search.  As I havent seen a copy of Mr Cs credit  file, I dont know  whether there were 
adverse entries  like defaults or county court judgements  (CCJs) recorded.
Loan 1 was Mr Cs first loan with Peachy  and so he had no history of borrowing previously 
from this lender, the loan amount was relatively small compared to his income. And even 
though he had to make six monthly  repayments,  the highest repayment was also a small 
fraction of his declared income. I think these factors  had an impact of what  level of checks  
would have been appropriate for Peachy to carry out. Given  these, I think  the checks Peachy 
carried out before lending  loan 1 went far enough  and I wouldnt have expected it at this 
stage to take its checks further. Peachys  checks for loan suggested that Mr C had around 
£1,100 disposable income which shows that he could afford to repay this loan sustainably.
Loan 2 was taken two months after loan 1 was repaid. Again this was still early in the lending  
relationship between Mr C and Peachy and both the loan amount and the highest repayment 
were small compared to Mr Cs declared income  of £3,300. Mr Cs normal living  costs  were 
around £2,500;  again  the checks  show that Mr C was in a position  to sustainably afford the 
loan repayments  over the term.
Ive also taken into account Mr Cs argument  about  the fact that he was borrowing from other 
short term lenders  but I can see that Mr C declared that he was repaying £500 per month to 
other short term lenders  at the time of loan 1 and he declared the same amount for loan 2. 
The information Mr C declared  to Peachy at the time of the loans may not have been an 
accurate reflection of his financial circumstances but I think  Peachy was entitled to rely on 
that information. At this stage, I wouldnt have expected Peachy to verify  the information  
Mr C gave it and on that basis, I cant say that its done something wrong in lending  Mr C 
any of his loans.
I appreciate that my findings  are likely  to disappoint Mr C but I hope  my explanation  will help 
him understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
Im aware theres still an outstanding balance on loan 2, and Mr C is now repaying this 
through a debt management plan. Id remind  Peachy  about  treating Mr C positively and 
sympathetically.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Cs complaint and make  no award against Cash On Go Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9982848