K821x#15Complaint
Mrs A complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) lost a letter  and important 
information she sent to a branch. 
Background
On 2 October 2018 Mrs A sent a letter asking questions about  her historic accounts  to 
Halifax and it was signed for by a member of the branch  staff.  On 6 December  2018  Mrs A 
contacted Halifax  to ask about her letter and was told it had been lost.
After Mrs A complained Halifax  sent its response  on 12 December 2018 and agreed  it had 
lost her letter. Halifax offered Mrs A £200 and apologised for what  had happened. 
Mrs A later referred  her complaint to our service. An investigator initially  endorsed  Halifaxs 
offer of £200.  But it later came to light that Mrs As 2 October 2018 letter hadnt been lost by 
Halifax. The investigator  went back to Halifax and asked it to increase the existing offer by a 
further £250, taking the total award to £450.  Halifax agreed but Mrs A didnt accept and 
asked to appeal  her complaint. As a result, Mrs As complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs A is upset. She sent Halifax important information  about her 
finances and was concerned when her letter couldnt be located. Halifax was asked to locate 
it but despite undertaking a complaint investigation it concluded the letter  and information 
was lost. It must have  been particularly frustrating for Mrs A when it later came to light that 
her letter wasnt lost. Im pleased Mrs As important  information wasnt lost by Halifax.  That 
means her details have  remained confidential.  As all parties broadly agree on what  
happened, Ive focused on how to fairly resolve  this complaint. 
Halifax has agreed to pay a total of £450 to resolve Mrs As complaint. I agree the situation 
has gone on for a long time and its clear  it has caused Mrs A both distress and 
inconvenience. I can see she was quite reasonably concerned about  the loss of private 
information for several months. Whilst it later came to light her letter  hadnt  been lost, its 
clear the situation  was frustrating. Mrs A has asked Halifax to pay £1,000 to resolve her 
complaint.
As Ive said above,  I can see how upsetting this situation was for Mrs A. Ive taken into 
account everything shes told us when reaching my decision. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs A 
but I think the £450 Halifax has agreed  to pay fairly reflects the impact of initially  telling her 
the letter and information had been  lost as well as the delay in letting her know it had been  
found. I can see the situation  went on for several months but I think  the £450 Halifax has 
agreed to pay takes that into account.  The £450 settlement is very much  in line with what  I 
would have told Halifax to pay had no offer been made. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs A and Halifax have  told us. Having done  so, Im upholding 
this complaint and directing Halifax to pay Mrs A £450. I appreciate  Mrs A feels the amount 
is too low so I leave  it to her to decide  whether she wishes  to accept. 
Ref: DRN96359422My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading  as 
Halifax) to pay Mrs A a total of £450 less any compensation already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9635942