K821x#15complaint
Mr W says Quidie Limited irresponsibly  lent to him. He says Quidie did not carry out the 
checks it shouldve done and it acted improperly  when  it gave  him the loans. He says this 
caused him significant financial hardship. 
background
This complaint is about nine payday  loans Quidie provided to Mr W. The first three  were  
provided in April and May 2015. Loans  4 to 9 were provided between May and 
October 2018. Mr Ws lending history is as follows:
loan 
numberdate startedamount  
borrowed 
(£)term (days) date ended
1 01/04/2015 180 23 24/04/2015
2 05/05/2015 200 17 22/05/2015
3 22/05/2015 200 33 24/08/2015
break in lending
4 02/05/2018 150 96 02/05/2018
5 16/06/2018 150 77 16/06/2018
6 10/08/2018 350 21 15/08/2018
7 16/08/2018 350 15 31/08/2018
8 01/09/2018 500 27 28/09/2018
9 28/10/2018 500 94 28/01/2019
Loans 4, 5 and 9 had three repayments. The remainder  had only one. I also see that Quidie  
declined a number  of Mr Ws loan applications in 2018. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ws complaint. He thought that loans 2 and 3 and loans 6 to 9 
shouldnt have been given. 
Quidie disagreed, it said that:
there were no signs of financial problems on Mr Ws credit reference  agency data
Mr Ws lending  history also didnt show any problems with financial management or 
gambling. He used all of his loans correctly  for financial bridging
he wasnt in a debt  spiral. The outstanding debt shown  on credit reports  decreased  
at times
As no agreement was reached  the complaint has been passed  to me  an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN92599862Mr W didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1, 4 and 5. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing  disagreement about  these loans. So I wont  be making a 
decision about this lending. But they were  part of the borrowing relationship Mr W had with 
Quidie. So they are something  I will take into account when considering the other loans he 
took.
Quidie needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr W could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quidie should fairly  and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quidie was required to establish 
whether Mr W could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties, and in particular the customer  should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. So it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Loan 2 was taken a short time after loan 1 was repaid and it was for an increased amount.  
Mr W went on to take out loan 3 the same day as he repaid loan 2. There was a break in the 
lending between loans  3 and 4. But when Mr W came to take loan 6 he had taken a number 
of loans over a short period of time and the amounts were increasing. This carried  on 
throughout loans  7, 8 and 9. So Mr W was, overall,  consistently borrowing increasing 
amounts in quick succession. 
Ref: DRN92599863Its also reasonable to say that, during the time Mr W borrowed from Quidie, he had other  
debts. Quidie was aware  of some of these as they were shown on the credit  reference 
agency data it looked at. And his level of debt remained  fairly stable throughout (albeit  I 
accept it did decrease at times). 
So, because of this, Quidie shouldve been  concerned that Mr W may be having longer term 
financial problems before it approved loans 2 and 3; and loans 6 to 9. 
So I think that before approving loans 2, 3, 6 and 7 it wouldve been proportionate to find out 
about Mr Ws normal monthly  living  costs  and regular financial commitments  including any 
existing short-term lending. And I think that before approving loans 8 and 9 it needed to carry 
out a full review  of Mr Ws finances.  These  checks were to make sure Mr W was in a position 
to make the loan repayments sustainably.
But I dont think Quidie  did this. I can see that it asked Mr W about his income before lending 
and it asked him about his expenditure before approving some  of the loans. But it doesnt 
seem to have accurately  found out about his other short term lending, and I dont think  it fully 
reviewed his finances. So I need  to think about  what Quidie wouldve seen if it had carried  
out proportionate checks. 
Mr W has provided some information about his financial circumstances which includes his 
bank statements and a recent credit  report. I accept that this isnt exactly  what  Quidie 
wouldve seen at the time. But I think  it wouldve  found out similar information if it had carried  
out proportionate checks, so I think its reasonable to rely on it.
The information provided showed  that when Mr W applied  for loans 2 and 3, he had already 
been borrowing  and repaying significant  amounts  from other  short term lenders. These loans 
wouldve left Mr W with a low disposable  income before any additional  lending.  So, if Quidie 
had found out about this other lending, I dont think it couldve reasonably said that Mr W 
would be able to sustainably make the repayments  on loans 2 and 3. 
Mr Ws financial situation hadnt improved  when he took loans 6 and 7 later on. He was still 
using other  short term lenders  but the amounts  had increased significantly. He was now, at 
times, borrowing and repaying  over £1,000  each  month. So, I dont think Quidie couldve 
said that Mr W couldve sustainably made the repayments to loans 6 and 7 either.
Our adjudicator explained, Mr W was spending significant amounts on gambling each 
month. This expenditure  was far in excess of the amount  he was earning,  and Quidie 
shouldve found  out about this before approving loans  8 and 9 when it fully reviewed  his 
finances. So I dont  think Quidie couldve reasonably  said that Mr W would be able to 
sustainably make the repayments towards  loans 8 and 9 because of this.
So I dont  think its reasonable for Quidie to say that Mr W was using the loans for their 
intended purpose  financial bridging.  The information Mr W has provided shows  a sustained  
use of short  term lending  over time to support  significant amounts of gambling.  
I think that Quidie  wouldve found  out the information Ive outlined above if it carried out 
proportionate checks. And I think Quidie wouldve seen Mr W wouldnt have been able repay 
the loans in a sustainable way. So I think that Quidie  shouldnt  have given  loans 2 and 3 and 
loans 6 to 9 to Mr W, and I think hes lost out as a result of this. So Im upholding Mr Ws 
complaint about  these  loans. 
Ref: DRN92599864putting things right  what Quidie needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans 2, 3 and loans 6 to 9
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 2 and 3; and loans 6 to 9 from Mr Ws 
credit file;
HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidie to take off tax from this interest. Quidie must give 
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mr Ws complaint.
Quidie Limited should  put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9259986