K821x#15complaint
Mr S1 and Mr S2 complain that Connells Limited  (Connells) mis-sold them a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on a mortgage.
background
In April 2009 Connells  arranged  a mortgage for Mr S1 and Mr S2. At the same  time they 
were sold a PPI policy and a mortgage  level term assurance (LTA) policy taken in Mr S1s 
sole name. The PPI policy  wouldve covered  the repayments on the mortgage for up to 12 
months at a time if Mr S1was made redundant or he was too ill to work and the LTA policy  
wouldve paid the mortgage in full if Mr S1 died.
Our adjudicator thought Mr S1 and Mr S2s complaint should be upheld  because Mr S1had a 
pre-existing medical condition (PEMC) at the time of the sale.  She didnt  think the restrictive 
terms relating to PEMCs were adequately drawn to Mr S1 and Mr S2s attention and she 
didnt think the policy should have been recommended without pointing this out to Mr S1. 
She also thought  that it wouldve been more suitable  for Connells to recommend a mortgage 
decreasing term assurance (DTA) policy over the LTA policy as the mortgage was being 
repaid on a capital  and interest basis. As such she thought that Connells should refund the 
difference in premiums between the two policies plus 8% simple  interest.
Connells have agreed to refund the difference between the premiums of the two policies but 
disagree that PPI was mis-sold. It says because Mr S1 didnt disclose his medical conditions 
it was unable to provide  him with suitable advice.
So their complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Connells have agreed to our adjudicators view that it should  refund the difference  in 
premiums of the LTA and DTA policy, plus interest.  I think  this is a fair way to settle  this 
aspect of Mr S1 and Mr S2s complaint so the focus of my decision will be on their PPI 
complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr S1 and Mr S2s PPI complaint.
Connells advised Mr S1 and Mr S2 to buy the policy, so it was under  a duty to ensure that 
any recommendation it made was suitable to their needs and circumstances. At the time the 
policy was sold Mr S1 did not disclose his PEMCs  to Connells sales  advisor. Im in 
agreement with Connells  that its advisor  couldnt  advise properly if not given all the material  
facts. And on the information Mr S1 provided I think the policy wouldve been a suitable  
recommendation.
But Connells  were also under a duty to provide Mr S1 and Mr S2 with information on PPI in a 
clear, fair and non-misleading way so they could  make an informed  choice about  whether or 
Ref: DRN91712422not they wanted to take the policy. To make  an informed choice Mr S1 and Mr S2 needed to 
understand the costs and benefits of PPI, as well as the main exclusions and limitations of 
the policy.
Mr S1has told us he was diagnosed with two PEMCs some years before the policy was 
taken out and was receiving ongoing  treatment for his conditions. Ive read the PPI policy  
document and I see that one of Mr S1s PEMCs was covered with conditions and the other 
wasnt covered. 
So Im satisfied Mr S1suffered from a PEMCs where at least  one of which  was excluded 
from cover  under the policy.
So I think the PEMC exclusion wouldve mattered to Mr S1 and Mr S2 because Mr 
S1wouldnt have been able to make a successful claim  for time off work related  to his 
condition. And I dont think hed have taken  the policy  if things were  made  clearer and he 
understood this.
I accept that Connells supplied Mr S1 and Mr S2 with a Key Facts document  which outlined 
significant exclusions but this doesnt  show me that the advisor took the time to explain this 
to them  before they agreed to take the policy. 
So I think Mr S1 and Mr S2 have  lost out financially because Connells didnt make the 
exclusions relating  to PEMCs  clear to them. Because of this I uphold  Mr S1 and Mr S2s 
complaint. 
what Connells  should do to put things  right
Connells should put Mr S1 and Mr S2 in the position  they would be in now if they hadnt  
taken out PPI. The policy should  be cancelled if it hasnt already been and Connells should:
Pay Mr S1 and Mr S2 the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr S1 and Mr S2 made a successful  claim under the PPI policy, Connells can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Connells to take off tax from this interest. Connells must 
give Mr S1 and Mr S2 a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Mr S1 and Mr S2s complaint against  Connells 
Limited and direct it pay the fair compensation as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S1 and Mr S2 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 August  2019.
Ref: DRN91712423Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9171242