K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds decision to stop paying his claim.
Mr M brings  his complaint through a third party, but for simplicity, Ill refer to all submissions 
as being made by him.
background
Mr M had a group income protection policy through his employer. He brings  his complaint as 
a beneficiary under  this policy.
Mr M suffers with anxiety  and depression. He became unwell in 2010  following a number of 
stress factors  which impended his ability  to undertake his usual occupation  a senior  role 
within his family run hospitality  group.  Mr M is unhappy because Aviva  stopped  paying  his 
claim following a review  it completed on 1 May 2018  He said hes still too unwell to return  to 
work and this has caused him further problems with his mental health.  
Aviva said it terminated Mr Ms claim because hed been untruthful  about his engagement  
with work  activity. In particular, hed set up new businesses during the life of the claim and 
failed to disclose  it. Aviva also said when it asked Mr M about this, he attempted to conceal 
it, along with a second business he was involved with. Aviva said this was the reason it 
decided to terminate  Mr Ms claim.
Our investigator thought Aviva had acted fairly  in doing this. She said Mr M had an obligation 
to tell it about any gainful employment hed been involved in since  hed been in receipt  of 
benefit. She also dismissed Mr Ms claim that Aviva  had acted  unreasonably  during its 
investigation because  she said its entitled  to conduct claims reviews and interviews as part 
of that process.  She also found  no evidence  to suggest it had treated him unfairly during the 
interviews.
Mr M did not agree. He gave many reasons why, some of which, Ive summarised below;
He attended  mental  health support appointments and was encouraged  to try and 
engage in some  form of activity  as part of his treatment;
The activity he was involved with was a hobby and was not intended to be a business  
which made a profit  or to give any income;
He was selling items  via an online  platform and it was the online platforms  
suggestion that he should set up the business;
He completed everything online and did not realise he was the director of the 
company, rather, he thought he was an authorised person and;
It was his illness that made him answer  the questions incorrectly. Hes a vulnerable  
person and was not treated accordingly.
And so its for me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
Aviva has made an error and so I wont be asking it to do anything  in respect of Mr Ms 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN99433752Aviva, like all insurers,  are bound by rules set out by the Insurance  Code of Business 
Sourcebook (ICOBS) which says insurers must  handle claims promptly  and fairly and must 
not reject  a claim unreasonably.  And so Ive considered whether it has unfairly rejected Mr 
Ms claim, but given  the evidence available,  I do not think it has. Avivas terms say;
Eligibility for Total Benefit  arises  if immediately prior to Incapacity the Insured Person was 
following a Gainful Occupation and after the onset of Incapacity  the Insured Person is not 
following any other Gainful Occupation
The reason  Ive highlighted this term is because  it essentially says that Mr M will not be 
eligible for benefit should he be involved in any other gainful  occupation  after the onset of his 
incapacity. The policy further defines  other gainful  occupation as any occupation performed 
for profit or reward
Mr M has suggested Avivas decision to stop his claim is unfair  because  he is still 
incapacitated and unable to return to his usual occupation. I would like to make clear  that its 
not in dispute Mr M has suffered with his mental health, or that hes still finding it too difficult  
to work because of this. However, the reason Aviva stopped paying his claim was because  it 
discovered he had been involved in gainful  occupation since hed been in receipt of benefit.  
And this is at odds  with its terms, so Mr M is no longer eligible to claim under  its policy.  
Mr M has argued that he never intended to partake in a profitable business  venture and that 
he was simply  trying  to mitigate  his health issues by taking up a hobby, as recommended  by 
his family  and his mental health support group. I understand the point he is making, but Im 
not persuaded that is the case  here.  I say that because the particular circumstances  
surrounding this are very different to someone  simply trying  to keep themselves busy.
In 2016 Mr M took steps that formalised  his hobby into a business. What may have begun  as 
a hobby, selling items online, became much more formal when he registered this as a limited 
company with Companies House. As part of the business registration, Mr M described  his 
business interest as retail, further indicating this was more  than a simple hobby.  In addition, 
he set up a business bank account for purchasing stock and to receive  payments for his 
goods. 
I know Mr M has challenged Aviva  on the way its described his business using these terms 
because he feels they have a formal connotation more commonly  associated with business. 
But I do not think its unreasonable for Aviva to reach the conclusion  that this was a 
legitimate business  given  the information  available.   
Mr M failed  to disclose this to Aviva  which is why it decided to further investigate his claim. 
Mr M was given  the opportunity to explain his involvement in the business but became 
evasive and vague. He was unsure whether he was the director  of the business when asked 
by Aviva so I can understand why they wanted to make further  enquiries.  Aviva has shown 
that Mr M was the sole director  of that business  and that hed undertaken its day to day 
running, highlighting that hed even  submitted  a confirmation statement to Companies House 
in December 2017.
For the purposes of this complaint, Im satisfied Aviva has based  its decision to terminate Mr 
Ms claim on evidence  that he was running  a business online. By Mr Ms own admission  the 
business had turned over around £25,000  annually which I consider  to be a significant 
amount of money.  Further,  I consider  it to be enough money to have prompted  him to 
Ref: DRN99433753disclose this to Aviva when asked a clear question as part of an income  statement in March 
2018. But Mr M chose  not to, saying he did not think it mattered because  he had not made 
any profit  from the business.  
When presented with the findings of Avivas  investigation, Mr M initially explained he had 
intended to set up the business so he could reduce the benefit amount he was receiving, 
that is to say claim a partial benefit, less the revenue generated from his business.  This 
further suggests Mr M was aware  he should  have  shared this information with Aviva  and that 
he simply chose not to. It also persuades me that he was aware this was a legitimate 
business that he was trying  to earn money from. Mr M later retracted that statement and said 
this venture was solely for the purposes  of his recovery,  allowing him the chance to re-
equate himself with the familiarities of business,  but Im less persuaded by this given what  
Ive just explained. 
Its for these reasons, I think Aviva has fairly applied its terms to stop Mr Ms claim. Under  
the circumstances, Aviva  is entitled to pursue Mr M further to recover some of the benefit he 
received. But I note it has decided not to. 
Mr M has made other  arguments about Avivas  investigation and the tactics it employed to 
gain further information about him, in particular, he was subject  to two lengthy interviews and 
he didnt agree with the findings. I should say that Aviva, like all insurers, is entitled to 
validate a claim. Especially one that has gone on for as long as Mr Hs. To do this, insurers 
use a variety of different  methods,  including desktop  investigations and interviews with their 
customers. Theres nothing here thats given me any cause for concern about the way Aviva  
conducted its investigation. 
Mr H has suffered with depression and anxiety for a number of years,  for which hes taking  
medication. Theres no evidence to suggest  he would have been unfit for an interview about 
his claim,  nor that the interviewer  behaved in any way other than professionally.  I was not 
present at the time and so its difficult for me to know exactly  what  was said or how it was 
said. But from the evidence submitted  by Aviva, Im satisfied the questions asked were 
relevant and proportionate to the claim it was investigating. 
Theres also evidence that Mr M was offered the chance to have a break   which  I note he 
did. He was also accompanied by his wife and they regularly talked between  themselves to 
confirm their answers were correct.  I also note Mr M terminated the interview. All of which 
suggests Mr M was not treated unfairly  here either.  
my final decision
For the reasons,  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9943375