K822xcomplaint
Mr S and Miss Ws complaint  against  Santander  UK Plc (Santander) is that its treated them  
poorly, and made a number of mistakes, during a time when Mr S has been  ill. And that the 
impact of this on them  has been significant.
background 
In September  2018, Mr S informed  Santander  he had a serious illness. In response,  it said it 
would place a hold on his loan account. It also sent him an income and expenditure form, 
and asked for Mr S to complete it, as well as providing proof of illness.
Owing to Mr Ss type of illness,  he wrote  to Santander asking it to agree to allow his partner, 
Miss W, to speak  to it on his behalf. 
Santander said it never received the letter of authority, and when Mr S also noticed that 
charges were still coming out of his account, he raised this with it.
Santander investigated, and acknowledged it had in fact received the letter of authority and 
had made  a mistake. It also realised that the hold on Mr Ss loan account  wasnt  put in place 
until 16 October 2018. So, it reversed the charges incurred of £32 and issued £120 in trouble 
and upset.
Santander then made  attempts  to speak with Mr S by phone, to seek  medical  evidence.  It 
also sent him letters stating it needed  him to call back to discuss his accounts. As this was 
something Mr S had already told Santander  wasnt possible, he complained.
Santander reviewed  the information  on their system and acknowledged that this contact 
would have been upsetting, and said it was sorry it had distressed Mr S, but it was required 
to contact him as responsible lenders. It then paid a further £30 in trouble and upset  by way 
of an apology.
On 13 February 2019 Mr S contacted  Santander to ask why all his direct debits and standing
orders had been  cancelled. But Santander  wasnt able to provide him with an explanation.  It 
again apologised for the poor service  and paid a further £100 in trouble and upset.
On 14 March 2019 Mr S spoke to Santander  again  as he believed  hed been told that no 
interest would  be applied to his loan.  Santander then advised him there were no additional
charges or interest applied to the loan, and the only interest charges would be that of the 
initial agreement. Santander then paid another £100  in trouble and upset in 
acknowledgement its poor service.
As Mr S remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to our service.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and acknowledged that Santander  had made a number 
of mistakes. But he felt it had already  done  enough  to put things right with the £350 
compensation it had paid,  as well as the refund of some charges. 
He also noted  that Santander  had since made  an offer to pay a further £150 to Mr S to settle  
matters. He felt that cumulatively this was fair and sufficient, and he didnt think  it would be 
fair or proportionate to ask it to increase this further. 
Ref: DRN97504832So he recommended  a suggested settlement of £150  to Mr S and Miss W. But they didnt 
agree. They  felt that the series of errors  by Santander had a hugely detrimental impact  on 
them during  a very difficult  time,  and that the £500  compensation wasnt enough.
So they asked  for an ombudsmans  decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I first of all wish to say that Mr S and Miss W have  my genuine sympathy for 
what theyve been going through. I can well understand that at a time in their lives when 
things were already  very difficult, Santanders series of mistakes only made  matters  worse. I 
dont doubt the strength of feeling  Mr S and Miss W have  here,  and that they dont think  
theyve been fairly  compensated.  
My role is to reach a decision that I feel is fair to both parties. In doing so, Ive looked at 
what Santander did wrong, and how/if it tried to put things right. Ive also looked at the real 
life impact its poor service  had on Mr S and Miss W. 
I cant say that at any point Ive seen that Santander acted with malice  or recklessness. 
Theres no doubt that it made mistakes,  but on each occasion  I think it admitted so, and tried 
to then sort things out in a fair and timely way. This is reflected in their letters of apology  and 
the compensation and refunds paid. 
I know Mr S and Miss W feel that the distress theyve experienced is significant, and that the 
current offer of an additional  £150 simply isnt reflective of what theyve been through.  But I 
think its fair. 
I should explain that our service is an informal alternative to the courts.  Our awards  are 
generally modest, and less than a court would award. We dont  calculate  our awards 
forensically, but base  them on the evidence and what we feel is fair. I can confirm that 
cumulative compensation of £500  (which is what Mr S and Miss W will get it they accept 
Santanders current offer)  is within our significant range of compensation, and on a level with 
awards weve made in similar cases.
I know Miss W was in touch recently,  and wanted  us to know  that due to the cancelled  direct 
debits, she and Mr S were £1200 behind  in respect  of two months rent. But as this was a 
standing debt that would always require to be paid, I cant hold Santander  responsible for the 
rent itself.  And I believe  the compensation already offered covers the inconvenience factor.  
Overall, while  Im sorry to have read whats happened between  the parties,  Im satisfied that 
Santanders taken  responsibility for its mistakes; fixed things where it could; apologised 
when necessary; and already provided compensation of £350 plus some  refunded  charges. 
Its now offering a further £150 to resolve matters. I think this is fair, and I wont be asking it 
to increase it.
Ref: DRN97504833my final decision
My final decision is that I believe Santander UK Plcs current offer of settlement of £150, in 
addition to the £350 that its already paid, as well as refunding some charges, is fair and 
sufficient to resolve this complaint. So I wont be asking it to increase it. 
Its now for Mr S and Miss W to decide  whether to accept this offer. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9750483