K822xcomplaint
A, a limited  company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, delayed the opening of a business 
current account causing inconvenience  and business  disruption.
background 
A applied  for a bank account  online.  The director provided the information required to a 
branch. HSBC says that it had all the information  it needed by 18 April 2018.  The account 
was not opened until 4 June 2018. When it issued a final response to A it said that this was 
due to service issues from a high volume of applications. A referred its complaint to this 
service.
The investigator recommended  that the complaint be upheld  and A be paid £200  in 
compensation which HSBC had now offered to pay. He said that he didnt  think HSBC could 
fairly be held responsible  for any losses that resulted from the delay. This compensation was 
in line with our published  guidance.
A did not agree. The director emphasised that he was the sole director of A and so there 
was a greater  impact of him spending  time daily dealing with this. A was unable to register 
with relevant agencies to allow it to trade  and pay duty on imported goods.  It was unable to 
pay two suppliers on time and has lost the ability to order  from them again. Its shipment 
arrived on 27 April 2018 and it could not deal with this. It did not think  £200 was adequate  
and wanted £1,500 to reflect  the full impact, stress for the director  and wasted time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC fully accepts  that this account was not opened in line with its normal  timescales.  It 
says that it had received all details including about the source  of funds  from the shareholders 
by 18 April 2018. And that it was then in a position to process the application.
I note from public records that A was incorporated  on 9 March  2018. I am not clear when it 
started trading  or ordered the shipment it refers to arriving on 27 April 2018.  Im not 
persuaded that HSBC had given any commitment  that an account could be opened  in this 
time frame even if there hadnt been  service delays. Or that HSBC  could reasonably  have 
foreseen the impact and accepted responsibility  for the consequences. A has explained to 
this service the difficulties  but not evidenced  how this affected  it financially.
In the circumstances I think an award  of compensation for the inconvenience caused  to A is 
appropriate. I cant take into account any distress  caused to the director  personally in a 
complaint by A. But I recognise what he says about being the sole director  of A and being 
diverted from other activities.
The issue  is about  the amount of compensation and both parties have made their positions 
clear and provided their comments  about  this. Im using  my own judgement to decide what is 
appropriate and have taken into account our published guidelines. As a result Im going to be 
increasing the amount of compensation to £300. I appreciate that the director  of A will 
remain disappointed  by this. 
Ref: DRN96414062my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC  UK Bank  Plc to pay A 
£300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9641406