K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage Mr R holds with Mortgage Express. Hes 
unhappy with how Mortgage Express has dealt with an allegation from him that the property 
was over-valued in 2008.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 21 May 2020, which  is attached below and forms part 
of this final decision, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which  I was minded to determine 
this complaint, subject  to the further submissions of the parties. 
I gave the parties  until 21 June 2020  to reply.  Both have done so. Mortgage  Express  
accepted my provisional decision  whilst  Mr R, in an initial reply, expressed his considerable 
disappointment that I had left him with no recourse to a remedy. He said hed make further 
submissions by the due date; thats  now passed, with no further comment from Mr R.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of material  new argument 
or evidence,  Ive no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions. I will, for the sake  of 
completeness, address  a couple  of points from Mr Rs email  of 5 June 2020.
Mortgage Express duty to Mr R was as I described  it in the provisional decision. That was, 
to appoint a suitably qualified surveyor to carry out the valuation; no more and no less. As I 
made clear in the provisional decision,  Mortgage Express  has already done more  than it 
needed to by referring back  to the surveyor for a second opinion.  
For the avoidance of doubt, Mortgage  Express was never under any duty to refer the matter 
to the RICS; its error was to raise Mr Rs expectations unreasonably be saying  it would. If Mr 
R believes otherwise,  hes free to take legal  advice on the matter.
Its true that Im not qualified to investigate a valuation; but I was never asked  to do that. My 
role was to determine  the complaint against  Mortgage Express,  and that doesnt involve 
second-guessing the opinion of the surveyor who carried out the disputed valuation  in 2008.
Mr R denies having  taken a punt  on the value of his buy-to-let property 49P; he says he 
relied on the valuation that was carried out. If so, then Im afraid  Mr R misdirected himself in 
2008. The valuation  was not carried out for his benefit, and as has already been  established,  
a surveyor owes no duty of care to a buy to-let investor. In contrast, Mortgage Express could 
(and did) rely on the valuation.
Ref: DRN98100492my final decision
For the reasons  set out, above, I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  
this services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN98100493complaint
This complaint is about  a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage Mr R holds with Mortgage Express. Hes unhappy  
with how Mortgage  Express has dealt  with an allegation from him that the property was over-valued  in 
2008.
background
In 2017 Mr R complained  to Mortgage Express about  a valuation on his BTL property, which Ill call 
49P. He said the valuation, which had been carried  out by an independent  firm of surveyors (Ill call it 
C) in 2008 had been too high, and had resulted in Mortgage  Express  lending him money that wouldnt  
have been lent if the valuation had been  accurate. Mortgage Express  initially  rejected that complaint  
in a final response dated  9 November  2017,  but it did agree  to refer Mr Rs dissatisfaction on to C for 
comment. It did that April 2018. 
Mr R contacted us in June 2018; he was unhappy that Mortgage Express  wasnt doing  enough  to 
progress the referral  of his valuation complaint to C, and from there to the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors (RICS).  He was trying to sell 49P, but at a shortfall  because  its current  value 
was less than he owed on the mortgage, and he wanted Mortgage Express to let a sale go ahead 
without prejudicing  his redress claim for the money he believed hed been wrongly lent on the strength 
of the 2008 valuation.
The valuation  given by C in 2008 was £85,000,  and on the strength of that, Mortgage Express  agreed 
a further  advance  of £15,000.When C conducted its retrospective review of the valuation,  it conceded 
that 49P had been over-valued in 2008. It said that a more accurate valuation should have been 
£70,000.
The sale of 49P has since gone ahead (for around £62,000) and Mr R has been left owing Mortgage 
Express in the region  of £15,000  broadly  the same amount as the 2008 further advance. He thinks  
that should  be written off, but puts his overall loss over the period at around £30,000.
Mortgage Express revisited the complaint and issued a revised final response in September 2019. 
Briefly, it said that, having spoken to C, no duty of care was owed to a buy-to-let  investor by a valuer,  
and where  a valuation is carried out for the purposes of a further  advance on a property the investor  
already owns,  theres no remedy  for pure economic  loss. Mortgage Express  recognised some serious 
shortcomings in its own communication and customer service, for which it offered Mr R £300 
compensation.
Mr R says he cant pursue  a claim  against C directly, as there was no contract between them.  
Meanwhile, he believes  Mortgage  Express  had a duty to refer the issue to the RICS and had failed to 
do so, leaving him no recourse  to recover his loss.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The 2019 final response from Mortgage  Express is helpful  to the extent that it brought the case within 
our remit.  But it adds  little to the merits of the case as it appears to relay Cs position on the 
shortcomings in the 2008 valuation rather than Mortgage Express.  It confirms  what  Mr R seems to 
have established for himself already: that is, that he has no recourse against C for a remedy.  
But it doesnt  necessarily follow that because Mr R has no remedy against C, he must  have one 
against Mortgage Express instead.  I have to decide if Mortgage Express  made a mistake and/or 
treated Mr R unfairly in respect  of the lending decision it made in 2008  in reliance on Cs valuation.  I 
know this will come  as a severe blow to Mr R, but in my view, it didnt.
Ref: DRN98100494Mortgage Express duty to Mr R in 2008 was to appoint a suitably  qualified surveyor to carry out the 
valuation. Provided it did that, and I am satisfied it did, Mortgage Express  was entitled to rely on the 
surveyors opinion when assessing whether and on what terms to lend Mr R more money. In these 
circumstances, a lender  does not have any liability for any shortcomings on the part of the valuer.
Ive not  because I have  no power to do so  considered whether the surveyors initial opinion, or 
indeed the revised one, were accurate or not. All I can consider here is whether Mortgage 
Express met its duty to Mr R in 2008. For the reasons  I have set out, I am satisfied it did. 
I think  its worth bearing  in mind that Mr R already owned the property in question and presumably 
thought his investment asset was worth £85,000 in 2008  otherwise  its reasonable to invite the 
question of why he applied for the further advance. I dont mean this unkindly but it looks to me 
that Mr R took a risk with property investment and it didnt pay off. 
Thats been a bitter  pill for him to swallow;  of that Ive no doubt. But the sole test I have to apply is 
whether Mortgage Express acted wrongly in relying on Cs valuation  in 2008. For the reasons Ive 
set out, I cant  fairly  or reasonably find that it did.
Mr R argues that Mortgage Express had a duty to refer the dispute to the RICS. I dont agree; it didnt 
even have a duty to refer it to C. Mortgage Express could simply have rejected  the complaint  in 2017 
and taken no further action.  By referring  it to C for a review  of the valuation, it went beyond  what fair 
treatment requires of it. 
That said, saying it would refer the dispute to the RICS and then not doing so was unhelpful;  it raised 
Mr Rs expectations to an unrealistic level. For that, and for the poor service  it has already owned up 
to, Mr R is due compensation for his time, trouble and upset. In my view, Mortgage Express offer of 
£300 is about  right; if no offer had been made, I wouldnt have awarded  more.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties, is that I dont intend  to uphold 
this complaint or make any order or award  against Mortgage  Express. Thats because  I consider  the 
existing offer of £300 to be a fair settlement proposal.
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 21 June 2020, or sooner  if both parties  confirm 
theyve said and provided  everything they want in response  to this provisional decision. Neither party 
need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9810049