K820x#14complaint
Ms K originally  complained about  how U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  was processing her claim 
under her landlord  building insurance  policy. Ms K has also complained  that the policy  was 
subsequently avoided. 
background
Ms K contacted UKI in 2015 following an escape  of water from an upstairs bathroom to the 
kitchen below in a property she rents to a tenant.  Ms K started the process of claiming under 
her landlord  insurance  policy,  but then covered the cost of repairs  herself. Ms Ks tenant had 
complained to the local council and theyd issued a liability  order.
Ms K then contacted UKI in March 2018  to make a building insurance claim following an 
escape of water to the same part of the property. UKI arranged  for a loss adjuster  to visit the 
property in March  2018. The loss adjuster asked for additional documentation about the 
2015 escape of water and subsequent  repairs, in order to confirm that repairs  to the area 
Ms K was now claiming  for were  carried out in the way Ms K said they were. He also asked 
for a copy  of the tenancy agreement and estimates  to repair  the current  damage.  
Ms K was unhappy  about being  asked to provide some of this additional paperwork and 
complained to UKI. She also complained that the loss adjuster attempted to engage  her 
tenant in conversation without her being  present  and asked her tenant for their contact 
details while at the property. And she also felt a member of staff had been dismissive of her 
concerns when she raised them  by phone.  
UKI responded and didnt think Ms Ks complaint was justified. It said the member of staff 
she spoke to was not dismissive. It also said enquires and information  requested  by it and 
the loss adjusters were legitimate to its investigation. It said it was reasonable for the loss 
adjuster to request the tenants contact details, given that the tenants concerns about the 
property had prompted the liability order from the local council. UKI said it still required a 
copy of the tenancy  agreement, a copy of the liability order  from the council and contact 
details for the contractor  who carried out the repairs in 2015. It said it would consider Ms Ks 
claim when  she provided  that paperwork.  
Ms K was unhappy  with the response  from UKI and brought the complaint to us. Our 
investigator didnt  uphold Ms Ks complaint. He said it was reasonable for UKI to ask Ms K to 
provide invoices, the tenancy agreement and the council liability order so that it could verify 
the repairs previously  carried  out and to be sure Ms K had complied with the conditions  of 
her policy.   
Our investigator also said it was reasonable for loss adjusters  to speak to tenants, as the 
tenant is the person living in the property and might know  more  than the owner about 
damage to the property.  He noted that UKI were still considering the claim and would 
provide an outcome when the requested documents were  received.  
UKI informed Ms K in June 2018  that it had avoided her policy. She complained to UKI. 
UKI responded and said Ms K was sent a statement of fact when her policy  was due for 
renewal in 2016 and 2017.  And this statement  asked her to confirm  that: 
Ref: DRN93395582Neither you, or any director or partner of the business or its subsidiary companies either 
personally or in any business capacity: has been the subject of a county  court judgement 
and/or ever been  cited in any unsatisfied court judgements (or the Scottish equivalent) within  
the last 10 years.  If you need any help, clarification or you cannot agree with the Important 
Statements, please contact us.
UKI said Ms K had four unsatisfied county court judgements (CCJs)  recorded against  her 
business and she hadnt declared these. It said Ms Ks policy  had been auto renewed on the 
basis that she agreed with the policy assumptions. It said Ms K had a duty to check  the 
documents issued  at inception and each renewal of her policy.  
UKI said Ms K recklessly provided  it with information that was untrue or misleading  and if it 
had known about the CCJs, it wouldnt have  offered  cover at the 2017 renewal.  So UKI 
avoided the policy and treated it as if it never existed with effect from November 2017. As 
such, no claims would be considered  from that date. 
Ms K complained to this service and said the policy assumptions attached  to the renewal 
schedule arent  sufficiently clear. She also said the CCJs were against her business, which 
is a limited liability company that has nothing to do with her landlord insurance and so 
shouldnt be taken into account.
UKI consented to our service considering Ms Ks new complaint about the avoidance of her 
policy under  this original  complaint reference. Our investigator issued  a second assessment 
in relation to the policy being  avoided. He said UKI sent a renewal schedule to Ms Ks last 
known address prior to the renewal date in November 2017.  He said the wording of the 
policy assumptions was clear and specific. And he had seen evidence that Ms K was aware 
of at least two of the CCJs  at the 2017 renewal date. So he thought  Ms K should  have 
contacted UKI to inform it of the CCJs. Our investigator checked the guidelines used by UKI 
underwriters and was satisfied UKI wouldnt have offered cover  at any price  if it had known 
about the CCJs. 
Our investigator thought Ms Ks failure  to inform UKI about the CCJs was careless rather  
than reckless so he said UKI needs to return Ms Ks premiums in order  to put things right. 
Ms K was unhappy  with the outcome and so this case  has been passed  to me to review.  I 
issued a provisional decision on 29 August 2019. In it I said I intended to come to the same  
conclusion as the investigator, but for different reasons. I offered both parties the opportunity 
to respond. 
UKI responded and said it doesnt agree with my findings. It thinks it acted fairly when it 
retained Ms Ks premiums and doesnt  think her actions were  careless.  It said although Ms K 
didnt receive her policy documents, as she failed  to update her address, she was fully 
aware that cover was in place because she had paid the premiums. And by allowing a 
commercial policy to automatically renew, she was agreeing to its terms and assumptions 
and so is bound by these. Taking  into consideration Ms Ks occupation, UKI said it cant 
accept she wasnt aware of the importance of the contract she allowed to renew.  
Ms K also responded and said she does not agree with the provisional findings.  In relation to 
the CCJs, Ms K said she had no knowledge of these  because  she moved address. And 
when she found  out about some of them, she successfully applied  to have one set aside, 
although the court failed to record this. She also said she reached  an agreement  in relation 
to one of the CCJs and so this was also incorrectly recorded. Ms K reiterated that the CCJs 
Ref: DRN93395583did not relate to her letting business and so she doesnt think  the assumption in the renewal 
form should apply  to a limited  company  run by her. 
Ms K said she found it frustrating that there were expectations about her profession.  She 
also raised concerns  about the 2015  claim,  which she said is still outstanding and about  her 
difficult relationship  with her tenant. Ms K also said she doesnt think  an automatic renewal 
should suffice as a declaration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding Ms Ks 
complaint in part.   
When Ms K responded to the provisional decision, she said she wanted all points shed 
made in relation to her complaint to be addressed. She was concerned that if they were 
not individually addressed, then this means  they may have been overlooked.  But thats 
not the case. Ive taken note of all the arguments  and comments  made, but Ive limited 
my response to the issues I consider to be central  to this complaint. That is whether UKI 
was entitled to avoid Ms Ks policy from November 2017 and refuse her claim because  of 
this. Ive also looked at Ms Ks original complaint  about how UKI processed her claim 
following the escape of water in March 2018. 
In deciding the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint,  Ive considered  the 
Insurance Act 2015,  as I consider this to be the relevant  legislation in relation to UKIs 
decision to avoid Mrs Ks policy. This is because  Ms K had a non-consumer insurance policy 
with UKI. The Act came into effect in August  2016  and so covers the 2016 and 2017 
renewals of Ms Ks policies. 
The Insurance Act says that before a non-consumer  insurance  contract  is taken out, the 
insured has a duty of fair presentation. This means  the insured  needs to make  sure the 
insurer is aware of any material circumstance that the insured knows or ought to know.  
Examples of things  which may be material circumstances include anything an insurer  would 
generally understand as being something that should be dealt  with in a fair presentation of 
risks of the type in question. 
If this duty is breached  and the insurer would  not have entered  into the contract of insurance 
at all or would  have done so on different terms, this will then be what  is termed  a qualifying 
breach. What the insurer would have done and whether the breach  was careless or 
deliberate/reckless will determine what the insurer is entitled to do.   
UKI has said it avoided Ms Ks policy because she didnt let them know she had a number of 
unsatisfied CCJs in relation to a separate business  that she runs as a limited company. UKI 
says these CCJs should have been  disclosed to it when she renewed  her policy in 
November 2016  and 2017.  And I accept CCJs linked to an individual  or a company they are 
running or a director of is a material circumstance for an insurer providing landlord 
insurance. This is because it helps  it determine the risk its taking  on and the person or 
business it is being asked to insure.
So, I think the onus  was on Ms K to disclose the CCJs to UKI. Ms K said she wasnt aware  
of all of the CCJS. But she provided us with information that shows she knew about  and took 
action in relation  to two of the CCJs in mid-November 2017.  These  two CCJS were imposed 
Ref: DRN93395584in August and October 2017.  So Im satisfied that its more  likely than not Ms K knew  about 
these two CCJs when  the policy renewed  in November 2017. Ms Ks profession is relevant 
because it means she should have a greater familiarity with the law and legal 
responsibilities. And, if Ms K was unsure  whether  to disclose this information,  she shouldve  
contacted UKI to check. So I am satisfied that Ms K breached the duty of fair presentation by 
not telling  UKI about the CCJs. 
Ms K said that she shouldnt have to declare CCJs for her other business, as it is a limited 
company. She said the CCJs are not against  her personally and they dont  relate to her role 
as a landlord. In addition,  Ms K said the wording of the assumption she was required to 
agree to in the renewal paperwork was ambiguous. And it wasnt  clear that shes being  
asked to declare  CCJs for the limited  liability company. 
But Ms K didnt receive the renewal  documents or see the assumptions in them because she 
hadnt updated her address with UKI. So I dont think how these are worded is relevant here, 
as she didnt rely on them in any way. And, as Ive already explained, I think she should 
have realised UKI would  have wanted to know about the CCJs. And its clear it would have 
wanted to know  about them. 
The Insurance Act placed a duty on Ms K to make  a fair presentation to UKI. And while the 
renewal documents  might  have provided her with some guidance about what  might  
constitute a fair presentation, I dont think the fact she didnt receive  these lessened  her duty 
to do this. And neither do I think it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint for me to prevent UKI avoiding Ms Ks policy when she didnt receive renewal 
documents due to her own failure  to update  UKI with her new address. 
So, given the above, Im satisfied that Ms K failed  to make a fair presentation to UKI when 
she renewed her polices in 2016  and 2017. And Im also satisfied this failure was careless. I 
say this because  I think she knew or should have known that the CCJs against  the limited  
company she was running needed to be disclosed to UKI. But I dont think UKI has done 
enough to show  it was reckless, as its not provided  anything to show  Ms K knew she was 
breaching her duty or that she didnt care that she was doing so. 
I have seen the underwriting criteria provided  by UKI and Im satisfied  that it would not have 
provided Ms K with landlord insurance in 2017  if it had known  about  the CCJs. UKI said it 
would have provided cover in 2016, as only a single CCJ had been issued against the 
company Ms K was a director  of. So this means  her breach in 2016 wasnt  a qualifying  
breach. But Im satisfied  her breach in 2017  was. And this means Im satisfied the action 
taken by UKI in avoiding  her policy from the 2017 renewal date was in line with 2015  
Insurance Act.  
But the remedies  in the Insurance Act for a careless breach mean that UKI is obliged to 
return Ms Ks premiums  for the policy it avoided  from renewal in 2017. So I think it should  do 
this. It didnt do so, as it felt Ms Ks breach was reckless or deliberate,  but as Ive explained, I 
dont think its done enough to show this was the case. 
The fact UKI was entitled to avoid Ms Ks policy from renewal in 2017 means shes not 
entitled to claim for the escape of water that happened in 2018 because   in effect  her 
policy didnt exist at this time. But, for the sake of completeness, I will look at her initial  
complaint about  the actions of UKI when it initially processed her claim.
Ref: DRN93395585Ms K objected to being asked to provide additional documentation  following the visit by the 
loss adjuster in March  2018. UKI asked for information about the 2015 escape  of water,  a 
copy of the tenancy  agreement  and estimates for repairs to the current damage.  Im satisfied 
that all of these  are reasonable requests. UKI asked for information about the earlier escape 
of water so that it could  be certain that the escape  of water in 2018 and the escape of water  
in 2015 werent  related incidents.  I can see that Ms Ks policy contained stipulations about 
tenants, so Im satisfied  UKIs request to see the tenancy agreement  was reasonable. And 
estimates regarding  repairs to the damage caused in 2018 were necessary to properly 
process the claim. Given all of the above,  Im satisfied that UKI was not acting unreasonably 
when it asked Ms K for additional  documentation. 
Ms K also complained  that the loss adjustor spoke to her tenant without her being present 
and asked for the tenants contact details.  Ms K felt this was unprofessional. UKI said the 
loss adjustor did this because  it can sometimes be the case  that tenants  know  more than 
owners about damage to a property. While I appreciate that Ms K said she had a difficult  
relationship with her tenant and so wouldnt want her tenant speaking to the loss adjustor 
without her being present, I dont think it was unreasonable of the loss adjustor to want to 
speak to the tenant about the property and to request  the tenants contact details. 
Ms K also complained  that a UKI member  of staff had told her in April 2018 that she should 
approach her claim on the basis that she was not insured and should proceed with the work 
without expecting her insurance to cover it. She thought this comment  was dismissive and 
inconsiderate. I havent listened to the phone call and I dont think its necessary  to do so. I 
think its reasonable for an insurer to make the above comment if there are concerns about 
the claim.  And at that stage Ms K was reluctant to provide  the documentation  that UKI 
needed in order  to properly assess her claim. So I think that letting Ms K know  she should do 
the work  without expecting her insurance to cover it was a reasonable comment. 
To sum up, I realise the difficult position  that Ms K finds herself  in, namely  that her landlord  
insurance policy has been avoided. But Im satisfied  that UKI was entitled  to avoid her policy 
from renewal in 2017 on the basis  she made a qualifying breach of her obligations under the 
Consumer Insurance  Act which was careless. 
In addition, Im satisfied that UKI dealt fairly with Ms K in relation to the additional 
documentation it requested, in relation to the loss adjustor speaking to her tenant and in 
relation to the comment made by one of its employees.  
I make  no findings in relation to the claim made  by Ms K in 2015, but Ms K raised several  
concerns about  it to us and said the claim and payment are still outstanding.  But UKI has 
confirmed the claim  was withdrawn some  time ago. If Ms K wants to follow this up, she will 
need to make contact  with UKI directly.  If she is unhappy with the response she receives 
then she can complain  to us in the usual way. 
Ms K also told us that she doesnt think her policy  should have  been  automatically renewed. 
I make  no findings in relation to this but, having  listened to telephone conversations  Ms K 
had with our investigator, Im aware  Ms K didnt express dissatisfaction  about automatic 
renewals when she first contacted us. Again, this is a matter that she should  first of all 
complain to UKI about if she is unhappy with the policy being renewed in this way. 
Ref: DRN93395586my final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding  Ms Ks complaint in part. U K Insurance  Limited need 
to refund the premiums for the policy since it was avoided from renewal in 2017.  But I dont 
intend to interfere with its decision to avoid  the policy  and refuse Ms Ks claim under it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Martina Ryan  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9339558