K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that HSBC UK Bank Plc misled them  when they took out a personal 
loan. They say they were told they would be eligible to receive a lower interest rate in 6 
months time,  but that this hasnt been given to them. 
background
In February 2016  Mr and Mrs B took out a loan for £25,000 from HSBC.  The monthly 
repayments were £592.67,  based  on a 5 year term and an APR of 15.9%. Mr B says that 
HSBC told them to call back after 6 months and this APR rate would be lowered, as theyd 
be able to evidence  making regular payments on the loan. 
Mr and Mrs B contacted HSBC in October  2016  to ask them to review  the APR for their loan. 
HSBC said they could, but that Mr and Mrs B would  need to complete a new loan 
application. Mr and Mrs B were unhappy they hadnt been told this would be necessary 
before. But they went ahead  with the new loan application. If it had been  approved  the APR 
would have been 12.9%.  But the bank deemed  the loan unaffordable and didnt give it to 
them.
Mr and Mrs B complained to HSBC.  HSBC offered them £50 for the inconvenience  caused. 
But they said all applications have  to be assessed for affordability.  And they werent able to 
approve their second application. They also didnt think their advisor would have said that 
theyd be given a lower APR after six months.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service.  They dont think  its fair that HSBC 
wont reduce the payments on their loan by approving the lower APR.  They  say they were  
under the impression when they first took out the loan that this would happen without the 
need for any approval. And that they wouldnt have taken out the loan if they hadnt  been 
told the APR would be reduced. 
Our investigator didnt  think there was any evidence to suggest that HSBC  had done  
anything wrong. But Mr and Mrs B disagree so the case has been  passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete or not 
available, Im required to make my decision on balance i.e. what I think most likely happened  
given whats been  said and provided  in the circumstances of the complaint.
I know Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed,  but Im not able to ask HSBC  to approve a lower 
APR on their loan. And I dont think it would be fair to ask HSBC  to pay them  any more 
compensation than theyve  already  offered here. Ill explain  why.
I understand its frustrating for Mr and Mrs B that HSBC havent  approved  their application  
for a loan which would have  had lower repayments  than their existing one. But banks are 
required to carry out affordability checks before agreeing to loan money. 
Ref: DRN92687092Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances changed between their first and second  loan applications.  I 
can see that their financial  commitments  had increased, and Mrs Bs employment  status  
changed. So from HSBCs perspective, this was not simply  a case of considering  a decrease 
in their monthly loan repayment. Mr and Mrs B already had a loan with HSBC,  but that 
doesnt mean HSBC  would  have approved that loan at the time if their circumstances had 
been the same as they were when  they made the second application. And it doesnt mean 
that HSBC should automatically  accept their second application, even though  Mr and Mrs B 
werent asking to borrow new money.  
Mr and Mrs B feel they were misled  by HSBC when they took out their loan. They were 
under the impression that after 6 months they could  obtain a lower  APR without completing a 
new application. Theyve told us that they discussed  this on a second telephone call with 
HSBC before agreeing to take out the loan. Unfortunately HSBC havent  been able to locate 
a recording of this second call. So I have  to make my decision based on what I think, on 
balance, is most likely to have happened  here.
I can see that Mr and Mrs B called HSBC promptly after 6 months  so I dont doubt they 
were told that a reduced APR might be available at this point.  But I dont think it would have 
been guaranteed to them. I appreciate Mr and Mrs B didnt realise it would need any 
approval. But Ive already  explained why I wouldnt expect a bank to agree new terms on a 
loan without carrying out affordability  checks. And I dont  think its likely HSBC  would have  
intentionally misled  them about this, though it might not have been explained to them as 
clearly as it could have been. 
Mr and Mrs B have  told us that they have a friend who has also been told by HSBC  that they 
could receive a lower  APR after 6 months.  Im afraid  Im not able to ask HSBC for any further 
information about their dealings  with other  customers who arent party to this complaint. But 
as Ive said, I dont  doubt  this was discussed  here.
I can see HSBC have  offered Mr and Mrs B £50 for any inconvenience  caused by this 
misunderstanding. I know Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed by my decision, but Im not 
going to ask them to increase this offer. Whilst there has clearly been  a misunderstanding, 
on balance, I dont  think HSBC have acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
Mr and Mrs B are upset that this second loan application shows  on their credit file. I 
appreciate why. But they agreed to go through with the application prior to HSBC  processing 
it. So I cant ask HSBC  to amend  an accurate  record on their credit file.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9268709