K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs unhappy with how St Andrews Insurance Plc dealt with a claim he made on his 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I set out the circumstances  leading to this complaint, and my initial  findings on it, in my 
provisional decision of earlier  this month.  My decision included  the following:
In late 2017, Mr B left his then employer voluntarily. A few days later, Mr B left his second  
employer within a few hours of starting due to what he perceived at the time to be unsafe 
working conditions.
Mr B contacted the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) who soon wrote  back  to him to 
confirm it had ordered his former employer to make  several safety improvements.
Mr B made a claim with St Andrews for unemployment benefit  for the time he was out of 
work. It received his claim form on 23 January 2018. On 7 June 2018, following Mr Bs 
complaint to us and having investigated the claim, St Andrews wrote to Mr B to confirm it 
would pay it (and a second claim that had arisen in the meantime) together  with the sum of 
£200 as compensation for the way in which it had dealt  with him.
Unhappy with St Andrews offer, Mr B asked our adjudicator to consider recommending a 
higher award  of compensation. Although our adjudicator asked St Andrews to increase its 
offer to £850 it refused  to do so, arguing  its offer of £200 was fair.
As the adjudicator wasnt able to resolve the complaint informally, it was passed to me to 
review afresh.   
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided that St Andrews offers fair. Ill explain why.
When Mr B first contacted  this service his main  concern was in pursuing his claim for 
unemployment benefits with St Andrews. Since we became involved, the complaints 
developed, to the extent  that the payment of the claims no longer the main issue in dispute.  
The main  reason the complaints come to me is that the parties dont agree  on what  
compensation St Andrews should  pay Mr B for the non-financial  loss hes suffered  as a 
result of its handling of his first claim in particular.
That being  the case, I dont intend  to discuss in detail  the circumstances surrounding the 
claim itself,  other than to explain  the reasoning for my decision regarding the compensation 
due.
I recognise that Mr B was in a difficult situation.  Hed been out of work and was waiting for St 
Andrews to make a decision on a claim on a policy  that was in place to protect his mortgage 
payments should  he become unemployed. Mr Bs highlighted  the trouble he was put to in 
Ref: DRN97246312having to find alternative ways  of meeting his mortgage repayments in the meantime. On top 
of that, he says the already fragile  health of his family suffered as a result.    
While Ive taken all of that into account,  Im also aware that the circumstances of Mr Bs 
claim werent entirely straightforward. The policy terms require that he was out of work 
involuntarily. While that word wasnt defined in the contract, that would ordinarily  mean 
Mr B needed  to be out of work  other  than of his own free will. 
On the face of it, Mr B walked away from his second employer and so might  not be 
considered to have  been  out of work  involuntarily.  But a fairer take on the events would be 
that he was effectively forced out of that job  albeit after just a few hours  due to the 
workplace being  unsafe. So Im not persuaded that its reasonable to view St Andrews 
acceptance of the claim as being  outside of the policy terms, as it put it. I think its fairer to 
say the policy terms had been satisfied  in any event based on a reasonable interpretation  of 
them. 
Its also the case that St Andrews didnt receive all of the information  it needed  to pay the 
claim until around 23 February 2018. That information included, among  other things, 
evidence showing when  his employment with his first employer  ended. So there  was a delay 
in St Andrews paying the claim from that point of around three  and a half months. 
Ive thought about that together with the impact Mr B says St Andrews actions had on him. 
Ive also carefully considered our approach to awards for distress  and inconvenience 
suffered, whereby  an award for £850 would  only be made relatively infrequently and for 
losses considered  to be substantial.
Ive also taken into account Mr B having  become unemployed again at the end of March  
2018, and for around five weeks, during the three-and-a-half-month period in question. And 
the worry and inconvenience that period  of unemployment alone might  have  caused  him, 
notwithstanding the delay in St Andrews dealing with his existing  claim.    
While recognising the difficulty in attaching a monetary value to the trouble and upset Mr B  
or any consumer, for that matter  has experienced, and having taken all of the 
circumstances into account,  I believe St Andrews offer of £200 was fair. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  I intend to require  St Andrews Insurance  Plc to pay the offer its 
already put to Mr B regarding his claims, if it hasnt already done so. That includes 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc also paying  him £200, as per its offer,  as compensation for the 
upset its caused  him and the trouble hes been put to because of its handling  of his claims.
I asked both parties for any more comments or evidence  they wanted  me to consider before 
I reviewed the case again. 
Mr B said he didnt  agree with my provisional decision.  He said St Andrews  had the 
information it needed to pay the claim well before 23 February 2018, which is the date I 
referred to. He said, according to his recollections, St Andrews would have had what it 
needed by 10 January  2018. 
St Andrews  didnt have  anything  to add to my provisional decision. Regarding Mr Bs 
response  which we put to it for comment  St Andrews disputed that it had the necessary  
Ref: DRN97246313information by the date given by Mr B. Thats because it hadnt  received his claim form until 
23 January 2018.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings I made, or the outcome I 
reached, in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
I appreciate that Mr B doesnt  agree with me regarding the earliest point at which St 
Andrews could have  paid his claim. But I remain satisfied that this wasnt  before 23 
February 2018 as I can see that St Andrews needed to make  reasonable enquiries before 
then. 
I certainly dont agree  that St Andrews could have paid the claim on or around 10 January 
2018 as Mr B hadnt even contacted St Andrews about his claim until around  a week after 
that date. His completed claim form was dated  20 January 2018 and was received by St 
Andrews a few days after that.
So overall, I remain of the view that St Andrews delayed the claim as I set out in my 
previous decision  and that its offers  fair in the circumstances.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I require St Andrews  Insurance Plc to pay the offer its already  put to 
Mr B regarding his claims, if it hasnt  already  done so. That includes St Andrews Insurance 
Plc also paying him £200, as per its offer, as compensation for the upset its caused him and 
the trouble hes been put to because of its handling  of his claims.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9724631