K821x#15complaint
Ms H is unhappy UIA (Insurance) Limited  (UIA) has avoided her insurance policies, and 
declined to pay a claim she needed to make  under her home insurance policy.
background
Ms H has explained  that in August  2018  she needed to make  a claim under her home 
insurance policy  after there was an unexplained  fire in a tin outbuilding at her property.  The 
fire had damaged the outbuilding itself and a number of items stored within it.
UIA sent a third party  expert to visit Ms Hs property and inspect the damage. Following this, 
UIA told Ms H it wanted to appoint a forensic  specialist  to visit the property,  to review the 
likely cause of the fire. But, Ms H didnt feel this was reasonable. So, she didnt agree for a 
further visit to go ahead.  
Ms H explained she had told UIA she would need  to dispose of the debris caused by the fire 
 because this was a health and safety issue. So, when UIA wanted to send  a second expert 
to the property the debris had already been  disposed of. Given  this Ms H felt a further visit 
would be unnecessary. So, a further  visit to the property wasnt  completed.
UIA continued to consider Ms Hs claim.  After doing so, UIA told Ms H it was avoiding  her 
insurance policies.  It explained it would be avoiding the policy she initially  purchased in 
December 2016,  as well as the policy she purchased  in December 2017 when the policy  
renewed. 
It said this was because  it had become aware  that in December 2016  when  Ms H took out 
her first policy with UIA she had an unspent  criminal conviction. UIA said had it known about 
the criminal conviction  at this time; it wouldnt have been able to offer cover to her. And 
therefore the policy that renewed in December 2017 wouldnt have been in operation  either. 
UIA refunded the premiums Ms H had paid for these policies to her. And because it said 
there wouldnt have  been any policy in place  when Mrs H made  her claim in August 2018, it 
also noted it couldnt deal with her claim.
Ms H felt UIA had acted unreasonably. So, she referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and felt it should be upheld in part. She accepted  
that Ms H had an unspent criminal conviction at the time she first purchased  a policy  with 
UIA in December 2016, and that UIA would have been entitled to avoid this policy.  But, she 
said when Ms Hs policy renewed in December 2017  the conviction  was spent. So, she said 
Ms H wouldnt have  needed to disclose the conviction to UIA at renewal. 
Because of this, our investigator  said UIA should  reinstate Ms Hs policy  (for the policy  year 
December 2017- December 2018), and reconsider her claim, in light of the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy. She also said that if the claim was later accepted  by UIA, it 
could deduct the premiums  M H would owe for the policy, from any settlement.
Our investigator also considered whether UIA had acted  reasonably  in the way it initially 
progressed Ms Hs claim. And she thought  it had. She felt UIA had acted fairly and 
efficiently. So, she didnt  think  UIA needed  to do anything  more here.
Ref: DRN91393532Ms H agreed with our investigator that her policy running from 2017-2018 should be 
reinstated, and her claim reconsidered.  But she still felt UIA hadnt progressed  her claim in a 
reasonable manner.
UIA didnt  agree with our investigators opinion. It said if Ms H had provided it with the 
correct information  about her conviction  when she first took out the policy  in December 2016 
Ms H wouldnt have  had a policy with it at all, in order for it to renew. UIA also said it felt the 
conviction Ms H had received occurred relatively  near when she took her first insurance 
policy out with it  so it thought this would have  been fresh in Ms Hs mind when she was 
buying insurance.
UIA also said it couldnt be sure Ms H would have chosen it as the insurer  as new business 
in December 2017, when the conviction  was spent.  So it felt it was correct to void both 
policies  and therefore not deal with Ms Hs claim.
After reviewing the information received  from both parties I contacted Ms H and UIA. I 
explained I agreed UIA had acted fairly in its decision to avoid the initial  policy Ms H 
purchased in 2016. But, I said that when Ms Hs policy in December 2017 was renewed the 
criminal conviction was now spent.  So Ms H wouldnt  have needed  to disclose this to UIA. 
And given  there was no misrepresentation at this time, the policy  should  be reinstated and 
her claim reconsidered. I highlighted this would mean Ms H would need to return  the 
premium to UIA for that policy year, but this could be deducted from any claims settlement 
made, if there was one.
In terms of the concerns Ms H had raised about the handling of her claim  I felt from what  I 
had seen so far that UIA had acted fairly. I said UIA was entitled  to investigate and validate a 
claim. So, the fact it wanted to send out a further expert following its initial  visit was fair. 
Ms H responded to me and said she agreed  with my thoughts.  UIA responded to me 
disagreed. It said if Ms H had declared her criminal conviction when she applied  for 
insurance in 2016 she would have  approached  another insurance company. And then when 
it came  to purchasing a policy  in 2017 Ms H may have decided to renew her policy  with that 
particular insurer. UIA also felt it was a hypothetical assumption to say Ms H would have 
chosen UIA as her insurer,  over other providers in the market.
So, Ive considered these further points, alongside all other information provided to me, in 
order to come to my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint in part. Ive explained why below.
When considering  complaints  at this service I must consider the relevant laws and 
regulations  as well as what  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  In this case, UIA 
had avoided Ms Hs policy  back to 2016, when  the policy was first taken out. The relevant 
law I must  give regard  to is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations)  Act 
2012 (CIDRA). So, Ive considered Ms Hs complaint in line with this.
Ref: DRN91393533initial policy purchased December 2016  
Ive looked at the initial policy Ms H purchased, and whether UIA has acted fairly in avoiding  
this policy  year. UIA has said that when Ms H first took out her policy  in December 2016  she 
held an unspent conviction.  Ive thought  about  what both parties have said here. Im aware  
that when Ms H initially took out this policy, she did have an unspent  conviction.  The 
evidence suggests  the conviction  wasnt due to be spent until April 2017.
UIA has sent me a screen shot of the questions Ms H was asked when she first took out her 
policy. And, I can see she was clearly asked whether  she had any unspent criminal 
convictions. Because Ms H did have an unspent criminal conviction  the correct  answer  at the 
time would have been yes. But, Ms H answered No. So, Ms H did answer this question  
incorrectly.
Ive thought about whether Ms H took reasonable care when answering this question,  as 
CIDRA requires. And whilst I appreciate Ms H was unwell  at the time she took out the policy, 
I dont think UIA has acted unreasonably by saying reasonable care wasnt  taken here. Ms H 
had received the conviction in the same year the policy was taken out, so I think UIA has 
acted fairly  in noting this would have been something Ms H should have taken care to 
explain to UIA.
UIA has said that if it had known about the criminal  conviction at the time the policy was 
applied for, it would not have offered to cover Ms H. The law allows UIA to do what  it would 
have done, had the questions been  answered  correctly. So, it has avoided  this policy   and 
returned the premium  to her. UIA has provided firm evidence to show  that it would not have 
quoted for a policy had it known the accurate  information about Ms Hs conviction. So, Im 
satisfied its reasonable for it to avoid Ms Hs initial policy. So, I dont think  UIA needs  to 
reinstate this policy, or do anything more in respect  of this.
policy renewal in December 2017
UIA has also avoided  Ms Hs policy at renewal  in December 2017.  So, Ive considered  
whether this was fair. Having looked at the evidence  provided to me, Ms Hs criminal 
conviction was spent in early  2017.  So, Im satisfied  that when it came  to this policy, Ms H 
would not have needed to disclose the conviction  to UIA. 
Because the information Ms H provided  for this policy was correct  there  was no conviction  
to disclose, I wouldnt have expected  Ms H to do anything differently here. As no 
misrepresentation took place Im satisfied UIA isnt able to avoid the policy.  
UIA has said that because it wouldnt have accepted Ms Hs application for a policy in 
December 2016  there  wouldnt have been an insurance policy  to renew  in December 2017. 
It has also said that seeing as Ms H wouldnt  have  been insured with UIA in 2016 it doesnt 
know for sure that if Ms H had been  purchasing  a new policy in 2017 she would have chosen 
UIA to insure with. But, Im satisfied this doesnt  change the outcome of this complaint.  
Ms Hs policy  purchased in December  2017  is a separate  contract, and UIA would have 
agreed to insure  Ms H at this time. So, I dont think its fair to avoid the policy she did have 
with it for this period of time.
Ref: DRN91393534UIA has also explained that it wouldnt  have  offered Ms H a policy  in December 2017, 
because Ms H would have needed to let it know she had an application for insurance with it 
declined the year before. But, I dont agree. It seems to me UIA simply would not have 
appeared as an option  for Ms H to choose  online  in December 2016. It just wouldnt have 
provided a quote  to her. And Ms H wouldnt have  known UIA had chosen not to provide a 
quote. I therefore dont think she would have  needed to mention this when taking out a policy  
in December 2017. 
Given the above, Im requiring UIA to reinstate Ms Hs policy. As Ms Hs policy will be 
reinstated, UIA will need to continue to consider the claim she made, in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Ms H will need  to return the premium she initially paid for this policy year (which  UIA later 
refunded) to UIA. Or, if the claim results in a settlement, the premium  can be deducted  from 
any settlement.
claims handling
Ms H has raised concerns about  the handling of her claim. She explained she felt UIA had 
acted unreasonably by asking for another assessor  to attend her property  and consider the 
loss. I appreciate Ms Hs point that the debris at the property may have presented  a risk. But, 
UIA are entitled to investigate and validate  a claim.  So, I dont think it did anything wrong by 
asking for further  visits and information. So I wont be requiring UIA to do anything further 
here.
my final decision
Given the above, I uphold this complaint in part. I require UIA (Insurance) Limited to;
Reinstate Ms Hs policy, taken out in December 2017;
Reconsider Ms Hs claim,  under  the remaining terms and conditions of the policy;
Ms H will need to return  the premiums for the policy year December  2017  when the 
policy is reinstated, or if UIA does  settle Ms Hs claim, these can deducted from the 
claims settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9139353