K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains that repairs  carried  out to her car in 2015  in a claim on her 
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  motor insurance policy werent  completed  properly.
background
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties so I wont  repeat  them  in great 
detail again here. In summary Ms M made a claim on her Admiral policy in 2015. Her car 
was repaired.  But after she made  a claim to a different insurer in 2018 it said the previous  
repairs hadnt been competed properly leaving a number of issues  with her car. Based  on 
the independent assessors report Admiral declined to repair  the car and only provided Ms M 
with a hire car for about six weeks.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. In summary she said:
The independent assessor has confirmed that he was unable to directly link the 
current damage to poor or incomplete repairs  after the 2015 incident.  But he says it 
was possible.  The evidence from Ms M and her 2018 insurers  approved repairer is 
that the current damage is related  to the 2015  repairs.
On the available evidence its more likely that the damage was from poor or 
incomplete repairs in 2015, than not. Admiral also hasnt handled the claim well.
Ms M says she part exchanged the car in April 2019 and the invoice  shows  she 
received £14,500  for it. But it doesnt show she was paid a reduced  amount due to 
the damage. So, she cant ask Admiral to pay her anything for a loss of value 
resulting from any damage to the car. 
It is fair and reasonable for Admiral to pay Ms M £250 compensation for the 
inconvenience she has been  caused. And it should also pay her £10 a day for loss of 
use of her car for any period when she didnt have  her car or a hire car from when 
she told Admiral of the problem until she part exchanged her car. 
Ms M doesnt agree. She says in summary  that she had no option other than to sell her car 
at a loss to avoid  having  to wait six months to get it repaired. She also doesnt think  the 
proposed redress  is sufficient given the time and energy she has expended. 
Admiral also doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. In summary it says the 
car was properly repaired in 2015 and the damaged parts were replaced  with new ones. It 
cannot see how the 2018 issues can stem from the repairs in 2015. And it cannot say what  
has happened to the car between those two dates.  But it has suggested  the car has had 
another impact. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
Ref: DRN95974712I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Ive taken account of everything Admiral has said about the repair documentation and 
records in 2015  identifying replacement parts. But that doesnt necessarily mean or prove all 
the repairs were properly or adequately  completed. 
The simple  fact is also that the view of the independent assessor isnt conclusive.  Despite  
saying he couldnt  directly link the current damage  to poor or incomplete repairs  after the 
2015 incident; he also says it was possible.
Admiral has also suggested the car mayve had another impact but this is denied  by Ms M 
and theres nothing to show that was the case.
Taking everything into account  I dont think I can fairly or reasonably conclude on the 
available evidence that the repairs were  most  likely completed properly in 2015 or that the 
2018 issues werent the result of poor repair in 2015.
As a result, and taking into account  the levels of award and redress  we make,  I think  its fair 
for Admiral to pay Ms M £250  compensation for the distress and inconvenience  she has 
experienced. And it should also compensate her at the rate of £10 a day for the loss of use 
of her car for when she was otherwise without a hire vehicle,  between  advising it of this 
issue and part exchanging her car.
But as the investigator has said theres  nothing to show that the part exchange value Ms M 
obtained for her car was reduced to reflect the 2018 problems and as such I cannot fairly or 
reasonably require Admiral to compensate  her for any suggested loss of its trade in value.
Although I recognise  Ms Ms frustration and strength  of feeling I dont think I can reasonably  
award anything  more as she would like.
Overall, I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Admiral Insurance Company Limited should now 
pay Ms M £250 compensation and £10 a day for the loss of use of her car for when she was 
otherwise without a hire vehicle, between advising it of this issue  and part exchanging her 
car.
Admiral must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we tell it Ms M 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Ms M how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Ref: DRN95974713Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9597471