K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) have held him liable for a loan that
was taken out in his name  which he says wasnt  him.
background
I issued a provisional decision in June 2020 to explain  why I thought  Mr Ds complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to give me. This is
an extract  from that provisional decision:
Mr D says he initially realised a loan had been taken out in his name  on 16 June 2018 when 
a letter  was sent to his parents house. Mr D says he hadnt applied for a loan and so he 
called Barclays immediately to find out what had happened. Barclays told Mr D that the loan
application had been made from his mobile banking account and the funds had been paid 
into his current account and quickly withdrawn.
Below is a table timeline of events  including  the loan being  applied for and the transactions
that took place  thereafter. Ive also included any other activity that I feel is relevant to the
outcome of this complaint:
11/06/2018 11:33 APP on Mr D's phoneTransfer to known 
payee£0.10
13/06/2018  N/AAttempt to credit £4,300 
blocked by BarclaysN/A
Ive also detailed any successful Barclays Mobile Banking (BMB) log-ins made  on Mr Ds
account both prior to, and after, the loan was taken out:Date Time Device Type of transaction Amount
04/06/2018 07:09 Online ATM limit increase N/A
05/06/2018 09:44 ATM last Genuine cash withdrawal £100
05/06/2018 10:21 APP on Mr D's phone Transfer to savings £14.00
06/06/2018 12:32 APP on Mr D's phone Transfer to current account £14.00
07/06/2018 17:30 N/A PIN reminder requested N/A
08/06/2018 14:44 ATM Balance enquiry N/A
09/06/2018 00:41 ATM 3 balance enquiries N/A
09/06/2018 05:58 ATM 2 balance enquiries N/A
10/06/2018 14:22 ATM Balance enquiry N/A
10/06/2018 18:59 APP on unknown phone APP set up on unknown  phone N/A
11/06/2018 09:18 APP on Mr D's phone Account view N/A
11/06/2018 09:49APP on 
unknown phone Loan application £3,700
11/06/2018 09:57 APP on Mr D's phone Account view N/A
11/06/2018 09:59 Branch ASD Balance enquiry N/A
11/06/2018 09:59 Branch ASD Cash withdrawal £1,900
11/06/2018 10:01 Branch ASD Transfer £1,800
Ref: DRN93145802Date Number of successful BMB log-ins
01/06/2018 2
02/06/2018 1
03/06/2018 1
04/06/2018 6
05/06/2018 11
06/06/2018 12
07/06/2018 13
08/06/2018 13
09/06/2018 16
10/06/2018 5
11/06/2018 40
12/06/2018 29
13/06/2018 9
what Mr D says happened
Mr D says he didnt apply  for the loan himself. He says he wasnt  even aware that a loan had
been applied  for and paid into his current account  until he received the letter from Barclays  
on 16 June 2018.  Mr D says he last genuinely used  his debit card on 5 June 2018 when he 
went to an ATM to withdraw  some  cash.  He says he doesnt remember seeing  it again after
5 June 2018 and he believes a fraudster  mustve got hold of it and used it to apply for a loan 
in his name and then transferred/withdrawn the funds.
Mr D said he didnt carry out any of the balance enquiries that took place between the
8-10th June 2018 and he doesnt know how anyone else could have done them either.  He
hadnt told anyone  his PIN and so didnt understand how this couldve happened.  Mr D 
asked Barclays to view the CCTV footage  from the time the ASD withdrawal took place in 
branch to prove the transaction wasnt made by him  he says he was at work at the time. 
But instead, Barclays closed his account and refused to speak to him about the reasons 
why.
Mr D says he had direct debits that were  due to come out of his current account and 
Barclays actions meant  they could not be processed. When  he complained about this, Mr D 
said Barclays told him he could pay some money  into his account to clear  his direct debits. 
Acting on Barclays advice, Mr D transferred  several hundred pounds into the account,  but 
when he did so, Barclays moved the funds into a holding account  and asked  Mr D to prove 
where the funds  came  from and when. Mr D didnt feel he should have to prove to Barclays 
where his money  came  from and said he was entitled to use it as he pleased.
Mr D is also unhappy that some of the calls he had with Barclays during the course of his
complaint were charged at a premium  rate  which he could not afford. He is also unhappy
with the way Barclays has treated him whilst his complaint  has been on-going. He points out
that he has been a victim of fraud  and Barclays have  treated him like a criminal  closing 
his account and asking him to repay a loan he hadnt applied for or spent.
Mr D says he has suffered from mental illness in the past and this complaint  has caused lots 
of distress to both him and his family - whos well-being he is responsible  for.
Ref: DRN93145803What Barclays has said 
Barclays told us Mr D called to discuss the loan applied for from his account  on 
16 June 2018.  Barclays hasnt been  able to provide me with a recording of this call, but its 
told me that following this conversation,  Mr D raised a dispute about  the loan and the 
following transfer and withdrawal that was made  from the account  totalling £3,700. 
Barclays looked into the complaint and decided to hold Mr D liable to repay  the loan on 
26 June 2018.
Barclays said a BMB  APP had been  set up on a mobile device that didnt match the 
telephone number it held for Mr D on 10 June  2018 and a loan was taken out the next day 
using this device.  One withdrawal was then made on the account in branch using an 
Assisted Service Device (ASD) and then someone  transferred the rest of the funds out of the 
account. Barclays said Mr Ds PIN would have been needed to complete the ASD withdrawal 
in branch - alongside some additional information  about Mr D himself   such as his date of 
birth. Barclays didnt think a fraudster  wouldve  known Mr Ds date of birth.  And based on 
Mr Ds own testimony,  only Mr D knew his PIN. 
Barclays didnt think a fraudster could have stolen or found Mr Ds debit card and then 
guessed a randomly  generated  PIN at the first attempt   there were no incorrect  PIN 
attempts registered  on the account  from the date Mr D says his card went  missing. And if a 
fraudster had been able observe Mr D entering his PIN when he last used the card on 
5 June 2018, it didnt think they would have waited until 11 June 2018  to use it.
Barclays also pointed out that Mr D hadnt reported his card lost or stolen before he called to
discuss the loan  which it thought he wouldve done  had he not seen it for over a week  and
been unable  to find it.
In addition to the above,  Barclays  set out the process that someone would have to go 
through to set up BMB  on a new device  and this included entering a security  passcode that 
Mr D wouldve set up when he first registered for BMB. And Barclays said there was no 
reasonable explanation  as to how someone  other  than Mr D wouldve known this code in 
order to set up BMB on another device.
For these reasons, Barclays thought Mr D had either  taken out the loan himself or allowed
someone else to take out the loan on his behalf.  And because of this, Barclays  no longer
wanted a banking relationship with Mr D and closed his account. It also placed any of Mr Ds
funds held with Barclays into a holding account. Barclays  then informed Mr D that he would
continue to be held liable  for the loan repayments.
Unhappy with the response received by Barclays, Mr D bought his complaint to our service.
What our investigator said
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think  it should  be upheld. He said hed
reviewed all of the actions taken on the account  during  the period in question and he thought 
it was reasonable  for Barclays to hold Mr D liable to repay the loan.
Our investigator thought Mr D more than likely wouldve reported his card lost or stolen had 
he not been able to find it for a week. And he also pointed out that the frequency  of Mr Ds 
Ref: DRN93145804BMB log-ins  had increased significantly at the point the loan had been applied for  he had 
logged into his account 40 times  on the same day. He also said that Mr D had logged  into 
BMB after the loan had been paid into the account, and not yet withdrawn, but he hadnt 
mentioned to Barclays that his balance had increased by some  £3,700.  He also pointed  out 
that Mr D had logged  into his account a number of times after the money had left the 
account.
Our investigator felt Mr D wouldve most likely  noticed all of the activity  that had taken place 
on his account  at this point.  But he hadnt raised any concerns with Barclays  until 
16 June 2018  when he received the letter addressed to his parents house. Our investigator  
didnt think Mr D couldve used his BMB this much  and not noticed what  was going on.
Our investigator also highlighted that whoever made  the ASD withdrawal had access  to
Mr Ds card, PIN and most likely his date of birth.  And our investigator didnt think a fraudster
wouldve been party  to all of this information   Mr Ds date of birth was not stored on BMB. 
And there was no point  of compromise  for Mr Ds PIN. He agreed that had it been  observed 
by a fraudster on 5 June 2018,  the fraudster was unlikely  to have waited until 11 June 2018 
to use the card.
Mr D didnt agree with what our investigator said. He responded to say:
Just because hed delayed reporting  his card lost/stolen and he had looked at his
Barclays Mobile Banking APP lots of times  around the same time the loan was 
applied for, didnt mean he had applied for and spent the now disputed  loan
He was being treated like the guilty party despite  proving his innocence  Barclays 
had agreed the loan had been applied for from a device that didnt tally up with his.
As an agreement could not be reached, the case has been  passed to me for a decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not currently minded 
to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Ive carefully considered  Mr Ds testimony alongside the activity that took place on his 
current account before,  during, and after the loan was taken out. And Im satisfied that its 
more likely than not that Mr D was aware  a loan was being  applied for in his name and paid 
into his account,  and later, spent. 
Mr D has told us he last used his card on 5 June 2018 and he hadnt used, or seen it again,
when he spoke to Barclays about  the disputed loan on 16 June 2018.  But, generally, when
someone loses a card,  they quickly cancel the card to prevent unauthorised use. This also
allows them  to request a new card be sent out at the same time. This is often  a priority
because the account holder will want access to the funds they have in the account again  as
quickly as possible.  But at no point during this time did Mr D report his card lost or stolen -
despite not being able to find it and presumably not having access to the money  his account.
Ref: DRN93145805And I think this unusual, especially considering the frequency with which Mr D was logging 
into his mobile banking to review  the account  in question. Its also worth  noting that had Mr D
reported the card/lost stolen, it wouldve been cancelled, and whoever made the ASD
withdrawal wouldve been prevented  from doing so using this card.
Ive also carefully considered Mr Ds mobile  banking records from both before and after the
loan was paid into the account  and withdrawn. Up until 5 June 2018, Mr D generally checks  
his account via BMB less than 10 times a day. From 5 June 2018,  when  Mr D says he could 
no longer find his card, his usage  increases  significantly. And on the day the loan is applied  
for, Mr D logs into BMB a total of 40 times between 12.08am and 22.22pm   Mr D checked  
his account once every 15 minutes or so. At one point,  he logs in after the loan has been 
credited into his account. He also logs in after the ASD withdrawal and the transfer take 
place. He then logs in a further 29 times  the day afterwards. Im satisfied that it was Mr D 
who was actively looking at his account  as the logins were  made from his registered mobile 
device.
Mr D has told us he cant remember any particular reason why he wouldve been checking  
his account so much at the time. Hes said there wasnt a reason. But the increased activity  
is unusual for Mr D given how he normally manages his account,  and the frequency  is also
unusual  generally people dont check their current accounts every half an hour or so 
especially when theyre at work. And so, the evidence suggests  to me that Mr D was aware
that some  kind of activity  was due to take place on the account and he was looking out for it.
Furthermore, Mr D logs into his BMB  account both after the loan is paid into it and after the
funds have been withdrawn/transferred out. And I dont  think its plausible  that Mr D could 
have logged into BMB 69 times over a period of 24 hours and not noticed any of this activity  
on his account.  Had Mr Ds balance  increased by £3,700 and then decreased  again,  I think  
Mr D wouldve noticed. And had this activity been  unexpected, I think  Mr D wouldve 
contacted Barclays  to find out what was happening on his account - especially since  he 
could not find his debit card at the time. But Mr D doesnt contact Barclays at all until 
16 June 2018  when he receives a letter at his parents house.
Ive taken on board what Mr D has told us about  the loan being  applied for via a device that
wasnt connected to him, but this doesnt mean  that Mr D wasnt aware of the loan being
applied for and then spent. In fact, in order to set up BMB on another  device, a fraudster 
would need Mr Ds card, PIN and security passcode  a code that Mr D wouldve entered  
when he first set up BMB. And in order to withdraw funds from an ASD machine, any 
potential fraudster would need Mr Ds card, PIN and date of birth. And Im not persuaded 
that an opportunistic  fraudster who had simply come across  Mr Ds debit card would have  
been able to guess a randomly generated PIN first time  there were no incorrect  PIN 
attempts before the withdrawal. And Im also not persuaded  they would have been able to 
guess Mr Ds BMB security passcode or his date of birth. This suggests to me that whoever  
carried out all of these  actions on Mr Ds account knew  all of this information   either Mr D 
himself or someone this information  had been  shared with.
Ive thought about a scenario were Mr D may have  been over-looked entering  his PIN when 
he withdrew cash on 5 June 2018. But I think this is unlikely. Had this happened, Im not
persuaded a fraudster  wouldve waited  until 11 June 2018 to use the card given they had
unfettered access to the account  from 5 June 2018 onwards. Fraudsters will generally try to
utilise an account as quickly as possible so they can get the maximum benefit out of it before
Ref: DRN93145806the account holder becomes aware and cancels  the card. This scenario also wouldnt 
explain how a fraudster  was able to correctly enter Mr Ds date of birth into the ASD machine 
to allow  the withdrawal. 
And so, based on everything Ive seen so far, there is no plausible explanation  as to how an 
unknown third party wouldve been  able to access Mr Ds debit card,  PIN, his BMB passcode  
and his date of birth unless Mr D had shared  this information with them. It is impossible for 
someone to have simply guessed all of this information the first time. And so, at the moment, 
Im satisfied that Mr D either  entered  the information himself  or he shared his security 
information with someone else to allow the activity on his account  to take place.
In his submissions to our service, Mr D has said Barclays shouldve obtained CCTV footage
which wouldve shown he didnt carry out the ASD withdrawal  himself. But given my current
thinking, I dont  think this makes a difference to the outcome  of this complaint. Its possible
that CCTV might have identified that someone  other than Mr D made  the withdrawal. But
Mr D didnt have to make the withdrawals  personally in order  to be held liable for them  under
the relevant rules. He can still be held responsible for them if he authorised the use of his
card. So even if CCTV had been available, looking at all of the evidence  in this particular
case, I dont think  I could be as sure as I would need  to be to say that Mr D wasnt involved.
And so, having taken  into account all of the evidence,  Im currently persuaded that its more
likely than not that either Mr D carried out the activity himself  or shared his card and security
information to allow someone to else to carry out the activity on his behalf.  Either  way, Im 
persuaded that Mr D was aware of what was happening on his account. And because of this, 
I dont think Barclays has acted unreasonably  in holding him liable for the debt.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays didnt respond to my provisional decision with any further points.
Mr D did not agree with my provisional  decision.  He said:
He didnt have  any money in his account  at the time his debit card was missing, 
thats why he had no reason to report it lost/stolen
The phone used  to activate the mobile  banking APP and later used to apply for the 
loan was not his and therefore a loan from this device should not have been 
authorised without additional  checks being carried out  especially where  two 
devices were logged  into one account  simultaneously
the evidence  relied on in my provisional decision doesnt prove he is guilty,  my 
findings were based  on how likely certain scenarios were, which he believes is wrong
Barclays shouldve looked at the CCTV footage to prove it wasnt him who withdrew 
the cash and then passed the footage over to the police  this evidence should have 
made a difference to my findings 
my provisional decision ignored  the fact he had reported the matter to both the police 
and Action Fraud
He had made several calls to Barclays about the matter and was charged  a premium 
rate  proof  was sent to Barclays who confirmed the number was theirs, but the 
charges werent.  Mr D believes this is evidence  that his phone  had been 
compromised/cloned in order to get the details needed to take out the loan
Ref: DRN93145807Although deemed unlikely, it was possible that someone had over-looked his PIN and 
this should not have  been dismissed
Barclays cannot provide recordings of their discussions  with him which undermines 
their legitimacy
There is a possibility  that his card was cloned with a new PIN 
When the loan was taken out, he not did receive  a text/email/phone call from 
Barclays to prove  it was him who was taking out the loan  which  proves their 
security is sub-standard 
Barclays should have  looked into who owned  the phone number of the mobile device 
used to take out the loan
Ive thought carefully about the new points Mr D has raised but Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions  as I did in my provisional  decision. Ill address each point in turn and Ill 
explain why.
First, I should  explain  that the Financial  Ombudsman  Service is an informal  dispute 
resolution service. My role is to review all of the evidence I have available to me in order to 
reach a fair and reasonable outcome. And, crucially,  where there is a dispute about  what  
happened, and the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I have to reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence. It is not my role to prove whether someone is 
guilty or not guilty  this would be for a court of law.
Ive considered what Mr D has said about  not having  any funds in his account when his debit 
card was lost/stolen but I still think its unusual that he did not report it as such to prevent 
unauthorised use. And, so he had access to his funds when he next had some  available  
especially given that he appeared to be reviewing this account  so regularly at the time.
Ive also thought carefully about what Mr D has said about Barclays not doing additional 
checks before providing the loan  especially as the device used to apply for the loan was 
not his usual mobile device. But, as I said in my provisional decision,  the process that 
Barclays had in place  at the time required numerous  personalised security  details before  a 
BMB APP could be set up and a loan requested   which included a secure passcode  Mr D 
wouldve generated when he first set up mobile banking - that wouldve only been  known to 
him. All of this information  was provided to Barclays before the APP was set up and the loan 
applied for. 
Its also not unusual  for customers  to choose to have mobile banking APPs on more  than 
one registered  device. For example, they might  want an APP on their mobile  phone  and on 
their tablet. And so, its not unusual for a customer to have two separate APPs  running at the 
same time, and, given  that all of the relevant personal security information had been entered 
to allow  the setup of the second APP, I dont think it was unreasonable  for Barclays not to 
have been concerned by this. And I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably in allowing  
another BMB APP to be used. 
I acknowledge that Mr D reported the activity  on his account to Action Fraud and the Police. 
And I want to assure Mr D that I did take this into consideration  when I initially reviewed his 
complaint. But given all of the other evidence and information I have available to me, this 
isnt enough to persuade  me its more  likely  than not that he wasnt aware this loan was 
being taken out, and later, spent.  
Ref: DRN93145808Ive also explained  in my provisional decision why I dont think CCTV footage wouldve made  
a difference to the outcome of this complaint  either, and so I dont intend to comment  on that 
further again here  I dont think theres anything further I can say. But I would add that I also 
dont think it was necessary for Barclays to explore who owned the mobile  device used to 
apply for the loan.  This is because Mr D didnt have  to personally own the device,  set up the 
APP and apply for the loan, in order to be held liable  for the withdrawals  under  the relevant 
rules. He can still be held responsible for them if he authorised the use of his security 
information and card. So even if it could be proved that the mobile device used wasnt  his, 
this doesnt mean I could  say it was more likely than not he wasnt involved.  
Ive also thought carefully about what Mr D has said about his card being cloned but Im not 
persuaded this is what happened here.  Barclays technical information shows  me that the 
chip inside  Mr Ds genuine card was read in the ASD machine used to make the withdrawal 
in branch. And regardless, a cloned card would not give a fraudster access  to Mr Ds PIN. 
Ive also thought about what  Mr D has said about fraudsters potentially gaining  access to his 
mobile phone.  But again, I dont think this is likely, and regardless, it wouldnt explain how 
the fraudster would have also got access to his card and PIN to allow  the later withdrawals. 
I also dont think Barclays not being  able to provide  recordings of the calls that took place  
between it and Mr D is relevant to the outcome of this complaint. And as far as I am aware,  
there isnt anything that was discussed in these calls that is now in dispute. Both Mr D and 
Barclays agree that he called  on 16 June  2018 to raise a dispute about  the loan taken out on 
his account. 
And so, having taken  into account all of the evidence,  and the additional points raised by 
Mr D, Im still of the opinion that Barclays hasnt acted unreasonably in holding  him liable for 
the debt.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2020.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9314580