K822xcomplaint
Mrs K made a claim on her AXA Insurance UK Plc policy for earthquake damage.  She isnt
happy that AXA declined the claim.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this case as follows  
Mrs K made a claim  in 2018 for earthquake damage to her home,  an outside building  and 
an outside wall. AXA declined the claim,  they thought the inside damage was due to new
plaster shrinking,  and that the outside  damage  was wear and tear, none of this being
covered by the policy. Mrs K complained to us.
One of our adjudicators considered the matter,  but didnt find in Mrs Ks favour. They  thought
an independent expert should look at the issues before  the claim was considered further.
Mrs K declined this as she felt enough  evidence had already been gathered. The insurer
was prepared to consider  further reports,  but didnt accept a counter offer from Mrs K that
they pay half of the claim. The case has therefore been referred to me for an ombudsman
review.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what evidence I have at the moment I dont intend to uphold  the complaint.
Ive looked at the reports from both sides and I would be surprised if the damage on show
was solely  due to the reported earthquake. The internal cracking  seems  to be related to the
new plaster and I would perhaps have expected  other internal  damage if the earthquake was
that strong.  Both the out building and the wall appear to be in quite a poor state of repair,
and if it wasnt for this perhaps wouldnt have been  damaged in this way. Thats something
that isnt really covered by the policy.
I have taken note of the reports Mrs K provided  but one of these concerning the earthquake
from a retired expert  isnt very conclusive that the damage was caused  by the earthquake,
and it very particularly says items not strongly built might be damaged, which  does
somewhat include  the insurers  point of items  not in good repair. There is also another report
from August 2018 but I havent  unable  to trace the qualifications or specialism of the
business that produced that structural report.  It isnt clear if they have any particular
experience in this area.
So, based  on what I have  seen I am not currently minded to uphold  the complaint. However,
if either wishes to provide  more information  they should do so. Any further  reports  though
should include the full details of the provider and their experience.
Following my provisional decision both sides responded. 
AXA had no additional information to add, and thought their offer of having a further  expert 
comment was enough. Mrs K didnt agree with the provisional decision. She said 
She felt we hadnt given sufficient weight to the findings of the retired  expert. 
Ref: DRN99576942The plaster damage was not shrinkage, and other areas werent damaged  as they 
were plaster boarded  so unlikely to show damage. 
The wall was in good condition, although it was old and not built to modern 
specifications. This doesnt mean it isnt a valid claim. 
She offered  to get statements from neighbours re the condition of the wall. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that my view on this case hasnt changed  from the provisional decision.  I did 
consider the report  of the retired expert carefully,  but they very clearly state that this is not to 
say that the earthquake  was indisputably responsible. With the other evidence I still think  it 
is possible the condition  of the wall was a factor, and the policy doesnt cover wear  and tear, 
so Im not making  an award in this regard. 
I also note that the qualifications and / or specialisation  of the provider of the other  report still 
havent been put forward. So I cant really  take note of what that says.  
So, in conclusion I dont  think  I have enough  evidence that the earthquake alone  caused the 
damage in question. 
my final decision
I make  no award against AXA Insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9957694