K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint relates  to a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out with a 
credit card. Mr A is unhappy with the compensation Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds)  has offered to 
settle his complaint as he says it doesnt  include  all the costs caused by the PPI.
background
Mr A took out a credit card together  with a PPI policy  in January 2000 with Lloyds. He later 
complained the PPI was mis-sold. Lloyds has agreed to settle the complaint and pay Mr A. 
compensation.
Mr A isnt happy that the compensation paid by Lloyds refunds all the costs and financial 
loss he has suffered because of the PPI. Our adjudicator said Lloyds had offered fair 
compensation to settle the complaint and didnt  need to pay anything more.  
Mr A was still unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
As Lloyds  has agreed to uphold the complaint that the PPI was mis-sold Im not considering 
how the PPI came to be sold to Mr A. In this decision Im looking at if the amount of 
compensation Lloyds has worked out is fair and if it has included  all the costs caused 
directly by the PPI. 
Mr A took out the PPI with his credit card in January 2000. The PPI was cancelled and the 
last payment for PPI charged to the account  in October 2000. Mr A continued  to spend some 
amounts on the card until July 2001. He missed a number of payments and in October 2001 
the card account  was suspended.
When the credit card was suspended the balance owing  in total was £5,813.95. This figure 
included everything  Mr A had spent  on the card for his own purchases, the PPI costs  and all 
interest less the payments Mr A had made  to the account. 
Lloyds has undertaken a reconstruction of the account  to show  what the balance would have 
been when the account was closed both with and without PPI. This showed the PPI costs  
forming part of the end balance was a total of £310.15. As part of the compensation Lloyds 
has offered to refund this £310.15 plus some compensatory interest for the time Mr A may 
have been out of pocket  from when the account closed to the refund date. The amount  of 
compensatory interest  after tax is £356.11. So in total Lloyds has paid £666.26 as 
compensation to Mr A.
The approach taken by Lloyds is exactly what I would expect and I think the amount it has 
worked out for the costs  of the PPI included in the account and the compensatory interest is 
fair.
But Mr A says other costs  were  caused  by the PPI and these should be refunded. He 
indicates he tried to make a claim on the PPI policy  that was turned down and if that claim 
Ref: DRN96611062had been paid, he wouldnt have owed a debt to Lloyds on his credit card. So then Lloyds 
wouldnt have taken  court  action  against  him.
Mr A wants  Lloyds  to refund the debt he had to pay on his credit  card as he says this 
shouldve been  covered  by the PPI claim and he also wants all the court  costs refunding. In 
addition, he says there were problems  with the removal of the charge Lloyds obtained 
against his property through the court  action.   
Lloyds has indicated its records  do not show any claim  was made. Mr A has also been  
unable to produce any evidence to indicate  a claim was made and declined. As there is no 
evidence about  any claim then this cannot  be looked  at. I cannot be certain  a claim was 
made but as Lloyds  has accepted the policy wasnt suitable for Mr A and it was mis-sold, 
then its possible if a claim was made  it wasnt successful. 
But because the PPI was mis-sold, Lloyds is refunding Mr A all the costs he paid for the 
policy to try to put him as far as possible in the position he would have been in if he had 
never taken  out the PPI.
The costs  of the PPI in the balance of the credit card account was a very small amount 
compared to the cost of the spending  for Mr As own use. So I dont think  the PPI caused 
Mr A to go into debt on the account.  Even  if no PPI had ever been  added to his account he 
would still have owed  over £5,500 to Lloyds for his credit card account when he defaulted on 
the payments.  Therefore action  for this debt would still have been taken by Lloyds and the 
court costs  incurred.
I dont think that the PPI was the cause  of the debt or the court costs incurred when Lloyds 
wanted to recover  the debt Mr A owed. These would still have been incurred even if Mr A 
had never  had any PPI. So Im not telling Lloyds  to pay any more compensation other than 
the amount to refund the PPI costs  and the compensatory interest.  
I have also noted  Mr As concerns about the charge on his property not being removed when 
the debt was fully discharged. If Mr A has issues about this he needs to take it up separately 
as I cannot make any findings  or comment on directions made by the Court and his actions 
to seek removal of the charge.
Taking all these facts into account I think the total compensation for the costs of the PPI 
Mr A paid, plus the 8% simple interest  that Lloyds worked out was due to Mr A, is fair. And I 
dont think any more  compensation  is due for anything directly caused by the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I think Lloyds Bank  PLC has worked out fair compensation to 
pay back to Mr A all the costs that were caused by the mis-sold PPI. Its calculations  also 
include fair interest to compensate Mr A for being out of pocket. 
If the payment of the compensation hasnt yet been  received,  and if paid by cheque cashed, 
by Mr A then Lloyds Bank Plc will need to update  the compensatory  interest to the date of 
final settlement. But Im not directing  it to pay anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Ref: DRN96611063Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9661106