K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Yorkshire  Building Society (YBS)  mis-sold  them  regular 
premium mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) when they took out two 
mortgages in 1996 and 1999.
background
The circumstances leading to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, are set out in my 
provisional decision from January 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In that decision, I explained why I was minded to partially uphold this 
complaint and I invited  both parties  to let me have  any further  representations.
my findings
Mr and Mrs S representative confirmed that itd received and read the provisional decision 
but had no further information or evidence from Mr and Mrs S for me to consider. YBS 
confirmed it had received  the provisional decision and it asked for some additional 
information to clarify  its understanding  of Mr and Mrs S circumstances at the time of the 
sales.
This Service asked Mr and Mrs S for the details  that YBS requested and gave this additional 
information to the building society.  YBS confirmed it had taken account of this information 
and it had nothing  further to add. And it asked  for a final decision to be issued for this 
complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information to alter my opinion of this complaint, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional  findings.
Ref: DRN91830712my final decision
For the reasons  set out here and in my provisional decision, it is my final decision that the 
1996 MPPI and the 1999 MPPI policies werent mis-sold. But in the case  of the 1999 MPPI 
policy Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs S any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Ive also decided that the 2007 MPPI policy was mis-sold and the complaint about the sale of 
this policy  is upheld. Yorkshire Building  Society should:
Pay Mr and Mrs S the amount they paid each  month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8 % a year. 
If Mr and Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Yorkshire Building 
Society can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Yorkshire Building Society to take off tax from this 
interest. Yorkshire Building  Society  must give Mr and Mrs S a certificate  showing how much 
tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 May 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN91830713Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Yorkshire  Building Society (YBS)  mis-sold them regular premium 
mortgage payment protection  insurance  (MPPI) when they took out two mortgages in 1996 and 
1999.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with YBS in October 1996. The mortgage was for £67,000 to be 
rapid over 15 years. In February 1997 they purchased an MPPI policy. The policy covered Mr S only 
and it only provided unemployment  cover. The policy cost £17.73 each month and in the event of a 
successful claim  it wouldve paid a monthly benefit of £500 for up to 12 months.  The policy was 
cancelled when Mr and Mrs S redeemed  the mortgage in July 1999.
In July 1999  Mr and Mrs S took out a new mortgage. This mortgage was for £72,000 and had a term 
of 12 years. At the same time they purchased an MPPI policy that provided cover for Mr S only. This 
time, though,  the policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover.  The policy cost £22.70 
each month,  but was free for the first six months. And in the event  of a successful claim it wouldve 
provided a monthly  benefit of £550 for up to 12 months following a waiting period  of 60 days.
In February 2002 Mr and Mrs S took out further borrowing with YBS and the MPPI policy  was 
amended. The level of cover  was increased  to £800 so that the new monthly  benefit covered the 
increased loan repayments.
In December 2007 Mr and Mrs S took out another secured  loan and at the same time Mrs S took out 
a MPPI  policy.  This new policy covered  Mrs S only and it provided accident and sickness cover only.  
The policy cost £10.42 each month and it wouldve provided a monthly  benefit of £400  for up to 12 
months following  a successful claim.
In January 2011 Mr and Mrs S updated  their MPPI cover because  theyd paid off a proportion  of their 
mortgage debt. Mrs S policy was cancelled and Mr S amended his policy by reducing the monthly 
benefit to just £240. Then  in June 2013 they repaid their mortgage in full, the account  was redeemed 
and Mr S MPPI policy was cancelled.
Mr and Mrs S and their representatives say the policies  were  mis-sold because  they didnt need the 
cover.
YBS rejected this complaint. It says it gave Mr and Mrs S enough information about the MPPI sold in 
1997 and that they chose to take it out. And it says the MPPI associated  with the second mortgage 
wasnt mis-sold either.
Our adjudicator looked  at this complaint and said she thought one of the policies  had been mis-sold. 
She said she didnt think either the policies  taken out by Mr S had been mis-sold   these were  the 
ones purchased in 1997 and 1999.  But she said the policy  bought by Mrs S in December 2007 had 
been mis-sold because Mrs S had a pre-existing medical condition, and was off work sick at the time. 
And because  of this, she wouldnt have been able to make a successful claim on the policy.
YBS disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. It says it made the policy exclusions clear  to 
Mrs S because the exclusion was outlined in clear  and fair language  in the policy booklet.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ref: DRN91830714I hope that Mr and Mrs S and YBS wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in 
the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution  service, and Ive concentrated on what  
I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that.
Having considered  the evidence, Ive reached a similar conclusion to our adjudicator and for much the 
same reasons. But Im issuing  a provisional  decision because I want to explain  my current thinking in 
a bit more detail.
February 1997
This policy was taken  out nearly five months after Mr and Mrs S applied for the mortgage. Ive seen a 
copy of the mortgage application form completed in September 1996 and theres a section relating to 
MPPI. Theres nothing in the paperwork  that suggests customers  have to take MPPI  in fact, theres  
a note on their form that indicates  they already had cover elsewhere which is why they werent taking 
it at this time. So Im satisfied  that customers had a choice about  MPPI and at this time Mr and Mrs S 
chose not take it.
Ive also seen  a copy of the MPPI application form that was completed in February  1997 and signed 
by both Mr and Mrs S. The application shows that cover was requested for Mr S only and he chose 
only unemployment  cover   Mrs S didnt  think there was a likelihood of her losing her job as shed 
worked for the same  employer for many years. The level of benefit they required has also been 
selected - £500  along  with a 12 month claim  period. I think this shows that they thought carefully 
about the type of cover that would meet their needs.  And as both Mr and Mrs S signed the application 
form, this makes me think they were both aware that the policy was optional and that they chose to 
take it.
YBS says its 1997 MPPI sale was a non-advised  information only sale. And for non-advised  sales, 
YBS didnt have to make sure the policy was suitable, but it did need to give Mr and Mrs S enough 
information so they could make their own decision  about  whether to buy the policy.
I dont know what Mr and Mrs S were told about  the policy in 1997, so Ive carefully looked at the 
policy and considered Mr and Mrs S circumstances  to see whether  anything they shouldve been told 
mightve stopped them from buying the insurance. But I dont think  there is for the following reasons:
Mr S was eligible for the policy  that he bought. And the policy looks as though it was 
affordable at the time it was purchased.
Mr S wasnt affected by the main  things  not covered  in the policy  the exclusions. He told us 
he was employed  at the time of the sale and was in good health.
I dont know how the costs of the MPPI were presented to them  but its possible they 
couldve been clearer. But even if theyd been given  better  information, I dont think  they 
wouldve decided not to take it. This is because I think its likely they wouldve decided the 
MPPI provided  good cover at a cost that was acceptable  to them. And as the policy was a 
regular premium one, it could be cancelled  without penalty  whenever  Mr and Mrs S wanted  
if they decided  they no longer wanted the cover or could no longer afford  it.
So for the reasons  Ive given, I dont think this policy  was mis-sold.
July 1999
This policy was taken  out in conjunction with Mr and Mrs S new mortgage. The paperwork  was 
completed in May 1999,  and the mortgage started in July 1999. And although its nearly  20 years 
since the sale of this policy,  Ive had the benefit  of being able to look at copies of the paperwork from 
this time.
Ref: DRN91830715Im satisfied that the policy was optional; that Mr and Mrs S had a choice about purchasing it. I say 
this because the mortgage application form had a separate section headed Property and Mortgage 
Payment Insurance from the Yorkshire. And the section on MPPI said customers should tick the box 
if they were interested  in talking a policy  and then go on to complete a separate  application  form.  And 
I note that the box has been ticked before Mr and Mrs S checked and signed  the mortgage application 
form.
Ive also seen  the separate MPPI  application  form that was completed. And I can see that Mr and Mrs 
S made  a number of choices about the MPPI cover they wanted to purchase:
who to insure  Mr S
the monthly benefit required - £550
the level of cover   accident, sickness and unemployment
the benefit period   12 months
and the excess or wait time  60 days.
Mr S then signed the declarations as he was the person requiring the cover before he and Mrs S both 
signed the application form. I think this shows they gave some thought  to the cover they wanted 
before they chose to purchase it.
As with the 1997 sale, Ive gone on to consider Mr and Mrs S circumstances to see whether anything  
they shouldve been told about the policy mightve stopped  them from buying  the insurance. But I 
dont think there is for the same reasons:
Mr S was eligible for the policy  that he bought. And it looks as though it was affordable at the 
time it was purchased.
Mr S wasnt affected by the main  things  not covered  in the policy  the exclusions. He told us 
he was employed  at the time of the sale and was in good health.
I can see that the costs of the policy were laid out in the document Your Mortgage  Payment 
Insurance Illustration,  which confirmed the choices  theyd made and the cost of the policy 
along with the fact that it would be free for the first six months. And this information was 
confirmed again in the mortgage offer.
Ive also considered the amendments Mr S made to the policy over the following  years; he increased  
the level of benefit when they took out further loans; and he reduced it again when they repaid some 
of the outstanding mortgage debt. This policy  was cancelled  by Mr S when  the mortgage was 
redeemed in July 2013. I dont think YBS did anything wrong when it implemented the changes that 
Mr and Mrs S had asked of it.
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the 1997 MPPI sold to Mr and Mrs S. 
But YBS will pay back some of the cost of this policy because: 
When the policy was sold, YBS expected to get a high level of commission and profit share  (more 
than 50% of the MPPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about  that. Because  YBS 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered  to pay back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium  - and I think that offer is fair for this policy.
Ref: DRN91830716December 2007
In December 2007, Mr and Mrs S took out another secured loan and at the same  time purchased  a 
policy that covered Mrs S only. This MPPI policy provided  accident and sickness cover only. It cost 
£10.42 each  month  and it wouldve provided  a monthly  benefit of £400 for up to 12 months following a 
successful claim.
Mrs S told us that at the time of the sale she was off work  and had been for quite some time. So Im 
satisfied she had a pre-existing medical  condition , the details of which are known to all parties.
The policy document says we will not cover sickness claims which result  from a medical  condition 
and/or associated symptoms, whether diagnosed  or not which you know about when cover starts  or 
you have seen  a doctor about in the 12 months before taking out this policy
Mr and Mrs S say that the sale took place in a branch. I dont  know what  was discussed  during this 
meeting, but there  isnt sufficient evidence  for me to conclude that this very significant exclusion  was 
highlighted or discussed.  Because of this, I dont think it wouldve been clear to them  that Mrs S 
wouldve been  affected by specific policy exclusions regarding her pre-existing  medical condition. And 
the policy  booklet (sent out after the sale) only makes reference to the exclusions  half way through 
the brochure in relatively small print.  Theres no evidence to suggest this was highlighted in any way 
for Mr and Mrs S or drawn to their attention when  they decided to take the policy out.
Ive considered that it was Mr and Mrs Ss responsibility  to consider suitability; however,  it was still 
YBS responsibility  to ensure that the information was sufficiently clear  and that any limitations or 
exclusions that might  be significant to Mr and Mrs S were pointed out so that they could  make an 
informed choice.
I dont think this information was sufficiently drawn  to Mr and Mrs S attention  and if it had been, they 
would, more  likely than not, have refused the policy.  I say this because Mrs S had a medical condition  
and had been  off work for some time. I think Mrs S wouldve felt this to be the most  likely cause of her 
having time off work  in the future and yet the policy would not have covered her for this. I believe this 
wouldve mattered to her and that if better information had been provided, she wouldnt have thought  
the policy  was good value as the benefits would  have been severely limited for her.
In summary, I dont think that Mr and Mrs S wouldve purchased the 2007 MPPI policy, if they had 
been given sufficiently  clear  and fair information about  its exclusions.
I have noted all of YBS submissions but these  do not alter my conclusions. It follows  that I uphold this 
part of the complaint.
what the business should do to put things  right
July 1999 MPPI Policy   Mr S
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  than 50% 
of the MPPI  premium. 
December 2007 MPPI Policy   Mrs S
YBS should put Mr and Mrs S in the position  theyd  be in now if they hadnt taken  out the MPPI in 
2007 for Mrs S. YBS should:
Pay Mr and Mrs S the amount they paid each month for the MPPI.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
Ref: DRN91830717If Mr and Mrs S made a successful claim  under the 2007 MPPI policy, YBS can take off what 
they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.   
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires YBS to take off tax from this interest.  YBS must give Mr and 
Mrs S a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that the 1996 MPPI and the 1999 MPPI policies werent  mis-sold. But in the 
case of the 1999 MPPI policy  Yorkshire  Building Society does have to pay back to Mr  and Mrs S any 
commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
My provisional  decision  is that the 2007 MPPI policy was mis-sold and I think  the complaint about  it 
should be upheld.
I now invite  Mr and Mrs S and Yorkshire Building Society to give me further new information theyd  
like me to consider before  I make my final decision.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9183071