K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the way The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) handled his overdrawn 
current account.
background
Mr B had a current account with no overdraft. But in mid 2017 he went  overdrawn and for the 
next eight months,  his debt increased because  of service charges and interest. In late 2017  
Mr B complained to Co-op that he couldnt repay. Co-op  tried unsuccessfully to call Mr B and 
then wrote to him. They offered to refund  the service charges on the condition  Mr B paid off 
his overdraft within the next month. They told Mr B to contact them if he had any problems 
with this.
Mr B didnt make any payments. So, the interest  and service  charges resumed. Co-op  wrote  
to Mr B again asking  him to repay but he didnt.  Four months later Co-op defaulted the 
account. They again asked Mr B to repay  the balance, but he didnt. Months later,  Co-op 
decided not to pursue him for the debt. 
Mr B later noted his account was showing as settled  with one credit reference  agency 
(the agency/agencies)  but as an amount outstanding with others. Mr B sent Co-op several 
emails asking about this, some of which were to the complaints department.  In them  Mr B 
said hed complain if they didnt respond. Co-op then confirmed to Mr B the account was 
closed. Mr B wasnt happy with this response  and he complained  to us. In particular,  he said:
1.Co-op had refused to record his complaint. 
2.Co-op hadnt given  the agencies correct information, that his account should  show  as 
settled and shouldnt  be defaulted.
3.He wasnt given  enough time to pay off his debt,  considering his low income.
4.The charges on his account werent fair, Co-op should have waived all of the costs 
including his original  debt.
We shared his complaint with Co-op  and asked them to respond.  Co-op  told us theyd 
already investigated the charges on Mr Bs account  as part of a previous complaint. 
They said they had no record  of a complaint from Mr B about  the other issues,  just an 
enquiry about  whether his account was closed. 
Co-op investigated and told Mr B theyd sent the same information  to all the agencies. 
Co-op said his account had defaulted  and this couldnt be changed.  But they agreed to tell 
the agencies to show the debt as settled. Co-op  also said the account  charges were fair but 
noted theyd made a mistake when refunding them. They told Mr B he was incorrectly 
charged fees in the month after the service charge refund. They  upheld  this part of the 
complaint.
Mr B then asked us to look at his concerns. Mr B felt that if Co-op  had said they didnt want 
the debt, then it shouldnt be defaulted. He also complained about the refund mistake,  
suggesting that because of this Co-op  should  have written off his debt.  Our investigator 
found Co-op had acted  fairly and didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B remained unhappy. 
So, matters  have been passed  to me to decide.  
Ref: DRN94817082my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Co-op told us theyd already investigated  Mr Bs complaint about  the fairness of the charges 
on his account.  Because  of the issues this raises in terms  of my power to deal with that 
concern, Ive covered this in a separate decision and wont  be commenting further on it here.
I think the root of Mr Bs other complaints is the default on his account, so I looked at this 
first. A default happens when someone fails to meet their financial obligations. Mr Bs debt 
defaulted one year after he went into an unarranged  overdraft. During  that time Mr B never 
made a payment. The terms  of conditions of Mr Bs account stated that failure to repay  an 
unarranged overdraft was a breach of these conditions.  So, its clear Mr B didnt meet his 
financial obligations.
But Mr B told us he wasnt given  enough time to pay off his debt given his low income. 
Where a business is aware  a customer is struggling financially, I would expect them  to do 
what they can to help. There are no set rules on what is required, but Id expect them to try 
to understand  the difficulties so that they can work out what  a customer could afford  and 
what might  help their circumstances. I note that when Mr B reported  his financial problems, 
Co-op waived service charges, reducing  his debt. Im aware Co-op also tried to call Mr B to 
discuss his concerns and gave  him a number  to contact if there were any problems. 
So overall, Im satisfied Co-op  took reasonable steps to support  Mr B. They then gave him 
another four months before defaulting  the account.  This is clearly long enough for Mr B to 
make a payment  or to contact them if he was having difficulties. But Mr B didnt do either.  
Given this, Im satisfied Co-op  gave  Mr B enough time to repay his debt.
I did consider whether  Co-op should  have realised earlier that Mr B was having financial 
difficulties. And I noted there were eight months  when Mr B was making  no repayments. 
But even if Co-op  had got in contact with Mr B sooner, I cant say that this would have made 
any difference. Because Mr B still didnt make any repayments even when Co-op took steps 
to help. For the same reasons, I cant say any mistakes with the goodwill refund would have 
made any difference as Mr B never made any attempt to pay the debt, regardless of its size. 
Mr B felt that because  Co-op had made errors  with his refund, they should  have written off 
his debt. But I dont  think there was any mistake  with Co-ops refund  Ill explain why. 
In 2017 Co-op  agreed to refund the service charges. But they knew  Mr B would be charged 
the month theyd given  him to repay, and so they refunded him for an extra  month. So, whilst 
his statements show a charge that month, theyd  already accounted for it. In their most  
recent response to Mr B, Co-op have  mistakenly  suggested the refund was for interest  as 
well  their response letter shows it wasnt. So, Im satisfied Co-op didnt do anything 
wrong here.
For all of these reasons, I think it was fair that Co-op defaulted the account.  
Ive then considered  Mr Bs concerns  about the agencies. Co-op have told us that they gave 
all agencies  the same  information and that it was accurate. But Mr B thought Co-op gave out 
different information.  And I can understand why Mr B might think  this because its clear  one 
agency was showing  the account  status  differently. But each agency will interpret the 
information theyre given and then display it in their own way - so differences  in their reports 
arent uncommon. And whilst I recognise banks can make reporting errors, I think  its less 
Ref: DRN94817083likely that Co-op would make this mistake with one agency but not with the others.  So, on 
balance, I think the differences in the reports were down to interpretation by the agencies,  
not because Co-op  gave  them different information.
Mr B also wasnt  happy with what had been reported  to the agencies. Mr B felt that because 
Co-op have written the debt off, it wasnt fair to show the account as defaulted. But Co-op 
only decided  to stop pursuing  him for the money after the account  defaulted.  Whether a 
business pursues  defaulted debt doesnt  change  the fact a default happened.  Co-op also 
have a responsibility under legislation to report defaults accurately. So, I dont think  theyve 
done anything  wrong here either.  Mr B felt the account should show  as settled instead. 
And Im aware Co-op have now agreed  to tell the agencies to show the balance as settled in 
addition to the default. But defaulted debt, by its definition, isnt settled. So, I can see why 
this has caused  Mr B some confusion. For the reasons Ive already given, I cant  say Co-op 
should report the debt as settled - it wasnt paid off and it did default.
Finally, Ive thought  about whether Co-op  should  have  recorded Mr Bs complaint earlier. 
I reviewed the emails and Mr B was clearly unhappy. Mr B wanted to understand why his 
account wasnt showing as closed with the agencies.  Mr B doesnt  mention any of his other 
concerns. Mr B does  contact the complaints department, but his message says he will 
complain if they dont close his account.  Co-op  later confirmed  his account was closed.  So, I 
dont think its clear  from Mr Bs emails that he was making a complaint. And I dont think 
Co-op did anything  wrong  here.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Jade Cunningham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9481708