K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) and his instruction to cancel all 
direct debits from his account. He wants Barclays to pay him compensation for his distress 
and inconvenience.  
background
In late 2018 Mr C wanted to stop all of his direct debits. 
He says that he contacted Barclays in November 2018 and requested  that his direct  debits  
be cancelled. 
Barclays do not have  a record of that request, but have a record  of Mr C asking them to 
cancel all his direct debits  in mid December 2018.  
Following that request,  some of his direct debits continued to be requested  from his account 
for a short time. 
These payments  were returned  as unpaid immediately.
No charges were  applied  to Mr Cs account.  
Mr C complained to Barclays in early January 2019. 
Barclays sent him its final response letter in mid January  2019.  It did not uphold his 
complaint and confirmed that after it had received the instruction it cancelled all direct  debits. 
It explained that some continued to be requested because they would have been reinitiated  
up to 10 days before they were due, but that all payments had been  returned unpaid and Mr 
C had not had any charges applied to his account.  
Mr C was not happy with that response  and contacted us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and set out her view. This was that 
Barclays had acted  reasonably and she did not recommend it do anything  more. 
Mr C was not happy with that view and requested an ombudsman  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Mr C feels strongly  about  this matter, but I agree with the investigators view.  
I understand that Mr C says that he requested that his direct debits be cancelled  at an earlier  
point, but this is not evidenced in the telephone  calls that have been provided. 
There is also no record in the contact notes of Mr C asking for his direct  debits at an earlier 
point. 
Ref: DRN90594292On the basis of the evidence available, I think that Mr C requested that his direct debits be 
cancelled in mid December and this was actioned promptly on 19 December 2019.  
From that point onwards, some payments did continue to be taken but were  immediately 
returned as unpaid. Barclays has explained that the continued requests were  because some 
direct debits are prepared up to 10 working days in advance, so they had to return  them after 
they were claimed,  rather than stop them from being  claimed.  Barclays has not applied  any 
charges to the account. 
I think that, based on the evidence, this was reasonable and I would not ask Barclays to do 
anything more. I therefore do not uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint  and do not ask Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9059429