K822xcomplaint
Ms M is unhappy about the amount shes been  told is outstanding on her Southern  Pacific  
Mortgage Limited (SPML) secured loan.
background
Ms M took out a secured loan in December  2005. She borrowed around £12,000 over a 
ten-year term. Shes been in arrears for most  of the time shes had the loan, and its now 
over three years since  it should have been  repaid but theres still a significant balance  
outstanding.
SPML offered to reverse some fees that it charged  on the account, but otherwise said it 
hadnt done anything wrong.  Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ms M didnt 
agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Ms M wont take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
If I dont comment  on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because  I 
dont think I need  to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. This service  is 
impartial between,  and independent  from, consumers  and businesses. What this means  is 
that we dont represent either party, and we dont  facilitate  negotiations between them.
I appreciate Ms Ms concern that she still owes so much money  despite  the term having  
ended. The figures on the loan agreement are based on a person paying all the contractual  
monthly repayments in full and on time,  and no fees or charges being added. Clearly that 
didnt happen  here as Ms M has been in arrears for much of the time.  
As interest  is constantly  being charged  on the outstanding balance, this means its not as 
simple as making up the missed payment, theres also the extra interest  incurred for every  
day that payment  is overdue. This interest  roll-up can add up significantly as Ms M has 
found. Thats not to say SPML has charged  interest  on interest  its just a simple  fact that for 
each delayed payment extra interest  will be charged on the unpaid  capital for every day it is 
late. 
The original  loan agreement shows  Ms M was due to make  120 monthly  payments of just 
under £200  each. So if Ms M had made all her payments on time, and nothing  else changed, 
it should have  cost her just under  £24,000 over the ten-year term. When the loan term ended  
- even putting aside  the extra interest, fees and charges - Ms M still hadnt even paid all the 
monthly contractual payments  due. And as I said, on top of that is all the extra  interest 
accumulated because the payments  werent  made on time, as well as the fees and charges.
The loan has been in arrears over a prolonged period. This means much more interest has 
been charged than was anticipated when calculating the figures  for the original loan 
agreement. In summary, having very carefully  considered this matter,  Ive not been provided 
with anything that shows the balance  still owing is incorrect. Legal action was started, after 
fair warning, because  the loan term had ended and Ms M hadnt repaid the debt. Thats fair 
and what I would expect  to see.
Ref: DRN93748492We dont provide an auditing service  or carry out a forensic analysis of loan records. But Ive 
looked at the transaction history and theres  nothing on there  that appears unusual  or 
incorrect. Of course, its open to Ms M to instruct an independent qualified professional to 
audit her account. But that would have to be at her expense   though if errors  were found to 
her detriment, she could complain about  them  and her costs in discovering them could be 
taken into account  in putting  matters  right. But as things stand, Im not persuaded that SPML 
has mis-managed her account.
Ms M has asked why SPML is allowed to add interest and charges since  the loan term 
ended, but it wont allow her a payment arrangement and/or term extension.  Shes also said 
the debt should revert  back to the amount owed at the time the term ended as she says she 
queried it then, and SPML only called her once  in the next couple of years.
Quite simply,  all the time the debt is outstanding  the terms of the loan allow SPML to charge 
interest and add any fees and charges to the account. It would be quite wrong for the debt to 
freeze at the point  it should have been  repaid  as that would be penalising SPML for Ms Ms 
failure to repay the money she owes  on time. 
Ive considered Ms Ms argument that the debt should be rolled back  to December  2015  but 
Im not persuaded by it. Ms M says SPML only phoned her once and didnt write to her at all 
between January 2016 and January 2018 but her recollections arent supported by the 
contemporaneous collection  notes SPML has been able to provide. These show repeated 
attempts to contact  Ms M by different means but that Ms M refused to engage. It was only 
when legal action  was started that Ms M began to engage with SPML.
Ms M has asked how the debt has increased so much in a year. Thats  due to the addition  of 
interest and fees/charges as Ive explained  above, and because Ms M hasnt made  any 
payments. So the debt will be increasing month on month.
Ms M needs to take action urgently as her secured loan term ended over three years ago 
and SPML is taking  legal action to claim the money owned; it may help Ms M to take 
independent advice about the options open to her. Ms M needs to have an open and honest 
dialogue with SPML about how her situation is to be resolved as SPML is within its rights  to 
take action to take possession of her property  due to the loan term ending. Im not saying  
SPML should or shouldnt do so, but I need  to put Ms M on notice  that this is a possibility. 
SPML offered to refund some fees to the loan account and having  considered  everything 
that seems a fair offer.  I dont order SMPL to do anything further.
Ref: DRN93748493my final decision
I uphold this complaint,  but only insofar as I consider  the offer made  by Southern  Pacific  
Mortgage Limited is fair. I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of the complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9374849