K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Furness  Building Society  mis-sold  him a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr S bought the policy in 2006  around  the same  time as taking out a mortgage. He applied 
for the mortgage  in branch and then was sold the PPI shortly  afterwards over the phone.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr S for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £323.99 a month toward  Mr Ss mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £11.09  a month  (increasing to 
£12.31 a month after an initial six month free period). 
At the time,  Mr S was employed as an engineer. He has told us he was entitled to six 
months full sick pay and would have received redundancy  pay. Mr S has mentioned having 
a medical condition at the time of the sale. 
Mr S has also said that he had no other means,  such as savings, of meeting his mortgage 
repayments.
Furness BS has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage  account started  in 2006 and 
ended in 2008.
Mr Ss representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ss representative says:
Furness BS failed  to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr S wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ss representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Furness  BS should 
have told Mr S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Furness  BS should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr S and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and 
Ref: DRN94075292The information Mr S received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ss. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
Ref: DRN94075293GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Furness BS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Furness  BS was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr Ss complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Furness BS gave  advice, whether it advised Mr S with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs 
and circumstances.  
Ref: DRN94075294-Whether Furness BS gave Mr S sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr S, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr S suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr S and 
Furness BS, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr S know he had a choice?
Furness BS had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
The mortgage application form asked Mr S to consider his insurance arrangements. There is 
a section for PPI in which the adviser has written Will quote and further down  the form it 
says that another member of staff will contact him. So it seems clear  at this point that Mr S 
expressed interest in the PPI but that he hadnt  bought it. 
Furness BS has provided  the written  record of the subsequent  phone  call with Mr S which 
includes the phone script that the adviser  would have used, together  with Mr Ss responses. 
Mr S was asked if the PPI was something that he would be interested in, to which  he 
responded yes.  Mr S was then sent a PPI application form to fill in and return
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Ms S knew  the policy  was optional and 
he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Furness  BS provide advice?
Furness BS says it didnt  provide  advice during this sale. Mr S hasnt commented on this 
aspect of the sale. Looking at what happened when Furness BS sold Mr S the PPI, Im not 
persuaded that it provided advice. Evidence from both the mortgage interview and the phone  
call do not show that Furness BS recommended the policy  to Mr S.
This means  Furness BS didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr S. Instead, it had 
to give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  Mr S to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied Mr S was given  a broad description  of what  the policy was intended to cover 
(that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr S was unable to work through  
accident, sickness or unemployment), that it would  pay out for up to 12 months per claim 
and of the approximate costs. Ive reached  this conclusion because  Furness BS has 
provided a written record of the call it had with Mr S which  included  the script  that the advisor 
would have followed at the time. And I think its unlikely Mr S would have taken out the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
Ref: DRN94075295But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Mr S gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr S agreed to 
take out the policy. 
So I dont  think Furness BS gave  Mr S sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing his attention  and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ss representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr S. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ss representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr S about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ss representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr S has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Furness BS ought  to have done either.  
what effect did Furness BSs shortcomings have on Mr S? To what extent did Mr S 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Furness  BS didnt do all it should  have  done when it sold this policy to Mr S. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr S suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr S would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Furness BS done things properly. 
Mr S says he would  not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr S had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
Ref: DRN94075296As Ive found above, Mr S chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr S thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr S has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not Mr S knew he would have  to pay something  for the 
policy  because he was told hed be given a quote  - it doesnt  appear Furness  BS told him 
the exact premium  at the point he applied  for the policy. Having said that, Mr S was told the 
cost before the policy started (because  he was sent a quote letter  following the phone  call) 
and he paid for the policy for a couple  of years, so if the costs were significantly at odd with 
his expectations  at the point of sale, its possible he might have raised that with Furness  BS 
at the time, or reconsidered  his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr S would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the phone call in which he agreed to the policy.
And I think its unlikely Mr Ss expectations  about what the policy would pay in the event of a 
claim (an amount sufficient  to meet his mortgage payment) were significantly different to 
what the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr S thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Ms S had seen or 
arranged to see a doctor  about  in the 12 month  period before the start date and 
which re-occurred within 24 months of the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr S 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr S be unable  to 
do his own job, or any other  job which his experience, education or training 
reasonable qualified him to do.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr S pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr S from taking out the policy. 
The evidence about Mr Ss circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Mr S originally said he had a medical  condition  when 
the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt  have  provided cover  had he needed time off 
work because of this condition, I dont think better  information about this exclusion would 
have put him off agreeing  to it. I say this because Mr S said that he broke his jaw in 1970.  
But he hasnt said that it wasnt  successfully treated or that it caused him ongoing difficulty. 
And more  recently  Mr S said that he didnt  have any pre-existing  medical  conditions  at the 
Ref: DRN94075297time of the sale. So I doubt Mr S would have  thought  that his broken jaw in 1970 might be a 
reason hed need to make  a claim on the policy.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he would have been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr S might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr S 
from taking out the policy,  Mr S, in his circumstances,  still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr S had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any job which in the insurers view he might  reasonably become qualified for, it might  have 
played into his thinking about  what he would have done. And I accept it may have given him 
pause for thought  although its possible  he may not have been overly concerned given that 
if Mr S was unable (through disability)  to carry on his own occupation the chances that he 
would be able to take up a similar  occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr S would still have thought a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  he be unable to work in the circumstances covered by the 
policy. 12 months was a longer period than Mr S would have received full sick pay for. The 
policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could help reduce his outgoings at a difficult 
and uncertain time and ensure his home  was not placed at risk and might potentially  help 
preserve Mr Ss sick pay or redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr S would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently  close  to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences if he was made redundant, or unable to work through  the accident or 
disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr S would have  taken 
out the policy in any event  notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ss representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr S wouldnt  have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN94075298Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr S 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. Im not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr S in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not he would still have taken  out the 
PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading  information  about the policy  he was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to 
conclude Furness BS should pay Mr S compensation, as that would put him in a better  
position than he would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr S thinks Furness BS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Furness BSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion  the reason why 
Furness BS failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Furness  BS gave Mr S, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2006 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ss representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Furness BS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr S and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Furness BS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr S in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2020.
Carole Clark
Ref: DRN94075299ombudsman
Ref: DRN9407529