K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain Scottish  Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon)  unfairly  declined  the claim 
they made under the critical illness  part of their life assurance policy. To keep things simple 
my decision  will refer mostly to Mr W. 
background
In January 2015 Mr and Mrs W took out a decreasing term assurance policy which  provided 
them with life and critical illness  cover (CIC).  The original sum assured was £164,000  and 
would be paid if Mr or Mrs W passed  away, or were  diagnosed with one of the critical 
illnesses specified  by the policy and lived beyond the survival  period.
In August  2015  Mr W was referred to a hospital neurosurgery  department.  The referral said 
Thank you for agreeing to see [Mr W], a [age] year old man with multilevel disc prolapses, 
cervical stenosis and myelopathy  at the level of T8. Mr W was offered surgery  his 
neurosurgeon wrote  to his doctor on 25 November 2015 and said I reviewed his MRI scan  
which shows widespread  cervical spondylosis and an extremely  tight cervical canal at C4/5.  
I have offered him surgery,  a C4/5 and C5/6 anterior cervical discectomy and fusion. 
Mr W had that surgery  in December 2015 and was periodically reviewed by the 
neurosurgeon afterwards.  Mr W had a follow up MRI scan  and the neurosurgeon wrote to 
him about this in August  2017, saying I have had a look at your follow  up MRI scan,  which 
looks satisfactory. There is no pressure on the spinal  cord,  but there  is quite a lot of spinal 
cord damage, which I think would  account for your ongoing symptoms.  There  is nothing  
surgical I can do to help you with this I'm afraid.  It is just a matter of adapting to your 
symptoms.
In October  2017, Mr W was admitted to hospital  for eighteen days  for rehabilitation 
treatment. His admission  report  lists his primary diagnosis as Cervical  spondylosis and 
canal narrowing C4/5 May 2010 and gives his additional  diagnoses  as 77/9 disc prolapse 
onto anterior cord; L4/5 left sided disc prolapse impinging on the nerve root; Incomplete 
tetraplegia; Cervical discectomy
Mr Ws neurosurgeon discharged him from follow up in December 2017. In the discharge 
letter sent to Mr Ws doctor,  the neurosurgeon  said [Mr W] does have some myelomalacia  
and some high signal in the cord, so the persistent symptoms that he has today are 
unfortunately, in some  part, going  to be permanent. He can cope with them. He seems very 
stoical. He is happy to do so knowing that things are safe inside, which they certainly are. In 
light of the above, I have  discharged him from follow up and wish him all the best for the 
future.
In April 2018, Mr W submitted a claim to Scottish  Equitable under the CIC part of his policy. 
Mr W gave the condition  he was claiming for as Multiple System  Atrophy  (MSA). MSA is a 
rare nervous system  disorder in which nerve cells in several parts of the brain deteriorate 
over time. So Scottish Equitable wrote  to Mr Ws neurosurgeon on 4 May 2018 for 
confirmation of Mr Ws MSA diagnosis and the supporting medical  evidence.  
Scottish Equitable  was given two letters from Mr Ws neurosurgeon. The letter  dated 
14 May 2018 said I think you are eligible under the multiple system  atrophy section of your 
policy. I enclose a copy letter  from 23 November 2015 which  gives clear documentation  of 
the onset of your symptoms And the letter dated 3 July 2018 said This  gentleman  has 
Ref: DRN94438792multiple system atrophy with both motor and sensory permanent  impairment.  He has had 
surgery to try and help, but unfortunately his symptoms remain and are not expected to 
improve.
Scottish Equitable  declined Mr Ws claim because its Chief Medical Officer (CMO)  a 
consultant neurologist  thought there  was no evidence to support an MSA diagnosis.  The 
CMO instead thought  the evidence showed Mr W had cervical  myelopathy secondary to 
degenerative cervical canal stenosis.  
Mr W didnt think  this was fair so he complained to Scottish Equitable. It reconsidered  his 
claim but told Mr W he hadnt met the policy definition of MSA  as the only mention of MSA 
was in the neurosurgeons letters of 14 May 2018  and 3 July 2018.  It said a neurologist 
would usually diagnose MSA,  rather than a neurosurgeon and that it was entitled to ask for 
medical evidence  in support of his claim. 
Mr W brought his complaint to our service.  He said it wasnt fair for someone who hadnt 
seen him to decide he doesnt have MSA. And he provided a further letter from his 
neurosurgeon, which said that in Mr Ws case it was more appropriate for a neurosurgeon  to 
make a diagnosis  and there was no need for Mr W to seek  a similar  diagnosis  from a 
neurologist. Our investigator asked Scottish  Equitable to comment  on this, and it said its 
position hadnt changed. It said MSA needed to be diagnosed by a neurologist  but it would 
review Mr Ws claim if his neurosurgeon provided  evidence to support the MSA diagnosis.
Mr W said there was no specific tests  to diagnose  MSA and a diagnosis was usually based 
on symptoms. But after looking into things, our investigator ultimately thought  Scottish 
Equitable had declined the claim fairly,  as it hadnt  just declined the claim because the 
diagnosis was from a neurosurgeon rather than a neurologist, but also because  it had 
reviewed Mr Ws medical history evidence and sought the opinion  of its CMO.
Mr W provided our service with physiotherapy reports from October 2018 and
November 2018,  and asked for this complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So its come 
to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I realise this will be very disappointing to Mr W, but Ill explain my reasons.
In order for Mr Ws MSA claim to be payable  under  his policy,  he would have to meet the 
policy definition. That definition says:
Multiple system atrophy - resulting in permanent symptoms
Definition: The definite diagnosis of multiple  system  atrophy confirmed by a 
Consultant Neurologist.  There must  be permanent clinical  impairment of either:
 motor function with associated rigidity  of movement
 the ability to coordinate  muscle movement
 bladder control  and postural hypotension
So the first thing Mr W has to have is a definite  diagnosis of MSA.  But theres a difference of 
opinion about  this  Mr Ws neurosurgeon says he has MSA  but Scottish Equitables CMO  
Ref: DRN94438793says theres no evidence to support that diagnosis. Its not my role here to make a diagnosis,  
but instead to decide  whether  or not Scottish  Equitable declined Mr Ws claim fairly. In 
thinking about this, Ive considered Mr Ws medical history.   
I acknowledge that Mr Ws neurosurgeon is the specialist whos  seen and treated him. And 
his neurosurgeon  has pointed out that Mr Ws medical history charts the onset of his 
symptoms. But Ive seen  nothing in that medical  history to suggest the neurosurgeon thought 
Mr W had, or might  have, MSA before  they first mentioned it in their letter  dated 
14 May 2018.  
Instead, the evidence Ive seen shows that after seeing Mr W for the first time in November 
2015, his neurosurgeon thought he had widespread cervical spondylosis and an extremely 
tight cervical canal at C4/5 and a couple  of months  later performed surgery  on Mr W for that 
in the form of a C4/5 and C5/6 anterior cervical discectomy and fusion.  
When Mr W was admitted  to hospital for rehabilitation in October 2017, MSA  wasnt  listed  as 
one of the things hed been diagnosed with. And when the neurosurgeon discharged Mr W 
from their further review two months  later, they said [Mr W] does  have some  myelomalacia 
and some high signal in the cord so the persistent symptoms that he has today are 
unfortunately, in some  part, going  to be permanent. He can cope with them. He seems very 
stoical. He is happy to do so knowing that things are safe inside, which they certainly are.
In light of the above, I have discharged him from follow  up and wish him all the best for the 
future. From this, Im satisfied there  was no suggestion at this time that Mr W had MSA or 
that it was something  his neurosurgeon suspected he might have. 
It may be that Mr Ws symptoms are the same as some of those symptoms  seen with MSA. 
But MSA is a condition in which nerve cells in parts of the brain deteriorate over time. So if it 
was suspected Mr W might have MSA, then its reasonable to think  he would have been 
referred for further investigations  or reviewed again  by his neurosurgeon.  But Ive seen 
nothing to suggest this was the case. 
So from the evidence  Ive seen, theres  no suggestion of MSA in Mr Ws medical records 
prior to the neurosurgeons letters of 14 May 2018  and 3 July 2018. And the physiotherapy 
reports from late 2018 also make  no mention of MSA either as a definite diagnosis or a 
possible concern.
Scottish Equitable  has asked to see the evidence  on which the neurosurgeon  is relying, 
which is something Im satisfied the terms and conditions of the policy  entitle it to do. The 
neurosurgeon said that Mr Ws medical  records chart his symptoms and a neurosurgeon can 
make a diagnosis. But as Ive said, theres  nothing in Mr Ws medical  records to suggest  he 
had, or might have,  MSA. So I dont think its unreasonable of Scottish Equitable to conclude 
Mr W doesnt have a definite diagnosis of MSA. Therefore, I dont think it acted unfairly in 
declining his claim on that basis. 
As well as saying there must be a definite  diagnosis of MSA,  the policy definition also says 
this diagnosis should be made  by a consultant neurologist. Mr Ws neurosurgeon  has argued  
that they can in fact make such a diagnosis. But in any case, Scottish Equitable has said that 
if its given copies of the objective test results that led Mr Ws neurosurgeon  to diagnose 
MSA, it will reconsider Mr Ws claim.  I think thats  fair.
Ref: DRN94438794my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9443879