K822xcomplaint
Mrs K complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited (MBFS) mishandled 
her request  to extend the Personal Contract  Plan (PCP) she had taken out for a car.
background 
In August  2015  Mrs K entered into a three year PCP for a new car with MBFS. 
In February 2018  MBFS contacted Mrs K to say that the agreement would be ending within 
the next few months and set out the options  open to her. These  were:
Pay the final payment of £18,775 and keep the car
Return the car
Extend the agreement.
Mrs K says that she had always wanted to keep the car for longer  than the three years and 
had paid what she considered to be a sizeable deposit. She had taken  care of the car and 
the mileage was far lower than the maximum permitted under the agreement.
Mrs K says that from June  to August 2018  she attempted to make contact with MBFS to ask 
for the costs of extending the agreement for 12, 24 and 36 months. She says she tried to 
make contact via email, letter and phone calls.  She says that her calls werent answered and 
she would  find herself in a long line of waiting callers which resulted in her having to end the 
call.
In the end Mrs K says she was forced into making the decision to hand the car back due to 
the lack of any contact  with MBFS. And in August 2018 Mrs K contacted this service  for 
assistance in contacting  MBFS.  We were able to put in her in touch with MBFS and 
arrangements were made for the car to be handed  back.
Mrs K complained that shed had to return the car against her wishes  due to the poor service 
provided by MBFS. She said she believed  this was due to her being female and MBFS not 
wanting her to keep  the car. Mrs K said she thought MBFS had breached its contract  with 
her. 
During our investigators enquiries into Mrs Ks complaint MBFS said it didnt accept that it 
had ignored all of Mrs Ks attempts at contact as it had responded to a request for an 
extension quote.  It said Mrs K had made contact in July 2018 asking for a quote that had 
been provided in the post and followed  up by a general text message asking if she was 
agreeing to the extension.  However, MBFS said it accepted there had been breakdown in 
communication and offered £50 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Our investigator said he thought this offer was fair. He said MBFS had sent out an illustration 
for extending the contract but this had never been  received  by Mrs K. Our investigator said 
he couldnt say this was due to the fault of MBFS.
Our investigator also said that MBFS had responded to an email from Mrs K in July 2018 
asking for further  security  information as she had used an unregistered  email  address to 
make contact. He said he accepted Mrs K hadnt  been able to arrange further quotes to 
extend the contract but that she had been able to speak to MBFS in August 2018 and so 
Ref: DRN93303072would have had an opportunity to make enquiries  then.  However,  by this time, he said she 
had decided to return the car.
Our investigator said that although there were some instances of breakdown of 
communication there wasnt conclusive evidence that MBFS had been at fault.
Mrs K disagreed with our investigators  view.  She said the first time she had seen the 
illustration for the extension of the agreement  was when this service  had provided her with a 
copy. And that she had supplied details of her attempts to make contact with MBFS.
Mrs K said that she had paid a large  deposit  as she had wanted  to keep the car beyond the 
three years. She said she felt it would  be reasonable for MBFS to reimburse her the deposit 
as it hadnt kept to the terms and conditions of the agreement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the PCP agreement Mrs K had agreed to pay 36 monthly  payments of around £200. 
At the end of that period she could choose  to pay the remaining balance  which  was set as 
£19,000 and then own the car. Alternatively, Mrs K could choose to return the car with 
nothing further  to pay, or extend  the agreement. However the PCP agreement itself doesnt 
set out the terms  for an extension. This option  was contained in the letter  sent to Mrs K in 
February 2018 informing her that the agreement was coming to an end.
Ive seen that Mrs K sent email enquiries in July 2018 asking for quotes for three  extension  
periods namely  12, 24 and 36 months. Mrs K didnt receive a response from MBFS though I 
have seen that an illustration was sent out by MBFS for a 12 month extension in July. 
According to MBFSs contact notes this illustration was sent in response to a call Mrs K 
made in early July 2018.
I cant say why this Illustration wasnt received  by Mrs K but Im satisfied that MBFS 
prepared and sent it by post in July 2018 at her request. I also cant  say that sending this 
quote by post was unreasonable. MBFS wouldnt  have been aware that it hadnt been 
received.
Mrs K asked for three different quotes for three  different extension periods. However, MBFS 
says it would only ever have offered a 12 month extension and it wouldnt have provided 
illustrations for the 24 and 36 month  extensions as these wouldnt have been available to 
Mrs K.
Mrs K originally said that she was happy to extend  the agreement  as shed found the 
payments affordable and enjoyed having the car. However, the cost of the 12 month  
extension was double  the monthly  amount she had been paying  under the original PCP.  Mrs 
K, having  had the opportunity of seeing  that quote,  says that she would probably have opted 
to purchase the car but this option wasnt given to her. So as this extension  period would 
have been the only one open to Mrs K it appears unlikely that she would have extended the 
agreement.
MBFS has accepted  there  was a breakdown in communication at some  points between it 
and Mrs K. I accept Mrs K emailed, wrote and tried to call MBFS. Ive seen that Mrs K says 
Ref: DRN93303073she tried to call MBFS around seven times and although she cant provide corroborating 
evidence of those  calls I have no reason  to think she didnt attempt  to make contact by 
phone. Mrs K says that due to long waiting times  when on the phone these calls werent 
answered by an agent.
Mrs K says that she wasnt given the option of buying the car. However looking at the copies 
of the emails and letters  provided by Mrs K I cant see that she has requested any 
information about purchasing the car. She only raised enquiries about extending the 
agreement.
While its agreed there  were some  breakdowns  in communication between  MBFS and Mrs 
K,  Ive also seen that she was able to speak  with MBFS in August  2018  which  was around 
three weeks before the agreement was due to end. 
Mrs K has said she was forced to return the car against her wishes and wasnt  given an 
opportunity to extend the agreement or purchase it. But Im afraid I disagree. While I 
appreciate the lack of contact would have  been frustrating and may have led to some loss of 
confidence in MBFS Ive also seen Mrs K had enjoyed the car and said she was keen to 
keep it. She appears  to have been  more  than satisfied with the car itself. So I think it would 
be reasonable to have  expected Mrs K to have asked about  her options with MBFS when  
she spoke with it in August.  There was still time at that point to explore her options 
particularly as she says she was anxious  not to lose the car.
So I cant reasonably  say that MBFS  hasnt given Mrs K the option to purchase the car. She 
hadnt raised this before  in her emails or letters and also didnt raise it when she spoke with 
MBFS in August 2018. It appears by the time Mrs K spoke with MBFS in August she had 
made up her mind to return the car and that was her choice to make.
For the reasons  given  above Im partially  upholding Mrs Ks complaint as I think there was a 
breakdown in communication at some  points between MBFS and Mrs K. However I dont 
think that it would be proportionate to ask MBFS to reimburse Mrs K her deposit. She had 
full use of the car and the deposit was used to reduce the monthly payments she made  
under the agreement. As set out above I also think there would have  been  an opportunity to 
purchase the car had she wanted to in August 2018.
I dont have any evidence  that Mrs K was treated differently by MBFS because she was a 
woman or that MBFS wanted to have the car returned and so blocked her request to 
extend/purchase the car.   
Looking at the evidence in this complaint  I think  that MBFSs offer of £50 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  is fair and reasonable in these circumstances and so 
Im asking it to make  that payment to Mrs K.
my final decision
As set out above Im partially upholding Mrs Ks complaint. Im asking Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services UK Limited  to pay Mrs K £50 compensation for the inconvenience and 
distressed caused  by the breakdown in communication in some  areas.
Ref: DRN93303074Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9330307