K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that the vehicle he acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
Blue Motor  Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory quality. He wants  to end the agreement and 
reject the vehicle.
background
Mr S tells us he obtained the vehicle from a dealer Ill call R. He says R is located  over 200 
miles from where he lives. Mr S states he collected the vehicle on 26 January 2019 and 
drove home. He says that when he later restarted the vehicle the Engine Management Light 
(EML) was on. Because he also wasnt happy  with the sound  the vehicle was making  he 
took it in for an inspection  to a local MOT garage  Ill call M - where  he said a check 
revealed several fault codes - including a reference  (M55) to the inlet port shut-off motor. 
The EML was still on and the vehicle failed  a pre-MOT  type test. Mr S says he complained to 
BMF and it advised he contact R. Following  this call he said he arranged  to return  the 
vehicle to R. 
Mr S says he returned the vehicle to R on 11 February and collected it the next day. He said 
he wasnt advised what, if any, repairs had been  carried out. Over the next few days Mr S 
says he made a few short  journeys but on 15 February he says he noticed a burning  smell. 
And immediately afterwards there was an engine fire which  had to be extinguished by the 
local fire brigade. Mr S states that on 20 February he notified  R of his intention  to reject  the 
vehicle. He says he subsequently had the vehicle examined by P, a company, and says this 
showed that the electrical fire on the vehicle was instigated  by a fault with the inlet port shut-
off motor.
BMF told us it had arranged for the vehicle to be independently inspected  by S, a company. 
It said that the report compiled by S had concluded  that the cause of the fire had probably 
been an electrical short within the inlet port shut off valve. And the report had found that as 
the vehicle had passed an MOT test at the time of supply it was fit for purpose  and the fault 
had developed after supply. It suggested that Mr S should make a claim to the insurers of 
the vehicle.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. She said that both vehicle 
inspection reports confirm  the fire was caused by an electrical  fault with the inlet port shut-off 
motor. And she said the report  by S had concluded  that as the vehicle had passed an MOT 
at the time of supply it was of satisfactory quality. But she thought a reasonable person 
would not expect a fault causing this much  damage would occur so soon after supply. She 
considered the vehicle  was not of satisfactory  quality and that Mr S should be able to reject it 
and end the agreement.
Mr S accepted this opinion but BMF did not. It said S had described the fault as a sudden 
failure and it was only responsible for faults present at the point of supply. As its not been  
possible to resolve  this complaint an ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN91996732I can see that Mr S has endured a frightening experience when the engine of his vehicle 
caught fire. And whilst  Im sorry he had this unpleasant and potentially dangerous situation  
to contend with, Im relieved to note that no one was injured.
Where evidence is unclear and/or contradictory as some of it is here I have to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. That is I decide what  is the most probable 
explanation to account for whats happened.
Mr Ss hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. BMF  supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. And relevant legislation  here is 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (CRA). Briefly summarised, this states that theres an implied  
condition in every  contract to supply goods  that they will be of satisfactory quality at the time 
of supply. And satisfactory  quality is defined as being what a reasonable person  would  
consider to be satisfactory. Satisfactory quality includes an element of durability.
In reaching my decision Ive been assisted by the reports  from the independent inspections 
carried out by P and S which are in agreement as to the most likely cause of the fire.
Both think the probable cause is an electrical  fault related  to the inlet port shut-off valve  or 
motor. But whilst the report  by P simply identifies the fault (not when it occurred) the report 
by S goes rather further. It states:
there is no evidence of any form of tampering or deliberate damage.
and finds that:
The fact that the vehicle passed  an MOT in and around the date of inspection leads us to 
the conclusion  that the vehicle was roadworthy and that the current issue has developed 
after the date of purchase i.e. the vehicle could have run in this condition during the MOT  
hence the reason we believe that the current issue has developed after the point of sale.
Whilst respecting the view of Ss inspector, I think it fair to say that the purpose of a MOT  
test is to ensure  a vehicle complies with certain legal road safety standards. Its not designed 
to meet  the same criteria  as the CRA.  And indeed the report  refers only to the vehicle being 
compliant with Section 75 of the Road Traffic Act, 1988. So I dont accept that Ss report 
establishes the vehicle was of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply.
Ss report also confirms the defective  unit is part of the engine management system. And 
comments that, the initial illumination  of the engine management light was caused by the 
initial electronic malfunctioning of the valve.
This is supported by the fault codes that were identified by M on 28 January. Ive seen a 
screenshot which includes:
Check component M55 (Inlet port shut off motor). Short circuit  to ground. And its status is 
described as current and stored.
Ref: DRN91996733When Mr S returned the vehicle to R, on 11 February, it seems  R arranged for the vehicle to 
be checked by another  garage. Ive seen an invoice  which refers  to investigating the engine  
MIL being illuminated and checking the fault record. The description  goes on to show  that 
the stored faults  were erased and the vehicle was road tested. It stated that no engine  
management faults returned after the test drive but that if engine  MIL returns the customer 
was advised to have it further  investigated.  I infer from this that no actual repairs  were 
carried out.
I mentioned earlier that in order for a vehicle  to be of satisfactory quality it must also be 
durable. In other words it must  last a reasonable length of time. This was a used vehicle 
which had covered extensive mileage  prior to Mr S acquiring it. So it wouldnt be reasonable 
to expect it to perform to the same standard as a less well used vehicle. Having said that I 
see that the cash price  of the vehicle was £6,495.  I think  any reasonable person would 
expect a vehicle  costing this amount to last longer  than more  than a few days. Fault  codes 
which appear consistent with the final failure  appeared almost  immediately. And the fire - 
which resulted from the fault with the inlet port shut off valve - occurred three  weeks after 
supply.
The CRA presumes  that faults occurring within the first six months following the supply  of 
goods are present at the point of supply - unless its established otherwise. And if the fault, 
which causes the vehicle not to be of satisfactory  quality,  arises within  thirty  days of supply  
the customer is allowed  to reject the goods. Ive already  explained why I dont  think  the 
report by S displaces this presumption. So I think Mr S should be allowed to reject the 
vehicle and end the agreement.
I should also address  an issue that arose  after the damage was caused to the vehicle  but 
which does not directly affect whether  the vehicle was of satisfactory  quality.
Im aware that BMF believes that Mr S has breached the terms of his agreement  by 
cancelling the insurance and not making  a claim relating to the damage. And its not in 
dispute that Mr S cancelled the insurance on 20 February - hes accepted he did so - 
although I understand hes since arranged  further cover.
Where a vehicle is found not to be of satisfactory  quality - and the customer  is allowed to 
reject it and end the agreement - our aim would be to try to return  the customer as near to 
the same  position  as before the agreement as could  fairly be achieved. This would include 
the customer paying for the use they had obtained  from the vehicle and other charges that 
arose under the terms and conditions of the agreement - such as damage to the vehicle 
which did not relate to the vehicle not being  of satisfactory quality.
Here it appears the damage arose directly as a result of the fault which was the cause of the 
vehicle not being of satisfactory quality. Even if Mr S had been able to claim from his 
insurers - it would be probable that this would have  involved a policy  excess  and possibly  an 
increase in future premiums. And it does not seem  fair and reasonable that Mr S should be 
put in a position where he had to incur these expenses through no fault of his own.
In summary,  I think its probable that the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. Consequently, Mr S should  be permitted to end the agreement and reject  the 
vehicle. Therefore, I am upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN91996734my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I am upholding this complaint.
Im requiring  Blue Motor Finance Ltd to take the following action:
1.End the agreement with nothing further  for Mr S to pay from 15 February  2019;
2.Collect the car at no further cost to Mr S;
3.Refund all payments made in respect  of the agreement - subject  to a deduction of 
50% (£169.26) of one monthly payment for use of vehicle;
4.Pay costs in relation to vehicle recovery and inspections. These consist  of 
diagnostics inspection  and report by P £534; Health check £35; Recovery costs £65 
from P to home address  of Mr S. Total: £634.
5.Pay £250 for the trouble and upset caused due to the faulty goods;
6.Arrange to remove the agreement from Mr Ss credit file.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement 
should be added to sums due from items  3 and 4 above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9199673