K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs unhappy that his PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA account was limited without reason. 
He wants the limits  removed. 
background
PayPal said in its final response that Mr Cs account was placed under limited access on 13 
September 2018 when it was flagged by its security system for further verification. PayPals 
user agreement allows it to do so. After a review it was determined that the dispute rates on 
Mr Cs account were  larger than normal leading it to believe either Mr C had filed more 
complaints per transaction volume  or the buyer complaints process it offered was being  
abused. It cannot  allow  this and it has ceased  its business relationship  with Mr C. Its acted 
in line with its policies  and the terms of its user agreement by placing the limitation on Mr Cs 
account.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
PayPals user agreement says it can at any time and without liability suspend, block, 
limit, close  or cancel Mr Cs right to use the account. The agreement is clear  and 
allows PayPal to close an account after a review.
Although PayPals decision wouldve come as a disappointment to Mr C we cant  
interfere in its commercial business decision to exercise its right to close an account. 
PayPal has ended  its relationship with Mr C as its entitled to do. Its followed its 
processes as outlined  in the user agreement. It hasnt done anything wrong and he 
cant ask it to reinstate  Mr Cs account.
Mr C doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  He says the sudden  cessation 
of his account without explanation has caused him financial loss.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
The terms of the user agreement Mr C agreed to when he opened his PayPal account make  
clear it can, amongst other things,  limit or close the account if it wishes  to do so. 
Here PayPals internal  security system  identified  issues  with Mr Cs account and after it 
carried out a review it decided to end its relationship with him, as it was entitled to do.
I understand Mr Cs frustration not least as he says this caused  him a financial loss. But the 
simple facts remain that PayPal followed its processes and the terms of its user agreement. 
It made  a commercial decision which we wouldnt normally interfere with. 
Overall I dont think PayPal has done  anything wrong. So, I cant  fairly or reasonably ask it to 
reactivate Mr Cs account or do anything more as hed like. And I dont see any compelling 
reason to change  the proposed outcome  in this case.
Ref: DRN93273652my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9327365