K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Admiral Insurance Company  Limited unfairly held him at fault for a 
claim against his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr H was travelling  on the motorway when he was in an accident  with a motorcyclist.  
Admiral thought that Mr H was at fault for the accident and paid the riders  claim against his 
policy. Mr H had to pay his excess to get his car repaired and the fault claim has affected 
his no claims bonus  and insurance premiums going forward.  
Mr H didnt think Admiral's decision was fair and brought  his complaint to us. Our adjudicator  
didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong. Mr H didnt  agree so his complaint's  been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
In bringing this complaint Mr H has made  a number  of points  but in this decision I will focus  
on what I see as being the key outstanding points.
I should say at the outset that its not my role to decide whos  at fault for an accident, as 
ultimately thats a matter  for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Mr Hs policy  allows 
Admiral to settle claims as it sees fit. That means  it doesnt require Mr Hs consent  to decide 
how to settle a claim and it may make a decision  that Mr H doesnt agree with. But Ill look to 
see that its done so reasonably.
In this case I've had the benefit  of seeing  footage of the incident as it was caught on another  
drivers dash cam. Mr H was in the outside  lane of the motorway  in a queue of stationary 
traffic. He indicated to move into the lane to his left shortly before moving. As he moved  he 
hit the motorcyclist who was coming up on his inside.
Admiral noted that the Highway Code requires drivers to be especially aware of 
motorcyclists who might be filtering  through traffic. And that it says that drivers need to make  
sure its safe to move before changing  lanes. Taking the Highway Code into account  and the 
fact that Mr Hs manoeuvre had resulted in an accident, Admiral  didnt  think that it would be 
successful in defending a claim from the other driver  if the claim went to court.  And having 
seen the dash cam footage I think that decision was reasonable as I don't think Mr H gave  
the motorcyclist enough  time to avoid a collision.
Amongst other things Mr H has said that the motorcyclist wasnt  filtering  but was riding 
illegally using the space  between cars as an extra lane. I note that the police attended the 
scene but as far as Im aware they didnt  decide to prosecute the motorcyclist for an unlawful 
manoeuvre. And Ive seen  no evidence, beyond  Mr Hs comments, that the motorcyclist was 
riding illegally. Mr H has also said that the motorcyclist was travelling too fast. But I don't 
think its possible to tell the speed  of the motorcyclist from the video footage. And from a lay 
perspective he doesn't appear to be travelling  at excessive speed.  So I don't think  I can fairly 
conclude that Admirals decision to settle  the claim as it did was unreasonable.
 
Ref: DRN97047702my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.  
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9704770