K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that UK Insurance Limited (UK Insurance) has unfairly  declined  his 
home insurance claim. Hes also unhappy  with the way his claim was handled.  
background
Mr B dropped his laptop whilst cleaning a surface  at home and made  a claim on his home  
insurance. UK Insurance  sent Mr Bs laptop  to their approved repairers, O, to see if it could 
be repaired. 
Having inspected the laptop,  O were  of the opinion that there were multiple areas  of damage 
inconsistent with the accident reported by Mr B. UK Insurance asked D to call Mr B to find 
out more about the laptop  and the accident.  They  asked Mr B if he was aware of any other 
damage or repairs to the laptop  prior to the accident or could offer any explanation for the 
additional damage noted in the O engineers report.  Mr B advised that he wasnt and that he 
believed O had caused the additional damage  to his laptop. Following the telephone 
interview, UK Insurance  decided  to decline Mr Bs claim due to the unexplained additional 
damage noted by Os engineers.
Mr B made a complaint to UK Insurance about their decision  to decline his claim and also for 
the way the phone call was conducted.
UK Insurance looked into Mr Bs complaint  and partially upheld it. They acknowledged that 
the call couldve been handled with more rapport and empathy and agreed  to pass feedback  
onto D. But they did not agree that they shouldve accepted Mr Bs claim. 
Mr B was dissatisfied with their response  and brought his complaint to us. An investigator  
looked at his case and, having  reviewed all the evidence, decided that UK Insurance hadnt 
done anything  wrong in declining Mr Bs claim. Mr B disagreed and his complaint has come  
to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  UK 
Insurance needs to do anything differently and Ill explain why.
Firstly, having listened to the call between D and Mr B, I agree  with UK Insurance  and Mr B 
that this call couldve been handled  more  sympathetically and I agree that UK Insurance  
were being  reasonable in upholding this part of the complaint.  
In terms of the declined claim, Ive looked  specifically  at both the engineers  report and 
considered the testimony of Mr B to help me make my final decision.   
I can fully appreciate how disappointed Mr B mustve felt to have discovered his claim wasnt 
going to be accepted. I understand  that hes unaware of how the additional damage to the 
laptop was caused, suggesting  it may have been caused by an O engineer. But I need  to be 
fair to both Mr B and UK Insurance and, considering the expertise and experience of O and 
the observations  noted at inspection, I think its unlikely that the additional damage was 
caused by them. 
Ref: DRN96752052Mr Bs policy  document defines accidental damage  as sudden, unintentional physical 
damage that happens unexpectedly. The engineers report  makes the following observations  
following inspection of Mr Bs laptop:
 damage consistent with the reported accident
 Dents  to both corners at the front of chassis are possible due to drop
damage inconsistent with the reported  accident
 Unit is dead on arrival as components on motherboard have been damaged physically
due to any previous  inspection  or attempt to repair
 Machine serial  number  on motherboard and hard screw drives are missing
 Battery plastic  has cracked due to over tightening  of screw
 Hard  drive is damaged/noisy - unable to take last use date or user name
 Unit is beyond  economical repair due to the age of the unit. New OEM parts  are no
longer available
 Parts required - display, palm rest, base, trackpad, motherboard, hard drive,  battery  and 
optical drive
Having reviewed the photos and the above  comments from the engineers report,  I conclude  
that UK Insurance  fairly declined Mr Bs claim. This is because  O says that much of the 
damage to the laptop is inconsistent with the definition  of accidental damage,  detailed 
above. 
So I have  to agree that UK Insurance  hasnt done  anything wrong in declining  Mr Bs claim 
when the laptop appears to have damage  inconsistent with the reported accident.  
As such,  I wont be asking  UK Insurance Ltd to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im not upholding this complaint so I wont be asking 
UK Insurance Limited  to do anything.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  
Im required  to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision before 23 September 2019.
Rebecca Kemp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9675205