K820x#14complaint
Miss K on behalf of herself and the late Mr A as his personal representative says Furness 
Building Society (Furness) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss K and Mr A bought  the policy in 2005 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy over the phone and then by completing an 
application form for it. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr A for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £523.41 a month towards  Miss K and Mr As 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it was free for the first six 
months and then cost £20.67 a month.  
As Mr A was the only person covered  by the policy Ive mainly taken his circumstances into 
consideration in reaching my decision.  At the time,  Mr A was employed as a caravan fitter. 
He told us he was entitled to sick pay and had savings he could use to make  his mortgage 
payments if he couldnt work.  Mr A has said he was in good health  at the time of the sale.  
Furness has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account started in 2005. 
Miss K and Mr As representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss K and Mr As representative  says:
Furness failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss K and Mr A 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss K and 
Mr As representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Furness  should have 
told Miss K and Mr A about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Furness  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Miss K and 
Mr A and the impact  they would have had on their chances of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and 
Ref: DRN90191152The information Miss K and Mr A received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss K and Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss K and Mr As. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss K and Mr As 
complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2005 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
Ref: DRN90191153General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Furness, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Furness  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Miss K and Mr As complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Furness gave advice, whether it advised  Miss K and Mr A with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Furness gave Miss K and Mr A sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
Ref: DRN90191154misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss K 
and Mr A, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what  extent Miss K and Mr A 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss K and 
Mr A and Furness, Ive decided not to uphold  Miss K and Mr As complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Miss K and Mr A know  they had a choice?
Furness had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Miss K and Mr A were sold the policy over the phone. To complete the sale Miss K and Mr A 
had to complete  and return  a PPI application  form. Furness  has given us a copy  of this and I 
can see that they selected to cover Mr A only for accident, sickness  and unemployment  
electing to cover just their mortgage payment. I can also see on their mortgage  offer under 
section 9 it states that Miss K and Mr A are not required to buy any insurance.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  Miss K and Mr A knew the policy 
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Furness  provide advice?
Furness says that it didnt provide any advice during the sale and the sales  script  the adviser 
followed says that no advice or recommendation would  be made. So I think its likely no 
advice was given  to Miss K and Mr A. 
This means  Furness didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable for Miss K and Mr A. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable Miss K 
and Mr A to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing  
to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Miss K and Mr A were given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Miss 
K and Mr A were unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. Ive reached this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Miss K and Mr A 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Furness gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Miss K and Mr A agreed  to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think Furness gave Miss K and Mr A sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
Ref: DRN90191155drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss K and Mr As representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss K and 
Mr As. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss K and Mr As representative  considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss K and Mr A about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Miss K and Mr As representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Miss K and Mr A [has/have] suggested.  And taking into account 
the law, industry  codes  and standards of good  industry practice applicable to this complaint, 
I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude  that Furness ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Furnesss shortcomings  have on Miss K and Mr A? To what extent did 
Miss K and Mr A suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Furness  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Miss K and 
Mr A. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss 
K and Mr A suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or 
not Miss K and Mr A would have  still taken out the policy, had Furness done  things properly. 
Miss K and Mr A say they would not have taken  it out and believe that I should presume this 
to be the case  given the significant failings identified above.  Ive considered the 
representations of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Miss K and Mr A had to weigh up in their own minds  the 
cost of the policy against the benefits offered  and the potential consequences  if they didnt 
insure against the risk of Mr A being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Miss K and Mr A chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Miss K 
and Mr A thought  they were getting  is not exactly what  they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Miss K and Mr A have] suffered any 
loss or detriment. 
Ref: DRN90191156The information Miss K and Mr A were given  about the cost was clear  on the mortgage offer. 
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit, limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Im not persuaded Furness made clear exactly what Miss K and Mr A would get back in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Miss K and Mr As 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss K and Mr A thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mr A 
had seen or arranged to see a doctor  about  in the 12 month period immediately 
before the start date and which re-occurred  within 24 months after the start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr A 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr A be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Miss K and Mr A pause for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude 
that the policy was not as good  as they thought and they might have decided  not to proceed. 
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might 
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss K and Mr A 
from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Miss K and Mr As circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr A was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to them should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr A 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  he didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think they had some good  
reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Miss K and 
Mr A might reasonably have expected.  But its unlikely they would have expected to be able 
to make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  
And while this limitation might have dissuaded  some  consumers in slightly different  
circumstances to Miss K and Mr A from taking out the policy,  Miss K and Mr A, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
Ref: DRN90191157If Miss K and Mr A had known they could only claim for disability if Mr A was unable to do 
both his job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers view he might 
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr A was unable (through 
disability) to carry on his own occupation  the chances that he would  be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Furness may not have  told Miss K and Mr A that any claim they made would be limited to a 
12-month. This may have differed from what they expected  and might  have hoped for  but 
they had limited other means to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Miss K and Mr A would still have thought  a policy  
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr A be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss K and Mr A would still have taken out the policy.  The policy  was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help 
them manage the consequences if Mr A was made redundant,  or unable to work through the 
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Miss K and 
Mr A would have taken out the policy in any event  notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Miss K and Mr As representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss K and Mr A wouldnt have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Miss K and 
Mr As circumstances as detailed above, I consider  it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Miss K and Mr A found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same  position they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Miss K and Mr A believe the presumption may only be rebutted  when  the flaws  in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. Im not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Ref: DRN90191158Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss K and Mr A in the position  they would have been in 
if they had not bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken out 
the PPI had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  they 
were buying.  So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, 
to conclude Furness should pay Miss K and Mr A compensation, as that would put them in a 
better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Miss K and Mr A think Furness misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Furnesss statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion  the reason why Furness  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Furness gave Miss K and Mr A, 
in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2005 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Miss K and Mr As representative says a court might 
take if it were to find Furness negligently misrepresented the contract  to Miss K and Mr A 
and about the remedy a court might  award  if it were  to find that Furness  had been in breach 
of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Miss K and Mr A in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN90191159my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A on behalf 
of herself and the late Mr A to accept  or reject my decision before 22 May 2021.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9019115