K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited dealt  with a claim. 
Mr F was involved in an incident as a named  driver under his wifes  car insurance policy.  
background
Mr F reported an incident to Mrs Fs car insurer Admiral in June 2017. Mr F said he was 
merging from a slip road and collided into a car. Both cars were written  off as a result of the 
incident. Admiral investigated  the claim and settled it as a fault claim against  Mr F.
Mr F raised  concerns about the validity of the third parties claim. But Admiral said it was 
satisfied it had settled  the claim correctly  and in line with the policy  terms. 
Our adjudicator thought Admiral had acted reasonably. Mr F didnt  agree.  So hed like an 
ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Mrs Fs policy has a very common term which Ive seen in most  if not all motor insurance  
policies. This term allows Admiral the take over the control, defence and settlement of a 
claim. This means that Admiral might make a decision Mrs or Mr F doesnt  agree with  but 
the policy allows Admiral  to do this. This also means that Admiral didnt have to seek 
Mr and Mrs Fs permission before settling a third party claim. We dont disagree with this 
term in principle - as long as the insurer can show it treated its customer  fairly when applying 
it. 
Theres no dispute that the incident took place.  Mr F said there  were  two male passengers in 
the other car. Hes unhappy because there was some confusion  over the colour of the car: 
either dark blue, dark red or black. Mr F feels this is significant. And he has concerns that the 
car may not have been taxed or insured. But Admiral said that it carried out the relevant 
checks and it had no concerns. It said the other  car was insured  but in any event whether 
the car was taxed,  insured or a different colour  would make  no difference  to the liability  
outcome. 
Admiral received two personal injury claims from the driver and passenger in the other car. 
Admiral said the medical evidence it received  supported  the claims and the injuries  were  
consistent with the incident circumstances.
I understand Mr F has contacted the DVLA  and the police to report  his concerns about the 
legality of the other drivers car. As the adjudicator explained, we cant look at these issues.  
Our role is to look at whether Admiral  acted reasonably. 
Admiral has provided key call recordings. From  the recordings we know  that Admiral 
explained to Mr F that his car insurance claim was a civil matter. So his concerns about the 
legality of the other car didnt affect  Admirals handling of the claim or its decision regarding 
liability. 
Ref: DRN93231582Mr F is adamant that there  was a further call when Admiral told him not to contact the police.  
But theres nothing  to show me that Admiral did this. 
Mr F is unhappy  that his No Claims Bonus (NCB) has been affected  by the claim. However, 
from early on Admiral  explained to Mr F that the onus was on him to check it was clear  when 
joining a main road from a slip road. Photos of the other car along with an engineers  report  
support the view that the damage  is consistent with the incident circumstances. There were 
no independent witnesses or CCTV footage. 
I know Mr F feels Admiral  has favoured the other partys  position over his. But based on the 
circumstances of the incident  and the evidence it received,  I think  Admiral reached its 
decision to hold Mr F at fault for the claim in a fair way. And this therefore means that 
Admiral has correctly reduced Mr Fs NCB in line with the policy.  
Mr F has sent further correspondence  to support his view that the claim may have been 
fraudulent. But Ive considered whether Admiral has responded reasonably to the complaint 
Mr F made. I think it has. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9323158