K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) are refusing to repair a car he has been 
financing through  an agreement with them.
background
I issued my provisional decision April 2020.  I explained why I was planning not to uphold 
Mr Ss complaint. An extract from that provisional decision is set out below:
Mr S took receipt of a new car in July 2016.  He financed the deal through a hire agreement  
with Lex that included a maintenance package. 
In March 2019 the car broke down. The garage  and an independent  inspector confirmed that 
the reason for the breakdown was that oil had not been replaced  and was in a very poor 
condition. 
The independent inspector said the engine oil was seen to show an almost concentrated 
state and that the oil pump and metal filter shows a blocked condition. He suggested this 
was stopping oil flowing  freely around  the engine and thered  been a serious lack of oil 
supply. He said the origin of the damage is seen to be a lack of routine oil changes  and 
servicing and that the engine would  require replacing. He provided a photograph  of the 
engine dashboard showing the service light illuminated and showing the service was due 
10,330 miles and 288 days earlier.
Lex said that as the service hadnt  been  completed the warranty  was invalidated  and they 
couldnt support  Mr Ss claim. They said it was his responsibility to ensure services were  
completed on the car.
Mr S said the car had been booked in for a service and that Lex arranged  it for him on 
18 June 2018,  He said the car had been  returned to him and hed assumed the service had 
been completed. He said he could not be expected to check the work that was done by the 
garage.
He therefore referred  his complaint to this service and a couple of our investigators provided  
their view. 
The first investigator didnt support his complaint. She explained the service  should be 
completed every 20,000  miles and that the independent inspectors findings  showed the 
service was over 10,000  miles  and 288 days overdue. She thought Mr S should  have 
responded to the warning light and she noted that under the terms of his hire agreement it 
was his responsibility to keep  the car in a good state of repair. 
The second  investigator reviewed the evidence after Mr S had explained that it was Lex who 
had booked the car in for the service on his behalf. He understood that Mr S asserted the car 
was taken for the service and was returned to him and he was disappointed  Lex hadnt 
provided any evidence  to show why the service hadnt been completed.  He thought  it was 
Mr Ss responsibility to ensure the car was kept in a good state  of repair.  He suggested  that 
Mr S and Lex split the cost of the replacement  engine  but neither party agreed with this 
second investigation and the complaint  was therefore referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN93471892my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the most  recent opinion provided by our investigator;  please  let 
me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated  consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Lex, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr S. This was a 
brand new car and I dont think a reasonable person would expect the engine to fail after 
only 30,000 miles. 
But its clear here, because the independent  engineer has said so, that the engine only failed 
because the cars servicing plan wasnt complied with.
Its Mr Ss responsibility to ensure the services are completed. The terms of his hire 
agreement explain that he must maintain  the goods properly and have  them serviced. 
I understand Mr S thinks the service light wasnt illuminated on the car. He said he hadnt  
seen the service light since June 2018. I have to decide what  is most likely  and I think its 
unlikely the service warning would have  only illuminated when the independent inspector 
was reviewing the failure. I think its more likely that light would have been showing from the 
point at which the service  was required  (20,000  miles).
I understand Mr S may have considered the service complete when  he says the car was 
returned to him. There are, unfortunately, poor records of what  happened when he asked 
Lex to book the service  for him. Im prepared to accept that the car was taken for a service 
but I think, even  if that was the case, it would be reasonable  to expect a consumer to raise  
concerns when the service warning light remained illuminated. 
So overall, I think it was Mr Ss contractual responsibility to ensure the car was properly 
serviced and I think theres sufficient  evidence to demonstrate he should have known it 
hadnt been. In those  circumstances  Im not currently expecting to uphold  his complaint.
Ref: DRN93471893my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Lex didnt respond  to my provisional decision but Mr S did. He said he had a service plan in 
place with Lex so it didnt make any sense for him not to have taken the car for servicing. He 
said the oil warning light didnt illuminate until the car broke down and he was disappointed  
Id suggest he ignored the light: he explained he was a practical person. He asked me to 
reconsider my decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ss points  but Im afraid  they havent persuaded me to change  my decision 
as they were points  I had already considered. Im not persuaded its likely  the oil warning 
light would  only illuminate  once the failure had happened.  I think  that would suggest a rapid 
development of the problem but the independent inspectors investigation showed the filters 
to be blocked  and the oil to be in a very poor condition. I think this is more consistent with a 
gradual deterioration and if that were the case I think  the light would most probably have 
illuminated earlier. 
So my provisional decision remains unchanged.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9347189