K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say the Yorkshire Building  Society (Yorkshire BS) mis-sold  them  a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint 
Mr and Mrs B bought the policy  in 2001 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr B only, for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £500 a month  towards Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £24.15 a month. 
At the time,  the mortgage application records indicate that Mr B was employed as a 
Chemical Processor. Mr B says in his submissions  to this service he was self-employed  and 
so not entitled to any employee benefits  or redundancy pay. Mr B also says he had around 
£50,000 in savings but hasnt been able to provide  any evidence of this. Mr B says he was in 
good health at the time of the sale. 
Mrs B was a joint mortgage  holder but was not covered  by the policy.  She was working and 
says she had good employment  benefits  at the time,  should she have been off work sick or 
been made redundant. The mortgage application  indicates she was earning around £9,000, 
although Mrs B has told us her income at the time was about £26,000.
Yorkshire BS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage  account closed in February 
2004. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Bs representative  says:
Yorkshire BS failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Bs representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Yorkshire BS should 
have told Mr and Mrs B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Yorkshire BS should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs B 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN91686662The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs B received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision].
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN91686663The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Yorkshire BS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Yorkshire BS at the time.  So Im satisfied I should take these codes into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Yorkshire BS was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN91686664-If Yorkshire BS gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Yorkshire BS gave  Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs B, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs B 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs B 
and Yorkshire BS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
Yorkshire BS had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
The records  from the time indicate  that Mr B had an existing policy with another  business  but 
an illustration of the PPI policy costs  with Yorkshire BS showed this policy  was cheaper than 
the one Mr B had. It is recorded Mr and Mrs B expressed an interest  in taking out a new 
policy to cover Mr B only and a totally separate application form for the PPI was completed.  
Some days after the meeting, there is a note confirming Mr and Mrs B had agreed  to take 
out the PPI policy  and the application form was signed and returned  by Mr B around two 
weeks after the initial meeting. 
When the mortgage offer was sent out this confirmed the PPI benefit  selected and that there 
were no premiums payable for the first six months. There  was further correspondence before 
the mortgage started indicating the cost of the PPI at the start and when the first payment 
would be taken, and this also indicated Mr and Mrs B should contact Yorkshire BS if they 
wanted to change anything. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its most  likely that Mr and Mrs B knew  the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN91686665did Yorkshire BS provide advice?
Yorkshire BS says as the sale occurred before December 2001, when regulation started, it 
takes the approach it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs B have indicated  
they cannot remember if any advice or a recommendation was provided. 
Looking at what happened when Yorkshire BS sold Mr and Mrs B the PPI, Im persuaded 
that it provided advice,  even if it might not have  intended to. I say this as the Mortgage 
Enquiry Form completed by the advisor at the meeting with Mr and Mrs B records  a number 
of matters that were  discussed to assess Mr and Mr Bs needs  and clearly  records 
recommendations were  made. 
In Section K of the form it deals with PPI and this section indicates  that the needs of both 
Mr and Mrs B were  discussed, and notes  made,  and that PPI was recommended to cover 
Accident, Sickness  and Unemployment. This cover  being cheaper than the existing cover 
Mr B had and so it would  replace the existing cover.
I am satisfied this clearly  indicates that Yorkshire  BS did assess  Mr and Mrs Bs needs and it 
did provide advice, as recorded on the document. 
This means  Yorkshire BS had to advise Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know exactly what was discussed in the meeting, the documentary  evidence 
suggests, as I have indicated, that Yorkshire  BS took some  steps to establish whether the 
policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs B. The adviser  had information about  
some of Mr and Mrs Bs financial circumstances as part of the mortgage application. And the 
section of the Mortgage Enquiry Form about the PPI recorded  their demands and needs to 
try and establish whether Mr and Mrs B had a need for the policy.  This asked questions  
about their wider circumstances such as any health  issues and existing means   but I dont  
think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable.
There is nothing to indicate any level of savings, including  what Mr and Mrs B were using for 
the house purchase deposit and what remained after that. And whilst discussion took place 
to identify an existing  policy  covering  Mr B, it isnt clear what benefits  that policy provided. It 
is also unclear as to how long Mr B may have received sick pay from his employer at the 
time. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Yorkshire BS did all it should  have  
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs B given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Yorkshire  BS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Yorkshire BS did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  
was suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.  In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN91686666-Mr and Mrs B had a need for the policy   the records from the time clearly record 
Mr B was the main  wage earner and it seems likely Mr and Mrs Bs finances would 
be put under  strain  if Mr B were not working  even  allowing  for any sickness and 
redundancy benefits he may have been entitled  to and taking  account  of Mrs Bs 
income. No evidence of savings at the time has been provided, and the amount 
Mr and Mrs B now say they had was more than the mortgage they were  taking  out. 
And the enquiry form records Mr and Mrs B could not fully repay their monthly 
mortgage payments  if Mr B lost his job. So, Im not satisfied  that the level of savings 
available may have been as now recalled by Mr and Mrs B.
-The policy would have helped Mr and Mrs B manage the consequences were Mr B 
unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs B.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs B. 
There was nothing  about Mr Bs employment  or occupation, as recorded on the 
mortgage application at the time which would have  made  it difficult  for Mr B to claim. 
And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical conditions that could affect  his 
ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health 
or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given 
Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy,  for example,  the 
requirement that Mr B be disabled or unemployed for 30 days  before he could make 
a claim and the fact the policy would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months 
for each claim, the policy still provided valuable  cover  given:
Mr Bs circumstances, including any employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  he might expect to provide an income during the policys 
30-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs B be unable  to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Yorkshire  BS gave Mr and Mrs B 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Yorkshire BS was recommending to them and make an informed decision about 
whether to follow that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr B was unable to work through  accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I can see Mr B already had a 
PPI policy  and some discussion took place about this. And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs B 
Ref: DRN91686667would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Yorkshire  BS gave sufficient  
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs B agreed to take out the 
policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs B Im not persuaded 
Yorkshire BS did enough  to present  information about the policy it was recommending  in a 
way that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Yorkshire BS gave Mr and 
Mrs B all of the information  they needed about the policy  to make an informed  decision  
about whether  to follow the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Bs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs B about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs B have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Yorkshire BS ought to have done either. 
what effect did Yorkshire  BSs  shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent  
did Mr and Mrs B suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Yorkshire BS didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to 
Mr and Mrs B. So I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs B suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs B would  have still taken out the policy,  had Yorkshire BS done 
things properly. 
Ref: DRN91686668While Im not persuaded Yorkshire BS took the steps it should have done to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B, I have found that the 
policy was ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs B have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Yorkshire BS had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs B would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs B say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs B had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Yorkshire BS advised them that there 
was a suitable product they could  buy that was cheaper than Mr Bs existing policy and 
would protect their mortgage payments  in the event Mr B was unable  to work because  of 
accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded they wanted that product. But they 
made that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning what they thought they were 
getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs B were  given about  the cost and 
benefit was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as limitations 
and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should have  been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs B thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr B knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
Mr B could  not claim for unemployment  that started within  60 days  of the start date of 
the policy or unemployment which  he knew was pending at the start date.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from taking out the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN91686669But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr B was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr B wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr B didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was at the time of the application in permanent 
employment. So, I still think  they had some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I note Mr B may have  become self-employed  at some point, but the application records  
indicate this would have been  after the policy was taken out, so this didnt affect or limit any 
claims at the time Mr B applied for the policy. There was a requirement that Mr B notify 
Yorkshire BS if he changed  his employment status  as this could affect future claims. 
However, claims for those  who were  self-employed were still possible and whilst some  
additional information would have been required for an unemployment claim, the limitations  
and restrictions for those who were self-employed were not otherwise more onerous  than for 
those who were employed. 
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs B would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs B would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for Mr B, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr B was made  redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not 
Mr and Mrs B would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs B would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs B found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN916866610Mr and Mrs B believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs B would  still 
have taken out the PPI had they been  given clear,  fair and not misleading information about 
the policy they were  buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Yorkshire  BS should pay Mr and Mrs B compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs B think Yorkshire  BS misrepresented  the terms of the policy 
in how it described  the PPI. While  I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some 
of Yorkshire BSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Yorkshire BS failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say 
in the information it provided   but because the overall information Yorkshire BS gave 
Mr and Mrs B, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards  I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2001  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Yorkshire BS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs B and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Yorkshire BS had been  in breach 
of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9168666