K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  withdrew his private banking  
service without telling him. 
background
Mr F has a bank  account with RBS.  For many years it gave him access  to its private  banking  
service, which  RBS now calls premier  banking. This gave Mr F access to a private banking  
manager and annual review meetings at a convenient  place,  amongst other things.
Mr F says that when he received a new debit card for his account, he realised he no longer 
had private banking. He was unhappy  RBS had withdrawn this service without telling him. 
So Mr F complained to RBS, and also mentioned  that his local branch was closing.
In its final response,  RBS said it had been  right to remove Mr Fs private banking as he didnt 
meet the criteria.  But it agreed it should  have told him, and offered him £20 as compensation 
for his inconvenience  and call costs. It said the decision to close Mr Fs local branch was a 
bank decision and confirmed Mr F could call its telephone banking  for any assistance  he 
needed. It also offered  to arrange an appointment with one of the RBS agents Mr F knew of. 
Mr F declined this offer, as well as the offer of compensation.
As Mr F was still unhappy, he got in touch with our service. After  looking into things our 
investigator said Mr F wasnt  eligible  for private  banking and hadnt been charged  for it, and 
that the branch closure was a commercial decision for RBS to make. He appreciated Mr Fs 
banking experience had changed  but didnt think RBS needed to pay compensation for this.
Mr F disagreed so his complaint has been  passed to me to make a decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Id firstly  like to make clear Ive not considered the matter of Mr Fs local branch  closing,  as 
Mr F says this isnt something he wants our service to look at.
Ive seen that RBS provided Mr F with private banking  for a number of years. As part of this 
Mr F had access to face to face annual reviews with a private  banking  manager at a location 
of Mr Fs choosing.  RBS didnt charge Mr F for accessing private banking.  At some point 
RBS withdrew Mr Fs private banking, and it accepts it didnt inform  him of this. 
I know Mr F is very unhappy about this. He says he chose to keep his savings with RBS 
because of the private banking service he was receiving. Its up to Mr F where he keeps his 
savings, but our service  asked RBS whether it would  be willing to offer him a final annual 
review with a private banking manager.  RBS says it cant  offer this to Mr F, but it confirmed 
he can arrange other kinds of reviews  through its telephone banking. 
I can see Mr F had the benefit  of private  banking with RBS for many years. But it wasnt  
something he paid for and it wasnt something  he was eligible to receive,  as RBS has said 
he doesnt meet the income or savings criteria it sets for its private  banking  service. RBS 
Ref: DRN98851492says it gave Mr F private banking as a gesture of goodwill, although the reason why isnt 
clear after so many years.  
RBS can itself decide to make  such a gesture of goodwill, but its not obliged to. And RBS is 
entitled to set its own eligibility criteria  for private banking  and to not offer it to customers  
who dont meet the criteria. So thats  a decision  RBS is entitled to make,  and I dont think 
RBS was unreasonable to no longer offer private  banking to Mr F. 
However, I do think RBS should  have informed Mr F it was withdrawing his private  banking  
service. Taking everything into account, I think the £20 RBS has offered Mr F is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the cost and inconvenience of the calls he had to make  as a 
result of RBS not informing him.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9885149