K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that Cigna Insurance Services (Europe) Limited (Cigna)  cancelled two 
policies - a Personal  Accident plan and a Hospital Cash plan - without telling her. 
background
Miss A had two policies  with Cigna. Theyd been  in place since  2004 and are paid for by 
monthly premiums. They were originally taken  out with another business,  B. The policies 
were then transferred  to a second  business,  F. And, in 2011,  F was purchased  by Cigna.
In May 2016, Cigna tried to take the monthly  payment from Miss As bank account, but the 
direct debit was returned unpaid   Miss As bank said itd been  cancelled. 
Cigna says it wrote to Miss A but it didnt receive  a response - although  the letters were 
returned to it undelivered  and so the policies were  cancelled  for non-payment. 
Miss A contacted Cigna to complain about the cancellation  of her policies. She said:
-As the premiums were taken by a company  she didnt recognise, she cancelled  both 
of the direct debits.
-She hadnt seen  the letters about  the sale of F to Cigna or about  the cancelled  direct 
debit. This is because Cigna were  writing to her old address.  Shed moved and whilst 
she did inform B of this, she didnt  tell Cigna, as she thought  B wouldve updated her 
policies at the same time. 
-Cigna  hadnt  contacted her in any other way even though it had her mobile number.
Miss A asked that Cigna reinstate the policies  or refund  the premiums  she has paid.
Whilst its Miss As responsibility  to update her address details with any businesses  she has 
accounts  or policies with, Cigna said that they couldve  done more to get in touch with her  
by phoning her or getting in touch  through her bank. It apologised for any inconvenience  
caused and paid £50 to Miss A. It also agreed to reinstate  the policies if she paid the amount 
due to bring each  policy  up to date.
Miss A wasnt happy with this and complained to our service. Our investigator thought Cigna 
had made  a fair offer, so Miss A asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint. This 
matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Miss A that I think the investigator has reached the right 
outcome here. So I dont  uphold her complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN93986182As Miss A had cancelled both her direct debits and missed payments, I think Cigna acted  
reasonably in cancelling her policies. I can see from Cignas  records  that it, and F, wrote  to 
her each year to say that her policies  were due for renewal. Further,  Miss A knew it was up 
to her to maintain  the monthly payments, and shed been doing so for several  years.
Miss A says she didnt  see the letters from Cigna. Im satisfied that Cigna did send them. 
And, whilst Cigna sent them to Miss As old address, it was for Miss A to update it that shed 
moved. It isnt enough that she told B, particularly  as she says she was aware that B had 
sold the policies  to F. Miss A says it shouldve called her as well. I agree it couldve done 
that and I note that Cigna  accepts this, but I dont think it was required to do this.
Taking everything into account,  I think Cigna acted fairly in cancelling  the policies. I 
understand Miss A didnt  recognise the direct  debit payments but she couldve got in touch  
with her bank or Cigna to find out more  about what the payments were  for rather than 
cancelling the direct debits. And that doesnt mean  it was unfair for Cigna to cancel her 
policies  its only required to keep the insurance going while Miss A pays the premiums. 
In any case, Cigna has agreed  to reinstate both policies and pay £50 to Miss A. I think  thats  
a fair offer. It wouldnt, in my view, be right to ask Cigna to refund every premium since 2004, 
since Miss A has in fact been insured over that period and it wouldnt be fair for me to 
require Cigna to have insured Miss A for free for more than 10 years.
Finally, I think  its important to be clear that, as part of the reinstatements  process, Miss A 
would need to pay the premiums that havent been  paid. If shes  unable to pay this sum in 
one go, Id expect Cigna to allow her to pay it in instalments over a reasonable period of 
time, say, 6 or 12 months. Going  forward, Miss A will also need to pay her normal  premiums 
and may need  to complete new direct  debit instructions to facilitate this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9398618