K821x#15complaint
Mr J says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. The PPI was taken out in 2005 when he applied for a new credit  
card. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already told Mr J that they didnt think  his mis-sale complaint 
should be upheld.  However, Halifax has since offered to give back  to Mr J some of the cost 
of the PPI. 
Mr J still thinks  the PPI was mis-sold  in the first place  and has asked for an ombudsmans  
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js mis-sale complaint.
Mr J says he has no recollection of ever agreeing to PPI and didnt know he had such  a 
policy. However, these events were a long time ago and I can understand it will be difficult  
for Mr J to remember  everything that happened. 
For example, weve seen a few similar cases to this and as a consequence, we now know  
quite a bit about how the sales  processes normally  worked and the type of paperwork that 
was used. We know, for example, that consumers usually  spoke  with a Halifax adviser  to 
discuss their requirements and as a result of that discussion a credit agreement was then 
drawn up for the consumer to check and sign.
I think Mr J agreed  to the PPI and would have known about  it, although  I accept he now 
genuinely cant remember this. This is because Halifaxs records show  the sale took place at 
his local branch. We were  sent a copy of Mr Js credit agreement  which  is consistent with 
other branch sales Ive seen. And on his agreement I can see a box about  PPI was 
selected on the form, so I think the PPI being  chosen in this way would have been done as 
a result of the conversation Ive mentioned above.  Mr J also signed the agreement,  so I think  
this shows he asked  for the cover.
Halifax also sent me a copy of a form which shows the adviser discussed PPI with him.
Its also my experience that Halifax described  PPI charges on its monthly statements that 
were sent out to consumers. It sent me some of Mr Js statements which showed he was 
charged in this way for Repayment Cover. I think if he hadnt asked for the PPI he would 
have wanted to know what the charges were  for. 
I therefore think Halifax got Mr Js consent for the PPI and he wouldve been able to see it 
had been set up on his account.  
Ref: DRN97742212Halifax concedes this was probably an advised sale. This means it had a duty to make  sure 
the PPI was suitable for Mr J. I think it was.
This is because I think Mr J was eligible for the PPI and I dont think  that hed have been 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. The monthly cost of 
the policy was 78p per £100 of the outstanding  balance which  was comparable with similar 
policies I know were  sold around that time.  Ive got no evidence to suggest this was 
unaffordable for Mr J. 
Mr J didnt get sick pay with his job at the time so I think this cover was of use to him. The 
PPI could have  paid out 10% of his outstanding  credit card balance for up to a year if hed 
needed to claim. I note he was self-employed. We do sometimes see policies that have 
more onerous rules for self-employed people, but having looked at his policy,  I think Mr J 
would have been able to successfully make a claim. 
Having very carefully  considered everything  Mr J has told us, overall  I think the policy  was 
suitable for him.
Halifax also had a duty to make  sure the information it provided was clear enough for Mr J to 
make an informed decision. He says it wasnt  and I obviously cant  say he was told 
everything he should have been told. But as Ive said, I think there would have been a 
discussion about the policy and how it worked.  
All this means I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax  
doesnt therefore need to refund  everything  Mr J paid for it. But its offered to give him back  
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  Bank  of Scotland  Plc 
will make arrangements  to pay Mr J now Ive issued my final decision,  if it hasnt  already  
done so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint about the mis-sale. I dont 
direct Bank of Scotland  Plc to do anything more  than the above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9774221