K820x#14complaint
Mr N and Miss S took out a Total Mortgage Protection plan with a mortgage in 2002. The 
plan included accident, sickness and unemployment cover (PPI), as well as life and critical 
illness cover.
Mr N and Miss S say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI. As 
Mr N and Miss S have only complained about the sale of the PPI, thats all I have looked  
into.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr N and Miss Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think its likely Halifax made  it clear  that Mr N and Miss S didnt have to take out the PPI 
and they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant remember this. 
Although Mr N and Miss S say they were told they had to have the PPI to get the 
mortgage, theres no other evidence to support this. And Ive seen the type of paperwork 
theyre likely to have completed  at the time and think this would have made it clear the 
PPI was optional.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr N and Miss S so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  
that it was. For example they werent  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover and they seem  to have had a need  for the cover. Although  Mr N and Miss S 
told us they would have received some sick pay from their employers, the PPI would pay 
out on top of this and for longer. I think they would have found it useful if theyd not been 
able to work. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr N and Miss S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But as Ive explained, I think its likely they chose  to take it out - so 
it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful 
for them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put them  off taking out the cover. 
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give Mr N and Miss S some of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules  and guidance  dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As 
Mr N and Miss Ss mortgage became a regulated  mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont 
apply. So Halifax doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr N and Miss S paid for the 
PPI they had with that mortgage.
Ref: DRN93280252my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9328025