K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Scottish Equitable  Plc discriminated against him when it refused 
to speak to him using  the Text Relay service until after hed provided  written authority and a 
password. 
 
background
Mr R holds a pension  plan with Scottish  Equitable. In October 2018 he called Scottish  
Equitable to obtain information on his plan. He called  via the Text Relay  service,  which  
allows people who are deaf or hard of hearing to use a textphone to access any services 
that are available on standard telephone systems.  However,  Scottish Equitable said that it 
required a signed  letter of authority from Mr R, along  with a password, before it could 
communicate with him using this service.  
Mr R was unhappy with this so he complained to Scottish Equitable. He says that other 
organisations have been  able to communicate  with him via the Text Relay  service without 
him first providing his written authority. So he believes Scottish Equitable  has discriminated 
against him under the Equality Act 2010. Hes also said the manager he spoke to on the day 
he called  was rude to him. 
Scottish Equitable  responded  to the complaint. It explained that it has security  measures in 
place to protect its customers.  So before  it can speak to any third party,  it needs  to make 
sure it has the correct authority to do so. As there was no password set up on Mr Rs plan to 
speak to Text Relay, it said it couldn't proceed with the call. It also said that it was unable to 
comment on whether its manager  had been  rude during a telephone call as the call hadnt  
been recorded. 
Mr R remained  unhappy so he referred his complaint to our service  for an independent 
review. One of our investigators reviewed matters  but he didnt think that Scottish  Equitable 
had done anything wrong. In summary the investigator thought  that: 
Its incredibly  important  that Scottish Equitable  keep in mind its obligations under the 
Equality Act. But this doesnt preclude  it from keeping security and privacy  of 
information in mind. And it is, to an extent, allowed to decide for itself what its 
security looks  like. 
Scottish Equitable  couldnt say, without reasonable doubt, that it was speaking  to a 
representative Mr R had authorised,  because it wasnt able to speak to him directly. 
And while Text Relay is a nationally recognised  service, they are still a third party.
Its reasonable for Scottish Equitable to deal with this in a similar way to if a family 
member called on Mr Rs behalf,  or a solicitor, or any other third party. That is, to 
receive some sort of document or confirmation  that Mr R has authorised them to 
speak to companies like Scottish  Equitable. Without  this, Scottish Equitable  runs the 
risk of sharing private information about  Mr R to someone else that he hasnt 
consented to.
Its a reasonable  step for Scottish Equitable to take, and other  companies not taking 
this step doesnt make  its actions  here any less reasonable. Its approaching this 
situation in a similar way to how it would deal with any third party. 
Ref: DRN98966642Mr R didnt agree with the investigators opinion and hes asked for the matter to be referred 
to an ombudsman for consideration. But other than to say he doesnt agree, Mr R hasnt 
provided any further comments. 
This matter has been referred to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that this matter may have caused Mr R some inconvenience and I 
acknowledge that he believes Scottish Equitable has breached the Equality Act. However,  
the Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution service; its not a 
regulator and neither  do we have any enforcement powers under the Equality Act 2010. So 
its not my role to determine if there has been a breach  of the Equality Act. That would be for 
a court  to decide. My role is to consider whether Scottish Equitable has treated Mr R fairly 
and reasonably in the individual circumstances of this case.  
Businesses are required to make reasonable adjustments so that disabled people  are not 
disadvantaged when using services. In this instance Scottish  Equitable has said that it is 
willing to communicate  through  the Text Relay service. But it isnt willing to do so until its 
received a letter of signed  authority from Mr R, along with a password or passphrase.  Its 
said that once  this is received, it will update Mr Rs plan to show that he has provided 
authority for it to communicate with him via this Text Relay service. 
I appreciate Mr R is frustrated that Scottish  Equitable insisted that he provided authority.  But 
I havent seen  any evidence that makes  me think its treated him unfairly in this situation. 
Scottish Equitables  stance here relates  to its duty to keep Mr Rs pension secure. Its a 
matter for Scottish Equitable to decide  how it does that. I dont  think I could reasonably  find it 
at fault for refusing  to disclose Mr Rs plan information to the Text Relay  assistant without 
first having  Mr Rs authority. This procedure is in place  for all customers  using a 
representative or intermediary. And Im not persuaded  that Mr R was treated less favourably  
due to his disability. Ultimately, Scottish  Equitable hasnt refused to speak to Mr R using this 
service; it just requires his authority first so it can make sure its records show  that he will be 
communicating using  the text relay service going  forward. 
As I understand it, this authority has now been provided and Mr R is now able to 
communicate with Scottish Equitable using this service.   
Mr R also believes  the manager he spoke to on the day was rude to him. Initially  Scottish 
Equitable said the call hadnt  been  recorded but it has now been able to locate this call. And 
a copy has been  provided to this service.
Ive listened to the call. The manager explained  what was required in order  for Mr R to be 
able to communicate with Scottish  Equitable using the Text Relay service. He also explained 
that Mr R would need to write in and he explained  why it wasnt  possible for him to issue a 
letter for Mr R to sign and return. I didnt  think  the manager was rude but Im sorry Mr R felt 
this was the case. 
Ref: DRN98966643Overall, having considered everything  submitted, Im not upholding the complaint as I dont 
consider Scottish  Equitable have treated Mr R unfairly. 
final decision 
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9896664