K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about  a car he acquired using finance with Volkswagen  Financial Services  
(UK) Limited, trading  as Seat Financial Services. Mr M says it has not allowed him to hand 
back the car and end the finance  agreement  after he complained that the sale of the car was 
misrepresented. 
background
Mr M acquired a new car using finance  provided  by Volkswagen Financial  Services  (UK) 
Limited (Volkswagen) under a hire purchase agreement in March  2018. Mr M says this 
happened after he saw an advert  on a website for company C for a new Seat Ibiza. The 
advert offered one years  free insurance  with the car. Mr M signed  an order form on 30 
November 2017  and he was told that the car would be ready to collect  in March 2018.
Mr M was involved in an accident in  December 2017. He made an insurance claim for this.
After Mr M had placed his order for the car, the dealer contacted him and said that they 
didnt offer free insurance. The dealer  could  provide  it for an annual  premium of £350.  Mr M 
contacted the company  C to complain as the insurance was advertised as being free. On 
11 February company C confirmed that the dealer had agreed to honour the offer of free 
insurance.
On 12 March 2018, Mr M went to collect the car from the dealer. He was told that he wasnt  
entitled to the free years  insurance. This was  because  it wasnt available to anyone  that 
had made an insurance claim within the last three years. Mr M called Seat whilst he was at 
the dealership  and said that he didnt want the car, and asked to cancel the order. Mr M 
was advised  that he could cancel the finance agreement, but the balance would still be 
payable to the dealer. He would lose his deposit.  Mr M felt he had no choice but to accept 
the car. 
Mr M complained to Volkswagen. It said he would have to raise  the matter with the dealer  
as it was their responsibility.  Mr M was not happy  with this response and he brought a 
complaint to us to consider. 
The investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She considered that 
under section 56 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974  (CCA) the finance provider can be held
liable for a misrepresentation made by the broker, because the broker is acting as an agent 
of Volkswagen.
The investigator noted that Mr M said he bought  the car on the basis  that he would be 
entitled to one years  free insurance. He was not however entitled to it as he had made a 
recent insurance claim.  Mr M points out that the advert for the car didnt mention that a 
certain criteria needed to be met to benefit from the one years  free insurance. The 
investigator agrees  this was the case.
The investigator noted that the accident  happened  after Mr M had signed  the order form for 
the car. The investigator considered that Mr M would still have gone ahead with the order 
even if he had been made aware that there were certain exclusions regarding  the free 
insurance.
Ref: DRN93426732The investigator  considered that the emails of complaint Mr M sent to company C showed it 
was important that he received free insurance. Mr M could  have cancelled the contract  but 
he would have lost his deposit. Mr M said he would have cancelled  the order if he had 
known that he wasnt going to be entitled to the free insurance.  He did not however as he 
would have lost his deposit.  Mr M says he would have  looked  at what  type of car he could 
insure for a cheaper premium.
The investigator noted that Mr M was trying  to reduce  his outgoings, as he was taking a pay 
cut. His monthly  repayments for the previous agreement were £308 and the monthly 
repayments under this agreement are £199.60.  Mr M says that he was expecting a pay rise 
in April 2019.  He would have been  able to afford to pay for insurance at this point. Mr M has 
found it difficult  to meet the insurance  payment.  The investigator considered  that Mr M 
agreed to take the car as he thought  he was not able to cancel the order.  The investigator 
considered the free insurance offer has been misrepresented. She considered  that Mr M 
was induced into buying  the car because of the insurance offer. If he had been made aware 
that he might  not be entitled  to it, he would have cancelled the order in December 2017. 
The investigator considered that when Mr M went to collect the car, the dealer should have 
made it clear  that he had the ability to cancel the order  of the car. 
Mr M has also said that hes paid for insurance. The investigator  considered Mr M has had 
the benefit  of this cover so he should receive  a pro-rata refund for this. The deposit should 
not be refunded  as Mr M would have lost this anyway.
The investigator recommended that Volkswagen should allow Mr M to reject the car and 
arrange to collect it at no cost to him. It should  remove all records  of the agreement from his 
credit file. Volkswagen should  also make a pro-rata  refund of the insurance  plus 8% simple 
interest from the date the payment was made until the date its refunded. 
Mr M was not happy to accept the investigators recommendation. He says that he has paid 
£1791 under the finance agreement in the last nine months. Mr Ms car has a mileage  of 
12,000. Because of this, he has accumulated £432  in excess mileage fees.  If Mr M returns 
the car, he will lose his deposit as well as the sums he has paid under the finance 
agreement. Mr M will also have  no car if he returns it. Mr M wants  to be paid for the money 
he has paid under the finance agreement as well as the insurance costs. This is £1,359 once 
the excess mileage fee has been  deducted.  Mr M would like to receive a refund of the 
insurance he has paid. Mr M points out he is worse off in the sum of £3,573.93  as a result of 
the mis-selling. 
The investigator issued  a second view. She noted  that Mr M said he would  have looked to 
buy a car that was in a lower insurance group if he could have cancelled the order.  The 
investigator considered Volkswagen should  have allowed Mr M to cancel the contract. Mr 
M thought his only option was to go ahead with it. Mr M does not now want  to cancel the 
finance agreement  as he has made  payments under it since  March  2018. 
The investigator noted that the car Mr M acquired was in a low insurance  group. It is 
unlikely Mr M would have  bought a car in a lower  insurance group than this one. However, 
the investigator considered Mr M should  have been able to cancel the contract. Paying the 
insurance had caused him difficulty.  The investigator recommended that Volkswagen 
should pay Mr M £250 compensation  for this. This also includes any increase in premium  
that hes had to pay, on the basis that he could buy a car in a slightly lower insurance 
group.
Ref: DRN93426733The investigator  did not consider that Volkswagen should refund the monthly payments Mr 
M has made  towards the agreement. This is because Mr M has had use of the car and has 
said that he wants to keep it.
Mr M did not agree  with the investigators second  view. He said he previously considered 
he should be able to reject the car as it was mis-sold to him. Mr M has made payments of 
£1,990 under the agreement. He has also paid 12 months insurance at a cost of £1,782.93. 
Mr M agreed he had use of the car so he should  not be refunded  for the £1,990. He would  
like to be refunded for the cost of the insurance. 
In response  to these comments, the investigator noted that Mr M had said if he had been 
able to cancel the order of the car, he would have tried to find a car with a cheaper 
insurance premium. Mr M would have had to pay for insurance although this may have 
been lower than what he actually paid. 
Mr M asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He said he may have 
chosen not to buy a car once he knew about  the insurance cost. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M but whilst I think Volkswagen have made  a mistake here, I 
agree with the investigators suggested  resolution  of this case. I know its not what  Mr M was 
hoping for.
Ive read and considered  the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think  about  it but because I dont think I need to comment  on it in order to reach  
what I think is the right outcome.
The relevant law says that if Mr M was told something that was incorrect,  and if he relied on 
this information when  deciding to enter  into the contract with Volkswagen, then I could 
reasonably hold Volkswagen responsible for this misrepresentation and ask it to put things 
right.
Mr M does not however want to reject the car. He would  like to receive a refund of the 
insurance he has paid.  The investigator noted  that the car Mr M bought  was in the lower  
insurance bracket. She considered Mr M had the benefit of the insurance policy, and that he 
would have had to have  paid for insurance on another  car if he had cancelled his order with 
Volkswagen. In these  circumstances, it would not be fair for Mr M to be refunded  the cost of 
the insurance he had paid.  
Mr M does not agree as he says he may have chosen not to buy a replacement car. I am not 
persuaded that this was the case.  In an email to our investigator on 10 September 2018, Mr 
M said as follows:
The only reason I purchased a brand new Seat was because  it came with the free 
insurance, otherwise I would have  bought  a second hand  car to keep costs down .
Ref: DRN93426734I find on balance  that Mr M would  have  bought  another  car if he had cancelled  the order  
with Volkswagen.  He would  have  had to pay insurance  on this car. It may have  been  
lower,  but I find the compensation  recommended  the by investigator  would  compensate  
Mr M for the difference  in the two insurance  amounts.  I find £250  compensation is 
sufficient for the trouble and upset  caused to Mr M by the mis-selling. 
my final decision
My decision  is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Seat Financial 
Services should pay Mr M £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Rosemary Lloyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9342673