K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of the replacement phone supplied  by Assurant General 
Insurance Limited under a mobile  phone  insurance claim. 
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision, which forms part of 
this final decision.  In brief summary I said I intended  to uphold the complaint in part. I include 
here an extract from my provisional decision:
Mr H has mobile phone  insurance  with Assurant, linked to his bank account. He made  a 
claim to Assurant as his phones were  accidentally damaged. Assurant replaced both phones 
with refurbished models. Mr H complained about the quality of one of those replacement  
phones. In particular, he said the phone casing had stone chips,  damage on one corner  and 
a scratched camera lens. 
Assurant asked Mr H to send photos of the damage, which he did via this service. Assurant 
said the damage was only cosmetic  and Mr H hadnt  said it affected the performance of the 
phone. So it wouldnt  agree to replace  the phone. Our investigator  thought  that was a 
reasonable response, because the policy did provide refurbished rather than brand new 
phones. Mr H didnt  agree so the complaint was referred for review. 
Before wed completed  our review Mr H then told us that the phone  wouldnt switch on. Our 
investigator referred this to Assurant as a fresh complaint, and Assurant has since given a 
response to that complaint. In brief it offered to pay Mr H the cost of repairing the phone, 
subject to proof of that repair and the amount  he paid.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
This decision is confined  to Mr Hs original complaint about the external quality of the 
replacement phone that Assurant sent to him. Ive not investigated the complaint about  the 
phone later not switching on, and if Mr H wants to pursue that issue hell need  to make a 
new complaint to us. Our investigator  has explained that to Mr H.
Im aware Mr H had wanted  to speak to me before I issued my decision. But I dont need any 
more information  to decide  his complaint. I say this because Ive reviewed all Mr Hs 
comments and Ive listened to his telephone conversation with our investigators manager.  In 
that conversation  Mr H explained in detail his concerns  about  the quality of the phone  that 
Assurant sent to him.  
Mr H has explained that a relative and a colleague have had phones replaced by Assurant  
and theyve been of a higher quality than the one he received. He accepts the policy  allows 
Assurant to send  him a refurbished or remanufactured  phone, but even so he says the 
quality isnt acceptable. Hes described  the damage  to the phone, which is for his teenage 
daughter. Hes explained that his original phone was pristine with a screen  protector and 
case kept on it at all times. He said the damage  to the replacement  phone was such that she 
didnt use it and didnt  take it out of the box. He didnt originally put a SIM card in it because  
of the condition. 
Ref: DRN99581602Mr H has described the damage  as being several  stone  chips, a dent in the corner  and a 
scratch on the camera lens. He said the phones distinctive logo was partially rubbed of[f]. 
Ive looked at the photographs and Ive also considered  Mr Hs comments that he wasnt  
able to take high quality  photographs of the damage.
I see that Mr H complained about  the quality of the phone at the time he received it. He 
offered to send the phone back to Assurant  at his own expense  so it could inspect the 
damage. Alternatively he said that he could take the phone into his bank. Assurant  said it 
needed photographs,  but when  he sent those photographs it said the damage  was only 
cosmetic.
I can see Assurants point, but I dont think it could properly assess the quality of the phone 
without actually seeing it. Mr H made  a reasonable offer to send the phone  back to Assurant  
for its inspection and made that offer as soon  as he received it. 
I accept that superficial damage  wont affect the functionality of the phone, but I think Mr H 
could expect a phone  which was of reasonable quality and like-for-like as compared  to his 
original phone. Hed said the camera lens was scratched, so to my mind  that could affect the 
functionality of the phone.  
Unfortunately Mr H has explained his daughter has been without a working  phone  since  
then. I think arguably he could have sent the phone to Assurant when it wouldnt switch on 
(in the bag Assurant sent to him). This would have avoided some  of the inconvenience, even 
though he says hed lost confidence in Assurant by that point. It could also then have seen 
the quality of the phone.  
Time has now moved on, and Mr H has had the phone  repaired. I assume  from this that hes 
now decided  to use the phone. So I think this current complaint is now about Mr Hs lost 
opportunity to have  Assurant inspect the phone. Its possible Assurant wouldnt have 
replaced the phone, but we would then have a report to show  the quality of the phone and its 
functionality. 
I think this matter has been frustrating for Mr H who has been clear and consistent about  his 
concerns from the outset.  He wasnt entitled to a pristine phone, but I think the issues he 
described with the phone were worthy of an inspection by Assurant. To compensate him for 
its failure to deal with his concerns I intend to award him £150  compensation. I think  this is a 
fair amount in all the circumstances. 
Ive also thought about Mr Hs comments about the time taken for Assurant to deal with his 
original November 2018 claim. Ive looked at the sequence of events, and while  it did take a 
few weeks I think this was because Assurant needed information including  proof of usage. 
Mr H arranged to send  this to Assurant but it wasnt able to review  the information  in the 
format it was sent. So I dont intend to award any compensation for the handling  of the 
original claim.
responses
Mr H said he accepted  my provisional  decision.
Assurant didnt accept  my provisional  decision, and said,  in summary:
Ref: DRN99581603During his telephone  conversation with Assurant on 4 December 2018 Mr H 
explained his concerns  with the phone: various  stone  chips/scratches;  a bump on the 
left hand side;  a mark under the camera lens on the back of the phone  (not on the 
lens itself). These issues were cosmetic with no reported functionality issue.  Assurant 
sent the call recording  for me to listen to.
I implied Mr H had sent photos to Assurant, which wasnt the case. He said he 
couldnt provide  them  but then sent them to this service shortly afterwards. 
The policy terms and conditions say it can provide remanufactured (refurbished) 
replacement phones. Assurant quoted the information on the public website of an 
organisation intended to support consumers. The website  lists the quality of mobile  
phones, listed  as Grades A, B and C, as follows:
Grade Aappears new or has only very minor  signs of handling or wear.
Grade B may have scratches, chips or other forms of light cosmetic damage.
Grade Cwill show signs of wear; expected to look used. 
So Assurant says the above list shows that it is expected that refurbished  mobile 
phones will show light cosmetic damage. As no functionality issues  were reported 
there was no need for Mr H to return the phone   even though he offered to do so. It 
was reasonable  for Assurant to ask for photographs  to consider the issue  before 
agreeing to him returning the phone.  
Ive said that Mr H has had the mobile phone repaired, but he didnt return  the phone  
while under warranty  - having reported  it wouldnt switch on at a later date. It asked 
for evidence of this to show it had a fault, and hes not provided  that, so it doesnt 
assume the device  is faulty at this stage.
In summary, it didnt agree for Mr H to return the mobile phone but it was reasonable 
to ask for photographs  first. If hed reported a functionality issue then it would have 
sent him the documents necessary for him to return the phone  to it. But with it being 
a cosmetic issue it would want to explore this further with Mr H, as it wouldnt want to 
leave him without a mobile phone that might then be returned to him if it was just 
minor cosmetic damage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought  about all the comments made by Assurant, but they dont change my 
overall opinion  about the fair outcome to this complaint. Ill explain why and in doing so Ill 
focus on what I find to be the central  issues. 
Ive listened to the call recording that Assurant sent me. I accept Mr H said that the damage 
wasnt to the camera  lens itself. But overall  I dont  think  the call recording assists Assurants 
position. It shows that Mr H called it within 20 minutes of receiving the replacement handset. 
He explained  the problems with it, and said it looked as though it had been dropped on the 
floor. Mr H said the quality  was very poor compared to one his colleague had received (and 
that Mr H had signed for and inspected). He said photographs just wouldnt show the poor 
quality of the handset. The person  he spoke  to said the standard  Mr H described  wasnt 
Assurants usual standard and that theyd  usually arrange to replace the handset. He said 
hed add Mr Hs concerns to the existing complaint case. 
So even though Ive taken  this into account  I still think Assurant should have agreed to 
inspect the phone given Mr Hs clear concerns about the quality of the replacement  made  
as soon as he received  the replacement phone.
Ref: DRN99581604Mr H has always  accepted that Assurant would supply a refurbished replacement  phone. He 
hasnt complained about the quality of the other phone  that Assurant supplied.  But he says 
that his original phone that the disputed phone  replaced had been pristine with a screen  
protector on it. And the replacement was, in his view, not anywhere  near the standard of the 
phone that had been damaged. 
I do accept that Mr H didnt send photographs of the damaged phone to Assurant. But the 
reason that he didnt  send Assurant photographs was because he said he couldnt take 
shots that showed the damage  to the phone  clearly enough. He explained this from the 
outset, but at our request  did some  photographs to us which we passed on to Assurant. And 
in any event based on Assurants own arguments about the quality of the phone  those  
photographs wouldnt  have changed its view that the damage was merely cosmetic. 
I think Mr H was entitled to receive a like-for-like replacement for his damaged  phone. So 
that doesnt mean a new phone, as the damaged phone wasnt brand new when it was 
damaged. But using the grading that Assurant has quoted for refurbished phones  I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Mr H to receive  a phone that was of the standard  of the phone 
that was damaged. In other  words,  he was expecting to receive  a grade A phone  rather 
than a grade  B, and in the circumstances of this case  I dont think  that is unreasonable.
Ive not made a finding about  whether  the replacement phone was otherwise defective or 
not, because Ive not investigated or made  any findings on the repairs that Mr H says he 
carried out on that phone.  I made  that clear in my provisional decision.  And so this doesnt 
affect my finding that it would have been  reasonable for Assurant to agree to inspect the 
phone and consider whether a replacement was appropriate. If it had done  so then wed 
have a report about its quality and I could  assess whether Assurant had provided Mr H with 
a suitable replacement. 
Assurant has said that it didnt want to leave Mr H without a phone, but that wasnt  its reason 
for not accepting his offer to send it to him. Rather  it rejected this because  it said it wouldnt 
make any difference  to its decision. Also it was Mr H himself  who said he was happy  to send 
the phone  in to Assurant  at his own expense. I think Mr H lost the chance to have the phone  
inspected and, if appropriate, replaced.  And I still think £150  compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the specific circumstances of this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint in part. I require Assurant General 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr H £150 compensation for the lost opportunity to have his phone  
inspected and, if appropriate, replaced.
Assurant must pay the total compensation within 28 days  of the date on which we tell it Mr H 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision until the date of payment at 8% per year 
simple.
Ref: DRN99581605Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Assurant considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9958160