K820x#14complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC blocked nine transactions from processing and 
provided her with poor service. 
background
On the February  2018 Miss B attempted to make  a payment using her Metro bank card 
through an online website. Initially Miss B didnt have enough funds in her account to make  
the purchase, so the transaction  was declined. She then transferred money from another  
bank account  but the transaction was still unsuccessful. Miss B called Metro customer  
service to discuss the failed transactions and was advised to make  a further attempt. But 
again this was unsuccessful.  Miss B says she continued to try to make the payment and in 
total attempted the transaction on nine occasions, but none were successful. 
As it was an important transaction for Miss B, she decided to use another debit card and 
managed to make the purchase   but was concerned as shed previously  suffered  fraud  on 
this account. 
Miss B complained to Metro about  the failed  transactions and the customer  service she 
received. On reviewing  the complaint Metro said that Miss B had attempted  four transactions  
and these were rejected  because of insufficient funds and incorrect  expiry date. Miss B 
wasnt happy with Metros response so complained  to our service.  
One of our investigators  looked into Miss Bs complaint and didnt think that Metro had done 
anything wrong  in declining the transactions. She said that Metro only had four transactions  
on their system, and these were  all rejected for satisfactory reasons. Miss B didnt agree with 
our investigators outcome and said she attempted nine transactions with her Metro debit 
card, not the four theyve got recorded.  
As Miss B didnt agree  with the investigators  conclusions its been passed to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so I dont think that Metro 
need to do anything more. Ill explain why below.  
Ive looked at the evidence provided  by Metro  and Miss B for the date of the transactions. 
Metro provided me with an audit trail  which details a description of the transactions 
attempted, when and what  the outcome of the attempted transactions  were. Im summarised  
this in the table below - 
Time of transactions: Amount attempted: Outcome:
20:50 35.98 Not processed as expiry  date entered was 
incorrect
20:52 35.98 Not processed due to insufficient funds
21:19 30.98 Not processed as expiry  date entered was 
incorrect 
21:20 30.98 Not processed as expiry  date entered was 
incorrect 
Ref: DRN99125302 
Metro have evidenced they received requests for four transactions.  As one transaction was 
declined due to insufficient funds and the expiry date was entered  incorrectly on three  
occasions, Im satisfied it was fair for Metro to decline  the transactions.
 
Miss B has provided evidence to show she attempted to make  a purchase through the online 
website on nine occasions  and I dont  doubt this is the case. I understand its frustrating for 
Miss B but I can see that only four of these attempted  transactions were received for 
processing by Metro. And for me to hold Metro  responsible I need  evidence that one or more 
of the attempted transactions werent  processed by the business when they should have 
been and Im satisfied  this isnt the case. 
Ive listened to the two phone calls between Miss B and Metro about  the transactions. Im 
satisfied that Metro advised  Miss B of the reason the transactions didnt process   and in 
doing so I dont think they should have done more.  
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont think Metro need to do anymore here. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2019.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9912530