K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002 by post.  Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
BoS had to make Mr M aware the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before adding the 
PPI to his card. Mr M has told us that he wasnt given a choice in taking the policy.  BoS has 
sent us a copy of the application form Mr M completed when  he applied for his card and PPI. 
The application form had a separate section for PPI where Mr M has ticked, and signed to 
accept the PPI separately to agreeing to take the card. With this in mind  I think  BoS made it 
clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it out  although  I can 
understand why he may not remember this.
BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr M got the information  he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr M about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  he had available of making 
his repayments  which included good sick pay from his employer. But the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to Mr Ms sick pay, and for longer than he would  have received full pay.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - including what has said about not being told 
he could cancel the PPI at any time and that other  policies were available. But As Ive said 
above I think Mr M would  have been  aware the PPI was optional,  and BoS didnt have to 
give Mr M information about other products.  So  these points dont  change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr M paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr M back  some  of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
If BoS hasnt already,  it will make arrangements to pay Mr M now Ive issued  my final 
decision. 
Ref: DRN99206872my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9920687