K820x#14complaint
Mr D says that National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a regular premium 
Payment Protection  Insurance  (PPI) policy when he took out a credit  card.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1997.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ds credit card account when he took out a credit  card with NatWest.
The cost of the PPI policy  was £0.75  per £100 of the outstanding monthly balance. If Mr D 
couldnt work due to accident or sickness or if he lost his job a successful claim wouldve 
paid10% of the outstanding monthly  balance on Mr Ds credit card for up to 12 months per 
claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She thought the policy was 
presented as optional and wouldve provided  a useful benefit.
Mr D disagreed. He says he wasnt given all the information on the cost of the policy  and 
thought it was free. He says he didnt  know he was signing for insurance.   
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
NatWest had to make  it clear the PPI was optional and make sure Mr D agreed  to take it. Mr 
D says this wasnt done. Mr D hasnt given us much  detail  about what made him think this. 
But I think thats understandable  as the PPI was sold a while ago. So Ive relied  more  on 
what the documents from the time show and what we know about  how NatWest  sold PPI at 
the time.
NatWest has given  us a copy of the credit card application form. I can see on it there is a 
separate section  that deals with PPI headed  Credit Card Repayment Protector. Within this 
section it gives a brief description  of what PPI is and asks the customer to sign in one of the 
boxes  YES to take PPI or NO to decline the cover.  If signing the YES box it asks that 
you read the Credit Card Repayment  Protector, Your Cover Explained section in the 
insurance leaflet.
I can see that Mr D has signed in the box to take PPI. If Mr D didnt want to take out PPI then 
he couldve  signed in the NO box. So I think its likely Mr D knew he had a choice about  
taking out PPI. And Im satisfied Mr D signed  for PPI because he wanted the cover as there 
were other free products  on offer such as NatWest Card Protection which he didnt select 
to take. 
Ref: DRN94728342Because of the type of application form Mr D completed I dont think  the sale was advised.  
What this means is that NatWest didnt recommend PPI to Mr D, it just gave him information  
about PPI. This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so he could make an informed choice  about buying PPI. 
Mr D says NatWest  failed  to give him sufficient  information for him to make  an informed 
choice in taking  the policy. Its possible NatWest didnt do things properly when making sure 
the information provided on the policy was good  enough.
But that being said even if NatWest did give all the information  Mr D needed to make  an 
informed choice on taking  out the policy, I think he wouldve still taken the policy  because  at 
the time of the sale:
Mr D was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr D says he was entitled to a good level of sick pay but had 
no other means of making his repayments  if he couldnt work.  But the policy  wouldve 
paid out of top of his sick pay and for potentially longer. So I think  the policy wouldve 
provided a useful benefit for him. 
There is nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr D and if he no longer 
wanted the policy he was able to cancel it - as was outlined  in the policy  booklet 
NatWest say wouldve  been sent to Mr D after the sale. 
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr D on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it suited his needs and was of 
value to him.
Which means NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But NatWest  has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
When the policy was sold, NatWest expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr D about that. 
Because NatWest  didnt  tell Mr D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN94728343my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mr D any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9472834