K820x#14complaint
This complaint has been brought by Mr P, with the consent of Mr R, the Official Receiver in 
relation to Mr Ps bankruptcy.  Mr P is unhappy  at the actions of solicitors appointed by 
Santander UK Plc to deal with Mr Ps mortgaged property. (I will refer to Mr R as the OR and 
Santanders solicitors  as AL throughout this decision.)
background
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to over 1,200 pages of documents.  Ive read 
everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
Ill summarise  what happened briefly. Mr P owned  a buy-to-let (BTL) property which  was 
mortgaged to Santander in 2006. In 2016 Mr P was made bankrupt  and his assets became 
subject to the control of the OR.  From  2016 the property was occupied by tenants and the 
OR began  collecting the rent, although  it appears  that in 2018 the property was unoccupied 
and had been damaged  after a lorry collided with it.
Up until May 2017 the mortgage  repayments  were made by direct debit, but from June 2017 
this ceased and arrears  began  to accrue.  No payment was received until January 2018, 
when a cheque  for just over £6,000 was paid by the OR, reducing the arrears to about £925.  
It appears another cheque was sent by the OR in April 2018, which Santander  didnt receive, 
and which  it appears  was never cashed.
In June 2018 Santander referred the matter to AL, because the arrears had continued to 
increase and were  at that point around  £5,400.
A further  cheque for £2,725.45 was sent by the OR on 7 August 2018, but Santander wasnt  
initially able to credit  this to the mortgage account. Santander said thats because  the 
mortgage account number wasnt quoted on it, and so Santander had to pay it into a holding 
account. The cheque  was finally identified as being for Mr Ps mortgage account  in February 
2019, following  the court hearing. Santander  backdated the credit to August 2018 and 
adjusted interest accordingly.
Mr P is unhappy that he had to instruct solicitors and attend court (which he did in person, 
without his solicitors) on 12 February 2019,  where the case  was adjourned pending AL 
confirming the position on the cheque from the OR. Even though Santander  was able to 
locate the payment after the court hearing, Mr P says he was never informed  about  this.
The debt to Santander has now been cleared, but Mr P remains unhappy at the way AL, as 
Santanders agents, dealt with the matter. 
Ref: DRN93492652In January 2019 Mr P offered to make payment of £1,000 per month  over and above the 
contractual instalment of about £912.  But he says that, despite making numerous payment 
proposals, and completing  two financial  statements, AL failed to respond to his offers  of 
payment. Instead  Mr P says AL went ahead with legal action on 12 February 2019 (when the 
court hearing was adjourned), notwithstanding  that Mr P had made  payment proposals  and 
had raised concerns about missing payments. 
Mr P complained to Santander, but the complaint wasnt upheld. Dissatisfied with 
Santanders response, Mr P brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  An 
investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that Santander and AL hadnt done  anything wrong.
Mr P didnt accept this and asked  for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. Hes reiterated  
that AL failed  to respond to his proposals,  and if they had, this would  have avoided  the 
matter going to court. Mr P disputes  that AL didnt receive  an email he sent, which  he says 
isnt possible.  Mr P says that he no longer has any legal  issues with Santander, but the 
investigator exonerated the bank entirely  and indicates that I had mal intent. Mr P doesnt 
agree that legal action was inevitable, and says he made every effort to clear the arrears  in 
good time and in good faith.  
Mr P says that it is not fair that timely offers  of payment were ignored, or that missing  
payments were treated as if they did not exist.  Mr P also says that he was bullied into 
attending court.
As the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision on the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I have disappointing news for Mr P; Im not upholding his 
complaint. These are my reasons.
First, I acknowledge that the events which led to the accumulation  of arrears on the account 
appear primarily to have been  as a result of the actions of the OR, rather than Mr P. 
Although the OR was collecting rent from the tenants, the OR didnt make monthly payments 
to Santander,  as a result  of which arrears accumulated. One cheque sent by the OR in April 
2018 wasnt received by Santander; another contained no information which would  enable  
Santander to locate the account into which the payment should be credited. None of this is 
the fault of Mr P, but its not Santanders fault either.
Indeed, I note Mr P made a complaint to the Insolvency Service in 2018 about the actions of 
the OR. In response  to that complaint, in a report dated 15 June 2018  (the report), it was 
acknowledged that, although the legal title to the property was registered in Mr Ps sole 
name, the equitable  interest in the property was held in trust as tenants in common,  Mr Ps 
wife owning 99% of the beneficial interest  and Mr P the other  1% (which vested in the OR on 
Mr Ps bankruptcy). The report says I think it is fair to say that the finer points  of the way this 
property is owned,  and the ways  the various  obligations are attached  to it, were not fully 
appreciated by the OR in the conduct  of the bankruptcy.
Ref: DRN93492653The report  also notes that there  was significant delay by the managing agents in paying  
rent to the OR. But it was agreed that the OR would pay the outstanding  rent to Santander.
As I have already  noted, the OR didnt include sufficient information on the cheque  sent in 
August 2018 to enable Santander to identify the account to which it should be credited. It 
wasnt until February 2019 that this was traced to Mr Ps account.  If Mr P is unhappy about 
this, he will need to take it up with the OR, as it was the OR who completed the cheque 
without including  Mr Ps mortgage account  number on it.
But given the position on the account, I dont think Santander acted unreasonably in 
instructing AL to commence legal action.  I think that, even if the cheque had been paid in 
August 2018,  the arrears which continued  to accumulate were  still sufficiently high as to 
justify legal action  in February 2019.  
Ive noted what  Mr P has said about ALs apparent refusal to consider his payment 
proposals. Ive read everything Mr P has said about  this and reviewed the financial  
statements and email  exchanges between Mr P, AL and Mr Ps solicitors.
Mr P had made a proposal to clear  the arrears, but AL queried certain items on Mr Ps 
financial statements and asked for further information. I dont think this was unreasonable.  
Lenders are under  a duty to ensure that any payment  arrangements are affordable and 
sustainable. This means that if a payment offer appears either  to be too high or too low, its 
reasonable for enquiries to be made about the borrowers circumstances.
In the circumstances, I dont think AL acted unreasonably in seeking  clarification  from Mr P 
of his financial position. 
Mr P told AL in January  2019 that hed be able to pay an additional £1,000  per month  off the 
mortgage arrears. This isnt reflected in the payment history. From 1 March  2019 payments 
of £952.73 were made each month  from March  2019 to August 2019 inclusive. The monthly  
instalment due for this period was £911.02. If Mr P had set up this standing order,  payments 
of £1,911.02 would have  been made  from February 2019 onwards. By 1 September 2019  
the arrears were over £8,000.
Mr P didnt need Santanders consent in order to start paying  off the arrears. If Mr P thought 
he could afford to pay the monthly instalment and £1,000 per month off the arrears, there 
was nothing to stop him from doing  so at any time.  He didnt need Santanders permission 
for this, even if Santander was continuing  to query  Mr Ps financial statement. 
In the circumstances, I dont think AL ignored Mr Ps payment proposals. I think the enquiries  
AL was making  were legitimate, given that Santander needed to act responsibly in relation to 
any payment proposals, making sure that any arrangement didnt push  Mr P into additional 
financial difficulties. I appreciate Mr P is unhappy that AL said it didnt receive an email he 
sent; Mr P says this is impossible. Its outside  my remit to examine ALs IT system to 
determine whether  or not it was received. But, given  what  Ive said above, nothing turns on 
this, when the wider  circumstances are taken into account and my finding that AL didnt 
ignore payment proposals.
I appreciate Mr P was frustrated and upset that AL proceeded with the court  action. But 
given that the OR hadnt passed on the rental  payments (or had made payments  in such a 
way that they couldnt be traced  to Mr Ps account), I dont  think  Santander or AL acted 
unfairly in proceeding with legal action.  And I note that, although  Mr P had promised to pay 
Ref: DRN93492654just over £1,900  per month from February 2019  onwards,  those payments were  not, in fact, 
made.
It was Mr Ps choice to instruct solicitors in January  2019. Up until then Mr P was dealing 
direct with AL. Im also not persuaded that he was bullied into attending court.  The 
information from the OR about  the cheque sent in August 2019 wasnt  provided  to Santander 
until just before the hearing. It took a few weeks after that to finally  trace the payment, given 
that Santander had to go back through  thousands of payments made into its holding 
account. 
But even if the payment  had been  traced before the hearing, there were still substantial  
arrears and so I dont think it was unreasonable AL to go ahead  with the hearing. ALs record 
of the hearing  shows that the District  Judge  adjourned the case so that he could adjudicate 
in the future on an accurate arrears  figure,  once the position on the cheque had been  
clarified, and not because  the claim had no merit or there were no arrears.
I also dont think it was unreasonable, once  AL had been instructed, for Santander  to refer 
Mr P to AL. This avoided  unnecessary duplication  of work or confusion  in passing  on 
information. Generally  once a matter has been referred to solicitors, lenders will refer 
borrowers to their legal  advisers, rather than continue to deal directly with the matter. 
Theres nothing unusual  or untoward about this.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr P wanted. But after taking careful note of everything 
he, the OR, Santander and AL have said, I dont think Mr P has been treated unfairly or 
unreasonably. This means that I dont think Santander has done  anything wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means  that we are unable to consider the complaint any further,  nor enter  into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 September 2020.
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9349265