K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that Capita Employee Benefits Limited  gave them the wrong  
address to which they should send their application form for a life assurance policy.  This 
resulted in the form, which  contained  sensitive health information, being seen by someone  
else.  
background
Mr Ss employer  offered  life assurance  to him and his wife as an employment  benefit. The 
benefit was administered on the employers  behalf  by Capita. Mr S wanted to apply for the 
life assurance.  Capita  therefore provided him with an application form. Mr and Mrs S 
completed the form and sent it to the insurer at the address  given on the form.  
It turned out that the form was out of date and the address was therefore incorrect. Because  
it couldnt deliver the envelope, the Royal  Mail tried to return  the form to Mr and Mrs S. 
However, it read their postcode incorrectly. The form was therefore sent to another 
residential address  before  being  correctly delivered  back to Mr and Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Capita.  They said that its error had resulted in their application 
form, containing sensitive  medical information,  being seen by Royal Mail staff and someone 
at the residential  address.
Capita explained  that the problem had arisen  from its failure  to update  its documentation.  It 
apologised for this and offered £100  compensation, which it later increased to £150. It 
pointed out that the error in returning  the undelivered mail to the wrong address was made 
by Royal  Mail.
Mr and Mrs S were  unhappy at Capitas  response. They referred  their complaint to us. They  
said £150 was insufficient compensation for the distress caused by the thought that other 
people had seen  their sensitive medical information.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that the £150 offered  by Capita was sufficient compensation  for the overall trouble and upset 
caused to Mr and Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  accept the investigators findings. They pointed out that both of them 
had been affected by Capitas error  and they regularly had to walk past the address to which  
the Royal Mail had incorrectly returned their post, which added  to their distress.  They said 
that the problems over the delivery of the application form had resulted in them being without 
cover for a time.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint, I shall explain  why.
Ref: DRN95485572Its not in dispute  that Capita made an error.  As a result,  Royal Mail couldnt deliver Mr and 
Mrs Ss application form and had to return  it to them. I accept that this would have been 
inconvenient and potentially upsetting to Mr and Mrs S.
Royal Mail unfortunately read Mr and Mrs Ss address incorrectly and so returned  the 
envelope to the wrong  address. From there it was forwarded on to Mr and Mrs S. I recognise 
Mr and Mrs S are upset about this but, while this wouldnt have happened if Capita hadnt 
made its error in the first place, the second  error  was made by Royal Mail and so I think it 
would be more appropriate for Mr and Mrs S to direct their complaint to it. I dont  think  I can 
reasonably hold Capita responsible for the actions of Royal Mail.
As a result of the delay  in processing the application, Mr and Mrs S were  left without cover 
for a short period of time. However, Mr S contacted  the insurer and it eventually agreed  for 
the cover  to be reinstated. This would have caused  further inconvenience  to Mr and Mrs S, 
though there  was no financial  loss because they hadnt needed to make  a claim during the 
time they were without  cover.    
Mr S has said that his wife is particularly  distressed  by the thought of her information being 
seen by others but he hasnt elaborated to support why this should  be so. In any event, I 
have no reason to believe  anyone at Royal Mail read their application other than their 
address details which clearly needed  to be found so that the envelope  could be returned to 
them. Taking everything into account, I think Capitas  offer of £150 is fair for the trouble and 
upset it caused.
I note that Mr and Mrs S have made a separate complaint  to the Information  Commissioners 
Office. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9548557