K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2011 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs S say Skipton Building Society mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Skipton had to make  Mr and Mrs S aware  that the PPI was optional and gain their consent  
before adding it to their mortgage. Mr and Mrs S have  told us that they declined the policy.  I 
cant be certain what was said at the time the PPI was sold, but Skipton has provided us with 
a copy of the paperwork available from the time.  There is a section in the mortgage  
application where the decision  to take PPI has been  made. An eligibility  section for the policy 
has also been completed. In addition to this Mr and Mrs S have  both signed  the mortgage  
application in agreement with the selections that have  been made. With the above  in mind I 
think Skipton made it clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and that they 
chose to take it out.
Skipton recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs S so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them. Mr and Mrs S have  told us they would have  been entitled  to good sick pay when they 
applied for the PPI and had some savings.  But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to 
their sick pay and for longer than they would have received  full pay. The PPI would  also 
have prevented them from needing to use their savings if they had a need to claim.
Mrs S has told us about a medical condition she suffered from at the time she took the 
policy, but pre-existing medical conditions were only excluded  for 12 months under the 
policy. And based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time,  they 
werent affected by any of the remaining exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and they 
seem to have had a need for the cover. So I think it was right for them.  
Its possible the information Skipton gave Mr and Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Skipton  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs S have  said, but these points dont change my 
decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN92044702Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9204470