K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Allianz Insurance Plc has not properly  compensated her for a mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Although it didnt sell the policy to Mrs B the cover  was provided  by the insurer,  Allianz.        
It has been agreed that Allianz should  therefore accept responsibility for the sale,  and this 
complaint.
background
Mrs B complained to Allianz about a PPI policy shed been sold with a store card that later 
became a credit card.
Allianz upheld  the complaint and offered Mrs B £28.80 compensation. Unhappy  with 
Allianzs offer, Mrs B asked us to step in. 
An adjudicator from this service thought Allianzs offer was fair. Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings  so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Allianz has agreed to uphold the complaint about  the mis-sale of the policy.  So I wont look 
into how the PPI policy  came to be sold to Mrs B. Instead Ive looked at whether Allianzs 
offer of compensation is fair.
I think the compensation Allianz has offered Mrs B is fair. Ill explain  why.
When a business  mis-sells a PPI policy we expect it to put the consumer in the financial 
position theyd  be in if they hadnt taken it out (so far as is possible).
When working out how to do this on a charge card or credit  card,  wed expect  Allianz to 
refund the PPI premiums and any card interest or associated  charges caused by the PPI. 
Wed also expect Allianz to compensate the consumer for any periods when theyd been out 
of pocket as a result of the PPI. This should be at 8% simple  interest  per year.
In this case there is very limited information  about the PPI. In particular how much Mrs B 
paid for the policy. Allianz does not hold any statement data earlier than June 2000.          
That isnt surprising as businesses are not required to hold information indefinitely.  In cases 
like this I would expect  Allianz to make  reasonable assumptions to estimate the premiums 
paid by Mrs B.
What we do know is that Mrs Bs card was taken out in October 1997 and PPI was sold with 
it. The earliest statement  available  is from June 2000 and we can see that the PPI had been 
cancelled by then as the June statement has a balance but no PPI was charged.
So the PPI was cancelled at some  point between October 1997 and June 2000. It could 
Ref: DRN94100312have been cancelled as early as November 1997 or as late as May 2000.  I see that Allianz 
has assumed it was cancelled in May 2000 and I think this is fair to Mrs B.
Because Allianz has no statement data from before June 2000 it needed to estimate Mrs Bs 
use of the card from October  1997 to May 2000  in order  to work out the likely PPI premiums 
she was charged.  To do that its looked at how Mrs B used her card after June 2000 and that 
is what Id expect it to do.
I can see that Mrs B used the card sporadically.  For example between October 2000 and 
April 2003 it wasnt used  at all. And between June 2000 and September  2000 there was a 
fairly small  balance outstanding. Allianz  has taken this information and estimated that 
between October 1997 and May 2000  Mrs B would have been  charged £9.48 in PPI 
premiums. And looking at the available data that looks a reasonable and fair assumption to 
make. 
Allianz then calculated that Mrs B would have incurred interest of £14.88 because of those 
premiums and its offered  to refund this. It has also offered compensatory  interest  of £4.44 
(net of tax) for the time Mrs B had been out of pocket.
Taking all this into account I think Allianz has calculated the compensation in the way Id 
expect it to and has made  reasonable and fair assumptions where  it had no actual data.
my final decision
My final decision is that the compensation Allianz  Insurance Plc offered Mrs B is fair so I 
make no further award against Allianz  Insurance  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9410031