K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC unfairly reduced the credit limit on his credit card.
background
Mr R says Lloyds reduced  the credit  limit on his credit card from £1,500  to £500 in 2018. He 
says there  was a missed  payment  of £0.02 which was the fault of Lloyds.  Mr R says he paid 
the previous bill in full and that Lloyds has created a reason to reduce his credit limit.
Lloyds says there were  a number of missed or late payments from 2017 to 2018. It says the 
account terms and conditions allow it to make changes to Mr Rs credit  limit with or without 
notice. Lloyds says its not made a mistake and Mr R missed a payment  of £4.34 which it 
refunded as a gesture of goodwill. It says that led to the small  balance  that remained but it 
looked at Mr Rs account over a longer  period of time.
Mr R brought his complaint to us and our adjudicator didnt uphold it and thought Lloyds had 
dealt fairly  with it. The adjudicator thought the account terms and conditions  allowed Lloyds  
to change Mr Rs credit limit. The adjudicator also thought Mr R had incurred a number of 
late payment fees and thought that was likely to be the reason for the reduction rather  than 
the late payment  for the £0.02. The adjudicator thought it was up to Lloyds  to decide on 
these sorts  of issues based on its commercial judgement.
Mr R didnt accept that view and says the refund for £4.34 was due to a Lloyds error and that 
he had paid the previous  account  statement in full. He says there couldnt have been a late 
payment as he wasnt charged  a late payment fee. Mr R also says the letter  from Lloyds 
about the reduction took about a month  to arrive  and the reduction  had already taken  place 
when he received it. He would  like the credit limit reinstated.
The adjudicator looked at Mr Rs complaint again but in summary came to the same overall 
view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Mr R will be disappointed by 
my decision.
Ive looked at Mr Rs account terms and conditions  which I think  he would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. I can see that those  terms  and conditions make clear  that 
Lloyds can make changes  to a credit  limit following an account assessment and that Lloyds  
sets the credit limit. Those terms and conditions  also say that a credit  reduction can take 
place where for example there are missed  payments. Ive looked at Mr Rs account in the 
months leading  up to the reduction and Im satisfied there were  a number of missed  or late 
payments. So I dont think that Lloyds made  a mistake or acted unfairly in those 
circumstances by reviewing Mr Rs account and reducing his credit limit. And Im satisfied it 
made that decision in line with the account terms and conditions.
I appreciate that the last missed payment was for a very small amount following a gesture of 
goodwill payment by Lloyds. And I also appreciate that Mr R disputes that he owed it. But I 
dont think that matters as Im satisfied that for the reasons Ive explained,  Lloyds is entitled  
to make a commercial judgement on the credit  limit it offers its customers. And I cant fairly 
Ref: DRN91874922interfere in those  sorts  of business decisions. I also think it likely that when Mr R paid the 
May 2018 statement balance there was interest  that hadnt been added to that statement  
which led to the refund of that amount some  months  later. So I dont think  there was a 
mistake about that balance and whilst  its not clear why it was refunded   Ive not seen any 
evidence which suggests Lloyds made  an error. I also make clear  that I dont think  there  was 
a late payment fee in respect of the small balance  as Lloyds doesnt charge a fee for such 
small amounts.
I accept that Mr R didnt receive Lloyds  letter  about  the reduction until some time after it was 
sent and by that stage the reduction  had been  made. But I can see that Mr R did find out 
about it when  he called  in Lloyds in September. 
Overall Im satisfied that Lloyds hasnt made  a mistake or acted unfairly and is entitled to 
make the account  changes it did. So I cant fairly order Lloyds to increase Mr Rs credit limit.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9187492