K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he acquired using finance provided  by Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited.
background
In September  2016 Mr S used  a hire purchase  agreement with MBFS to acquire a brand-
new car. The cash price of the car was £42,950  a deposit of £622.81  was paid and the 
amount of credit provided was £42,327.18. The agreement was due to last 48 months.
However, Mr S is unhappy  with the car he suggests  it skips and drifts to the left., there 
were problems with the brakes and with noise  from a seat.  Mr S also mentioned  the recalls 
that the car had been subject to. Mr Ss stance  is that this means that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality and not as described when  supplied to him. 
Initially MBFS offered to allow Mr S to cancel the finance with it and return the car. He said 
though it only gave him two weeks to find a new car and he thought he would need  four 
months for this, so he did not accept this offer. He now wants to end the finance agreement 
and get his money back including  all repayments he has made towards the finance  
agreement.
Dissatisfied, Mr S came to our service.
We contacted MBFS for its take.  In summary, it told us the following. 
MBFS wanted us to know that Mr S had previously asked it for a refund of one years worth 
of rental  payments not all of his repayments. MBFS noted that when it initially  offered to end 
the finance, Mr S didnt  want this, and his concern seemed to be the potential excess 
mileage charge that he might have to pay. 
Further, MBFS did not agree that the tyre skipping was a quality issue. Rather  it indicated  it 
was a characteristic of the car which could become more pronounced in cold weather. It 
suggested Mr S hadnt complained about  this characteristic until he had had the car for three 
winters. By which time hed had plenty of time to experience  the characteristic. It didnt agree 
that it was obliged to mention every characteristic  of a car to a customer  before contracting  
with a customer.
MBFS mentioned also that the brake  pads  had been  changed as a goodwill gesture. 
However, it thought  the cause of any wear  to the brake pads was due to external 
influences like driving  style or stones caught in the brake pad area. It suggested it had 
never been able to replicate the drifting to the left. It said action was taken to resolve noise 
coming from a seat. Further  it said, Recalls  and Safety measures are not grounds to reject.
That said,  MBFS said it would still be prepared to accept the return of the car with nothing 
further owing  provided Mr S agreed to pay for any damage to the car and for any excess  
mileage. 
Moreover, MBFS said Mr S had told it that he wanted to keep the car. It questioned why he 
would want to keep  a car he had described as dangerous.
Ref: DRN99136162For all of these reasons, MBFS indicated it would not agree  to refund any money  to Mr S 
given, it thinks the car is of satisfactory  quality, he wants  to keep it and that he has used it 
continually.
After the complaint came to us Mr S mentioned that no one had told him about  this 
characteristic of the car before it was supplied to him. He suggested it should have been 
mentioned specifically in the brochure. He also let us know that he had complained to the 
Advertising Standards Authority because  he believes this characteristic, if it is a 
characteristic, which he disputes, ought  to have  been mentioned in the marketing materials 
for the car. Mr S appeared to suggest  that this meant the car had been misrepresented  to 
him as well as being not of satisfactory quality and not being as described.
He also told us that he was put under pressure by the dealership to go ahead with the 
acquisition of the car. He explained that he had seen the car at an event which  he had not 
been invited to. But he had been  picking up a different car at the same time as the event was 
going on. A sales  executive had handed  him a brochure and had told him about the car. 
Specifically, Mr S said.
I was told as this was a VIP event and that the prices are much  better  than normal, that the 
vehicle is likely to sell quickly. As it was a pressurised situation, I made a snap decision and 
bought the car without conducting any major  research and only going by the marketing  
material provided by Mercedes via the brochure  and sales executive
Moreover, Mr S said hed complained about the skipping issue  from very early  on in the 
contract. He told us he took the car in to the dealership  in October  2016  to complain about 
this issue, amongst other things. Although the dealership  told him nothing  was wrong with 
the car, he didnt believe  it. In addition, he thought  it must have done  some work on the car 
without telling him because the problem with the drifting was resolved at that point, so he 
carried on with the car.
Mr S agreed he had offered to keep  the car if MBFS gave  him one years rental back.  
However, he explained this was because  that would allow  him to part exchange the car and 
not make  what he thought  was an unacceptable loss. 
Mr S told us about his intention to go to court if his complaint is not upheld.
Mr S also sent us a summary of his complaint  he said, we thought it best I reconfirm  my 
claims, so it limits  the scope for interpretation  He then explained that his complaint was 
about the skipping issue. He explained  that he had every intention  of paying for his excess  
mileage. He had only asked  about the amount as that was a normal  thing to do in the 
circumstances.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint. He did not recommend upholding it. In short, 
he did not agree that the car was not of satisfactory  quality  and not as described nor was he 
persuaded that the car had been misrepresented to Mr S.
MBFS accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr S did not. In summary he sent us 
detailed responses,  including  a 34-page  response.  In that response he covered a number of 
matters, which included,  although this is not the full list:
Ref: DRN99136163His take on the offer he had received from MBFS which he concluded had not been  
made in good  faith by it.
He suggested  we had not looked  into his full complaint.
A number of new issues, namely a point about  the impact  of credit searches  on his 
credit file, an issue with the cars bonnet.
A query about  what a characteristic might  be.
Definitions of terms such as fault,  solution and problem.
His analysis of what he saw as contradictions in the information provided by MBFS.
His experience with the brakes  on his car.
Mr S asked that an ombudsman review  his complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive finished my review  of Mr Ss complaint. I have concluded I have no proper basis  to 
uphold it. I realise that this outcome  may well disappoint Mr S, please let me explain why I 
have reached this conclusion.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time.
The finance  agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit  agreement.  As such, this 
service is able to consider  complaints  relating to it. MBFS is also the supplier of the goods  
under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about  their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA) is of particular relevance  to this complaint. It says 
that under  a contract  to supply goods,  there is an implied term that the quality  of the goods 
is satisfactory. The CRA says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet  the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.  So, it seems likely  that in a 
case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances  a court  would take into account might 
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Ref: DRN99136164The CRA says the quality  of the goods includes their general  state  and condition  and other  
things like their fitness for purpose,  appearance  and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
As I mention above description  can be an element of satisfactory  quality. But in addition  to 
this Mr S appears to rely on the part of the CRA that says that where  goods  are supplied by 
description, the goods must be as described
MBFS supplied Mr S with a brand-new car with a purchase price of £42,950. In these 
circumstances, I think  it is fair to say that a reasonable  person would expect the quality level 
to be higher than a cheaper car that was say second-hand. And would also expect  the level 
of quality to be of a high standard compared  to similarly specified but more inexpensive new 
cars.
The key question here is whether the car has the issues Mr S tells us about  and does this 
mean that the car that was supplied was of unsatisfactory quality and not as described. 
MBFS has said that Mr S did not complain  about the skipping issue  for at least  three years. 
Further it has said if the issue does  exist then it is an acceptable characteristic rather than 
something which would give rise to a case for rejection under the CRA. I dont need to delve 
into Mr Ss analysis of words such as fault etc. The law is clear, what  matters  is whether the 
car was of satisfactory quality as defined by the law.
I have thought about whether or not the way the car is handling has been demonstrated. I 
have also considered whether this is a normal and acceptable characteristic of that model or 
type of car. I have  had regard to the fact that cars will handle  in a particular way that will not 
necessarily be considered a defect.  Depending on what type of car you choose (and to some  
extent how much you spend) there will be reasonably varying degrees of mechanical noise, 
vibration and smoothness.
However, while I accept that a skipping  sensation  might be more common  in certain types 
of car (such as the model which  Mr S acquired).  I also recognise there will be situations 
where the particular  nature of the issues experienced by a consumer can go beyond the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory.  This is relevant to the legal 
test in the CRA and one that I have had regard to when considering what is fair and 
reasonable here. 
My findings  are based on the particular circumstances of this complaint,  and specifically the 
situation concerning the car supplied  to Mr S. I recognise Mr S may not accept this 
approach, his reasoning seems to be that if other cars, which have the same make and 
model as the car MBFS supplied to him, and if they all have the same  circumstances (which 
I am not sure is what MBFS  is saying),  and if some  of these cars have been found to be of 
unsatisfactory quality,  then automatically  we must say this car is also of unsatisfactory 
quality. 
Mr S tells us that he has complained about the car skipping from the get-go. But he also 
says:  
We have been complaining about the skipping issue since  we have owned the vehicle but 
somehow there is no mention of it anywhere. Im confident  with enough investigation  I would 
be able to find something to show this.
Ref: DRN99136165However, MBFS suggest he made no mention  of the skipping issue until he had had the car 
for three winters. It has sent us records to show though that he complained about other 
issues, namely drifting to the left, the brakes, noise  coming from a seat and recalls.
Mr S suggests that the records of what he has complained about are inaccurate.  I dont  see 
why on balance that this is likely to be so. It is in the interests of the record  keeper to keep 
accurate records. I dont see why the records would show he complained  about other issues 
but not the skipping issue.
In the circumstances, I think if Mr S had complained  about skipping when he said he did then 
there would be a reference to this in the records. Further, I think if the issue  was as 
consistent and alarming as he suggests that it was, then I think he would have complained 
on several occasions just like he did with the brakes for instance and that would have been 
noted too. It follows I am more persuaded by MBFSs  account  of when Mr S complained  
about the skipping.
Further, the lack of mentions about  this skipping  issue  means I might have had difficulty in 
accepting that the car does indeed have this issue at all. But I accept that MBFSs final 
response letter seems to suggest  that his particular  car does have this issue.
What I cant assess though is the impact that this issue  has in this particular car. We offered 
Mr S the opportunity  to provide expert  information  to show how the issue of the skipping as 
well as the other matters  he complains  about presents in his car, but he declined.
That said,  the next point is, do any of the issues the skipping, the drifting,  the brakes the 
noise from the seat render  the car of unsatisfactory quality or mean it is not as described?
It seems  to me that both parties are suggesting  that the skipping and the other issues are 
separate issues. Certainly,  they are all mentioned as discrete items. Ive nothing  that shows  
all the items  are related. Mr S was unhappy  that we did not specifically deal with some of 
these issues before this is because we took it from what he said that the skipping issue  was 
what he wanted us to deal with. I dont  think this was a mistake on our part, Mr S himself  
summarised his complaint  points so thered be no misinterpretation and the skipping issue is 
what he told us he was complaining about.  However, because  he now says he wants  us to 
deal with the drifting, the brakes and the noise  from the seat I will do so. I will do this first.
Mr S told us that the drifting issue got resolved. MBFS told us that it investigated the drifting 
issue but found nothing,  either way I dont think there is anything  further  to add here as this 
no longer seems to be an issue. 
MBFS says the brake pads were changed more  than once. Mr S seems to agree  although  
Mr S also suggests this shows the car was not of satisfactory quality.  MBFSs records show  
that the brake pads were changed but as a goodwill gesture, rather  than because  anything 
was wrong. Further,  it suggests that grooving was found on the brake  pads, but this was due 
to external issues. Ive not seen anything from Mr S to contradict this assessment. If this was 
an inherent fault, I might have expected  the brake pads  to keep on needing changing but it 
seems since the last replacement, this has not been required.  On balance, I dont think  Mr S 
has demonstrated that the brake pad changes were  indicative of the car not being of 
satisfactory quality. 
Ref: DRN99136166Ive not got much information about  the seat noise, what  it was and what  caused  it. Although  
MBFS says it was resolved. And while Mr S tells us the seat noise was a problem at one 
point I dont know if it still is. And I dont have  enough  to say what  might most likely have 
caused it. It follows I cant find that this seat noise means the cars quality was not 
satisfactory.
As to the skipping, as I have mentioned MBFS have described  this as a characteristic  rather  
than an inherent fault. That said, MBFS have offered some  customers  service  actions  to 
alleviate the characteristic.  That in itself is not, I dont  think,  an acknowledgment by MBFS 
that this characteristic as it calls it, makes the car not of satisfactory quality.  I know Mr S 
sees it differently. But businesses can and do offer goodwill gestures to improve what  they 
categorise as a comfort  issue. That may be the case here.
The difficulty  for Mr S however, is that I dont  have information to show  how he is 
experiencing the skipping issue,  I have  no experts  report for example which initially  he said 
he intended to provide.  Without information about the degree and severity of the problem 
that Mr S says he is experiencing, Im not persuaded, in the very particular circumstances of 
this individual  complaint that this issue is something  that makes  the car not of satisfactory 
quality.
Mr S suggests the car is not as described,  this could be a breach  of contract if correct. 
Because as I mention above where goods are sold by description  the law says that the 
goods must conform to that description.  Also, if the car was misdescribed this could  also be 
a misrepresentation.  MBFS  is responsible for misrepresentations made by the credit broker  
in the negotiations that led up to the conclusion of the finance contract. In this context  a 
misrepresentation is a false statement of fact that Mr S relied on to his detriment and which  
led him to enter into the contract.
Mr S has told us about the VIP event he went to when he decided  to go ahead  with the 
contract. He suggests, because there was no mention of this characteristic in the brochure  
he saw then, there has been a breach of contract  and or a material  misrepresentation. But 
Ive not seen the brochure he saw I have seen  a brochure from December 2016 and what 
seems to be a brochure that is currently used so these cant have been what  he relied on in 
September 2016,  neither  can they have influenced  his decision. So, I dont know  what in 
fact he most likely read at the time. Though I think MBFSs response makes  it clear that the 
characteristic was not mentioned in its marketing material  at the time Mr S entered into the 
contract with it.
That said,  from his description  of what swayed him at the VIP event it seems it was the 
opportunity to acquire the car at an unusually good  price that won him over. He suggests he 
felt pressurised to go ahead then and there that does not sound to me like he spent time 
reading a brochure cover  to cover and thinking over its contents  before he made his decision 
even if he had been handed  it.
Further, I am satisfied as I said above  that Mr S didnt mention the skipping until the three 
winters had passed as MBFS suggested.  Given that Mr S took so long to raise the issue, it 
appears to me it was not that important to him, especially since he was quick  to raise  other  
issues. This leads me to conclude that even  if Mr S had known about the skipping issue  he 
would still have gone ahead.
Ref: DRN99136167For all of these reasons I am not persuaded that Mr S only entered  into the finance contract 
based on misrepresentation. Neither  am I satisfied that the car was sold by description  and 
was not as described.
The recalls  do not seem to add anything to this complaint. A recall does not necessarily 
mean that a car is not of satisfactory quality  or is not as described or has been 
misrepresented. The issues  covered  by the recalls  all seem  to have been sorted out in any 
event. 
For all of these reasons, Im not persuaded, in the circumstances, that Mr S ought  fairly and 
reasonably to be able to reject the car and be refunded by MBFS.
Mr S seeks  to demonstrate that his complaint is supported by other complaints seen by this 
service, which  he suggests turn on the same facts.  However, I would not be bound by my 
colleagues decisions in those complaints, because ombudsmens decisions are not binding  
precedents in the way that the courts decisions are. I am required to form my own view of 
this complaint, rather than to follow the views of others in other complaints. 
Mr S has raised points about the impact  of credit searches on his credit file and about  the 
bonnet of the car. These  appear to be new matters in the sense that they have not been 
considered by MBFS in its final response to Mr S or investigated within this complaint. It 
follows that I am unable  to look at these matters in this final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9913616