K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  was wrong to say her husband was 
responsible for an accident while he was driving  her car, after she claimed under her motor  
insurance policy.
background
Mrs Bs husband (Mr B) was a named driver under her policy and was driving Mrs Bs car 
when he was involved in an accident in a car park. The accident involved another  vehicle 
being driven by an uninsured driver. Mrs Bs car was written  off. Ageas found Mr B liable for 
the accident. Mrs B disagreed and complained to Ageas.  Her main complaint is that Ageas 
says Mr B was at fault. To support her complaint,  Mrs B made several observations.
 She says the other driver was travelling too fast and didnt brake when he saw Mrs Bs 
car, possibly because he was distracted by a child in the passenger  seat.
 Mrs B was very unhappy  that Ageas had taken the word of an uninsured  driver  over 
that of Mr B, who had been  a lorry driver.
 Mrs B says that the other driver didnt follow the main route around the car park, but 
emerged through a space in the row behind.
 Mrs B felt that Ageas had relied on a sketch  of the accident  scene that had been  sent 
with the claim and not the more detailed  statement  given  by Mr B.
 Mrs B says that Ageas told her the decision  about liability was made because 
whenever cases go to court involving someone  coming  out of a parking space, the 
court always find in favour of the other driver. This is because the first driver is 
considered to have pulled out in front of the other  vehicle.
Ageas rejected Mrs Bs complaint. It accepted that the other driver was uninsured, but 
pointed out that this doesnt mean the driver is automatically held liable. It said that the 
decision about liability was made  using what both drivers said and the evidence available. 
Ageas said it found no evidence  to prove  Mrs Bs suggestion that the other driver had been 
travelling too fast and may have been distracted. It decided  the fault rested with Mr B, as he 
emerged from a parking  space into the path of the other driver. Mrs B says she contacted  
Ageas to offer new information about the accident, which she followed up with a phone  call 
the next day. But Ageas didnt change its decision.  
Mrs B remained unhappy  and complained to us. In her complaint Mrs B reiterated  her strong 
belief that her husband was not to blame for the accident and that the other driver was 
travelling too quickly.  She was disappointed that Ageas hadnt  re-visited  its decision, despite  
the additional evidence shed provided. Mrs B wanted a statement exonerating Mr B from 
blame and a refund of the £100  policy excess.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Bs complaint, saying  our role isnt to decide who was 
responsible for the accident. Instead, we look at the evidence to check  that Ageas made a 
reasonable decision. The investigator felt that Ageas had done this, as the decision didnt 
appear unsound.
Mrs B didnt accept this outcome and asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman. 
She feels strongly that the decision was based on Mr Bs early  sketch  and that Ageas didnt 
take account of the additional information shed submitted. Mrs B also didnt agree that the 
damage to her car proved  the fault lay with her husband.
Ref: DRN94637152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it for the same  reasons  as the investigator.
Under the terms of Mrs Bs policy, Ageas is entitled  to handle claims as it thinks  appropriate. 
But this doesnt  mean Ageas can settle claims without good reason and proper 
consideration. 
Its not for me to determine  who is at fault for the accident.  In this case, I have to consider if 
Ageas came  to a reasonable decision taking into account all the evidence. To assess if the 
decision is reasonable, I looked  at whether all the available evidence was considered,  and 
that Ageass decision doesnt appear  unsound or contrary to what  the evidence  suggests it 
should be. 
Mrs B says that Ageas has only relied  on the sketch  of the accident and didnt consider the 
additional information she submitted after making the claim or the more detailed statement 
made by her husband. There  is nothing other  than Mrs Bs impression and concerns to 
suggest that Ageas didnt consider this extra information. And Ageas has confirmed  that all 
the available  information was considered, including the extra  details sent by Mrs B after 
shed submitted the claim. So, I think Ageas took all the available  information into account 
when coming to its decision.
There were no independent witnesses and there is no CCTV footage available. So, Ageas 
could only consider what both parties  said and the damage to the vehicles. Ageass notes 
suggest the other driver  said he was leaving  the car park when  Mr B emerged  from a parking 
space without warning  and the vehicles  collided. Ive looked at the photographs of the 
damage and can see why Ageas might take the view that Mrs Bs car was side on to the 
other vehicle  and wasnt completely out of the parking space when the collision  happened. 
Ageas said this meant that the other  driver had very little time to react. So, I think Ageass 
decision was reasonable, as Mr B was emerging from a parking space.
Im conscious that Mrs B feels strongly that her husband wasnt to blame  for the accident. 
Insurers record incidents on a database known as the Claims and Underwriting Exchange  
(CUE). There  are three  categories used by insurers when making an entry on the CUE.
A notification only incident  is where neither the policyholder nor the other  party make a 
claim following an accident.
A bonus allowed claim is where a claim is made by the policyholder or another party  
and the insurer  doesnt pay out or  if it does - is able to recover its costs.
A bonus disallowed claim is where  an insurer pays out on a claim made  either by the 
policyholder or another party  and the insurer isnt able to fully recover its costs.
In this case, Ageas is unable to fully recover its costs  so this will be recorded as a bonus 
disallowed claim. Fault or blame isnt mentioned. And even if the case  was settled on a 
50/50 basis it would still be recorded  as a bonus  disallowed claim, because  Ageas couldnt 
recover all its costs.
Im conscious that Mrs B has found  this matter extremely upsetting  and stressful. I wish to 
reassure her that I have  considered all the evidence  she presented very carefully. In this 
Ref: DRN94637153case, I think Ageas took all the evidence into account in coming to a reasonable decision 
which doesnt appear unsound or contrary to the evidence.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Geoff Pearson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9463715