K820x#14summary of complaint
Miss S complains  about the incorrect information  and lack of information  she received from a 
representative of Sesame Limited about her total pension value. The representative was 
STD Financial  Services  (STD). This has led to the pension value exceeding  Miss Ss 
pension Lifetime  Allowance  (LTA)  which  means that she will face an additional tax charge. 
She believes there has been a general lack of adequate pension planning provided by the 
Sesame representative.  
background to complaint
I issued a provisional decision on 17 April 2020. A copy  is attached  and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I set out that I did not believe the complaint about 
STDs actions after July 2015 would fall within my jurisdiction.  I also said that I could not 
uphold the complaint about STDs actions prior to that point. 
Sesame accepted the provisional decision. 
Miss S made further submissions. In summary she:
Referenced some  of STDs  pension  valuations. These made errors in relation to 
Miss Ss Citigroup  pension  and contained other errors. 
Said that STD should have been discussing with her the change  in the LTA of 2015. 
As her pension fund was approaching  this limit, advice should  have been provided as 
to the limit. If the valuation in April 2015 had been correct she could have stopped  
pension contributions  rather than continue  until 2017.
Said that although the STD adviser  said he could  not advise her after July 2015,  he 
agreed to undertake  a final pension valuation. The valuation date was to be April 
2015  which was within the period that the adviser was representing Sesame. 
Queried whether the adviser  should have provided the valuation at a time when he 
was not a representative of Sesame. 
Said that the relevant  date for the 2015  valuation  should be April 2015, not 
February 2016 (when it was eventually completed).  So Sesame is responsible. 
Queried whether, if this was not the case, under what authority was the adviser 
working when he supplied the valuation  in 2016?
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree,  as discussed  in the provisional decision,  that the valuation supplied  in 2016 was 
unlikely accurate and understated the total value  of Miss Ss pensions. However, as also 
discussed, it was finalised and provided when  the adviser couldnt provide  pension advice or 
services whilst representing  Sesame.  I have noted  what Miss S has said about the point 
when the adviser  agreed to put together the valuation (that being before July 2015). But I 
dont believe  it is correct  to say that this determines  the point of liability. The incorrect  
Ref: DRN90563972information was not provided  in April 2015,  it was provided in 2016   at a time when the 
adviser did not have  the authority of Sesame to provide  that kind of information. The error 
occurred in 2016, not 2015. 
Whilst I note that Miss S says that the LTA should have been discussed in April 2015, I have 
not seen evidence that such  a discussion took place or persuasive evidence that it should 
necessarily have been discussed  in April 2015. 
It terms of the advisers authority to provide  the pension valuation  in 2016,  I can only say, as 
this complaint had been brought against  Sesame,  that it was not supplied with Sesames 
authority.  
It is unfortunate that Miss S does not have  much in the way of records  of her dealings with 
STD previously. It is not clear what valuations Miss S was provided  with prior to 2016 (say in 
2014 or 2013). But in those years  the LTA was considerably higher. And Miss Ss pension 
valuation would likely have been  lower at that time. So it cannot be said with any certainty 
that STD failed in some way previously to highlight an issue with the LTA (whilst 
representing Sesame).
my decision
I am sorry  to disappoint Miss S, but I remain of the view that the complaint about  the actions 
(or lack of them) of STD after July 2015  would not fall within  my jurisdiction - as Sesame is 
not liable  for the acts about which Miss S complains.  
In respect of the period  before July 2015, I have not seen evidence  that would  mean I should 
uphold the complaint. 
I would reiterate that if Miss S is concerned about  the lack of service she received from 
another business after July 2015, she can separately make a complaint to that business if 
she wishes. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN90563973copy provisional decision
complaint
Miss S complains  about the incorrect  information and lack of information  she received from a 
representative of Sesame Limited  about her total pension value.  The representative was STD 
Financial Services  (STD).  This has led to the pension  value exceeding Miss Ss pension Lifetime 
Allowance  which means that she will face an additional tax charge. She believes there has been a 
general lack of adequate pension planning provided  by the Sesame representative. 
background
Miss S complained  to Sesame but it did not uphold her complaint.  It said that its representative was 
authorised to provide  pension and investment advice until 31 July 2015. In July 2015 the 
representative informed Miss S that he could  no longer advise on pensions  and investments. Sesame 
therefore said that it was not responsible for any advice  or information  with respect to pension after 
this point. 
In addition, because  its representative carried  out previous pension business for Miss S on an 
execution only basis it did not believe there was any obligation  to provide  ongoing advice about the 
suitability of her pensions including in relation to the Lifetime Allowance.  
Miss S referred her complaint to this service and it was considered by an investigator.  He did not 
uphold the complaint.  He did not believe  Sesame was responsible for any pension information  or 
advice (or lack of it) by its representative after July 2015,  particularly as the representative  had told 
Miss S that he could not provide that kind of information or advice  anymore. 
The investigator also considered what happened before July 2015.  He said that the firm (STD  
Financial Services) had been  appointed by Miss S as her financial adviser but he couldnt  see that the 
appointment did more  than allow the firm to receive  information from the businesses Miss S had plans  
with. It did not show Miss S was receiving financial advice from that firm. He thought the evidence  
showed that it was Miss S making pension  decisions. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
the valuation 
I understand that the Sesame representative  had been, prior to 2015, Miss Ss financial adviser. And 
he had also provided services in relation to Mrs Ss pension previously. On Miss Ss behalf he 
arranged a pension  policy  in November 2007 and conversion of a pension  plan in March  2010.  Both 
are described  in letters written by the adviser  to Miss S, to have been undertaken on an execution 
only basis. The term execution only refers to a situation where the customer  makes  investment 
decisions themselves without any advice as to their suitability
Miss S also says that the adviser provided her with regular valuations  of her pensions.  However I 
have only seen  one such valuation which is stated to be, April 2015  finalised 24/02/16.  The 
valuation says it is prepared by STD. This does include a section titled Lifetime Allowance which 
quotes the limit as £1.25m for 2015/16 and £1m for 2016/17. The total pension value on this valuation 
is about  £700,000. 
Miss S has confirmed that she was also paying  about £800  net a month in pension contributions in 
2016 and 2017.  
Ref: DRN90563974Miss S said that her total pension value  for the purposes of the Lifetime allowance around this time 
was about £1.3m. 
 
However valuations have now been obtained which I believe indicate  the total pension value for the 
purposes of the Lifetime Allowance was about £930,000 in early 2016.
The valuations I have seen (all dated about April 2016)  are:
Capita  WK*******   Defined  Benefit. Projected pension of £4,000 a year,  valued  at £80,000 
for Lifetime allowance
Scottish Widows   60***** .  Fund value = approximately £6,000
Royal Bank of Scotland  79***   Fund value as at 6 April 2016 = £161,000  
Aviva 798****   Fund value as at 6 April 2016 = approximately £29,000
Aviva - P271******  Fund  value as at 6 April 2016 = £51,000
Citigroup 000****  = approximate fund value = £6,000 
Aviva 953****   Fund value as at 6 April 2016 = approximately £241,000.
Schroders A716***   Fund value  as at 6 April 2016  of £23,000 plus defined  benefit 
entitlement valued at £182,000
Aviva F460******* - Fund value = approximately £7,000
Standard Life K144*******  Fund value  = approximately £72,000
Scottish Widows  591**** - Fund value = approximately £74,000
This would indicate a total pension value for the Lifetime allowance of approximately £930,000. 
I have considered the STD valuation  of February 2016 and it seems that the material difference is that 
two defined benefit values  (for the purposes of the Lifetime allowance) have not been included. These 
are the Schroders entitlement and the Capita  entitlement. Together these  were valued at over 
£200,000.   
So, it seems  to me that the STD valuation  was not accurate and significantly undervalued the total 
pension entitlement. Miss S says that if she had known this then she would have opted for fixed 
protection of £1.25m which was available  at the time. 
However, before I can consider whether Sesame should compensate Miss S for her not being able to 
take advantage of the fixed protection, I have to consider  if Sesame is responsible for STDs  actions 
in providing  the valuation. 
is Sesame responsible for STDs actions?
Firstly I would say that I do not agree that STD was not acting as Miss Ss financial adviser  (even if 
that was arguably  restricted to the time before July 2015). It was carrying out investment instructions  
for her and providing valuations.  I do not accept that because  those instructions  were  execution only 
that this would  limit STDs responsibilities or duty of care to Miss S when  it provided valuations. The 
material issue  here is that it agreed to provide her with a pension valuation and that should have been 
accurate. And she would be, on the face of it, entitled to rely on its accuracy. 
However, as the investigator discussed in his assessment, there is a letter of 11 July 2015 from the 
Sesame representative to Miss S which  states:
Ref: DRN90563975Effectively this means I will no longer  be able to advise on Investments and Pensions,  only on 
Mortgages, Protection and General Insurance.
The adviser  also explains  why he was no longer providing such  advice  which was that Sesame was 
withdrawing the advisers permission  to provide  services in relation to investments and pensions.  The 
adviser says that he introduced Miss S to another adviser  from another  business  at this time so that 
she could continue to receive investment and pension advice. Miss S does refer to this although she 
says she did not receive any such service from the new adviser.
Be that as it may, I believe the letter clearly sets out that any advice as to pensions and investments 
would no longer  be forthcoming from July 2015. And I believe Miss S did or should have  appreciated  
this. 
The adviser  has said that he agreed to provide a pension  valuation to Miss S in April 2015.  This was 
before the point when Sesame told the adviser that he could no longer  provide pensions  and 
investment advice. It seems  that valuation  was not completed  or suppled until February  2016  
considerably after Sesame withdrew its authority  for the adviser to provide pensions and investment 
advice. 
What this means is that from 31 July 2015 Sesame no longer took responsibility  for any advice the 
adviser and STD provided in relation to investments and pensions  and this was clearly 
communicated to Miss S. What that means is that STD no longer had Sesames authority to provide 
any services  in respect of pensions and investments.  So any omission it is argued  that STD made  in 
respect of the Lifetime  Allowance after July 2015 would  no longer  be the responsibility of Sesame. 
Furthermore Miss S had been notified that STD no longer had Sesames authority in July 2015, 
considerably before the pension valuation in dispute was supplied. 
Therefore I do not believe that Sesame  is liable  for the STDs pension valuation  which was supplied in 
2016 or any lack of pension advice after July 2015. Effectively a complaint about STDs  actions in this 
period against Sesame would  not fall within my jurisdiction. 
the period before July 2015
As STD was authorised to undertake pensions  and investment advice in this period, Sesame would, 
on the face of it, be responsible for STDs actions. As discussed, I have  not seen any valuations 
before that finalised in 2016. So I have not seen evidence  that STD failed in some way as regards  the 
Lifetime Allowance before July 2015. It is also likely to have been the situation in previous periods that 
the valuation would have  been lower (whilst the Lifetime Allowance was higher).  So the Lifetime 
Allowance may not have been  a material  issue in previous periods.  
my provisional  decision
I do not believe the complaint about the actions (or lack of them) of STD after July 2015 would fall 
within my jurisdiction - as Sesame is not liable  for the acts about  which Miss S complains. 
In respect of the period before July 2015 I have not seen evidence that would  mean  I should  uphold 
the complaint. 
Miss S does  refer to the lack of service  she received from another  business after July 2015.  Whilst 
that business may also be a representative of Sesame, if she did wish to also bring a complaint  about 
that business she would have to complain to it separately first. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Miss S to accept or reject 
my decision  before xx June 2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9056397