K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Santander  UK Plc, trading as Abbey National,  mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In 2003, Mr and Mrs J were sold a PPI policy when they were  taking out a mortgage with 
Santander. The policy covered the monthly  repayments on their loan for up to twelve  months 
if Mr J was unable to work because of an accident,  sickness or disability.
Our adjudicator thought the policy had been mis-sold to Mr and Mrs J. This was because he 
was satisfied that Mr J suffered from a medical condition at the time the policy was sold to 
him and the policy  didnt  cover absences from work due to pre-existing medical conditions.  
He didnt think that Santander  had pointed out this exclusion in the policy  clearly  enough 
when recommending the policy to them. And if it had done  so, the adjudicator  didnt think 
that Mr and Mrs J would still have  wanted to take out this cover.
Santander didnt  agree with the adjudicators view, so the case has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Js case. Having done so, Im upholding 
the complaint  for reasons that Ill now explain.
Santander recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs J, so it needed to ensure that it was 
suitable for them. But I dont think it was suitable.  I say this because  Im satisfied that Mr J 
was suffering from a medical condition at the time of the sale which  wouldnt have been  
covered by the policy if it had subsequently caused him to take time off work. 
And the nature of this condition makes me think that it was quite likely that it might have 
caused Mr J to take further  time off work  after the sale. From what  Mr J has said,  and the 
evidence hes provided, I think  this was quite a serious condition  which  had already caused  
him to have  a significant amount of time off work; a period of hospitalisation and ongoing 
medical treatments.
In these circumstances, Santander needed  to point out to Mr and Mrs J that a pre-existing 
medical condition  might mean that they wouldnt be able to benefit  fully from the cover 
otherwise provided  to Mr J by the policy. But I havent seen anything which makes me 
satisfied that Santander  is likely to have pointed  out this policy exclusion clearly enough to 
Mr and Mrs J. And I think this failure  by Santander  would have been  important  to them.  This 
is because I dont think they would have still wanted  to pay for a policy which  had such  an 
important exclusion in the benefit  they could receive  from it. So I think Mr and Mrs J have 
lost out because of this failure by Santander when it recommended the policy to them.
Ive thought carefully about what Santander  has said in giving its reasons for not considering  
that the evidence provided by Mr J showed  he was affected by the medical  exclusion in the 
Ref: DRN93782662policy. But I think that Santander is wrong to draw the conclusions  it has from this evidence.  
And its comments havent changed  my mind about  upholding this complaint.
what the business should  do to put things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs J in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  out 
PPI. Santander  should:
Pay Mr and Mrs J the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% per year.
If Mr and Mrs J made a successful claim under the policy,  Santander can take off what  
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Js complaint against 
Santander UK Plc.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  31 August 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9378266