K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank  plc (TSB) didnt provide him with a working debit card.
background 
Mr B has a TSB account with a debit  card.  He says that the card didnt work and he couldnt  
withdraw money from an ATM.  He first raised  the issue with TSB in 2018. He says that, 
since then, theyve sent him several replacement cards but theyve all had the same issues.  
The situation  went on for several  months.  Mr B says he suggested opening a new account 
as a solution. He completed  an application with TSB,  but it was declined and the issue with 
the card remained unresolved.
Mr B says the situation has been stressful and caused him a lot of inconvenience. He had to 
go into a branch when he wanted to get money out and says hes made over 80 trips to the 
branch for that reason. He wasnt able to do that during a stay in hospital, and says that 
meant he didnt have access to his money for that period of time. At other  times  he says hes 
had to ask a friend or relative to pay for something because he couldnt use his card.  
Mr B complained to TSB in July 2018. At that stage,  they upheld  the complaint, ordered Mr B 
a new debit card and paid him compensation of £60. But they had to re-open the complaint 
within a few days because the new card had the same issues.
After a time,  Mr B brought his complaint to this service. During  our investigation, TSB 
ordered a new debit card for Mr B. It was a contactless card, which  Mr B wasnt happy 
about. The previous cards hed been  sent were non-contactless  cards. TSB told our 
adjudicator that there are system issues with some of their non-contactless cards. They said 
thats what had caused the problems here.
 
TSB acknowledged that they hadnt been  able to produce a working non-contactless card. 
They accepted that was poor service on their part. But they said theyd  provided  a solution in 
the form of the contactless card, which Mr B had chosen not to use. 
TSB offered compensation of £250, in addition to the £60 theyd  already  paid.  Our 
adjudicator thought that was fair but Mr B didnt agree. He doesnt  think  its enough to reflect 
the stress  and inconvenience the situations caused.  He says he hasnt always been able to 
pay for things because of issues with the card and thats been embarrassing for him. And 
hes explained that the issue  has impacted on his health. Mr B says his new card is working. 
But he says he hadnt been offered a contactless card before.  He asked for his complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB accept that they havent been able to provide a working,  non-contactless debit card. 
They also accept that the situations  caused distress and inconvenience to Mr B and that its 
taken quite some time to resolve. What  Im looking at here is the amount of compensation 
they need to pay Mr B.
Ref: DRN91220832Its very difficult  to put a monetary value on the stress and inconvenience  caused by a 
situation like this. Mr B has explained how the situation affected  him and Ive taken all his 
comments into account. As well as the inconvenience of having  to go into the branch to 
withdraw cash, the experience has been  frustrating and embarrassing  for Mr B at times. And 
the stress  its caused has impacted on his health.
The crux of the issue here seems to be that TSB were sending  non-contactless cards to 
Mr B. They now say that theres  a problem with some non-contactless cards and thats why 
Mr Bs didnt  work. They say they had a solution to this problem, in the form of contactless 
cards. But that Mr B chose not to have a contactless card. 
Mr B says he wasnt offered a contactless card until he was sent one during our adjudicators  
investigation. But TSB say he originally had a contactless card.  They say he told them he 
didnt want it, so they changed  it for a non-contactless card.  TSB say that, because Mr B 
hadnt wanted the original  contactless  card, they didnt  offer him one again. So thats why all 
the replacement  cards they sent him (until now) were non-contactless cards. But I havent 
seen anything which suggests TSB told Mr B at any time previously  that choosing  a non-
contactless card would cause problems. So Mr B had no way of knowing this. It was only 
while the complaint  was with this service that the issue about contactless / non-contactless 
cards came to light in relation to Mr B. It hadnt  been  raised  by TSB previously in response to 
the complaint.  So I dont  think Mr Bs choice of a non-contactless card is a limiting factor for 
the amount of compensation due here. 
In relation to the attempted opening of a new account, I realise Mr B feels it was a waste of 
his time. But TSB couldnt have known beforehand  that it would be declined. So I dont think 
it was unreasonable for them to try. And it seems unlikely now that opening a new account 
would have solved  the problem, if it was due to the card not being contactless.
Overall, I think the compensation offered by TSB here is fair. Our awards arent intended  to 
punish a business, but to reflect the impact  a situations had on a customer  and put that right 
as far as possible.  TSB have already  paid Mr B £60. A further £250 brings the total 
compensation for this issue to £310.  I think thats reasonable. I know  Mr B feels  strongly  
about his complaint and will find this disappointing.  But I think  its an appropriate amount 
here, so Im not going  to ask TSB to pay more.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank plc should now pay to Mr B 
compensation of £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9122083