K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) mis-sold them  a mortgage payment 
protection insurance policy  (PPI) in 2004.
background 
I issued my provisional decision of 14 November 2019, a copy of which is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. In it I set out why I was minded to say that the offer made by 
Halifax was fair and that it didnt need to do anymore.  
I invited both parties to provide any further submissions before I reached a final
decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party made any new submissions, so I see no reason  to change my decision. 
my final decision
It follows that for the reasons  Ive already explained  in my provisional decision, the offer 
made by Bank of Scotland  Plc is fair. It should arrange payment  to Mr and Mrs H, if it has not 
already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 January 2020.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
copy of provisional decision
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken out in
2004. Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold  them  the PPI.
Mr and Mrs H bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) to cover their mortgage in
2004. TMPP can be split into sections   Mortgage Repayments Cover  (which is a form of
PPI), life cover and critical illness cover. Mr and Mrs Hs policy included life and critical
illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI element  of the policy  was mis-sold. He did however think
the life and critical  illness  part of the cover wasnt right for Mr and Mrs H. Halifax  has agreed
Ref: DRN98799422to refund the difference between a decreasing term assurance policy and a level term
assurance policy, but continue to defend the sale of the PPI element of the product.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicator and still feel strongly they were  mis-sold the
PPI, so the case has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
I currently dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs H feel strongly that they didnt know the PPI was optional.  They say they would
never have  realised it was separate  to their mortgage account. Halifax says the optional
nature of the PPI was made clear and that Mr and Mrs H chose to have the policy. Mr and
Mrs H are clear  that a large part of why they didnt know the policy was optional  is because
Mr H was told in 1998 when he took out his original mortgage that it was vital for the success
of application. I also note that Mr H in his initial correspondence to us about this sale said I
still believe there is an issue  here around being transparent about  optional  basis.  However I
accept that I could have cancelled the policy.
I cant  know  exactly what  happened  during the sale  so I have to decide  on balance  whats
more likely  than not to have  happened. Theres limited paperwork available from the sale 
but this isnt surprising considering the length of time thats passed. From what I know generally about 
how Halifax sold policies  like this at this time, I think the optional nature
wouldve been  made clear. Without further persuasive  evidence to support  what Mr and
Mrs H have told us, I cant say its likely Halifax didnt follow their usual sales process here.
I also note that it was a different lender (rather  than Halifax)  that Mr and Mr H chose to re-mortgage  
with in 2004. So I dont  think  its likely they wouldve thought they had to have the
PPI with Halifax in order to improve their chances of having their application accepted.
Taking everything into account, on balance I think its more likely  that Halifax made it clear
that Mr and Mrs H didnt  have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out.
Mr and Mrs H say they were  coerced into having PPI. This is a subjective area and what  one
person thinks  is pressure  another  may not. Mr and Mrs H havent given us persuasive  detail
about what Halifax said and did to make them feel this way. I have to make my decision
based on the evidence  before me, and Im afraid I havent seen enough to say its likely they
were coerced into having PPI.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H so it had to check  that the PPI was right for
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time,  I think that it was.
Mr H says he had medical conditions at the time of sale. They are concerned  that had they
tried to make a claim on the policy it wouldve been turned down.  But Ive looked  carefully  at
the policy  document  that applies to this sale, and can see Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have been
affected by any exclusions relating to existing  medical  conditions. Neither Mr nor Mrs H
appears to have been  affected by any exclusions or limitations related  to unusual working
conditions. So I dont think they wouldve been prevented from claiming on the policy for
these reasons.
Mr and Mrs H also seem  to have had a need for the cover.  Mr H says he had excellent
benefits including  six months redundancy cover. They also say they had significant savings
 but werent  able to tell Halifax in the course of their complaint  exactly  how much.  Again,
Ref: DRN98799423this isnt surprising considering the length of time thats passed.  If Mr and Mrs H are able to
provide evidence  (eg paperwork) of the savings  they had at the time I may reconsider.  But
based on what Ive seen I think the PPI wouldve  been  useful to them  regardless  of their
savings. I say this because  it wouldve paid out for up to 24 months if they were  unable  to
work because  of accident, sickness or unemployment. It also wouldve  allowed  them to use
their savings to cover  other necessary expenses at what couldve been a difficult time
financially if either  Mr or Mrs H found themselves out of work.
Mr and Mrs H feel strongly that they didnt know what the PPI wouldve covered them for.
Ive not seen  enough for me to be able to say Halifax gave them  clear information about the
PPI. So I agree its possible the information Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt
as clear as it shouldve been. But I think its more likely  that not they chose to take it out - so
it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. And it seems like it would have  been useful  for
them if something went  wrong.  It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better
information about the PPI would have put them  off taking out the cover.
Mr H was previously sold another mortgage PPI policy  with the same business. This
complaint was looked by at our service  under a separate reference number. Mr and Mrs H
feel this has disadvantaged them and that the outcome they received  on their other
complaint is at odds with the outcome on this complaint.  The cases  were  looked at under
different reference numbers  as they were separate policies sold at different times.  Just
because the earlier policy was found to be mis-sold  does not necessarily mean  this one
should be. Id like to acknowledge  the extensive testimony Mr and Mrs H has given us in
respect of their case and assure Mr and Mrs H that Ive thought carefully  about  everything
theyve told us. But dont  think the PPI was mis-sold  on this occasion.
Finally, our adjudicator  didnt think the life and critical  illness aspects  of the product were
right for Mr and Mrs H. He found that if theyd taken out a decreasing term assurance policy
instead of a level term assurance policy, theyd probably have been paying less.
Halifax responded and offered to refund the difference between what they would've paid for
these two policies. Theyve also offered to add 8% interest for the time Mr and Mrs H were
out of pocket.  I currently dont  think Halifax  need to do any more.
Ref: DRN9879942