K821x#15complaint
Mr P says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny)  lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr P had seven loan accounts  with Sunny, as Ive summarised below.
Loan no. Start date End date Amount  (£)
1 08/05/2014 15/05/2015 250 (limit)
2 23/03/2015 15/09/2015 100
3 02/05/2015 15/10/2015 50
4 25/05/2015 15/10/2015 100
5 20/09/2015 n/a 150
6 27/10/2015 n/a 100
7 15/11/2015 n/a 50
Loan 1 was an open-ended credit facility,  which allowed Mr P to make  drawdowns up to the 
specified credit limit. I understand Mr P made  11 drawdowns between May 2014 and 
December 2014.
An adjudicator considered  the complaint and thought it should be partially upheld. They 
didnt think Sunny shouldve allowed Mr P to make the ninth drawdown of 31 October 2014 
or any subsequent  drawdowns on his open-ended credit facility. And they also thought loans 
2 to 7 shouldnt have been  approved.  Sunny didnt  respond to the adjudicator,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr P could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN98710382the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
As I said above, loan 1 was a running account  credit agreement which allowed Mr P to make 
drawdowns up to a particular limit. So it operated  similarly to a credit card. But unlike a credit 
card the account  was a high-cost short-term credit product and isnt considered to be 
suitable for long-term use. As Mr Ps credit  agreement  says:
This credit  is expensive  and is unsuitable  for supporting sustained  borrowing over long 
periods, as it would  be expensive  as a means  of longer term borrowing.
The credit agreement also explains that drawdowns are repayable in a maximum  of five 
months and sets out an example schedule  of payments. Sunny was also required by 
regulations to monitor Mr Ps repayment  record and take action if there  were  signs of 
possible repayment difficulties.
I looked at Mr Ps use of the running  account  agreement with this in mind. It looks  like Mr P 
had first reached his credit limit by 6 June 2014  and then made various repayments and took 
new drawdowns until repaying his whole balance  on 24 September  2014, which  is within the 
five month  repayment  schedule  set out in the credit agreement. So I dont have any 
significant concerns  about Mr Ps use of the facility up to this point.
Mr P started making new drawdowns within about a week  of clearing his balance,  making  
five further drawdowns  from this point, including three drawdowns in October 2014.
Bearing in mind the sort-term  purpose of this type of agreement,  I think  Sunny ought to have  
taken action once  it saw that Mr P was continuously  making new drawdowns more  than five 
months into the agreement. Had this course of action been  allowed to continue, its likely 
Mr P wouldve  found himself in a situation  where the borrowing became unsustainable. And 
it looks to me like that is what happened  Mr P continued to borrow from Sunny without a 
break until November  2015, until he wasnt able to meet the repayments.
Ref: DRN98710383So I think from 31 October 2014  Sunny shouldnt have permitted Mr P to make new 
drawdowns and shouldve instead arranged  for Mr P to repay  the outstanding balance.  As 
Sunny didnt do this, Mr P lost out by paying  expensive interest charges  over a longer period 
of time than was appropriate or fair. Im therefore upholding the complaint about loan 1, in 
respect of the lending  from 31 October  2014  onwards.
All of Mr Ps subsequent loans (2 to 7) were in my view essentially part of the same chain of 
borrowing. Although  Mr P transitioned on to instalment loans, the lending all overlapped and 
there were no breaks and the overall  amounts borrowed  were quite similar. Loan 2 was 
taken out almost a year after loan 1, so Mr Ps borrowing needs cant  reasonably be said to 
have been short-term.
I think Mr P lost out as a result of Sunnys decision to approve  loans  2 to 7 as these loans 
had the effect  of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness  by allowing him to take expensive  
credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. I also think its likely  that 
by loan 5, which was over a year into Mr Ps borrowing relationship with Sunny, the length of 
time over which Mr P borrowed was likely to have  had negative implications on his ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
putting things right
It appears that loans  5 to 7 were not repaid in full and may have been sold to a third party.  If 
this is correct, Sunny will need to work  with any third party  to achieve the same results as 
Ive set out below.
Sunny must:
refund  all interest and charges Mr P paid on loan 1 as a result of the drawdowns on 
and after 31 October 2014, and all interest  and charges Mr P paid on loans 2 to 7
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 2 to 4 from Mr Ps credit file;
remove all entries about  loan 5 to 7 from Mr Ps credit file  Sunny  may wait until the 
loans are repaid  before it does this
If loans 5 to 7 are still outstanding, instead  of doing  the above, Sunny can rework them to 
remove interest and charges from the outset and treat any payments made as if they were 
paid towards the principal.  If Mr P has already repaid more than the principal amounts 
borrowed, Sunny should refund these amounts in the way Ive described  above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ps complaint in part. Elevate Credit 
International Limited must  put things right by taking the steps set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Ref: DRN98710384Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9871038