K820x#14complaint
Mr M is complaining about  the way First Premium Direct Ltd (FPD) arranged and 
administered a commercial vehicle insurance  policy.
background
In June 2018 Mr M took out a commercial  vehicle insurance policy through FPD  a broker. 
He was told the annual premium was around  £3,000. Shortly afterwards FPD advised  him 
that the insurer said he needed to pay an additional sum of around £3,300.  The insurer  said 
that he could cancel the policy without  charge  if he wanted to do so.
FPD said that it would look to arrange  a different policy, but it ultimately said that it wasnt 
able to get a more suitable policy. In July 2018  it advised Mr M that he needed to decide as 
soon as possible whether he wanted to keep the policy.  But Mr M said that he was on 
holiday and asked if the deadline  could be extended  until he returned. FPD advised him that 
the insurer had given him until 13 August 2018.
On 17 August 2018 FPD emailed Mr M to say that the insurer  urgently needed Mr M to send 
some documentation  that it required  copy of driving licences for all drivers, the drivers 
national insurance  numbers and his proof of No Claims Discount (NCD). On the same day 
the insurer wrote to Mr M and FPD to advise that it was going to cancel his insurance policy.  
Mr M says that he asked for all correspondence  to be sent to his home address, but didnt 
receive FPDs letter because it was sent to his office  address.
The insurer  cancelled the policy on 24 August 2018. Mr M later contacted FPD to complain 
about the policys cancellation.  He said he wanted the insurer  to reinstate the policy and 
remove the cancellation marker  from his record. 
In September  2018 the insurer  said that it wasnt willing to insure Mr M any further.  It advised  
FPD that there was a period of more than 12 months from when Mr M was given his 
previous NCD and this policy starting.  So it said that it said it wasnt willing to accept this.
Mr M complained to FPD and set out in detail  what had happened and what  his concerns 
were. But in summary he said that hed responded to FPD with all the information it required. 
He didnt think it was fair that the insurer was charging him the additional premium because 
he says he explained  which  was his office address  and which was his home address when 
he first applied  for the policy. He said that his representative at FPD was always  too busy 
whenever he asked  him to do anything.
Mr M maintained that he didnt receive the insurers notification  of cancellation letter.  Hes 
unhappy that it sent the letter to his office address, but he said he wanted  correspondence 
sent to his home address.  He also said FPD had emailed him on 17 August 2018  the day 
the insurer says it wrote  to advise  of the cancellation  but it didnt tell him the insurer was 
cancelling the policy. He says FPD told him that it didnt receive  the cancellation letter.
Mr M says FPD falsely told him that the insurer would reinstate the policy  if he sent the 
paperwork that it had asked for. He says that he then sent this information to FPD, but hes 
unhappy the policy wasnt reinstated. And he said he either wanted to have  the policy 
reinstated or the cancellation marker  removed.
Ref: DRN98938642Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint as she was thought FPD had handled  the policy 
reasonably well. She said that shed listened to the telephone call when Mr M took out the 
policy and she said that hed clearly asked for all correspondence to be sent to his business  
address.
She thought  that FPD had taken reasonable steps  to assist Mr M  including arranging  an 
extension to decide whether to keep the policy for the time he was on holiday. She explained 
the insurer had written to Mr M on 17 August 2018  giving  seven  days notice that it would  
cancel the policy.  And she said that FPD had followed  this up with him. She thought  that it 
had arranged to speak with Mr M on 21 August 2018, but she said she hadnt seen anything  
to show he did try to contact FPD. And she said she hadnt seen anything  to show Mr M 
contacted FPD until after the insurer cancelled the policy.
She advised that the policy wasnt reinstated because there was an issue with the proof  of 
NCD. But she said that she hadnt seen anything in any of the calls or emails with FPD to 
show a discussion in respect to the level of NCD he had and when it was valid from. 
Mr M didnt  accept the adjudicators opinion. He didnt think  FPD had provided all the 
telephone calls and emails hed had. He said it was unfair for the insurer  to cancel the policy  
and he maintained he wasnt given notice this was going to happen. He said he felt that FPD 
were deliberately looking to keep him insured and not help him.
Mr M reiterated that hed been in email contact  with FPD after the cancellation letter  was 
sent, so he thinks  it should  have given  him more  notice  the policy was going  to cancel. But 
he says it didnt contact  him until after the policy was cancelled.
As Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion,  he asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
I should first state that Im only considering the actions of FPD in this decision. Mr M has 
also set out hes unhappy with the actions of the insurer and its agent.  But I cant  consider 
those in this decision  and hell need  to raise this separately.
Mr M has raised a number of reasons why he thinks  FPD has treated him unfairly.  Ive read 
and considered everything  hes sent us. Ive not commented on everything hes raised, but 
Ive focussed  on what I think are the key issues. No discourtesy is meant  by this but simply 
reflects the informal nature of this service.
sale of the policy
I think there are two key issues I need to consider in respect to the sale of the policy:
1.Did FPD ask Mr M sufficient questions  to gather all the relevant information so that it 
could make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer;  and
2.Did it set the policy up with the correct correspondence details?
Ref: DRN98938643I shall deal with each  point separately.
Under the Insurance Act 2015,  Mr M needed  to make a fair presentation of the risk to the 
insurer so that it had enough  information  to assess the level of risk it was willing to provide 
and on what terms. As Mr Ms broker, FPD was required to make this presentation on Mr Ms 
behalf. So it needed to ask Mr M sufficiently clear questions to ensure it had all the relevant 
information to give a fair presentation  of the risk.
After the policy  started, the insurer charged an additional premium  of around £3,300 
because Mr M explained  that he stored the cars at his home address for security  reasons 
overnight. The insurer explained  that it considered the home address to be a riskier address.  
I havent seen  anything to show that FPD asked Mr M where he stores  his vehicles. When 
Mr M applied  for the policy on the telephone, FPD initially asked him for his home address 
and he gave his office address. He said that this has an office at the front and a residential 
section at the back. But Im also conscious in the call that Mr M asked FPD whether it 
wanted the address where he lived as he never  used his home  address, only his business  
address. So I think  it was fair for FPD to infer from this that he wasnt  going to use his home 
address for business purposes.
But, even  if this wasnt the case, Im not persuaded Mr M has lost out as a result of this. The 
insurer gave Mr M the option to cancel the policy with immediate effect  and it said it would 
treat it as if Mr M had never taken it out  i.e. it said he wouldnt have had to pay for it. But 
he didnt do so. I can also see that FPD corresponded with Mr M extensively to try and 
arrange an alternative policy and ultimately it wasnt able to source a more suitable  policy.  
Mr M had explained  at the outset that he was very keen to take insurance through  this 
particular insurer as he liked the level of cover it provided. Given  FPD couldnt get a cheaper 
policy than what the insurer was willing to offer and Mr Ms reluctance  to cancel the policy,  I 
think its most likely  Mr M would have still taken out this insurance policy if hed been given 
the actual price at the outset. So Im not persuaded that Mr M has lost out as a result of 
anything FPD may have done  wrong  in this respect. And, ultimately,  Mr M never  paid this 
additional premium.
Further to this, I also note that Mr M clearly  explained that he wanted his office address as 
his correspondence  address, which FPD did. So Im satisfied that it set this up correctly. And 
all written correspondence was sent to that address as Mr M asked.
cancellation of the policy
The insurer  cancelled Mr Ms insurance policy because it didnt receive copies of all the 
documentation that Mr M had been  asked to provide. Mr M thinks its unfair that the insurer 
cancelled the policy and he holds FPD responsible for this.
I should first state that it was the insurers decision to cancel  the policy.  And, as I said above,  
Im unable to comment on the insurers actions in this decision. However, I have looked  at 
whether FPD did what it should  have done.  
When Mr M first applied  for the insurance  policy the call handler explained to Mr M that, 
within 21 days, he would need to provide the proof  of NCD, the front and back  of all driving 
Ref: DRN98938644licences for the drivers and national insurance  numbers for all drivers. So Im satisfied that it 
explained what information it needed  him to provide and Mr M acknowledged  this. 
On 9 July 2018 FPD sent Mr M an email chasing  copies  of the above information, but Mr M 
didnt provide it. I also note on 25 July 2018 FPD wrote to Mr M saying that it needed him to 
make a decision on whether he wanted to keep the policy or not. Mr M said that he was on 
holiday, so FPD arranged for an extension and Mr M agreed  to call FPD on 13 August 2018  
to discuss the policy.  Mr M says that he tried to call FPD on that day but couldnt  get 
through. But I havent seen anything to support this. 
On 17 August 2018 FPD emailed Mr M again chasing copies of the information it needed, 
but Mr M still didnt provide it. Im satisfied that FPD asked Mr M a number of times to 
provide the documentation that the insurer required and ultimately Mr M didnt do so. I think  
the reason the policy was cancelled was because  Mr M didnt provide the information he was 
required to provide, not because of anything FPD did wrong.
Ive taken Mr Ms comments into account that he thinks FPD should have given him more 
notice that the policy  was going to cancel. The insurer issued the cancellation letter on 
17 August 2018  and he says FPD had sent him a number of emails on that day. So he thinks  
it should have  also notified him the insurer was cancelling the policy. But FPD has shown  
that it didnt receive  the notice of cancellation letter until 20 August 2018. So Im satisfied it 
wasnt aware the insurer was cancelling the policy when it was emailing Mr M.
It was the insurers  responsibility to advise Mr M that it was going to cancel the policy. And I 
cant hold FPD responsible for anything the insurer did or didnt  do.
Mr M has said hes unhappy that FPD said the insurer would reinstate the policy if he 
provided the documentation  it had been  asking for. But I havent seen anything  to support 
this. FPD explained  on a telephone call that there  was a possibility  the insurer may reinstate 
the policy, but the call handler said he needed to provide  all the documents  requested  before 
it would  consider this. And during the call, FPD made it clear that it would try to get the policy  
reinstated, but it didnt say this would  happen.  And, ultimately it was the insurers  decision to 
not reinstate the policy or provide Mr M with a new one.
summary
I acknowledge that Mr M is unhappy that he has a cancellation marker on his record and that 
he wants it removed. Only the insurer can remove this and, for the reasons Ive set out 
above I cant say that FPD is at fault for it being  recorded. Im satisfied that it tried to arrange 
a suitable policy for Mr M and it advised him what information Mr M needed to provide.  I 
think it largely did what it was required to do in arranging Mr Ms insurance policy and in 
respect to the administrative responsibilities  it needed to carry out.
If Mr M wants to complain  about  the actions of the insurer   including  charging  an additional 
premium, cancelling  the policy and ultimately  deciding to not reinstate the policy   hell need  
to complain separately about  the insurer.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN98938645Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9893864