K821x#15Complaint
Mrs H complains that Sanlam Financial Services UK Limited  recommended  a savings 
programme that was mis-represented to her as being for the medium term.
In making her complaint, Mrs H is represented by a claims management  complaint. 
Background
In 1990, Mrs H started a savings programme with a predecessor business  of Sanlam. This 
was a whole-of-life  plan liked to units in a managed fund. Mrs H invested £20 a month, which 
was split over 10 separate plans.
Mrs H maintained her programme until 2004, when she decided to surrender  it.
In 2018, Mrs Hs representatives complained on her behalf that the advice she got 
misrepresented the savings programme. They said there was no evidence that she had a 
requirement for long-term savings, and the plan had been recommended  to her the medium  
term. 
Sanlam said that there  was no evidence that the adviser had specified that the plan was 
taken out to provide for medium term requirements which was backed up by a diagram 
theyd drawn on the sales  documentation. Sanlam said the monthly cost wasnt a higher 
amount considering Mrs Hs situation  at the time and shed maintained  them for 14 years. It 
said there wasnt anything  to show that Mrs H believed the savings  plan was anything other 
than a long term commitment and the literature made it clear that it should be funded  for at 
least 20 years to produce the best returns.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said 
there was no evidence to suggest that Mrs H required a long term investment such  as the 
one she was recommended.  He thought that Mrs H was in a position to save each month but 
didnt think this long term plan was a suitable  way of doing  this as her future  plans were  
variable and so required  flexibility.  He said Sanlam should pay Mrs H compensation of D + E 
using the following calculation:
A = the premiums invested up to the date of surrender;
B = a return on each  premium at Bank of England base rate + 1% compounded
yearly, from the date it was paid to the date of surrender;
C = the surrender value Mrs H received;
D = (A + B) - C, representing  the investment loss at the date of surrender; and
E = simple interest  at 8% per year on D, from the date of surrender to the date
compensation is paid.
Ref: DRN98565212Sanlam didnt accept  the adjudicators findings  and said that Mrs H had been in a position to 
take out the longer  term savings programme. It said she already had other life cover, and 
although specific longer term requirements  hadnt been documented, there wouldve been a 
discussion where the long term aim was illustrated and this was shown in the product 
literature.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the documentation from the time of the sale to Mrs H. This shows  her personal 
and financial  circumstances and that her objective was to have a savings plan to benefit her 
family. Mrs H already had some life cover and had savings in a building  society.
Taking into account these  circumstances,  I agree  that Mrs H had the capacity to save on a 
regular basis. But Ive also considered her noted future plans, needs and expectations which  
could have an impact  on her financial planning  and arrangements.  And I agree  with the 
adjudicator that these  suggest that some flexibility in her savings plans wouldve been 
appropriate for her, given that there  was a reasonable  possibility  that her situation may 
change in the coming years.
The recommended  programme was designed for regular savings over a long term  the 
sales literature says the programme was designed  to grow steadily with the optimum  benefit 
and worth being realised  after about 25 years. Mrs Hs particular plan was set up so that her 
£20 monthly contribution would be payable until 2025. 
Although it isnt clear  what led Mrs H to make  the decision to surrender her programme in 
2004, by that time her personal circumstances had changed in that she had married.  And 
she got back less than the total amount of the contributions shed paid.
I do appreciate the point  that Sanlam has made, that at some stage in Mrs Hs meeting with 
the adviser they wouldve  discussed the long term nature of this plan. The fact file from the 
time of the advice  includes hand-drawn diagrams and notes referring  to long and medium  
terms; and income and protection. But it isnt clear  what Mrs H wouldve understood by this, 
and this doesnt demonstrate that such a long term regular  form of saving with life cover was 
right for Mrs H considering her circumstances, future plans and objectives.  
The plan also included whole-of-life cover which was paid for by the cancellation of units 
each month. However,  at the time Mrs H was divorced and had no financial dependants. 
She already had two other forms of life cover for the medium term, as well as cover for her 
mortgage commitment, so this doesnt suggest that she had a particular  need  for the whole-
of-life cover.
Its because of this that I dont think this savings programme was suitable for Mrs H as Im 
not satisfied that she had a need  for a long term savings plan with life cover.
Although I accept that I cant  know with any certainty how Mrs H wouldve invested 
differently if shed been given appropriate advice, I think the remedy  proposed  by the 
adjudicator is broadly  fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN98565213My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In order to compensate  Mrs H fairly, Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited  should  pay her 
compensation of D + E, where:
A = the premiums invested up to the date of surrender;
B = a return on each  premium at Bank of England base rate + 1% compounded yearly,  from 
the date it was paid to the date of surrender;
C = the surrender value Mrs H received;
D = (A + B) - C, representing  the investment loss at the date of surrender; and
E = simple  interest at 8% per year on D, from the date of surrender to the date of payment.
If Sanlam decides  that tax is payable on the interest,  it should send a tax deduction 
certificate to Mrs H. She may then reclaim any tax overpaid from Her Majestys Revenue  and 
Customs, if her tax status allows her to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019. 
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9856521