K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold Mr O payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2001, 
and then again when the policy  was extended  to cover a further loan. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr O disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and none of the original documents from the 
time about the PPI sale are now available  only basic computer records  exist.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest  outcome can be difficult.
Ive considered carefully Mr Os comments. However, Ive decided  not to uphold his 
complaint. I will explain  why.
Mr O has given details of what he remembers from the time of the sale of PPI in 2001.  He 
says the papers for the PPI and other insurance  (buildings and life) were presented to him to 
sign, immediately after he had signed  the mortgage  papers. He says he wasnt told the PPI 
was optional and he was told the bank  wanted to make sure that the mortgage  would be 
paid if anything happened to him, particularly due to his young age and the relatively short 
length of time hed been with his employer.  I remember those words very clearly  he says. 
He says he was left in no doubt that the offer would be revoked if the insurance  wasnt 
taken. I have no reason to doubt that Mr O is giving a full and truthful account of what he 
remembers. But Im also alert to the fact that this all happened about 18 years  ago. Without  
some stronger evidence  supporting  Mr Os recollection, it wouldnt be fair to conclude  that 
the HSBC adviser  acted  wrongly in the way Mr O believes. I cant  be sure that Mr Os 
interpretation of the advisers  words, and such things as her tone and attitude, meant that 
the adviser did actually  act inappropriately. And I see that Mr O says he was only asked to 
sign the insurance documents after he had signed the mortgage papers. This doesnt  
suggest to me that the adviser was intending to put unfair pressure on Mr O  it would have 
been more likely that shed hold off completing the mortgage papers, if she wanted  Mr O to 
believe he had to agree  to PPI to get his mortgage.  
Ref: DRN91844172So, overall, I just dont have strong enough evidence to say its likely HSBC  mis-sold the PPI 
in the way Mr O believes.   
I similarly dont  have strong  enough evidence to say the 2004 extension  of PPI was mis-sold 
in this way. Also I have  seen a copy of the form which Mr O signed,  and there is a tick 
against the option saying  I/we wish to take this cover. 
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr O, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Being unable to pay a mortgage  can lead to 
significant difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr O received 
full sick pay from his employer, and potentially for longer. It would have  paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when hed 
need to fall back on any savings. This all would  have  put Mr O in a more secure position, if 
he eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Its hard to know how well HSBC explained  the cost of the policy. But I dont anyway  think 
full and clear information  about the costs  would have affected whether Mr O took the PPI.
Its possible HSBC didnt  clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr O would have  been affected by any of these.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9184417