K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N say Nationwide Building Society (NBS) mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs N bought  the policy in 1998  at the same  time as taking out a loan. NBS says 
they applied for the loan and PPI policy over the phone.  
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £63.46 was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 24-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £34.15 with the PPI costing an additional £3.10 making the total 
monthly repayment £37.25. 
The policy terms that applied to Mr and Mrs N are no longer available   I dont think thats 
unreasonable given how long ago they bought the policy. But I have looked at the next 
available policy terms (which I think are likely  to be the same as, or at least  similar  to, the 
policy terms that applied  to Mr and Mrs N) to help me decide  this case.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr N only for accident,  sickness,  unemployment and life  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr and Mrs Ns monthly loan 
repayment for up to the remaining term in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 
months in the event  of unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr N was employed  as a non-domestic rates officer. He has told us he was 
entitled to sick pay, redundancy  cover  and death in service  benefit through  his employer. He 
also said he had other means of repaying  their loan should he be unable to work. Mr N has 
said he was in good health  at the time of the sale. 
Mrs N was not working at the time, but she wasnt covered by the policy. 
NBS has sent us its account transaction list that shows that the loan account  closed  in 2000. 
Mr and Mrs Ns representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ns representative says:
NBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs N 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ns representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN97398542The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NBS should  have told 
Mr and Mrs N about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NBS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs N and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr and Mrs N received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ns. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ns complaint
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2000. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Ref: DRN97398543Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like NBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ns case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so NBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If NBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs N with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether NBS gave Mr and Mrs N sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN97398544-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs N, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs N 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs N 
and NBS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs N know they had a choice?
NBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr and Mrs N say they applied for a loan in branch and I have seen a paper application  they 
completed in June 1998. But NBS says it didnt sell the loan and PPI at this time. It has told 
us it called Mr and Mrs N and sold them the PPI over the phone followed by a paper 
agreement. Ive seen a copy of the loan agreement  it sent following the call  which was 
signed and dated in July 1998. And the loan and PPI started in July 1998   so I think NBS is 
likely to be right and the loan and PPI started following a phone  sale. 
 
There isnt a recording of the telephone call which isnt surprising given  how long ago the 
policy was sold. But this means I have to decide  what I think is more likely to have happened  
based on the evidence that is still available  such as the loan agreement that NBS sent to 
Mr and Mrs N following  the call and which was signed before the loan was actually set up.  
I can see the PPI is set out under  a heading  Optional  Credit Insurance. As explained 
above, I dont  know what Mr and Mrs N were  told on the phone, but had they been  led to 
believe the PPI was compulsory, I wouldve expected them to have questioned this on 
receipt of the loan agreement which clearly labelled it as optional. 
Mr and Mrs N signed the agreement  so they agreed to take the PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs N knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did NBS provide advice?
NBS says it didnt  provide  advice during this sale and Mr and Mrs N havent said if they 
agree. Looking at what happened when NBS sold Mr and Mrs N the PPI, Im not persuaded 
that it provided advice.  I say this because I havent seen anything  to suggest NBS sought  
details of Mr and Mrs Ns wider circumstances to assess the suitability of the policy or that it 
provided them with a tailored recommendation to take the PPI. 
This means  NBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs N. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mr and Mrs N to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Ref: DRN97398545Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs N were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr N was unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached 
this conclusion because  I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs N would have taken  out the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was. And I think its likely Mr and Mrs N were  given cost 
details during the call when  they agreed  to take the PPI as I think  its unlikely theyd agree to 
take the PPI without an idea of what the premium might be. I would add that I think they 
knew that the single premium  being  added to the loan was £63.46, the interest  added  to the 
premium was £10.94,  the total cost was £74.40 and the monthly cost was £3.10  as this 
information was, in my view, at the very least sufficiently clear on the loan agreement  
Mr and Mrs N signed before the loan was set up.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
and Mrs N agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think NBS gave  Mr and Mrs N sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ns representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ns. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ns representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs N about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ns representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs N has suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that NBS ought to have done either. 
What effect did NBSs shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs N? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs N suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ref: DRN97398546Ive found that NBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs N. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and Mrs 
N suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs N would have still taken out the policy, had NBS done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs N says they would not have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs N had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs N chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs N thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs N has suffered  any loss 
or detriment.  
As I explained above, Im not persuaded  Mr and Mrs N found the cost unacceptable  as they 
had been given all of the cost information, at least in the loan agreement they signed before 
the policy started.  But the information  about other aspects  of the policy,  such as the actual 
benefit or the limitations and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should  have been.
Im not persuaded NBS made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs N would get back  in return  in 
the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs Ns expectations  
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  their 
loan payments) were  significantly different to what the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs N thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any medical condition  or disease which Mr N 
knew of or should reasonably have known  of on the start date or for which  he 
received treatment, advice or was referred for investigation during the 12 months 
before the start date and which recurs  within 12 months of the start date.
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr N 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs N pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs N from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr N was eligible  for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to them should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr N 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr N didnt have any pre-
Ref: DRN97398547existing medical conditions and he was in permanent  employment. So, I still think  they had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs N would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr N needed  to not be doing any work. I dont think this is likely 
to be too different to what they would  have expected to make a claim. They bought  cover to 
protect their payments if Mr N was unable to work due to accident,  sickness or 
unemployment. So, it seems unlikely they would  have thought hed be able to make  a 
successful claim  if he was still working,  whether that be in his normal job or any other job. 
From what  we know of NBS policies, the policy did provide a pro-rata refund if it was 
cancelled early, so the policy provided  flexibility if Mr and Mrs N decided  to repay the loan 
early and cancel  the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs N would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  were  Mr N made  redundant, or unable to work through accident  
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs N would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ns representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs N would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Ns circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position Mr 
and Mrs N found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs N believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN97398548Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs N in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
NBS should pay Mr and Mrs N compensation, as that would put them in a better position 
than they would have been  in if everything  had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs N thinks NBS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI.  Whilst  I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
NBSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why NBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  NBS gave Mr and Mrs N, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1998  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ns representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find NBS negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs N and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that NBS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs N in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2021.
Asma Begum 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9739854