K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 Money (MCF) lent to him in 
an irresponsible manner.
background 
Mr C was given four loans  by MCF  between December  2014 and March 2017. The first loan 
was due to be repaid  in 12 monthly instalments. Around three months into that term Mr C 
refinanced the loan,  taking some additional borrowing and extending his repayment  period to 
24 months. He refinanced  his second loan,  again taking some additional borrowing, around 
nine months later. Mr Cs third and fourth loans were both repaid earlier  than the planned 
24 month term. A summary of Mr Cs borrowing from MCF  is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 17/12/2014 Refinanced £ 2,000
2 27/03/2015 Refinanced £ 3,652
3 11/12/2015 06/02/2017 £ 4,985
4 27/03/2017 11/04/2017 £ 3,500
Mr Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think  MCF 
should have agreed to give any of the loans to Mr C. So she asked MCF  to pay Mr C some 
compensation.
MCF agreed with our investigators findings in relation to the last three loans. But it still didnt 
think it had been  wrong to give the first loan to Mr C. So, as the complaint hasnt been  
resolved informally, it has been  passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last 
stage of our process.  If Mr C accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mr Cs complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time MCF  gave  these loans to Mr C required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so MCF  had to think  about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr C. In practice this 
meant that MCF had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr C undue  
difficulty or adverse  consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for MCF to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money  back,  it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr C. 
Ref: DRN96219452Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether MCF did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr C.
MCF has told us about the checks it did before lending  to Mr C. Before  each loan it asked 
him for details of his income  and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file before 
each loan too. MCF  has also provided  us with recordings of telephone calls it had with Mr C 
before it agreed  the first and last loan. 
Mr C was entering into significant commitments  with MCF.  The first loan was due to be 
repaid over a period of 12 months.  And the subsequent loans were scheduled to be repaid 
over two years. So I would expect that a responsible  lender would want to get a full, and 
independent, view of a consumers finances  before  agreeing  the loans. So I dont  think the 
checks Ive described above  were  sufficient. I think MCF needed  to verify the information 
Mr C was providing about his income  and expenditure  rather than simply relying on what  
hed said.
But although  I dont  think the checks MCF did before agreeing the loans  were  proportionate 
that in itself doesnt mean Mr Cs complaint should  be upheld. Id also need  to be persuaded 
that better  checks would  have led to a responsible lender declining his loan applications. So 
Ive looked at copies of Mr Cs bank statements from around the time of each loan to get a 
better understanding of the true state  of his finances.
In performing that check I am not suggesting  that this is exactly  what MCF needed to do. 
There are many other  ways of getting an independent view of a consumers finances. But 
given the time that has passed  I think that reviewing bank statements gives me a good  
understanding of what  would  have  been  uncovered by what  I consider to be proportionate 
checks.
At the time he applied for the first loan Mr C told MCF  that his normal monthly income  was 
£1,200, and that his normal monthly expenditure was £200. So that should have left him with 
Ref: DRN96219453£1,000 each month that he could use to repay  his borrowing.  But even a cursory  check of 
Mr Cs bank statements shows that what hed declared was inaccurate.  His income was 
much less than hed declared,  and his expenditure far higher. The overdraft on Mr Cs bank 
account was at, or close to, his limit for most of the month and he was borrowing regularly 
from short term lenders. And Mr C was spending heavily on what  appear to be online 
gambling transactions. Based on what would  have been seen from these checks I dont think 
it would  be reasonable to conclude that Mr C would be able to repay this loan, or indeed  any 
other credit, in a sustainable manner.  So I dont think MCF  should  have  given this loan to 
Mr C.
And that picture  doesnt change over the remainder  of the time that Mr C was borrowing 
from MCF. He continued to spend  heavily on online gambling transactions,  financing that 
spending and the repayment  of many other loans by further borrowing from a range  of 
different lenders. Looking at Mr Cs credit file shows the large  number of loans that he had 
taken. And whilst that credit file suggests  that Mr C was repaying his credit on time, that 
doesnt mean he was doing so sustainably. So I dont think  MCF  should  have given any of 
the remaining  loans  to Mr C either.
In summary  I dont think the checks MCF  did before agreeing any of the loans were 
proportionate. And I think that better  checks would  have shown that Mr C couldnt  afford  to 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. So MCF shouldnt have agreed to lend to Mr C and 
so now needs  to pay him some compensation.
putting things right
I dont think MCF should have agreed  to give any of the loans to Mr C. So for each loan MCF 
should;
refund  all the interest and charges Mr C paid on the loans
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Cs credit file in relation to the loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MCF to take off tax from this interest.  MCF must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Madison  CF UK Limited  to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9621945