K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs W bought the policy  in March 1997 at the same time as taking out a store card.  Mrs W 
took out the card and PPI in a retail store, but FICL  is responsible for the way the policy  was 
sold. So in my decision Ill refer to FICL as the seller.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint because:
I think FICL  made  Mrs W aware  that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. In Mrs Ws complaint she said the PPI policy  wasnt discussed with her at 
the time she took the store card. So she says she wasnt aware of the policy, and it was 
added without her consent.
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Ws store  card application  form. It includes a tick box to select  PPI, 
which Mrs W has ticked. Mrs W has signed the form, so I think its reasonable to say shed 
have read and understood what she was signing for. I do understand she might not have 
had an extensive  conversation about  the PPI policy in store,  but I think  she was at least  
aware of it and chose  to take it. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it had to give Mrs W enough information about  it.
Mrs W says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer if she was too unwell to work. 
She also says she couldve relied on her husband  to keep up her repayments if she couldnt  
work, for example if shed  lost her job.
I havent seen  the actual  policy document  applicable to Mrs Ws PPI policy  but Ive reviewed 
the one of FICLs policy documents from a similar policy, from around the same time as Mrs 
W took this one. It looks as though the PPI policy wouldve paid 15% of Mrs Ws outstanding 
card balance in the event  of a successful claim. The claim wouldve been paid until she was 
well enough to return to work, or until she started  working again if shed lost her job. So 
despite the means Mrs W had in place to make her repayments in the event of being unable 
to work, I think the policy still couldve been  useful to her. 
Ref: DRN91346062Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But Mrs W doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main  things  the policy 
didnt cover  such as a pre-existing medical  condition or unusual  working  arrangements.  
And based on what I know about her circumstances it looks  like the policy couldve been 
useful to her. So I dont  think  better  information  wouldve stopped  her buying it. 
FICL couldve made the cost of the policy clearer to Mrs W. But for the reasons Ive already 
explained, if FICL had done that, I dont  think shed have changed her mind and decided  not 
to take it.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs W has said.  But for the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont think FICL mis-sold  this PPI policy to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9134606