K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains about Unum Ltd. 
background
Mrs G was insured via a group sickness policy with Unum. She had an ongoing claim that 
Unum then ceased to pay. Mrs G didnt agree, and complained to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter, but didnt uphold  the complaint. Therefore 
the case has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding the complaint either. Ill explain why. 
Mrs G unfortunately suffers from long standing back and other medical  issues. She made a 
claim on her policy in May 2016, which as her policy has a 6 month wait period meant 
benefit began being paid in November 2016.  Benefit was then paid until February 2017 
when a phased  return to work was suggested. Mrs G disputed  the return  to work and some 
further medical evidence was requested.  This doesnt appear  to have been completed due to 
other circumstances  as below.  
At this time it appears a round of redundancies was announced  in Mrs Gs office  and she 
elected to leave in April 2017.  After  some debate Unum agreed to pay benefit up to the 
redundancy date.  
Mrs G contests that had Unum agreed  to pay ongoing benefit  she would not have been 
made redundant. When our investigator  considered  this they thought that Mrs G hadnt  
shown this to be the case, and invited her to provide any proof  she had of this. Based  on 
this, and as no proof  was forthcoming, the investigator rejected  the complaint. 
Ive looked again at all the file, and I too cant find any conclusive proof  that had Unum made 
a different decision about paying Mrs Gs claim she wouldnt have been made redundant. I 
also note that the policy  Mrs G held through her ex-employer  doesnt provide cover if you 
arent employed. Cover  ceases if you lose your job. 
Also whilst Mrs G says she was made redundant the information on file suggests she 
volunteered for voluntary  redundancy (although  her job may have been lost anyway later 
on). This alone would cause ongoing  claim issues, if someone elected  for redundancy it 
could be argued  they made themselves unemployed and a policy like this probably  wouldnt 
pay out in those circumstances. Also there  would be no occupation against which to test 
fitness to return to work. 
Faced with the lack of follow up information requested  when the claim was first stopped, the 
lack of cover  if you are unemployed, and the lack of definitive  proof  that a different decision 
from Unum meant Mrs G would have avoided redundancy I dont have enough  evidence  in 
her favour to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint. 
Ref: DRN95740802my final decision
I make  no award against Unum Ltd. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9574080