K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that FirstRand  Bank  Limited (t/a MotoNovo) hasnt treated her fairly  when 
she complained  about faults present in a car she bought using a credit agreement MotoNovo 
financed.
background
Mrs D bought a car in December 2017.  Part of the cost was financed through MotoNovo, 
and Mrs D was to pay just under £80 a month for four years.
The car broke down  in January 2018, and Mrs D had it repaired under  warranty,  contributing 
about £50 towards  the cost. It broke down again in March  and was again repaired, this time 
at a cost of £108 for Mrs D. It broke down again  a few days  later (with the same fault) and 
was repaired at no cost to Mrs D.
About a month  later the car again  broke  down and Mrs D was told it needed  a new turbo  at 
a likely cost of £1,500 for Mrs D.
Mrs D contacted MotoNovo, which said the car would have to be returned to it for it to 
assess whether it or Mrs D was responsible for the repairs. Mrs D explained that this was 
difficult as she lived some distance  from the garage  MotoNovo wanted her to use.
An independent assessment was carried out a little while later and MotoNovo  said it wouldnt 
pay for the repairs as they were caused  by wear and tear. It did pay £250 towards hire car 
costs whilst the car was off the road being assessed.
Mrs D paid for the repairs as she needed  the car, but complained to this service that she 
hadnt been treated fairly.
Our investigator thought Mrs Ds complaint  should be upheld. He concluded that, as the 
turbo had been  listed  as having a fault in the first diagnostic tests  carried  out in January,  and 
the early repairs were for items  associated  with the turbo, a fault had most  likely been 
present when the car was sold. He thought  that as Mrs D had paid for the repairs,  the fairest 
way to deal with the complaint was for MotoNovo to refund Mrs D all the money shed paid 
towards repairs, to refund  2 months  repayments for the period the car had been off the road 
and pay £150  compensation.
Mrs D doesnt think the compensation is high enough and thinks  she should also get back  
some additional  child care costs shes had.
MotoNovo says it shouldnt have to meet the cost of repairs.  It says the fact that Mrs D lives 
some distance away is irrelevant, and its been deprived of a chance to repair  the car by Mrs 
Ds actions. It also maintains that, as Mrs D managed to drive about  3,000 miles in the car 
the fault cant have been  present  when she bought  it and its been caused  by wear and tear.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN93728172If faults are present on a car when it was bought, and a customer isnt told about these, then 
a finance provider can be held responsible for either  the cost of repair or, in some  
circumstances, be asked  to take back the car and unwind a finance agreement.
If the faults appear within the first six months  of ownership  as they did here  then its up to 
MotoNovo to prove they werent  present when the car was bought.
The normal  way to assess that would be through an independent inspection.  And if the cars 
done a relatively  high mileage, or the fault is something that fails over time, it would be fait to 
take into account the age of the car and its condition  when sold.
Mrs D has given us evidence of a number of faults  with this car, most  of which (if not all) 
appear to be related  to the turbo. The first repairs didnt cost Mrs D too much  as they were 
mostly paid for by the warranty shed bought with the car. I wouldnt expect her to anticipate  
that  once the early repairs were done  shed be faced with a much larger  bill only a month 
after the last repair.
So I think it reasonable that Mrs D didnt contact  MotoNovo before May, as that was the first 
time shed  have known  the repair needed might  cost her a substantial  amount. 
MotoNovo says the assessment concluded that, as Mrs D had driven  over 3,000 miles, then 
the fault cant have been  present  when she bought  the car. Im not persuaded by that 
argument. This car had been repaired three times before MotoNovo got this assessment  
and the things repaired are known to be linked to the turbo.  Furthermore, the diagnostic test 
carried out by the first garage in January 2018  when Mrs D had driven fewer than 200 
miles  mentions faults in the turbo. Im satisfied,  on balance,  that the fault most likely 
existed when Mrs D bought the car.
I think MotoNovo should put things right for Mrs D. The normal way to do that would be for it 
to arrange a repair. However, Mrs D has already had the work done.  MotoNovo to say its 
been deprived of a chance to repair the car for less money. But Mrs D only paid the repair  
costs after MotoNovo said it wouldnt meet them, and because she couldnt  manage without 
a car. So I dont think it fair for MotoNovo to avoid  paying the costs  Mrs D incurred.
Mrs D asked for some additional compensation for the inconvenience she and her family 
suffered and some additional childcare costs. And I do understand her family circumstances. 
But I also have to take into account that MotoNovo did pay towards  car hire, and she has 
been able to drive  the car some of the time.  MotoNovo  didnt know  there was anything wrong 
with the car before  she contacted it in May, so I wouldnt  expect it to compensate  her for any 
earlier inconvenience or the extra childcare  cost.
Taking everything into account  I think the compensation is fair, when the redress suggested 
by our investigator is looked at in the round. For example, hes suggested  and I agree  
that MotoNovo  add interest at 8% onto the repair costs  from the point(s) Mrs D paid to the 
date of refund.  Thats to compensate her for being  out of pocket for some time. Hes also 
said MotoNovo should  refund two months of payments  (again  with interest)  for the time the 
car was off the road.  Overall I think the suggestion  he proposed is a fair resolution  to this 
complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and I order FirstRand Bank Limited to:
Ref: DRN93728173Pay Mrs Ds repair costs of £50.40, £108  and £1,564.46. It should  add interest at 8% 
simple per annum  to each of these  payments  from the date Mrs D paid the bills to 
the date of refund.
Refund 2 months  repayments (2 x £79.85)  for the time the car was off the road.  
Again FirstRand Bank Limited should  add interest to these payments as described 
above.
Pay Mrs D £150 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience shes had.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9372817