K821x#15complaint
Mr M is a director of Company A and complains  on its behalf about  a 'key facts'  document 
produced by Strathearn Insurance Services Limited (SISL) in relation to a property deposit 
bond.
In summary,  Company  A says that SISL  failed to disclose material  information  and provide  
appropriate risk warnings in the 'key facts 'document. It says that it decided  to invest in 
several property investment schemes  based  solely upon the respective 'key facts'  
documents. Company A has complained  about three of the schemes which  failed causing 
Company A to lose substantial sums of money. It says that had the full facts and risk 
disclosures been  made  in the 'key facts' documents, it would not have invested in the 
schemes and suffered  financial  loss.
This complaint concerns  Company As investment in Scheme W. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 23 January 2019 upholding the complaint. A copy is 
attached and forms part of this decision.
Company A, via its representative, responded to accept  my provisional  decision. It also 
clarified the amount Company A received from Scheme W.
SISL did not accept  the provisional decision. Its representative said, in summary:
On the matter of jurisdiction, SISL  recognises  that this has been  considered  by this 
service in the jurisdiction  decision  in a similar case. Notwithstanding  this, it does not 
accept that Company  A falls within  the ordinary meaning of a client.  There  was no 
retainer of SISL and no remuneration was paid by the consumer to SISL.
SISL said that it hadnt seen evidence that Company  A was a micro-enterprise and 
therefore it wasnt clear that Company A was an eligible complainant under our 
rules.
The context of the investment needed  to be taken into account. The members  of the 
IPIN network tend to be high net worth  / sophisticated investors who are familiar 
with property club type investments. SISL  understood that the IPIN members had 
self-certified to IPIN that they were  aware of the risks of making investments of this 
nature and they invested via IPIN because they sought a high rate of return, 
something which is inevitably associated  with increased level of risk.
The investors typically received advice from other  parties including their lawyers, 
IPIN and potentially, independent financial advisers and that is something that 
needed to be taken into account.  
The provisional decision appears to regard the key facts  document  as  if it had 
either been a policy  summary or key features document as defined the FCA 
Handbook. It is actually  an initial disclosure document (IDD)  and should  be treated 
as such. It is unfair to judge the IDD against  the standard  of another type of 
document which it never  purported  to be.
Ref: DRN97248272It cant be said that Mr M and Company A relied  on the key facts  document  as it 
appears quite possible that if the same bond had been in place and Mr M was told 
of the bond but the key facts document had not been present, he would still have 
gone ahead  with the scheme.
Each investor was required to sign their acceptance of the surety  bond  and the 
providers name  and address were displayed on the document the investor  signed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. I remain  of the view that 
the settlement  set out in my provisional  decision represents fair compensation.
It seems  to me that a lot of points raised  by SISL  were already considered  by me in the 
provisional decision. So I dont think there is much more to add to what Ive already said. 
However, for completeness, Ive gone through again here what  in my view are the key points 
raised by SISLs  representative in response to my provisional decision.
can we consider the complaint?
As I explained in my provisional decision,  SISL  had objected to this service  considering  this 
complaint, and a number  of others  similar  to it. It said Company A wasnt its customer,  the 
deposit protection insurance wasnt a regulated product and that it did not carry out any 
regulated activity.  
This was considered  at length by us in another similar case and SISL  recognises  that the 
jurisdiction issues that are relevant to this case have  been considered in the jurisdiction 
decision in that case.  So I do not want to repeat those findings  here.  I remain  of the view 
that this complaint is within  our jurisdiction for the reasons I mentioned  in my provisional 
decision.  I will however  address  the point raised  by SISL following my provisional decision 
in this regard.   
SISL says that Company A does not fall within the ordinary meaning of a client,  there  was no 
retainer of SISL and no remuneration was paid by it to SISL.
Our powers  to consider  complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets  Act
2000 (FSMA) and in rules, known as the Dispute Resolution Rules  (DISP) written  by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) in accordance with the powers  it derives from FSMA. 
These form part of the FCA Handbook
DISP2.7.1R states:
"A complaint may only be dealt with under  the Financial Ombudsman  Service if it is 
brought by or on behalf of an eligible complainant."
DISP 2.7.3R states:
 an eligible  complainant must be a person [which is defined as a natural person or a 
legal person, such as a partnership] that is:
Ref: DRN97248273(1) a consumer; 
(2) micro-enterprise; 

(3) a charity or
(4) a trustee
DISP 2.7.6R further states:
To be an eligible complainant a person must  also have a complaint which arises 
from matters relevant to one or more  of the following relationships with the 
respondent:
(1) the complainant  is (or was) a customer..  of the respondent
(2) the complainant  is (or was) a potential customer of the respondent
     ..
(5) the complainant  is a person for whose benefit a contract of insurance was taken 
out or was intended to be taken out with or through the respondent "
Following my provisional decision, our service sent SISL details of Company As accounts 
during the relevant period. Looking at the accounts and what we know  about how 
Company A operated,  Im satisfied that Company A is a micro-enterprise and is an eligible 
complainant under DISP 2.7.3(2)R because it has fewer than 10 employees and its turnover 
was less than €2 million.
Company A was a beneficiary under  a contract  of insurance. And for the reasons already 
explained, Im satisfied that the contract  of insurance was taken  through  SISL. So I consider 
that Company  A is an eligible complainant under  DISP 2.7.6(5)R.
It may be that no remuneration was paid directly  by Company A but often insurance  brokers 
are paid commission by the insurer and that is what happened here. SISL  was paid 
commission by the insurer NWIC.  As stated in the key facts  document  the commission  was 
about 11% of the premium, paid by the developer to NWIC. As I understand it, the premium 
in turn was 2.25%  of the deposit  paid by Company A. Of this, 2% was retained  by NWIC and 
0.25% was paid as commission  to SISL.  
In addition, I also consider  that Company A is an eligible complainant under DISP 2.7.6(2)R.   
It may be that there  was no retainer of SISL by Company  A but Im satisfied that it was a 
potential customer of SISL and therefore eligible complainants  under the DISP rules.   
SISL in its capacity as a regulated insurance  intermediary offered its services  to potential  
customers. The Information Analysis  Document (the IAD) said: Due  to the regulated  nature  
of the product offered,  any direct questions relating specifically to the bond aspect of the 
SES offering  should  be directed to Strathearn Insurance Services Ltd. It then referred  to the 
key facts overleaf.
The key facts said:  The FSA requires  you to be provided with this information. Use this 
information to decide if our services are right for you.
It also referred to our service  in the event  of any complaint and to the FSCS in the event 
SISL could not meet  its obligations.  Thus  Im satisfied that SISL  envisaged the recipients of 
the key facts document of the specific schemes as its potential customers. 
Ref: DRN97248274It may be that Mr M on behalf of Company A did not eventually approach SISL  but SISL 
made its services available to him in its capacity as the regulated firm. And as noted earlier, 
SISL was paid commission in relation to the deposits made, whether or not the respective 
investors contacted  it. 
Taking all of this into account,  it is my view that Company A was a potential customer  of 
SISL and therefore eligible complainant under DISP 2.7.6(2)R as well. 
relevant considerations
Im required  to determine this complaint on the basis of what  I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulator's rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice;  and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The FCA handbook  sets out the Principles which are a general statement of the fundamental 
obligations of the firms it regulates, such as SISL.
Principle 7 says:
"A firm must pay due regard to the information  needs of its clients,  and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear,  fair and not misleading"
Client is defined as a customer and it includes potential  client (and so potential  customer). 
Company A was a potential customer, and its complaint is essentially about what  SISL 
communicated (or failed  to communicate)  to it through the 'key facts'  document.   So I 
consider that Principle  7 is relevant here.
I also consider that Principle 6 is relevant in this instance. This says: "A firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
In this complaint,  as I understand it, IPIN provided  Mr M with promotional  literature about the 
scheme  the IAD.  The IAD stated that the bond  would protect the full amount of the deposit 
in the event of a contractual default  by the developer. Investors were referred to a Key Facts 
document produced by SISL, which was included in the IAD.
The IAD said:
"The Property Deposit Bond is provided  by the developer in association  with Strathearn
Insurance Services Ltd (see page  22)". 
Page 22 is where  SISL's 'key facts' document can be found.
So when SISL produced  and provided the 'key facts'  document for the IAD, it knew  that the 
consumers were being referred to the 'key facts' for information about the bond. So SISL  had 
an obligation  to ensure  that the information  it provided about the bond was clear,  fair and not 
misleading.
was the information provided  clear, fair, and not misleading?
Ref: DRN97248275For the reasons  explained in my provisional decision, I remain  of the view that that SISL  did 
not provide clear, fair and not misleading information  about  the insurance  in its key facts  
document provided to Company A.
SISL says that what it provided was an Initial Disclosure Document. However  I note that this 
document was referred to as a key facts document by SISL itself on more than one 
occasion. The IAD also refers to it as a key facts  document and not as an Initial  Disclosure 
Document.   
In any event, as I explained in the provisional  decision, this key facts  document  was clearly  
intended as the source  of information about  the bond for potential customers thinking about 
investing in the schemes  and SISL  was aware of it. So I consider that SISL had an obligation  
to ensure that this communication was clear,  fair and not misleading.
did Company A rely on the key facts document? 
Having concluded  that the key facts document was not clear  or fair, and was misleading,  I 
need to consider how much reliance Mr M placed on this document before  he decided to 
make the relevant investment  on behalf of Company A.
For the reasons  explained my provisional  decision I think it is reasonable to conclude that 
Mr M looked at what SISL stated  in the key facts document about  the bond,  and relied  on it 
when he decided to proceed with the scheme.
SISL says that members  of the IPIN network were frequently high net worth / sophisticated 
investors who were familiar with property club type investments.  It says that they were 
aware of the risks they were taking and had sufficient advice to make  informed decisions. 
I accept that Mr Ms assertion that he was looking  for a safe investment with a fairly high 
return.  Because of this, the security offered by the insurance was crucial in his decision 
making. So, in my view the issue here is not so much about consumers net worth or their 
knowledge of the investment (i.e., the property scheme  opportunities) but about the 
insurance that was intended to offer protection should something go wrong with the 
investment.  To that extent, my view is that Mr M was not expert enough to understand the 
intricacies of the insurance product - for example the solvency of the insurer  or whether they 
would be eligible for FSCS protection should  something happen to the insurer.  This is more  
so as the insurer was based  overseas. So I do not consider it unreasonable  when he says 
that he relied on SISLs information in relation to the bond.  
SISL has also said that investors  typically received  advice from other parties including  their 
lawyers, IPIN and potentially other independent financial advisers, and that is something Ive 
failed to take into account. 
Ive considered what SISL has said and Im not persuaded by it. As previously mentioned, in 
the marketing  literature IPIN clearly directed the potential investors towards SISL  for 
information about the bond and not to other professionals.  As I understand it, IPIN was 
concerned that it or other related companies  should not provide information or advice in 
relation to the insurance as they were not authorised by the FCA in that regard. This was 
why SISL was brought in to handle that part of the scheme. 
Ref: DRN97248276Also, as noted  earlier, the key facts  document / IAD recommended that consumers seek 
independent advice on the investment proposals and contract. However for information 
about the bond they were  directed to seek information from SISL.  
Given all this, it seems  to me that the clear  intention was that SISL was responsible for 
providing information about the bond. So Im doubtful whether the potential investors would 
have been directed to other  professional people for information or advice about the bond. 
Nevertheless, even if it is the case that Mr M considers that another professional  also failed 
him in their obligations,  then it is up to him to decide  whether  he wants to take action against  
either or both. In my view,  even  if another professional was involved concerning  the bond, 
that does not absolve  SISL  of the obligations  it owed to its customers  or potential  customers.  
Mr M considers that SISL failed in its obligations to him/Company  A and he is entitled to 
bring that complaint about SISL  to us, which  he has done. 
SISL has also pointed  us to the bond schedule that was signed  by the investors.  It says that 
the schedule provided the name  and address  of the insurance company and so 
Mr M ought to have known that the insurer was an overseas insurer. 
But as Ive said in the provisional decision,  Im mindful that SISLs  key facts document  was 
produced as part of the pre-sale literature, whereas the Schedule was only handed over 
after the investment  had been arranged and monies  paid over. And in any event,  the 
document also did not highlight the risks involved  adequately - for example, they did not 
highlight the lack of FSCS  protection. 
SISL has also argued that Company  A would still have invested even if the key facts 
document had not been provided, simply in the knowledge that a deposit bond was in place.
But I disagree. IPIN directed the potential investors to SISLs key facts  document  for 
information about NWIC  and the insurance protection it provided.  In the key facts  document  
SISL clearly gave the impression that it was the expert and it told the consumers that they 
accept the policy as it was designed  to work specifically with the investment proposal 
developed for IPIN SES investors".  
As it happened the insurer  failed. Had the key facts  document  provided the appropriate 
warnings about  the insurer  then I do not think that Company A would have gone ahead with 
the scheme.  
In other  words, that the bond was in place isnt just the reason why Mr M invested in the 
scheme. He invested  in the scheme with the belief  that the bond would satisfy his needs 
(i.e., protection  of their capital) and I consider that SISLs key facts document which  
provided information about the bond played a key role in leading  him to believe  so.
The bond  cannot be considered in a vacuum.  It seems to me that to understand whether or 
not Mr M most likely relied on the key facts  document,  it is necessary to first understand the 
features of the overall scheme.  Then  consider the role played  by the deposit bond within that 
scheme. And then go on to consider  what  information was provided in relation to that 
product and whether the consumer relied  on that information.
Thus whilst Ive considered the bond  within the wider context of the investment - to be clear - 
the key question Ive considered is what Mr M has complained about - which  is about the 
key facts document provided by the SISL.  
Ref: DRN97248277summary
In summary  I find that:
When Mr M, on behalf of Company A decided to invest in the property scheme  he was 
looking for a low risk investment with potential for good  growth. 
The underlying  investments  in properties offered potential for growth  but they carried  
higher risk of capital  loss. That would most likely  have not suited Mr Ms risk appetite. 
However the security  of capital was provided  through the bond. 
Given his risk appetite, Im satisfied that Mr M would have wanted to consider the 
information provided in relation to that bond  before  deciding to invest in the scheme. He 
was directed to look into SISLs  key facts document for information about the bond. So I 
consider it reasonable to conclude that he relied on that information along  with SISLs 
recommendation that he accept the policy in deciding to invest in the scheme. 
SISL knew or ought to have known that it was its key facts  document that potential 
investors were directed to for information about the bond. So it had an obligation to 
ensure that the key facts  document was clear, fair and not misleading. For the reasons 
already explained, the key facts did not provide clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the bond.
The scheme failed  and NWIC has been  liquidated. Company A has suffered a loss as a 
result. I consider  it more likely than not that had SISL provided clear,  fair and not 
misleading information about the risks involved with the bond,  Mr M would not have 
invested in the schemes. So it is fair that SISL  compensate him for the loss.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Company A in the position  it would have been  in but for SISLs failure.
For the reasons  Ive explained above, it is my conclusion that had the key risks of the bond - 
which was the key component of the SES - been  explained clearly, it is more  likely than not 
that Mr M on behalf of Company A wouldnt have invested in the SES scheme at all.
Im satisfied Mr M on behalf Company A was looking to invest  its money, so I think  he would  
have invested  elsewhere, but with capital protection. It is not possible to say precisely what  it 
would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what  Ive set out below is fair, given his 
objective for growth with capital protection.
To compensate Company  A fairly, the business should  calculate  the position Company A 
would now be in if its investment had produced a return matching the average rate for fixed  
rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as published by the Bank of England.
Ive chosen this method of compensation because in my view Company A wanted  to achieve 
a reasonable return without  risking  any of its capital. The average  rate would be a fair 
measure given these  circumstances  and objective.  It does not mean that Company A would 
have invested  only in a fixed rate bond.  It is the sort of investment return  a consumer could 
have obtained  with little risk to their capital.
Ref: DRN97248278The compensation payable to Company A is the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of their investment If the actual  value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
actual value
This means  the amount  received by Company A out of the scheme. 
Any amount  received by Company A from the scheme should be deducted  from the fair 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation  from 
that point on.
It is not clear  at all whether Company A will receive  any further disbursement from Scheme 
W. It seems  unlikely. However, SISL  could  take ownership of the investment if it wishes  to, 
provided Company  A agrees. If it is not possible for SISL to take ownership,  then it may 
request an undertaking from Company A that it repays to SISL  any amount it may receive 
from the investment  in future.
fair value
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  the business  
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
The calculation should be made from the date of investment to date of my decision.
my final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that the business 
pays the balance.
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above.  My provisional  decision is that Strathearn  Insurance  
Services Limited should pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of 
£150,000. 
It should also pay interest at 8% simple per year on this amount from date of decision to date 
of settlement, if compensation is not paid within 28 days  of the business being notified of 
acceptance. Income tax may be payable on this interest payment. 
Strathearn Insurance Services Limited should  provide  details of its calculation to Company A 
in a clear,  simple format.
If Strathearn  Insurance  Services  Limited does not pay the full fair compensation, then any 
investment currently illiquid  should  be retained  by Company A. This is until any future benefit 
that it may receive from the investment together with the compensation paid by Strathearn  
Insurance Services Limited  (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as 
set out above.  
Ref: DRN97248279Strathearn Insurance Services Limited may request an undertaking from Company A that 
either it repays to Strathearn Insurance Services Limited any amount Company  A may 
receive from the investment thereafter or if possible, transfers the investment at that point. 
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that SISL  pays Company  A the balance.  I also recommend that it 
pays interest at 8% simple  per year on this balance  from date of decision to date of 
settlement, if compensation is not paid within 28 days of the business  being notified of 
acceptance. Income tax may be payable on this interest payment. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  It does not bind Strathearn  
Insurance Services Limited.  It is unlikely that Company  A can accept my decision and go to 
court to ask for the balance. Company A may want to consider getting independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept  this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Company A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Abdul Hafez
ombudsman
Ref: DRN972482710COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M complains on behalf  of Company A about a 'key facts' document produced by Strathearn 
Insurance Services Limited (SISL) in relation to a property deposit bond.
In summary, Company A says that SISL  failed to disclose  material information  and provide 
appropriate risk warnings  in the 'key facts  'document.  It says that it decided  to invest in several 
property investment schemes based solely upon the respective 'key facts'  documents. Company A 
has complained about three of the schemes which failed causing Company A to lose substantial  sums 
of money. It says that had the full facts  and risk disclosures been made  in the 'key facts' documents, it 
would not have invested  in the schemes and suffered  financial loss.
This complaint concerns  Company As investment in Scheme W. 
background
IPIN Global Prospects Network (IPIN) is an investment  network which  aims to provide real estate 
schemes to its members. IPIN is the trading name of a Spanish company  Global Prospects S.L. 
IPIN typically marketed  its schemes  as secure exit strategies (SES). As I understand it, under this 
strategy, the investors funded property developments such as hotels, student accommodation and 
residential care homes  by way of a deposit. The deposits were  initially sent to a lawyer  and then 
maintained in an escrow facility. The developer would  draw  the deposit down, when  needed, to 
finance the project. The property units would  be sold by the developer before  a set date and the 
investor would  get their deposit back, along with a share of any profits  from the sale.
A key characteristic of SES schemes was the protection offered to the investors for their deposits. 
This was provided by the property developer  entering into an insurance contract  with an insurer.
So if a project failed or the developer  defaulted,  the investors - who were  named  as the beneficiaries 
of the insurance  contract - could claim any difference between the deposit paid and any money 
already returned to them.
The deposits  held in the escrow facility  could be drawn  down by the developer only after they had put 
this insurance in place for each scheme. This insurance was called  the Property Deposit Bond ('the 
bond'). Company As complaint against SISL is in relation to this insurance  product.
Company A first invested  in Scheme  W in March 2013, paying deposits for two units totalling around 
£100,000. Then, when a further offering was made available, Company A invested in another two 
units in October  2013, paying a total deposit  of around £101,000.
An insurer based in Nevis,  Northern & Western Insurance Company  (NWIC) underwrote the bond.  
In 2015, the company behind Scheme  W went into liquidation. Company A received no payment from 
the property  developer and could not claim  against the bond as NWIC itself entered  liquidation in 
January 2015. 
Company A complained to SISL  In summary, it said the information provided  by SISL about the 
insurance had been misleading and had not sufficiently highlighted the risks posed by an insurer 
which was not FCA regulated. Had SISL  done this, Company A says it would not have invested in 
Scheme W.
SISL did not respond  to the complaint. It however told us, in effect, that we cannot consider  this 
complaint.  
Ref: DRN972482711findings
I've considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im minded to uphold Company  
As complaint  for the reasons set out below.  
SISL has previously objected to this service considering  this complaint, and a number of others 
similar to it. Briefly, it has said Company A wasnt its customer, and that the deposit protection 
insurance wasnt a regulated  product.  
This was considered at length  by us in another similar case  and SISL recognises that the jurisdiction 
issues that are relevant to this case have  been  considered  in the jurisdiction decision in that case. So 
I do not want  to repeat that here. However, for avoidance of doubt - I am satisfied that this complaint 
is within our jurisdiction. In summary I consider  that: 
(a)The property deposit bonds about which the consumers have complained are contracts  of 
insurance. 
(b)SISL carried out the regulated  activity  of arranging  (bringing about) deals in investments 
and/or making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments. 
(c)Company A is an eligible complainant.
relevant considerations
I am required to determine  this complaint on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulator's  rules, guidance  and standards, and codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  
what I consider  to have been good industry practice at the time.
The FCA handbook sets out the Principles  which are a general statement  of the fundamental 
obligations of the firms it regulates, such as SISL.
Principle 7 says:
"A firm must  pay due regard to the information needs  of its clients,  and communicate information to 
them in a way which is clear,  fair and not misleading"
Client is defined as a customer and it includes potential client (and so potential  customer). 
Company A was a potential customer, and its complaint is essentially  about what SISL communicated 
(or failed to communicate) to it through the 'key facts' document.   So I consider that Principle 7 is 
relevant here.
I also consider  that Principle  6 is relevant in this instance. This says: "A firm must  pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly.
In this complaint, as I understand  it, IPIN provided  Mr M with promotional literature about the scheme. 
It was called  the  Information Analysis Document  (IAD).  The IAD stated that the bond would protect  
the full amount of the deposit in the event of a contractual default  by the developer. Investors were  
referred to a Key Facts document  produced by SISL,  which was included in the IAD.
The IAD said:
"The Property  Deposit  Bond is provided by the developer  in association with Strathearn
Insurance Services Ltd (see page  22)". 
Ref: DRN972482712Page 22 is where SISL's 'key facts' document can be found.
So when SISL produced  and provided  the 'key facts'  document for the IAD, it knew that the 
consumers were  being referred  to the 'key facts' for information about the bond.  So SISL had an 
obligation to ensure that the information  it provided about the bond was clear, fair and not misleading.
was the information  provided clear, fair and not misleading?
Company A says it was not. It says:
SISL did not disclose the name of the insurer; 
SISL did not make clear the insurer was not regulated by the FCA;
SISL did not make clear that, should the insurer  fail to meet  its obligations, there would be no 
recourse to the FSCS; and
Had each of these things been clear,  Company A would not have invested in the project. 
Having considered  everything, I am minded to agree that the information  provided in the key facts 
document was not clear  or fair; and was misleading.  
There is no mention in the key facts that the insurer was NWIC. The document does not say that 
NWIC was not regulated by the FCA. And there was no warning that should  NWIC fail to meet its 
obligations, consumers  would be unable to claim their losses under the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme.  
Also, considering that this was the document that the consumers were referred to in the marketing 
literature for explanation about the bond, it would be reasonable to expect  that it explained  the key 
terms and conditions  of the policy but that wasnt the case. So I consider that the information  wasnt 
clear.
Further, the 'key facts'  document  said: "Strathearn Insurance  recommends that you accept this policy, 
as it is designed to work specifically  with the investment proposal developed for IPIN SES investors ".
However it did not highlight the potential risks as noted earlier.  I consider that failing to balance its 
recommendation to potential customers to 'accept the policy' with an explanation  of the potential risks 
meant that the information  was misleading and not presented in a fair way.
Overall, I consider that SISL did not provide clear, fair and not misleading  information about the 
insurance in its key facts document provided  to Company A.
did Company A rely on the 'key facts'  document?
Having concluded  that the 'key facts'  document was not clear  or fair, and was misleading, I need to 
consider how much reliance Mr M placed on this document before he decided to make the relevant 
investment on behalf of Company A.
Mr M says he relied  solely  on the key facts  document before making his decision to invest. To 
determine the likelihood of this, I have considered what it was that Mr M was looking for when  he 
decided to invest in Scheme  W.
Company A is effectively an investment vehicle  for Mr M. It holds a number of buy-to-let properties. Its 
purpose is to generate income and growth for Mr M. 
When it invested in Scheme  W, Company A had invested in four other IPIN schemes. However,  at the 
point of investing,  the other  schemes showed no signs of risk.  Mr M says that previous to IPIN 
schemes, he had invested in some energy  assets and maintained accounts with stockbroking firms. 
His other investment  experience was in the purchase five properties  outright and co-development of a 
property with a local developer.  But, importantly, Mr M says that the reason  he was specifically 
Ref: DRN972482713attracted to IPIN schemes was because  of the potential for higher returns but at the same time the 
protection of the deposit through the insurance  in case something went wrong.  
 
Property schemes generally have potential for higher returns.  So I can see why Mr M considered 
them given the investment objective. On the other hand, they tend to involve  a higher level of risk 
which I think  Mr M would have been aware  of from his previous experience  in investing  in properties. 
However, in this instance  Mr M chose to invest in the scheme because  of the protection offered. The  
schemes were marketed as 'low risk exposure' and it is clear  from the promotional literature that the 
protection offered  through the bond was a key selling point to convince  the consumers  that the 
schemes were indeed 'low risk'. So, given  the  objective and circumstances, I am persuaded that Mr 
M  would not have considered investing in this scheme without the protection  offered by the bond.
So the next question I have to consider is whether Mr M relied on SISL's 'key facts' document  for 
information about the bond before deciding to invest in the scheme.
IPIN directed  potential investors to SISLs key facts document for information  about the insurance. 
The IAD said: 
Due to the regulated  nature  of the product  offered,  any direct questions relating specifically to the 
bond aspect of the SES offering should be directed to Strathearn  Insurance.  
This clearly portrays SISL as the entity that potential  investors  needed to look to for information  about  
the bond.  
And SISL went on to state in the 'key facts':
"What services will Strathearn  Insurance provide you with?
Strathearn Insurance Services Limited recommends that you accept  this policy, as it is designed to 
work specifically with the investment proposal developed for IPIN SES investors. Strathearn 
Insurance does not offer advice on the SES investment proposal,  the associated contracts or their 
interpretation.
You are recommended to obtain independent legal  advice on all associated contracts, and the duties,  
responsibilities and obligations of the parties to the contracts."
Because of the way this is written, I consider that a distinction  was made between the insurance  part 
of the scheme and the rest of the investment; and that SISL was portrayed as the financial business 
tasked with providing  information about the insurance.
SISL knew, or ought reasonably to have known,  that potential investors would be directed  to its key 
facts document for information about the bond. So it had an obligation to ensure that document  was 
clear, fair, and not misleading.  But, as Ive set out above,  Im not presently persuaded it did this. 
Theres no evidence  that Mr M was or ought reasonably to have otherwise been aware  of the risks 
SISL had failed to make  clear. I am aware that the bond schedule for IPIN schemes  that Company A 
invested in provided the name and address of NWIC. However, Im mindful that SISLs key facts  
document was produced  as part of the pre-sale  literature, whereas the schedule was only handed 
over after the investment had been arranged  and monies paid over. And, in any event, the documents 
provided later also did not highlight the risks involved  adequately - for example,  they did not highlight  
the lack of FSCS protection. So Im minded  to find that Mr M looked  at the things SISL said in the key 
facts document in respect of the bond, and reasonably relied upon these representations when 
deciding to invest in the scheme. 
The scheme  Company A invested  in failed and NWIC has been liquidated. Company A has suffered a 
loss as a result. And, from what Ive seen so far, I think had SISL  provided information  about  the risks 
Ref: DRN972482714involved with the bond which  was clear, fair and not misleading, it wouldnt have invested in the 
scheme. So it is fair that SISL compensate it for the loss.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put Company A in 
the position it would have been in but for SISL's failure.
For the reasons  I have  explained above, it is my conclusion that had the key risks of the bond - which 
was the key component of the SES - been  explained  clearly, it is more  likely than not that Company A 
wouldn't have  invested in this SES scheme at all.
It is not possible to say precisely what it would  have  done  differently. But I am satisfied that what  I 
have set out below is fair, given its objective for growth with capital protection when  it chose to invest 
in Scheme  W.
To compensate Company A fairly, the business should calculate the position  Company A would now 
be in if its investment had produced a return matching the average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 
17 months maturity as published by the Bank of England.
I have chosen this method of compensation because in my view Company A wanted to achieve a 
reasonable return  without risking any of its capital. The average  rate would be a fair measure given  its 
circumstances and objective. It does not mean that Company A would have invested only in a fixed  
rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer  could have obtained with little risk to its 
capital.
The compensation  payable  to Company  A is the difference  between  the fair value and the actual 
value of their investment If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation  is payable.
actual value
This means  the amount received by Company A out of the scheme. 
As I understand it, Company A received about £45,000  in November 2016 and about  £500 in August 
2018 from Scheme Ws administrators:
It is not clear whether Company A will receive any further disbursement from Scheme W. It appears 
that the following  sums  have been promised, but may not have been paid.
£19,996.98 promised on 15 October 2018 
£3,960 promised to be paid in December  2018
Company A should confirm  the position on receipt of this provisional decision.
Essentially, any amount  received by Company A from the scheme should  be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on.
In order  to address further possible disbursements,  SISL could take ownership of the investment if it 
wishes to, provided Company A agrees. If it is not possible for SISL  to take ownership, then it may 
request an undertaking  from Company A that it repays to SISL any amount it may receive  from the 
investment in future. 
fair value
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, the business  should  use 
the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity  as published by the 
Ref: DRN972482715Bank of England. The rate for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  Apply 
those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.  The calculation should be made 
from the date of investment to date of my decision.
my provisional  decision
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If I 
consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the 
balance.
determination and award: I uphold  the complaint.  I consider that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My provisional  decision is that Strathearn Insurance Services Limited  
should pay the amount  produced by that calculation  up to the maximum  of £150,000. 
It should also pay interest at 8% simple  per year on this amount  from date of decision to date of 
settlement, if compensation is not paid within 28 days of the business being notified of acceptance. 
Income tax may be payable on this interest payment. 
Strathearn Insurance Services Limited should provide details of its calculation to Company A in a 
clear, simple format.
If Strathearn Insurance Services  Limited  does not pay the full fair compensation, then any investment 
currently illiquid should be retained by Company A. This is until any future benefit  that it may receive 
from the investment  together with the compensation paid by Strathearn Insurance Services Limited 
(excluding any interest) equates  to the full fair compensation as set out above. 
Strathearn Insurance Services Limited may request  an undertaking from Company A that either it 
repays to Strathearn  Insurance  Services Limited any amount Company A may receive from the 
investment thereafter or if possible, transfers the investment at that point. 
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds £150,000, 
I recommend that SISL pays Company  A the balance.  I also recommend that it pays interest at 8% 
simple per year on this balance from date of decision to date of settlement,  if compensation  is not 
paid within 28 days of the business being notified of acceptance. Income tax may be payable on this 
interest payment.  
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does  not bind Strathearn Insurance  
Services Limited. It is unlikely that Company  A can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. Company A may want to consider getting independent  legal advice before deciding whether 
to accept this decision. 
Ref: DRN9724827