K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  is responsible for poor service under a home 
emergency insurance policy.
background
Miss W had a policy in the name of a home assistance company. Aviva was the insurer 
responsible for dealing  with claims. Where  I refer to Aviva or the insurer, I include the home 
assistance company,  its engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold Aviva  responsible.
The policy provided  for the repair  of Miss Ws central heating  boiler.  Alternatively   if it was 
beyond economic repair (BER)  the policy provided for a replacement boiler. If the boiler 
was more than seven years old the policy covered a replacement  boiler but didnt cover the 
cost of installing  it.
In May, Miss W called for help with her boiler.  After  it visited, the company said the boiler 
was BER. She complained that the company wouldnt pay for a new boiler for her own 
plumber to fit.
In its final response letter,  the company offered £437.00  which  it said it wouldve paid for a 
new boiler  and an extra £63.00 compensation (a total of £500.00).
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  that the 
policy didnt say Aviva  would provide a new boiler  if Miss W uses her own installation 
service. So Aviva acted reasonably by offering a cash settlement. The investigator also 
thought the compensation  was reasonable. 
Miss W disagreed with the investigators  opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint.  She says, in summary,  that Aviva should pay for her new boiler.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ws policy was renewed in July 2018.  So  by May 2019  she had had cover for more  
than six months. From  what she has said, I think her boiler was more  than seven  years  old.
The policy terms provided as follows:
We will deliver  two temporary electrical heaters to your home, in the event that we 
are unable to attend within the same day or next day of your claim being raised...
The policy terms included the following:
Obsolete parts  and BER after 6 months

If the boiler is deemed uneconomical  to repair and is 7 years or older, we will source, 
replace and install a new boiler but you will be required  to pay the installation  costs. 
We will provide for you a quote for this work  
Ref: DRN96947482When she called for help on 3 May, Miss W already had a problem. Her boiler was leaking 
water. Thats  why she called for help. 
 
The insurers  engineer  attended the next day. So strictly speaking the insurer  didnt have to 
provide temporary  heaters. 
The engineer ordered some spare parts and left the boiler not working. That was 
inconvenient for Miss W  but I cant say the insurer was responsible for her lack of heating  
and hot water at that stage.
But (as the final response letter later acknowledged) the engineer led Miss W to believe that 
he would  return the next day and fix the boiler   but he didnt. On about 8 May, the insurer  
said the boiler was BER.  
The company sent some  temporary heaters on 8 May but I dont think Miss W received them 
until 10 May. And I think she was still without  a supply of hot water.  
I dont think that Miss W disagreed that the boiler  was BER. 
The insurer  quoted about £1,360.00 for installation  of a new boiler. It says that in addition  it 
wouldve had to pay £437.00 for the supply of the new boiler. 
From an invoice dated 17 May, I think Miss W paid a plumber of her choice about £1,150.00 
to supply and install a new boiler.  Ive seen another invoice that indicates that the plumber 
paid about £740.00 for the boiler.  By subtraction I think he charged about  £410.00  for 
installation. So it was less expensive overall for Miss W to use her own plumber rather than 
to pay the insurer  to install the boiler  it wouldve supplied free of charge.
But the policy terms didnt  entitle her to claim  a new boiler without paying the insurers 
quotation for installation. And  whilst installation charges couldve been lower  and the cost 
of the boiler couldve  been higher- I cant say that the insurers figures are unreasonable.
The company has acknowledged that there  were  some  shortcomings in its service.  But I 
think it was inevitable that Miss W was going to be without a working boiler for a week  or so. 
And I dont  hold the insurer  responsible  for any more than a few days  of avoidable 
inconvenience and distress. 
So I find it fair and reasonable that the insurer offered Miss W £437.00  towards her boiler 
and a further £63.00  in compensation. The company has said that its offer remains open  for 
Miss W to accept.  So I dont find it fair and reasonable  to order the insurer  to do any more  in 
response to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2019.
Ref: DRN96947483Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9694748