K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs (RSA) handling of a 
claim on their home insurance policy.
background 
Mr and Mrs G have a home insurance  policy with RSA.  In 2017 they made a claim following 
an escape of water which damaged various  parts of the property. RSA accepted cover for 
the claim and appointed  contractors to carry out the necessary repair  works. While the works 
were carried  out, Mr and Mrs G had to move out of the property with their children.
Mr and Mrs G complained  to RSA. They listed various issues  which  had arisen during the 
handling of the claim.  These  included  the general approach taken by RSAs contractors 
during the works, additional damage to their possessions, a hotel booking  not being made 
and RSA not paying relevant tax bills. There are matters in addition  to these which are being 
considered as separate complaints.
RSA admitted it could  have done  better when handling the claim. It said it would carry out 
remedial works using a different contractor and offered to pay £400 compensation to Mr and 
Mrs G, but it didnt agree to cover all of the expenses  being claimed by Mr and Mrs G. As 
they were unhappy  with RSAs response, Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator thought that RSA were liable for some additional remedial work as it had to 
be carried out in order to restore Mr and Mrs Gs property  to the condition it was in the 
before the damage occurred. And she thought  that the level of distress caused  by RSAs 
failings meant that it should pay £2500 compensation.  
RSA agreed with this outcome, but Mr and Mrs G didnt. They said that there was various 
other remedial work which should  be covered, including  redecoration  of their living room. 
And they thought that the compensation paid should  be much  higher due to the effect  of the 
issues on them and their family. Our investigator  reviewed this again and thought  that 
remedial works including plastering and electrical  works should be covered by RSA, but that 
the living room  decoration  shouldnt be covered.  She also didnt recommend increasing  the 
compensation.
Mr and Mrs G remained  of the view that the living room redecoration was only required  
because of the actions of RSAs contractor, and that the compensation wasnt enough. So 
they asked for an ombudsmans  decision. RSA didnt respond  to the second view which 
outlined the further costs  our investigator thought it was liable for.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Several of the issues with regards to the quality of the repairs  and the additional work which 
was going to be required were accepted by RSA before  the complaint was referred  to our 
service. And our investigator identified further  matters which she felt RSA should be liable 
for. 
Ref: DRN92131342RSA have accepted this outcome, so I dont intend to revisit these matters  within  this 
decision. For the sake of clarity, RSA should:
Cover the cost of the electrical  work  paid for by Mr and Mrs G which it had previously 
declined to.
Pay 50% of the cost of a new hole for the extractor fan.
Ill now consider the remaining matters which Mr and Mrs G have argued  should be covered 
by RSA, and what, if any, further compensation should be paid by RSA. The additional 
matters Mr and Mrs G have said should be covered  are plastering in the kitchen, kitchen 
fittings, smoke alarms  and the redecoration  of the living room.
Plastering
The evidence available to me suggests that the plastering in the kitchen was necessary 
following the completion of the electrical works RSA has agreed it will pay for following our 
investigators view. She argued, and it was accepted, that the electrical works were required 
as part of an effective  and lasting repair to Mr and Mrs Gs property. So it follows  that the 
plastering was also required for the same reasons. It would be unfair to expect RSA to cover 
the electrical works, but not necessary works  to restore the kitchen to its proper state once 
those works  were carried out. RSA should  pay Mr and Mrs G the costs theyve incurred to 
have this plastering done. 
Kitchen fittings
I can see that when  the initial scope was completed  for the works, this indicated that tiling 
and a splashback  was required.  The evidence I have is that Mr and Mrs G paid costs for a 
splashback and upstands, which I wouldnt expect to have been necessary if these had been 
fitted by RSAs contractors in accordance  with the scope of works. Ive seen no evidence 
from RSA to show that its already paid these costs.  RSA should pay Mr and Mrs G the costs  
theyve incurred in purchasing and fitting  the splashback  and upstands.
Smoke alarms
Mr and Mrs G say that RSA hasnt paid for the costs  they incurred in buying new smoke  
alarms for the property after the contractors had left. But I can see from the evidence 
provided by RSA that an email was sent to Mr and Mrs G to say that a payment had been 
made for smoke alarms. So on balance Im satisfied that RSA has made a payment  to 
Mr and Mrs G for these  items, and so Im not minded to ask RSA to pay anything  further  in 
respect of this.
Redecoration of the living room
Mr and Mrs G have said that they had to redecorate their living room because the 
contractors who had carried out the repair works had used the room to store their equipment 
and had not taken proper  care to prevent damage  to it. RSA appointed an agent who 
attended the property, but by that point the room  had been redecorated so the agent  was 
unable to comment on whether the room needed to be redecorated  after the contractors 
departed.
Its evident that there were multiple  issues  with RSAs contractors and the quality  of the work  
they carried out. But the issue I have  is that theres no contemporary evidence in what Ive 
Ref: DRN92131343seen to show the condition of the living room after they left the property, and Mr and Mrs G 
returned. I can see that Mr and Mrs G contacted RSA about this, but from the evidence  I can 
see, emails were sent after the room had been redecorated.
I also havent seen  any photos of the condition of the room before it was redecorated, or 
anything to show that the redecoration was required because of the actions of RSAs 
contractors. And I havent seen anything to show that RSA or any of its agents were  made  
aware of Mr and Mrs Gs intention to redecorate before  they did it. Im not persuaded that 
theres sufficient evidence to show that RSA should  be liable for the costs of redecorating 
the living room,  and so I wont be asking RSA to cover those costs.
Compensation
Its not disputed  that Mr and Mrs G were caused  a great deal of unnecessary inconvenience  
due to the actions,  or inactions,  of RSA and its contractors. But Im not persuaded that the 
level of inconvenience  suffered means that RSA should pay more than the £2500 which our 
investigator said it should. 
I should start out by saying that an award  of £2500 compensation is consistent with Mr and 
Mrs G having suffered a severe amount of distress and inconvenience. And this is certainly 
the case here. While  there  will always be an element of inconvenience caused by making  an 
insurance claim, insurers must handle a claim promptly  and fairly. That wasnt  the case here.  
The issues  which  have been encountered, and which are attributable  to failings of RSA and 
its contractors are well known  to both parties, but Ill briefly summarise  them  here.
In the aftermath of the incident,  Mr and Mrs G moved into a hotel which  theyd been  led to 
believe had been  booked by RSAs contractors.  But when they arrived,  there was no 
booking and they were asked to pay for the room. At a time when they were obviously upset 
and emotional  due to the damage  which had happened at their home,  this caused them 
embarrassment and upset.
After this, Mr and Mrs G were residing in a rental property. But Mr G received court  
summons on two occasions  for failing to pay council tax on that property. RSA were  liable for 
this, and responsible  for making the payments. While no judgements were issued against Mr 
G as the late payments  were sorted before  the court dates by RSA,  this still shouldnt have 
happened. And steps should certainly have been taken after the first summons to prevent a 
repeat. Thee matters  caused  significant  distress to Mr and Mrs G.
The original  repair works were completed  to a poor standard, and so had to be carried out 
again. This meant Mr and Mrs G were  inconvenienced further for over a year.  In addition, the 
contractors who carried out these poor quality repairs treated Mr and Mrs G poorly and were  
rude to them.  RSA accepts this was the case.
The contractors also damaged items belonging to Mr and Mrs G during the course of the 
claim. This was in addition to items which had been damaged  in the incident  which  led to the 
claim. Its not acceptable for Mr and Mrs G to suffer additional losses which were avoidable 
having already  gone  through a significant  loss which meant  they made the claim originally.
Ive mentioned previously  that the kitchen  was replaced as part of the claim. Mr and Mrs G 
identified a suitable kitchen, but RSAs contractor didnt order it in good time, and it was then 
out of stock when  they tried to do so. This caused further delay and inconvenience to Mr and 
Mrs G as they had to pick a new replacement kitchen.
Ref: DRN92131344Throughout the claim Mr and Mrs G have suffered with serious ill health and have had 
operations. Their family have also been affected by the upheaval caused by the claim but 
also the delays  and poor service from RSA. One of the court summons  for the unpaid  tax 
was received the day before Mr G was due to have an operation. 
Some of these matters in isolation would seem fairly minor and could be resolved  relatively 
quickly. But others,  particularly the need  to carry out the works  again, are more  serious.  In 
any case, the cumulative effect of what has happened is severe, and so its clear  to me that 
the £400 offered by RSA doesnt properly recognise the distress caused  to Mr and Mrs G. I 
agree that £2500 is a reasonable amount of compensation in this case,  taking into account 
all of the issues which were caused by RSA and its contractors.
my final decision
Its my final decision to uphold the complaint in part. In order  to put things right,  Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance  plc must:
Pay the cost incurred by Mr and Mrs G for the additional electrical  works  it had 
previously said werent covered.
Pay 50% of the cost of a new hole for the extractor fan.
Pay the costs  incurred by Mr and Mrs G for the additional plastering.
Pay the costs  of the splashback and upstands in the kitchen.
Pay £2500 compensation to Mr and Mrs G to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
RSA must pay the compensation within 28 days from when we tell it Mr and Mrs G accept 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest at 8% simple  a year on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 September 2020.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9213134