K820x#14complaint
J, a limited company,  complains that Barclays Bank PLC (trading as Barclaycard) made a 
chargeback of a card payment  from its account.
background
J had entered  into an agreement  with Barclays for it to provide merchant processing 
services. J took a payment of £2,600 by card for goods on 21 July 2018. But the genuine  
cardholder disputed this payment as fraudulent and a chargeback was raised. As J had 
keyed in the cardholder details the chargeback could  not be defended and the money  was 
taken back. J wants  this amount to be re-credited especially as it received an authorisation 
code for the payment.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that shed seen 
evidence to show that this payment was keyed  in manually and not made  using chip and PIN 
as recommended in the Barclays procedure guide.  When the chargeback  was made  it could 
not be defended. Unfortunately the guide also explained that authorisation meant only that 
there were sufficient funds to make the payment  and the card had not then been reported as 
lost or stolen. It stated  that this isnt a guarantee of payment.
J did not agree and wanted the complaint  to be reviewed. The representative said that there 
was a flaw in the system as staff would look away when the PIN was being  entered. Here 
the person making the payment had used this opportunity to key in the transaction.  And J 
also said that the term authorisation was not clear. Barclays  should  not be able to say that a 
payment is authorised and then recall it. J did not think that this service was on the side of 
small businesses.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to start by saying we are impartial  and provide informal dispute resolution.
J entered into an agreement for Barclays to process  card payments on its behalf. So I think  it 
was fairly  bound by the terms and conditions of that agreement. Our investigator  has 
referred to the procedure  guide and I think J was responsible for ensuring that staff that 
processed payments  on its behalf were familiar with this. There  are heightened risks for 
payments not made with chip and PIN and Barclays considers these card not present 
transactions. The guide states that an imprint  of the card should then be taken and the 
signature of the person making the payment obtained. Ive seen no evidence  that this 
happened in this case. And the terms and conditions for the account  also state that if this is 
not done then this is a reason why a card issuer  may refuse to settle a payment  (Condition 
4.2 (d)).
Barclays does not run the chargeback scheme  and is bound  to follow its rules. Here the 
genuine cardholder  disputed the payment. And there was no further  evidence  about how the 
payment was made or how the person making  the payment was identified as the cardholder  
to defend the chargeback.  So the payment had to be refunded.
Ref: DRN91428902Im struggling to see how the person  carrying  out the fraud would have been able to cancel a 
chip and PIN transaction and then key in the card details  to allow  the transaction  to take 
place as J suggests. I dont doubt  that a member of staff might look away when the PIN was 
entered but not for the period of time necessary in this case. And if this had happened in this 
way it would still not mean that Barclays was responsible for the loss - that would still be 
down to the actions of the fraudster.
I appreciate that the term authorisation may have been misunderstood here. But it is 
explained in the guide and this is the common approach across  the industry. So I dont  find 
that Barclays has made a mistake in giving an authorisation code for this payment.
J has suffered a significant loss. But Im afraid for the reasons Ive given Barclays has not 
made a mistake or acted unreasonably  and I dont have a basis  to ask it to do anything 
more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9142890