K821x#15complaint
Mrs Bs complained about short-term loans granted to her by Cash  On Go Limited  trading as 
peachy.co.uk (Peachy). Mrs B says she couldnt afford these loans and that Peachy didnt 
take appropriate steps to check whether she could afford them when she took them out. 
background
Peachy agreed  four short-term loans for Mrs B between  September 2013 and 
December 2013.  The loans ranged from £50 to £500, and were  due to be repaid with 
between one and three monthly  instalments. Ive set out a summary  of lending below.
 
loan no. applicationprincipal  amount 
(£)no. of 
instalments duehighest monthly 
repayment  due (£)
1 14/09/2013 200 2 186
2 14/11/2013 50 1 59
3 21/11/2013 150 1 167
4 12/12/2013 500 3 309
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mrs Bs complaint already and recommended  the 
complaint be upheld. He felt the checks Peachy carried out on all of Mrs Bs applications 
were insufficient. And that had Peachy carried out proportionate checks, it wouldve realised 
these loans wouldve  been unaffordable for her, and wouldnt have agreed to them.  
Mrs B agreed with adjudicators assessment. But Peachy, having reviewed the adjudicators  
opinion, disagreed with the findings.  So the case has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
At the time of Mrs Bs borrowing,  Peachy was regulated  by the Office  of Fair Trading 
(OFT). The OFT required businesses to lend responsibly, which means Peachy needed to 
check that Mrs B could afford to repay her loans sustainably. The guidance states  that 
creditors  should take reasonable  steps to assess borrowers likely ability  to be able to meet 
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner. It also states  that this is 
likely to involve more  than solely assessing  the likelihood of the borrower  being  able to repay 
the credit  in question.
The guidance says that meeting repayments in a sustainable manner means repaying credit 
out of existing income and/or savings  while also meeting other debt repayments  and normal  
outgoings. And it also lists examples of sources of information to assess affordability  these 
include: a record  of previous dealings with the borrower, evidence of income,  evidence  of 
expenditure, a credit  score,  a credit report from a credit reference agency  and information 
obtained from the borrower.
There was no set list of checks that Peachy was required to complete before lending.  But it 
needed to complete affordability checks that were proportionate. Deciding what  checks  
would be proportionate might include considerations about the amount borrowed, the 
Ref: DRN94670082associated cost and risk to Mrs B, her borrowing history including any indications  that she 
might be experiencing  (or had experienced)  financial difficulty,  and so on.
In making this decision Ive considered whether or not Peachy  did everything it shouldve  
when assessing  Mrs Bs loan applications.  And if it didnt, had it done further checks, 
whether it wouldve realised some or all of these loans may have been unaffordable for her.
Having reviewed the case, I agree  with the adjudicators findings. I dont think  the checks 
Peachy carried out on any of Mrs Bs loan applications were  proportionate. And I think  that 
had it carried out proportionate checks, it wouldve realised that all four of the above  loans 
wouldve been unaffordable for Mrs B, and would not have agreed to them.  
So Im upholding  Mrs Bs complaint for the same reasons as our adjudicator did and 
directing Peachy to put things right in the way he recommended. I appreciate this will be a 
disappointing outcome for Peachy, but I hope  my explanation will make  it clear as to how 
and why Ive reached  this conclusion. 
did Peachy carry out proportionate checks?
Peachy said it carried out proportionate checks for each  of Mrs Bs applications. It said it 
undertook a sound, proper and appropriate assessment of creditworthiness  to assess  her 
ability to afford the proposed credit  commitment.  And as well as assessing  creditworthiness, 
it undertook an adequate  assessment of affordability. So Ive considered this when deciding 
this case.
loan 1 
When Mrs B took out her loan in September 2013, she borrowed £200. This was the first 
time shed  borrowed  from Peachy, and Peachy recorded her monthly  income as £1,200.  
Mrs B was due to repay this loan over two monthly instalments, the highest of which was 
£186. 
While I accept this was Mrs Bs first loan application, Peachy still needed to ensure she 
could meet her repayments in a sustainable  manner. The highest monthly repayment on this 
loan was £186, which was a reasonable proportion  of her reported income, which  Peachy 
had recorded  as £1,200  at the time she applied. So I think  Peachy needed to do more  than 
simply ask Mrs B about her monthly  income, and I think its checks  shouldve gone  further.
As well as asking Mrs B about  her monthly  income,  I think  Peachy shouldve also asked her 
about her regular monthly living expenses and regular credit commitments,  so that it could 
be confident she would  be able to meet her repayments as and when they fell due.
So for loan one, I dont think its checks were  proportionate. 
loan 2
Mrs B took her second  loan out on 14 November  2013, the same day as she repaid loan 1. 
And this time she was borrowing  £50 with a repayment of around  £59.
Given how soon after Mrs B repaid her previous  loan shed needed  to go back  to Peachy to 
borrow further funds,  I think Peachy shouldve continued to check Mrs Bs ability  to meet her 
Ref: DRN94670083repayments sustainably,  again by asking  her about her regular monthly living  expenses  and 
regular credit commitments. So for loan 2, I dont  think its checks went far enough either. 
Ioans 3 and 4
Mrs B continued the same  pattern of borrowing further funds straight  after repaying her 
previous loans. She took loan 3 out on 30 November 2013,  the same  day as she repaid 
loan 2. And took loan 4 out on the 12 December 2013, the same  day as she repaid loan 3. 
I think that this pattern  of needing to borrow in such short succession, shouldve  concerned  
Peachy as to whether in a relatively  short space of time, Mrs B may have been starting to 
become reliant  on this type of lending.  And as a result, it shouldve  carried  out further 
checks.
 
I think that for loans  3 and 4, Peachy shouldve continued to ask Mrs B about her regular 
monthly living expenses  and regular credit commitments,  but shouldve also looked into 
whether she owed any monies  to any other  short-term lenders at the time. So I dont  think its 
checks were proportionate for loans 3 - 4 either.  
what would  proportionate checks likely  have shown?
loans 1 and 2
Peachy recorded  Mrs Bs income at around  £1,200 a month at the time of each application,  
but it didnt record  details of her regular financial commitments or her regular  monthly living 
costs, as I think it shouldve. 
So Ive looked  at both the bank statements provided  by Mrs B, as well as taking into account 
what shes told me of her circumstances from the time, to work out what  I think Peachy 
wouldve found out, had it made enquiries into this area of her monthly expenditure. 
Mrs Bs told us that at the time of taking out loan 1, her husband was seriously ill, and was 
not working or in receipt of a monthly income. Shes also told us that throughout this time 
she was struggling  to meet her monthly rent repayments of around £900,  and had come  to a 
reduced payment  plan with her landlord to pay around £300  a month. 
Mrs Bs also told us her monthly food expenditure was around  £500 a month at this point, 
which seems reasonable given her circumstances. And that she was paying  out on average, 
around £400 a month on her childcare, which I can see from her bank statements. 
So at the time of loans 1 and 2, Mrs Bs regular monthly living costs for her rent, childcare, 
and food alone, was in the region of £1,800. And this was before making any deductions for 
her utility bills, transport  or mobile  phone costs, which when included, pushed  her total 
monthly outgoings to over £2,000.
Given that Peachy  recorded Mrs Bs monthly income at £1,200 at the time of each 
application, I think proportionate checks wouldve revealed to Peachy, that Mrs Bs monthly 
commitments were  already well in excess of her stated income when she applied  for her first 
two loans, and that she was not in a position  to commit to any further  credit  repayments at 
this time. And as a responsible lender, would not have agreed these loan applications. 
Ref: DRN94670084loans 3 and 4
By the time Mrs B took out loans 3 and 4, Ive said that I think Peachy shouldve not only 
been looking  into gaining  a better  understanding of her regular monthly living costs and 
monthly credit commitments, but shouldve also been looking to see whether  she had any 
other short-term loans outstanding, before agreeing  to lend to her further.  
So again,  Ive looked at both the bank statements provided by Mrs B, as well as taking into 
account what shes told me of her circumstances from the time, to work out what  I think 
Peachy wouldve found out, had it carried out proportionate  checks. 
At the time Mrs B applied  for loan 3, her regular monthly living  costs  appear to have 
remained unchanged. Her rent, food,  childcare,  and utility  bill commitments, were  still in 
excess of £2,000 a month at the time of her loan 4 application. And this was before looking 
at any other  short-term credit commitments  she may have had, which I can see she was due 
pay over £300 towards the following month.  Given that Peachy had again  recorded her 
monthly income as £1,200 at this time,  I think proportionate checks wouldve  shown  Peachy  
that loan 3 was clearly  unaffordable for Mrs B, and it therefore would not have agreed to it. 
Mrs B took out loan 4 the same day she repaid loan 3, and this pattern of taking out new 
loans the same day as clearing the previous loan, shouldve in itself,  alerted Peachy to the 
fact that Mrs B may have been starting to become reliant on this type of lending. 
But even if this wasnt the case, proportionate checks wouldve  shown  Peachy that Mrs B 
still had regular monthly living costs and regular  financial commitments  totalling over £2,000 
a month  at this point.  And furthermore,  she had now committed  to repay almost £900 to 
other short-term lenders  in the month after loan 4 was approved, and wouldve therefore had 
no means available to meet the repayments  on loan 4 in a sustainable manner. So as a 
responsible lender, I dont think it wouldve agreed  to loan 4, knowing this. 
In summary,  I dont think the checks Peachy  carried  out on any of Mrs Bs loan applications  
were proportionate. And I think  proportionate checks wouldve shown Peachy that all four of 
the above loans wouldve been unaffordable for Mrs B, and would not have agreed to them.
what Peachy should do to put things right
For the reasons  outlined  above, I think Peachy should not have approved any of the above 
loan applications  for Mrs B. So it needs  to refund all of the interest and charges Mrs B paid 
on these loans.
Specifically, it should:
refund  the interest and charges paid on the loans  it agreed between September  2013 
and December 2013
pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*
remove any adverse information  about  these loans from Mrs Bs credit  file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Peachy to take off tax from this interest. Peachy must 
give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN94670085my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mrs Bs complaint.  
And I require  Cash On Go Limited  to put things right as described above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9467008