K821x#15complaint
Mrs G, Mr H and Mr V complain about the way Amtrust Europe  Limited  (Amtrust) handled a
claim made against a building  warranty.
background
Mrs G, Mr H and Mr V own three leasehold flats within a building.  Mrs G discovered that the
ceiling of her flat was bellying and following some investigation to find out the cause, it was
discovered that the timbers didnt have adequate support. So Mrs G, Mr H and Mr V made  a
claim against their buildings warranty, which was accepted around May 2017.
I havent been provided with much information  in this case, so it isnt clear whether Mrs G,
Mr H and Mrs V initially used  the conciliation service  which  generally doesnt  fall within our
remit to consider. However the claim was ultimately accepted by Amtrust under the
insurance part of the policy.
Mrs G, Mr H and Mr V say there were significant  delays in the handling  of this claim and that
work to make  the property safe began around September  2018   over a year after the claim
was submitted. Amtrust states  that this was a complex claim with several issues  that took
some time to resolve  such as one of the properties being tenanted rather than occupied by
the leaseholder, the leaseholders pursuing  the developer to pay the excess  and carrying out
the necessary  investigation and finding appropriate  contractors to fix the issue.
Due to technical  issues, Amtrust hasnt  been able to provide us with its full file so we have
limited information. 
I issued a provisional decision on 29 September 2020 letting both parties know  that I 
intended to uphold the complaint in part. In it, I said:
In this case, neither  party  has provided  much information about  the timeline of events or
where delays have occurred so I am limited in what I can consider. Based on what Ive seen
so far, I think Amtrust  should have done  more to progress this claim.
From the timeline I have,  it seems the claim was submitted in May 2017. Amtrust  then
arranged for a survey  to be carried out, which wasnt returned  to it until September  2017. It is
clear from the correspondence  we have  that there were significant  issues  that delayed the
progress of the claim. However it is also clear that Mrs G, Mr H and Mr V had to contact
Amtrust frequently to chase what was happening. And it took another year before work  on
the property began.
During that year, Mrs G and Mr H were living in a property  that they knew was unsafe and it
doesnt seem that they were offered alternative  accommodation until he works were due to
begin. As I understand it, Mrs G and Mr H were living  in their properties and Mr V was
renting his out.
Living in a property that had been  deemed  unsafe clearly caused  a lot of distress to Mrs G
and Mr H. And Mr V experienced a lot of uncertainty over the suitability of his property to be
rented out.
I can see that there was a sudden change of case handlers without notice. And Mrs G has
provided notes of her calls with Amtrusts agents, which  show she has had to make several
Ref: DRN94803322calls to find out what is happening. And that this claim  also prevented  her from being able to
sell her property.
However, I also have to consider that the issues themselves were not Amtrusts fault  they
were caused  by the developer. And while Amtrust was ultimately responsible  for putting this
right, it wasnt responsible  for the initial distress of having an unsafe property. And I dont
think it would  be fair to hold Amtrust responsible for the leaseholders having to move out of
their property into alternative accommodation during  the works as that wasnt something
Amtrust caused -rather  something it considered necessary for their comfort  and safety. So I
am only considering  the elements of the claim that Amtrust was directly  responsible  for.
Taking all of this into account,  I think Amtrust should  compensate Mrs G, Mr H and Mr V for
the distress and inconvenience  caused  to it through its handling of the claim. My initial
thoughts are that, as Mrs G and Mr H were living in the property, the distress caused to them
was different to the distress caused to Mr V, so I think Amtrust should  put things right by
doing the following:
Paying Mrs G and Mr H £350  compensation each for the distress  and inconvenience  
caused by Amtrust  in delaying the claim, which meant they had to live in a property 
they knew to be unsafe and make  numerous calls to find out the progress of their 
claim.
Paying Mr V £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused to him 
through Amtrust delaying the claim which  affected the rental property he owned.
Amtrust replied to say it accepted my provisional  decision and Mr H didnt personally 
respond to my provisional decision. But Mrs G and Mr V replied to say they didnt accept and 
thought the level of compensation should  be increased.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V and Mrs G have  raised several  points in their responses to my provisional decision, 
some of which I am unable to consider. We are only able to look at issues which  occurred 
under the warranty  part of the policy so I cant consider  the actions of the builder or whether 
the property was built in line with building  regulations as that isnt my role. So while Mr V and 
Mrs G would like me to consider compensating for that issue, it isnt something I can 
consider in this decision.
Mrs G has commented that she was concerned about the sagging ceiling in her property and 
the compensation doesnt reflect that. However, I am only looking at the way in which  
Amtrust handled the claim against the warranty, not the poor quality of the build or the issue 
itself. So my decision is limited to considering the distress and inconvenience caused  by 
Amtrusts handling of the claim itself, although I dont doubt the other issues involved caused  
significant distress to Mrs G, Mr V and Mr H.
Mr V has also asked  why I have recommended a lower amount of compensation for him. I 
must stress that this complaint is brought by him and not his tenants, so I am only 
compensating him for any distress  and inconvenience he suffered as a result of this. And 
having considered the individual circumstances, it is my opinion that living  in a property with 
Ref: DRN94803323these types of issues would have caused  more distress than being concerned about your 
tenants or when to issue notice for them to vacate the premises.  So it is for that reason, that 
I have recommended that Mrs G and Mr H are paid more compensation that him.
Taking all the responses and comments made  all the parties, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision. I remain of the opinion that Amtrust  should  have done more to progress 
things and keep  Mrs G, Mr H and Mr V updated  and it follows  that I think  Amtrust should 
compensate them for its failures in this regard.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Amtrust Europe Limited should put 
things right by paying Mrs G and Mr H a total of £350 compensation each and by paying 
Mr V a total of £200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G, Mr H and 
Mrs V to accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9480332