K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains about her NewDay Ltd credit card. She says the business lent irresponsibly 
to her and worsened  her financial situation.
background
Ms C had a credit card with NewDay. During  the time she had the account  her balance 
increased dramatically.  And her credit limit was raised considerably despite her sporadic 
spending patterns.  Ms C said if the limit increases  hadnt been approved her spending 
wouldve been contained and more manageable. By 2014 Ms C said she was working for up 
to 60 hours  a week to try and manage  her debt. 
In 2015 she sought help for her money  issues and was diagnosed with a condition  which  
causes impulsiveness,  mania and depression.  So Ms C would like all interest and charges  
incurred since November  2013 reimbursed. And she would like 8% interest per year on the 
refund until the debt was settled in 2017.
NewDay said its aqua card was designed to help customers build  or improve  their credit 
profile. Its affordability check was based on the figures entered by the customer in the 
application form. NewDay said it considered the information provided  by the customer and 
data held by the credit reference agencies when reviewing applications.  When it offered 
customers an increase in their credit  limit they could turn it down. But Ms C hadnt  done so. 
And NewDay felt itd acted responsibility and lent appropriately.
Ms C wasnt  satisfied with NewDays response. So she contacted  our service and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. He felt the initial lending had been responsible. But he felt 
Ms Cs management of her credit  card should have stopped NewDay  offering any credit limit 
increases. Ms C had been over her credit limit in December 2013 and January and February 
2014 before  the March 2014  increase.  NewDay had applied  over-limit fees at the time.  Ms C 
exceeded her new £750 limit on a number of occasions during 2014 and 2015  before her 
limit was increased to £1500 in March 2015. And Ms C had taken  on more than 15 payday 
loans and other lending which indicated a pattern  of financial difficulty.  One of the loans had 
been used to reduce the balance  on Ms Cs NewDay account in March  2015. So he felt 
Ms C should  be put back into the position  shed have been in had her credit limit not 
increased in March 2014 and 2015.
NewDay didnt agree. So its asked for an ombudsmans final decision. It had mainly been 
interest charges  rather than spending thatd taken  Mrs C over her limit between December 
2013 and March 2015. And itd informed Mrs C what the interest  charges were  likely to be 
each month. Mrs C had also made  large payments to reduce  her balance on a number of 
occasions which indicated  improved financial management.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C experienced a period of financial difficulty and after seeking help was diagnosed with a 
condition which can cause impulsiveness  and mania. She feels NewDay made her situation 
worse by increasing the spending limit on her credit card. 
Ref: DRN99869642So Ive looked  very carefully at everything  Ms C and NewDay  have said to see if NewDay  
has done anything  wrong. And if so what it needs  to do to put things right.  
Ms C was approved for a credit card in October 2013. At the time she hadnt been 
diagnosed with her condition.  And Ive not seen anything to suggest NewDay didnt  follow its 
procedures properly when  it approved  a limit of £250 on her account.  Ms C only made a 
single purchase  for less than £10 during her first monthly statement. But the second months 
statement spending was only a few pence below the credit  limit. When the interest  was 
applied her account went over the limit and a £12 fee was applied. A similar issue  occurred  
the following  month. 
Ms C then put a direct  debit in place and occasionally  paid more  than the minimum required.  
NewDay feels this shows Ms C was able to manage  her account. And the over-limit fees 
occurred when Ms C spent close to her limit before interest was added.  That wouldnt have 
automatically excluded  her from consideration for a credit limit increase. NewDay has 
provided information on the criteria it uses for assessing credit increases. And these include 
best estimates for income and expenditure as well as data from external sources. 
In March 2014 NewDay said Ms C became eligible for an increase in her credit  limit from 
£250 to £750. NewDay felt this was appropriate  based on the information it had and how 
Ms C had managed  her account. But Ms C had used her credit  card for less than six months. 
And shed  already exhausted her credit  limit within the second month. When  her credit limit 
was tripled to £750 Ms Cs account balance  quickly exceeded  her new limit. 
A year later,  in March  2015, NewDay doubled  Ms Cs new credit limit to £1500. It noted 
shed made  some large payments  to reduce the outstanding balance although her new limit 
was quickly exhausted  again. NewDay said it didnt have access  to payday loan information 
until March 2016.  So it wouldnt have been aware  Ms C might  be using such  loans to make 
payments to her credit card account.  
I can see Ms C sought help for her financial situation and entered into a debt management 
plan in September 2015. After paying  most  of her balance in March  2017 the limit was 
reduced to £750  and further reduced  to £400  in July 2017. 
Its clear that each time Ms Cs credit limit was increased she would quickly utilise  the 
available new credit and often incur over-limit fees when interest was added to her monthly 
spending. This suggests Ms C was struggling  to keep her finances under  control.  She was 
spending whatever was available  and not taking  account of pending interest  charges. 
NewDay may not have  been aware  Ms C was taking out other loans to try and reduce the 
balance on her credit card and avoid  charges.  But I feel it shouldve considered her overall 
use and account  management. This would suggest an increase in her available credit from 
£250 to £1500 within 18 months of opening the account was inappropriate.
Therefore I agree  with our adjudicator that the additional lending given to Ms C by NewDay 
from March 2014  was irresponsible. To put things  right NewDay should repay all interest and 
charges on the account from the date of the first credit limit increase in March 2014 until the 
date the account was settled. NewDay should also pay 8% simple  interest  per annum on the 
interest and charges refunded. 
In relation to Ms Cs credit  file, NewDay should amend any information reported to the credit  
reference agencies  as a result of the lending after March 2014.
Ref: DRN99869643my final decision
My final decision is that NewDay Ltd should:  
repay all interest and charges on the account from the date of the first credit limit 
increase in March  2014 until the date the account was settled.  
pay 8% simple interest per annum  on the interest and charges refunded. 
amend any information reported to the credit reference agencies as a result of the 
lending after March  2014.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9986964