K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC T/A Tesco Bank wont  refund disputed  
transactions made on his credit card.
background
Mr R says that while on holiday abroad, his rental  car was broken into and his luggage along 
with personal items including his Tesco credit card were stolen.
Mr R says that following  a meal at a restaurant,  he got back into the car and after driving a 
short distance the boot light came on. On investigation he discovered luggage and personal 
items had been  taken  from the boot. Mr R says he immediately drove to a police station  to 
make a report. Mr R also called Tesco to report his credit card as stolen, as it had been  
stored in the luggage taken.
Mr R says that he had difficulty getting through to Tesco on their phone  line. But that once 
he was able to talk to a staff member he learned  that two ATM withdrawals  had been  done 
on his credit card, which he didnt  recognise. 
The disputed transactions were both completed on 13 April 2018. The first was an ATM  
withdrawal made at 19:04 for a total of £189.89,  with a cash  handling fee charged  of £5.70. 
The second  was another ATM withdrawal at the same location at 19:05  for a total of £94.94, 
with a cash handling fee charged of £3.00.
Mr R asked Tesco to refund these transactions, saying that they werent completed by him 
and mustve been done by the person who stole his belongings from the car. He also raised 
a complaint about how long it took him to be able to get through on the phone line to report  
his card stolen, saying that if he had been successful on earlier attempts to talk to them  - the 
disputed transactions  couldve been prevented.
Tesco investigated and decided not to refund  the disputed withdrawals. They  said they were 
holding Mr R liable for the transactions because:
the correct PIN was used the first time,  which suggested that the person using the 
card knew  the PIN
Mr R had told them the PIN wasnt written down  and they couldnt see how a 
fraudster wouldve become aware  of the PIN
that the transactions were completed  two hours before Mr R got through to them,  and 
they have no records that Mr R tried calling at or before that point  in time so the 
transactions couldnt have been prevented
As Mr R didnt  agree with Tescos decision, he asked us to investigate. 
As part of his submission  to us Mr R provided evidence including  a police report, his hire car 
agreement, an insurance claim form, pictures of damage to the hire car, his insurance 
certificate and proof of payment  to the hire company.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. In summary,  she felt the 
most likely scenario was that Mr R had written down his PIN and that it was amongst the 
items stolen  from his car along with his card by an unknown third party.  She wasnt 
persuaded that Mr R had authorised the transactions and recommended that Tesco refund 
Ref: DRN98631612the two disputed transactions  restructuring the credit card as if the transactions hadnt  
happened.
Tesco disagreed  with the investigators opinion saying:
Mr R had said his PIN wasnt written down and the investigators opinion  was 
contrary to the information Mr R had provided
it doesnt seem likely after two successful cash withdrawals that a fraudster wouldnt 
attempt to make additional  purchases  on the card  especially considering  there 
were further funds available on the card
there was conflicting information with regards to what  the PIN mightve  been  and how 
a fraudster mayve become aware  of it
Ultimately Tesco felt the most likely  scenario was that Mr R had consented to the 
transactions or given authorisation to someone else to use his card.  Tesco asked for the 
answer to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As part of this Im required to take into 
account relevant:  law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards;  codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. And where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  on what  
I consider is most likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence.
Generally, Tesco can hold Mr R liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence  suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised them  himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Rs genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions.  But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable Tesco to hold him liable. So, I also need to think  about whether 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr R consented  to the withdrawals  
being made.
Tesco say theyre  holding Mr R liable as they think its most likely  that he made  these 
transactions or authorised  someone  to make  them. But I dont think  this is the most likely 
scenario and Ill explain why.
If Mr R made these  transactions  himself or authorised someone else to make them, that 
would involve him fraudulently reporting a crime  to the police while abroad, committing 
damage to his hire car (which he had to pay for) and completing a fraudulent  claim to his 
travel insurance company  for his stolen property. And Im not persuaded that this is the most 
likely scenario.
Tesco also suggested  that Mr R mayve meant to use a different  card and used the Tesco 
card by mistake. But I think  if Mr R had done this, its more  likely than not that he wouldve 
realised this at some  point  and not spent the time he has trying  to get back  less than £300.  
So Im just not persuaded that this is the most likely scenario either.
The other scenario  is that these transactions were  made by someone unknown to Mr R. 
Ref: DRN98631613From what  Ive seen Im persuaded that Mr Rs car was broken into while  he was on holiday 
abroad and that luggage  and other personal  items were stolen from the car. I think  this is 
supported by the documents mentioned  previously.  Also Mr R has explained that he travels  
regularly and that he usually keeps a card in his luggage along with a copy  of his passport 
and some cash in case his wallet is stolen  and this sounds plausible  to me. Especially as 
Mr R has provided us with a statement which shows that he was using a card from another 
bank as his main card for the holiday.  Also his previous use of his Tesco  credit card is 
minimal with him usually  paying off the outstanding balance  every month.
But in this scenario, the unknown third party mustve  known or worked out what Mr Rs PIN 
was, which  Tesco says isnt possible.
Mr R suggested that someone mayve  followed him and noticed him using his other  card  
suggesting they mightve seen his PIN at that point.  But I think  its highly unlikely that 
someone followed him waiting for him to use his card, observed his PIN then went and broke  
into his car on the off chance that he would have another  card in his car that worked on the 
same PIN. This just doesnt  seem  likely.
Mr R also suggested that someone mayve  been  able to work out the PIN based on 
documents that were in the luggage  that was stolen. This is possible, but I think its more 
likely that if they did this they mayve had some failed PIN attempts before they got the right 
code. It would be very unlikely that they could  pick exactly  what  the four digits  were on their 
first attempt. 
So Ive thought about whether Mr R mayve have  had his PIN written  down in his luggage. 
Ive listened to the calls when Mr R reported  the card stolen, subsequent calls he had with 
the business and calls hes had with our service. And, its unclear whether Mr Rs PIN 
mayve been written down  and been in the items  stolen. During the calls with the business 
Mr R is asked at one point  if the PIN mayve been in his belongings somewhere and he says 
maybe because he used that PIN on another card. 
Having considered all of the scenarios, I think its more likely than not that Mr R did have his 
PIN written down and that it was among the items  stolen from the car, along with the card.  I 
realise that Tesco think this is unlikely, but I only need to be persuaded that its more likely 
than not, and that its the most likely  scenario as to what happened  and I am. I realise that 
the transactions may not fit what Tesco would consider to be usual fraudster behaviour   but 
that by itself isnt persuasive enough in the circumstances of this case to suggest  that Mr R 
did these transactions  himself or authorised someone else to do them.
Mr R has raised  a concern about  how long it took for him to get through to Tesco to report 
his card stolen. But our remit doesnt  allow  us to look at how a business operates.  From 
what Ive seen I dont  think the length of time Mr R had to wait was so long that I could fairly 
make an award for poor customer service.
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr R didnt authorise the disputed 
withdrawals. It follows  that Tesco cant hold him liable for them.
Ref: DRN98631614my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
To put things right Tesco Personal Finance PLC T/A Tesco Bank should:
refund  the disputed  transactions  totalling £293.53 (which includes the cash  handling 
fees)
rework the credit card to the position it wouldve been in if the transactions  never  
happened
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9863161