K821x#15complaint
Miss L has complained  through her representative that Shop Direct Finance Company
Limited (SDFC)  acted  irresponsibly when  it allowed her to open a number  of shopping
catalogue accounts. She is unhappy  that her credit limits were automatically increased  which
she says has trapped  her in a debt spiral.  Miss L has also complained that SDFC has
unfairly in other ways,  including  withholding refunds of interest and administration charges
that she says are due to her.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September  2020  that I summarise  below.
Miss L opened a number  of catalogue  accounts  with SDFC from 2000 onwards. I understand
that all of the accounts are now closed. Miss L has complained about  7 accounts but SDFC
says that in effect there were  6 accounts- as one of the account balances  migrated to a
pay-only account,  the purpose of which was to enable Miss L to clear the balance - not to
make further  purchases.
Miss L thinks  SDFC didnt check her circumstances properly when it allowed her to open the 
accounts or when  it automatically increased her credit limits. She says she was on a low income, 
receiving benefits  for many years and she ran up debts which she couldnt afford to repay.
Miss L fell into arrears on some of her accounts. SDFC says that it set up repayment
arrangements but eventually  the debt was passed to third party  debt recovery  companies.
These outstanding  balances  were  written off in 2016 under a Debt Relief  Order  (DRO).
When Miss L complained  to SDFC it didnt agree to uphold her complaint. It also thought that
part of Miss Ls complaint  was outside the Regulators 6-year time limit. But it agreed to
refund some  of the interest and administration charges associated with her accounts as a
goodwill gesture. SDFC calculated what it thought it should refund to her from 2012 and
deducted this amount  from the outstanding account  balances that had been  written off,
before sending the remainder to Miss L. SDFC also paid her compensation of £25 because
of the delays in responding  to her complaint.
Miss L thinks  that as the outstanding balances were written off under the DRO some years
ago, SDFC should  have refunded all the interest and administration charges to her, without
deductions. And that it should also have paid 8% simple interest on this amount. She thinks
SDFC should also pay the costs she incurred associated with the DRO and that she should  
be compensated for the cost of the telephone calls she says shes had to make to sort out
her complaint.
Miss L brought  her complaint to this Service. SDFC decided to waive its objection to the time 
limits and agreed that this Service can look into what happened with Miss Ls accounts  from 
the point they were  first set up.
Ref: DRN95510092One of our adjudicators looked  into Miss Ls complaint. He didnt think that SDFC had been  
wrong to allow  Miss L to open her accounts. But he did think  that SDFC shouldnt have 
increased her credit  limits after February 2011. He also thought that SDFC should  have 
given greater consideration to how Miss Ls accounts were being  maintained  and that it 
should have stopped providing credit to her from February 2013. But he thought in the 
circumstances that the goodwill offer that SDFC had already made  to Miss L was fair. So he 
didnt think that SDFC should be asked to do anything more to resolve the complaint. Miss L 
didnt agree with our adjudicator and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
SDFC told us that it agrees that it was not in the consumers  best interest to have provided 
credit to Miss L from February 2013 onwards. SDFC said it had reviewed what it previously 
refunded to Miss L to take into account interest  and charges that Miss L paid prior to 2012.
My understanding of what SDFC has now calculated was as follows:
Account ending  **50-Very
Account interest  £254.66
Administration charges  £216.00
Total £470.66
Amount written off by debt purchaser £281.47
Total amount refunded  to Miss L via cheque - £189.19 (in May 2018).
SDFC says that an additional  £3.85  interest  charged  to the account before 2012 was not
previously included in its goodwill  offer to Miss L.
Account 1 ending **14 - Littlewoods
No Administration charges or Interest charged during the lifetime off the account
Only one order placed for the value of £35.00  and paid in full over 2 statements
Account 2 ending **98 - Littlewoods
No Interest charged.
Administration charges  £36.00
Total amount paid to Miss L via cheque - £36.00  (in May 2018)
Account 3 ending **24 - Littlewoods  (formerly Empire)
No Administration charges or Interest charged during the lifetime off the account
Closed May 2011
Account 4 ending **08 - Littlewoods
Administration charges  £192.00
Amount written off by debt purchaser £986.22
SDFC says it thinks  no refund is due to Miss L because it has deducted the administration
charges from the outstanding balance that was written off.
SDFC has now also told us that £111.49 interest  was charged to the account  before 2012 
and that this was not previously included in its goodwill offer to Miss L. But it thinks that this 
sum should also be deducted  from the outstanding balance  that was written off. So it thinks 
that no further refund is due to Miss L.
Ref: DRN95510093Account 5 ending **39-Very
No administration  charges applied
Account interest  £34.86
Total amount refunded  to Miss L via cheque - £34.86
SDFC has now told us that that £3.37  interest  charged to the account before 2012 was not
previously included in its goodwill  offer to Miss L. But that it is willing to offer 8% simple
interest on the refunded amount of £34.86.
Account 6 ending **17-Littlewoods
All administration  charges  refunded:
Administration charges  £12.00
Amount written off by debt purchaser £898.69
SDFC says it thinks  no refund is due to Miss L because it has deducted the administration
charges against  the outstanding balance that was written off by the debt purchaser.
SDFC also says that an additional £148.03  refinance charges were not previously included
in its goodwill offer to Miss L. But it thinks that when  this is also deducted from the
outstanding balance that was written off, there would be no refund due to Miss L.
SDFC has told us that it doesnt  think 8% simple interest should  be applied to the refunds
calculated in relation to any of the accounts where the outstanding balances were
subsequently written off under the DRO.
I explained the basis on which I would make my decision. The rules and regulations 
throughout SDFCs lending relationship with Miss L required  it to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment  of whether she could afford to repay what she owed in a 
sustainable manner.  
I explained that SDFC needed  to undertake  borrower  focussed checks. SDFC had to think  
about whether  repaying the credit  would cause any difficulties for Miss L and it had to 
consider the impact of any repayments  on her.
I said that SDFCs checks had to be proportionate  to the specific  circumstances of the credit  
application and that these  checks could  take into account a number  of different things. But 
there was no set list of checks SDFC had to do. With this in mind, I thought  less thorough  
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate  in the early  stages of the lending relationship. 
Ive kept all of this in mind  when thinking about whether SDFC did what it needed to before 
initially agreeing  to open Miss Ls accounts.
SDFC says it carried  out some checks on Miss Ls credit  file when she applied  for each of
the accounts. And that it used a system  of credit assessment called credit  scoring to decide
whether to offer credit to Miss L, and when it assessed subsequent credit limit increases.
Ref: DRN95510094I said I was mindful that Miss L took these accounts  some years ago, and given the time that 
has passed, there is limited information about  what Miss L told SDFC about her 
circumstances when  she applied for these accounts. I havent seen all the information that 
SDFC gathered from its checks at the time.  But taking everything into account, I thought  its 
likely that SDFCs checks were reasonable and proportionate at the time. I didnt think it 
wouldve been proportionate for SDFC to ask Miss L for the amount  of information that would 
be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before opening each account. So I didnt  
think SDFC were  wrong to initially open  each of Miss Ls accounts and provide her with her 
opening credit  limit (generally in the region of £600 to £750).
Did SDFC unfairly  increase Miss Ls credit limits?
I needed to decide whether SDFC carried out appropriate  checks  when it increased Miss Ls
credit limits. And if I find that they didnt,  I needed  to decide whether it would still have 
agreed to those increases, if the checks had been reasonable and proportionate.
From the information that SDFC provided it seems  that the credit limits for Miss Ls
accounts changed as follows:
account ending  **14 - remained at £750 during the lifetime of the account  after which it was 
reduced.
account ending  **50 - increased  incrementally from £750 in Mar 2010  to £1,750 in Aug 2013
after which it was reduced.
account ending  **98 - increased  incrementally from £750 in Dec 2009 to £4,800 in Dec 2012
after which it was reduced.
account ending  **08 - increased  incrementally from £750 in Mar 2010  to £6,900 in Feb 2013.
account ending  **39 - increased  incrementally from £600 in Oct 2010  to £1,400 in Feb 2013  
after which it was reduced.
account ending  **24 - increased  incrementally from £3,500 in Aug 2010  to £4,700 in June
2011 after which the account  closed.
account ending  **17 - no credit  limit provided.  Opened in June 2013 for payments only when
the balance from account ending **98 was transferred.
SDFC says it made its decisions to increase Miss Ls credit limits based on information it
received from credit  reference  agencies and the way she operated  her account. SDFC says
in addition to assessing the customers creditworthiness every 28 days it also assesses
every drawdown to identify whether the customer may be experiencing financial distress and
that it will reject orders if they are deemed  to place the customer  in a more financially
stressful situation.
SDFC was allowed under the credit agreements to change Miss Ls credit limits. I havent
seen all the information that SDFC gathered and relied on every  time it did this. But I
considered how frequently  Miss Ls credit  limits were increased and how much additional
credit was provided to her over time. And I thought about whether there  was a point at
which SDFC should reasonably have realised  that it needed to carry out more thorough
checks before it continuing  to increase  the credit it was offering to Miss L.
Ref: DRN95510095I thought it was fair and reasonable, in the early stages of its lending relationship with Miss L,
for SDFC  to rely on less detailed checks before it decided to increase Miss Ls credit limits.
Miss L met the minimum repayments  required and sometimes made overpayments. She
didnt always take up the maximum amount of credit  that was made available to her. And I
didnt think there was anything from the way that she was managing  her accounts in the 
early stages that ought reasonably to have alerted SDFC to the possibility that she was
experiencing financial difficulties.
But I thought by February 2011 Miss Ls credit limits had increased to such  a level that 
SDFC ought reasonably  to have carried out more thorough  checks, with a greater degree of
independent verification, to satisfy itself that Miss L could make her repayments  sustainably.
Miss L has provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time. Different 
checks might show different things. But I thought if SDFC  had carried out what  I
consider to be proportionate checks, I thought its likely it would have  discovered  that Miss L
was receiving incapacity benefits, with limited disposable income, and she had other credit
commitments, in addition  to her accounts  with SDFC. In these circumstances I think  SDFC
ought reasonably  to have realised that it was unlikely that Miss L wouldve been able to
sustainably repay  higher  levels  of credit. And so it ought reasonably to have concluded that it
was not appropriate to increase her credit limits any further. Miss L could have lost out as a
result of the increased  credit limits if she was charged late payment  fees on sums that were
over the limit she could  afford to repay. 
SDFC says it was made aware of Miss Ls financial  difficulties in November 2012 in relation
to account ending **98. It says it set up several repayment arrangements but eventually  the
outstanding balance from this account of £916.69  was transferred to a pay-only account
ending **17. The debt was eventually reassigned to a debt recovery company and the
outstanding balance written off.
I didnt think it would  have  been  reasonable for SDFC  to have simply stopped  providing  
credit to Miss L across  all her accounts in November  2012. But I think SDFC ought 
reasonably to have  come  to the conclusion  by February 2013, three to four months  after it 
had become aware she was experiencing financial difficulties,  that it was not in Miss Ls best 
interest to continue providing  credit to her.
SDFC agreed that it ought to have given greater  consideration to the way that Miss Ls
accounts were being maintained. And had it done  so, it would have  concluded in February
2013 that she was unable  to sustain repayments in a consistent way and it would have
considered preventing further use of the accounts. However, SDFC has noted that its
previous goodwill offer was calculated from the earlier date of April 2012.
Has SDFC acted unfairly towards  Miss L in some other way?
Miss L is unhappy that SDFC  deducted  the refund  it had calculated  from the outstanding
balances on her accounts. She thinks this was unfair as these  balances  had been written off
under the DRO.
Ref: DRN95510096But I thought its fair and reasonable that any refunds of interest and charges  due to Miss L 
should be deducted from the amount she owed on her accounts. Even though  these 
outstanding balances were eventually written  off, SDFC would have incurred costs 
associated with this debt and potentially the costs of insurance provided to the debt recovery 
companies, in the event  that the debt could not be recovered. And Miss L has already had 
the benefit of the credit  which enabled  her to buy the goods from SDFC.
Miss L thinks  that SDFC should  have added 8% simple interest  to the amount  it had
calculated as a refund.  But this type of interest generally only applies when the consumer
has been out of pocket  because of something that the business did wrong. So in this
instance, I would expect it to be payable for any periods when Miss Ls account would have
been in credit, had it not been for any unfair charges and interest that had been applied. And
to apply to any refunded  sums being repaid  to her, but not to any sums being applied to
reduce her outstanding account balances.
Miss L thinks  SDFC should pay her costs  that she incurred when she entered the DRO. I am
sorry that Miss L has experienced financial difficulties. But I didnt think it would be fair or
reasonable for me to direct SDFC to pay her costs associated with the DRO as from what
Ive seen there were  several other creditors involved  in this process. SDFC has agreed
however to refund to Miss L the cost of the telephone  calls she has made  in relation to her
complaint. So she should provide evidence of these  call costs  to SDFC so it can provide her
with the relevant refund.
Miss L has also complained that SDFC should not have provided  credit to her because she
was vulnerable and suffering from very poor health, and that SDFC might have taken
advantage of this. I appreciate that Miss L has been through a very difficult period. But I cant
see that she disclosed her ill health  to SDFC. So I didnt think it could reasonably  have
known that she was a vulnerable consumer when it offered  credit  to her. And Ive not seen
anything which makes  me think it took advantage  of Miss Ls vulnerability  or poor health
during its lending relationship with her.
I was aware that Miss L would be disappointed  by my provisional decision. She raised, 
through her representative, a number of concerns  but I said I wanted  to reassure her that 
Ive thought carefully about everything that both she and SDFC have told us and Ive 
reviewed all the information that has been  provided about this matter.
I said I was intending  to partly uphold Miss Ls complaint and that SDFC should put things 
right and pay to Miss L any further  sums that are due to her - if any - once it had calculated  
the compensation as I directed.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence.
SDFC has told us it accepts my provisional  decision.  I havent seen any response from Miss 
L or her representative.  The deadline for any further  comments has now passed.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to thank  both Miss L and SDFC for all the information  they have provided in this 
matter, all of which I have  taken into account when coming to my final decision.
Ref: DRN95510097Given that Ive not received any further  evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm  the conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision.
I partly  uphold  Miss Ls complaint. SDFC has already made  a goodwill gesture and refunded  
to Miss L charges  and interest applied to her account from April 2012. It should put things 
right and pay to Miss L any further  sums that are due to her - if any - once it has calculated 
the compensation I set out below.
Putting things  right
To put things right SDFC should, for each of Miss Ls accounts:
A. Rework the account to remove  any late payment charges that Miss L paid on sums that 
were over and above the credit limits  that were in place in February 2011;
B. rework  the account to remove all interest and charges that it applied to Miss Ls balance 
since February  2013;
C. if the payments  Miss L made were enough to have cleared the reworked account 
balance, any extra that was paid should  be treated as an overpayment  and refunded to 
Miss L;
D. add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments*, if there were any, from the 
date they were made to the date of settlement; and
E. remove  any adverse  information on Miss Ls credit file in relation to the debt that 
wouldnt have  arisen if the interest  and charges hadnt  been  added to her accounts from 
February 2013 onwards.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Shop Direct Finance Limited to deduct  tax from the 8%
interest paid. It must provide Miss L a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if
she asks for one.
For all accounts SDFC may take account  of any amount written off as part of the DRO and
deduct these from the compensation due on that account.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  this complaint and direct Shop Direct  Finance 
Company Limited  to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2020.
Sharon Parr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9551009