K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited  (HSDL)  gave him incorrect  pricing 
information on some of his shares  which resulted in him making  a loss when the shares 
were sold.  
background
On 5 December  2018 Mr H placed a trade  online to sell 3,042  units in a fund he held. At the 
time HSDLs website was showing a unit price of 17,989.60 pence. Mr H then called HSDL  
later that day to confirm  if his trade  had been  placed. He was given  assurances  that the 
trade would be placed  that day and would settle in his account on 7 December. However, 
the trade wasnt placed until 6 December for a unit price of 17,587  pence.
Mr H then complained  to HSDL, he was unhappy  that he didnt receive  the higher price for 
the trade.  HSDL partially upheld his complaint. They accepted that Mr H had been given 
incorrect information when he spoke to them on 5 December. They  said he should  have 
been told that the trade wouldnt be placed until the following day. 
However, they thought he had received the correct  price for his units.  In summary, they said 
that the price  that was displayed online was a previous valuation  price and therefore wasnt 
the price that Mr H would  receive. Because he had placed his order  after that days  cut-off  
point, he would receive the price from the next valuation point.
They also said there was no way to cancel or amend an order once it was placed.  So 
irrespective of what he was told when he spoke to them,  he would have only have ever 
received the unit price  at the next valuation point. They  offered Mr H £200 compensation for 
the incorrect information hed received over the phone.
Unhappy with their response, Mr H brought his complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our adjudicators. The adjudicator thought HSDLs offer was fair. In 
brief, he agreed  that the website was showing incorrect unit prices and Mr H received 
incorrect information over the phone.
But because Mr H placed the trade  after that days cut-off point,  there was no guaranteed 
price. So, Mr H would only have ever received the unit price  from the next valuation  point, 
which was unknown to him at the time. And he thought information from the research centre 
within the website  should have provided  sufficient warning not to rely on the unit prices  
shown.
Mr H didnt accept his findings and raised  further  points. In summary, he said that the 
warnings the adjudicator  referred to were  not shown  on the trading  screen,  they were only 
shown on the research screens.  Therefore,  he wouldnt have seen any warnings prior to 
making the trade.
He also said the correct unit price was displayed within the research screens but not within  
the trading screen. And this proved that the correct information was available  to HSDL but 
wasnt being displayed  in the right area.  He provided a letter from HSDL which confirmed 
that there  was an error in the unit prices displayed.
The adjudicator noted the points Mr H made  but wasnt minded to change his opinion. As 
theres been no agreement, the case has been passed to me to make  a decision.
Ref: DRN93368912my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and while Im sorry this 
will come as a disappointment to Mr H, Ive come  to the same conclusions  as the adjudicator  
and I wont be asking  HSDL to do any more.
In this complaint  Ive focussed my review upon the specific circumstances of Mr Hs 
complaint, but I note he has also referred his wider  concerns to the FCA.
This complaint centres on Mr H saying he relied on a price which HSDL admit  was incorrect. 
I note the terms of the account he holds with them  say that they cant guarantee the 
accuracy of the market  information they provide.  However, HSDL have an obligation to 
present information  in a way thats fair, clear  and not misleading.
Ive firstly  considered the nature of Mr Hs relationship with HSDL. The service  they provided 
to him was execution only. This meant Mr H needed to ensure  he understood the nature of 
the investments  he held and how they would be bought  or sold. The HSDL website provides 
links to the key investor information document and prospectus.  These documents say the 
fund is valued  at 9:00 pm daily and the cut-off  point  for orders is 10:00 am. So, its 
reasonable to suggest that Mr H ought to have been  aware  of this information.
Ive then considered  if Mr H wanted  to sell the units.  And if he would have made  the trade if 
he was aware of the previous days price.  He initially told us the purpose of the trade was to 
avoid a possible fall in share  price  that might  occur due to a Brexit vote in parliament that 
day. But he then told us he wouldnt have made the trade at the price  he received because  it 
was the same price  he bought the units at some months earlier.  
Having carefully considered everything  hes said, I think its more likely  than not that Mr H 
sold the units due to the impending Brexit  vote on 5 December 2018  in the House of 
Commons. I say this because hes said on the complaint form he submitted to this service  
that he wanted to avoid the obvious  fall in share price, so I think its reasonable to suggest 
that Mr H wanted to sell the units that day. I think this is further  evidenced by the phone  call 
he made later that day to confirm that the units were due to be sold that day. 
And because I think Mr H wanted to sell the units  that day, Im not persuaded that the 
incorrect price  information  would have made a difference to him. And crucially, because he 
placed the order at 10:28 am, which was after the cut-off point, he would never have known 
the price he was going to receive  for the units. 
This is the very nature  of forward priced funds,  which is made clear from the product 
documents I think Mr H ought to have understood. So even  though it was potentially  
misleading to display incorrect prices, Im not persuaded that it has made a difference  on this 
occasion. 
Its not in dispute  that Mr H was given incorrect information during the phone call on 5 
December 2018.  And HSDL have confirmed that Mr H should  have  been  told that his trade 
wouldnt be placed until the next day. But its important to note that when Mr H spoke to 
HSDL, even if he had been given correct  information, he wouldnt have been able to cancel 
the trade.  
Ref: DRN93368913So, in summary,  I dont think I can fairly ask HSDL to compensate Mr H for a unit price he 
was never  guaranteed to receive. I think he made the decision to sell the units  because he 
wanted to avoid a fall in the price  of the units,  but he placed the order  after the cut-off  point 
which meant he wasnt guaranteed a specific price for the units,  and once he placed the 
order he wasnt able to cancel it.
I accept that the prices  shown on the website  were incorrect and Mr H was given incorrect 
information when  he spoke to HSDL. Theyve apologised for giving the wrong  information  
and have offered  £200 to compensate for any distress caused. Theyve also offered £50 for 
poor service he received  on a call he made  to them  on 31 January 2019 relating to the same  
underlying issue  of the website displaying incorrect prices. I think  the offers  are fair and 
reasonable, its now a matter for Mr H to decide  whether or not to accept. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr H but I wont  be asking them to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint only in relation to the trouble and
upset caused  to him by the incorrect information  and poor service  he received over the 
telephone. I order  Halifax Share Dealing Limited to pay him £250 for the trouble and upset 
caused to him in this respect.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.
Marc Purnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9336891