K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC removed funds from his accounts and
then closed his accounts without notice  or an explanation.
background
Mr H held three accounts with Barclays with a credit balance of over £57,000.  In November 
2017, Mr H discovered the funds  had been removed from the accounts. Barclays  told Mr H 
the funds were removed  for operational reasons.
Mr H thought Barclays had given him misleading information which led him to assume issues 
with Barclays systems had caused the problem. He also said it was misleading when it said 
the funds would be returned  as quick as they could.
Mr H issued court proceedings against  Barclays. Barclays  defended  the proceedings on the 
basis they were following  their regulatory  obligations. Barclays provided the reasons for its 
actions and the proceedings were resolved by agreement.
The funds were returned to Mr Hs accounts  in late December. The bank then gave 
immediate notice to close the accounts.
Mr H said Barclays  acted unfairly  when  it decided to close the account and when it closed 
the accounts without giving notice.
The accounts were  also placed into overdraft and Mr H found it distressing that he received  
messages from Barclays telling him the accounts  were overdrawn.
Mr H complained to the bank. The bank  acknowledged the inconvenience it caused and said 
it was unable to confirm why the closure  occurred.
Mr H complained to our service. Our investigator  partially upheld  the complaint. She thought 
Barclays was entitled to review Mr Hs accounts and it hadnt caused any unnecessary  
delay. She did think that Barclays should have told Mr H that it was reviewing his account 
instead of saying it was experiencing operational issues. She said Barclays  should pay Mr H 
£100 for the distress caused to him for this and for the messages telling him the accounts 
were overdrawn. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said it had been  misled by Barclays as to the reason for the funds 
being removed  and this had caused  him to go to court and incur  costs. Mr H was still 
unhappy Barclays had closed the accounts with immediate effect and he couldnt  be 
satisfied the bank had the right to close his accounts. Mr H said he had suffered substantial 
financial loss as well as distress and he thought he had been misled  by the bank. He didnt 
think £100 was enough compensation.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have reached the same  
conclusions as the investigator and I will be partially  upholding the complaint.
Ref: DRN98329532Removal of funds
Ill start by setting out some context for the review  of Mr Hs accounts. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses.  Financial institutions  must establish 
the purpose and intended  nature  of a business  as well as the origin of funds, and there may 
be penalties if they dont. This applies  to both new and existing relationships.  These 
obligations override  all other obligations.
Mr H has said Barclays shouldnt have removed the funds from the accounts or put the 
accounts in overdraft. The removal of the funds and putting the account  in overdraft were an 
internal process  which the bank carried out in order to comply  with its legal and regulatory 
obligations. It was done to meet its internal process requirements and isnt something this 
service would normally interfere with as its a legitimate exercise so I cant say this was 
unfair 
I am satisfied Barclays completed the review of Mr Hs accounts in a timely manner. So, 
although I understand not having access  to his money was inconvenient for Mr H, the bank 
did nothing wrong  and returned the funds as soon  as it was possible to do so. I am also 
aware that Mr H had access to other funds for day to day expenses during the time his funds 
were not available to him.
Reasons given  by Barclays
It isnt in dispute that Barclays said the funds  were removed for operational reasons. Mr H 
has said this reason is misleading  and contrary to the FCA handbook. Our investigator said 
Barclays is not obliged  to give reasons for the removal of the funds.
Mr H has suggested that had he been  told funds  were removed as a result of a review 
instead of for operational reasons, he wouldnt have issued proceedings against Barclays  
and incurred costs.  After consideration I dont think it wouldve made a difference  how the 
issue was described  as the purpose  of the proceedings  was to force Barclays to return the 
money. It was Mr Hs choice whether he issued legal proceedings and therefore Barclays  
isnt liable for the costs incurred by him. Barclays also isnt obliged  to provide reasons for its 
review  so I cant say it has done  anything wrong by not providing Mr H this information.
Having said that I agree with the investigator  that Barclays could have been clearer in the 
reasons it gave for the removal  of funds  I dont think this wouldve stopped Mr H from issuing 
proceedings against Barclays because, as I have  mentioned, I think  the proceedings were  
issued in order to force Barclays to release the funds.
Mr H has said that Barclays breached the Financial Conduct Authority rules  because it didnt 
communicate with him in a way which was clear,  fair and not misleading. As I have said I do 
think that Barclays could  have been clearer in the information it gave Mr H. I am satisfied 
that Mr H was caused some trouble and upset  as a result.  I think  if Barclays  had been  
clearer it would have  given Mr H a better  understanding  of the situation  and it is likely he 
would have been less anxious  about the state  of his accounts. I also appreciate that Mr H 
would have found it distressing to see the account overdrawn and to be sent requests for 
payment of the overdraft amounts.
Ive already said that Barclays has procedures it must follow to comply  with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. Im satisfied that is what it was doing  when it reviewed  Mr Hs 
Ref: DRN98329533accounts. So I dont  think it has done anything wrong. But I do think  the explanation  Barclays 
gave Mr H was unhelpful. And that Barclays couldve  explained  things better to Mr H. So I 
can understand why Mr H says Barclays hasnt complied with the FCA rules.  
So I think Barclays should pay Mr H £100 compensation I think  this is fair and reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances. I say this because Barclays didnt let Mr H know  that the 
removal of funds was as a result  of an account  review and this caused Mr H some distress 
as well as making him think  he would  have access to his funds sooner. In awarding this sum 
I have kept in mind  that Mr H did still have access to money and suffered no financial loss.
Closure of the accounts
After the account  review  Barclays told Mr H on the phone it was closing his accounts with 
immediate effect.
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of the accounts say that Barclays could close the account with 
immediate effect  in certain  circumstances. Looking at the evidence  I am satisfied Barclays  
were able to close the account with immediate effect. Whilst Mr H mayve expected to be 
given the reasons for the closure,  Barclays isnt required to give Mr H a specific  reason for 
closing the accounts. So, I cant say Barclays has done anything wrong by not giving Mr H 
this information   as much  as hed like to know
I appreciate the closure of the accounts  caused  Mr H to have to find somewhere to deposit 
his funds at very short notice very close to the Christmas period but I see he was able to 
open an alternative account  before the funds were returned to him. 
In summary,  I recognise how strongly Mr H feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating  time. I realise Mr H will be disappointed by my decision, but overall,  based  
on the evidence  Ive seen, I cant say Barclays has acted unreasonably and treated Mr H 
unfairly when it closed his accounts. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, I partially uphold this complaint.
I direct  Barclays Bank UK plc to pay Mr H £100 for the distress it caused due to giving him 
unclear information.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9832953