K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Vanquis  Bank  Limited has charged him £0.49 per month  but hasnt 
explained what that was for. He says hes been caused stress  trying to find out what  its for 
and would like £100 compensation
background
Mr S has a Vanquis credit card and says hes been  charged £0.49 every month for some  
time. He says hes tried to find out what the charge was for and why hes being charged  it 
but Vanquis didnt  provide him with an explanation. Mr S says the situation has caused him 
stress.
Vanquis says its not made a mistake  and the charge  is for Mr S opting  for online and paper 
statements. It says Mr S has been charged this amount since October 2016 but has decided  
to refund Mr S the full amount he paid of £18.62.
Mr S remained unhappy  with that decision  and brought his complaint  to us. He says he didnt  
change his statement  preferences  to both online and paper  and says his account was set to 
paper only.  Our adjudicator didnt think she could  conclude  that Mr S had been made aware 
of the charges as Vanquis couldnt provide that information. But she thought that Vanquis 
had acted fairly and reasonably by refunding the payments. The adjudicator  didnt think  in 
those circumstances  any compensation  was justified and thought any impact on Mr S was 
minimal.
Mr S doesnt  accept that view and has asked that it be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for largely  the same reasons. I realise  Mr S will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels  about  whats  happened. 
But Ive come to the overall conclusion that Vanquis  has acted fairly by refunding the 
monthly fee.
Its not clear if Mr S was told about the monthly  fee when the account was opened or what 
changed in October  2016 when Vanquis started charging it. I appreciate Vanquis says that 
only Mr S could have changed the account settings but I cant be certain  what happened. 
But Im satisfied that Vanquis did explain  what it was for when Mr S asked  about  it and sent 
him two letters about  it. 
Im satisfied that Vanquis has acted fairly and reasonably by making the decision to refund 
the monthly fee and I think that puts Mr S back in the position  he would have been in. I make 
clear that I cant reasonably conclude if Vanquis has made a mistake  or not but for the 
reasons Ive explained Im satisfied that refunding  the money is the fairest approach.
I appreciate Mr S says these events have been  extremely stressful for him and that he 
deserves an apology and £100 compensation. But I dont  think compensation is justified in 
this case as firstly I cant be sure a mistake  has been made and secondly  as in any event I 
dont think a charge  of £0.49 a month would have caused any significant inconvenience.  Im 
also satisfied that Mr S was given  an explanation  about the charge within  a relatively short  
Ref: DRN95516342period of time after he contacted Vanquis. I can also see that Mr S had been in contact with 
Vanquis about other matters not related to this complaint.
Overall Im satisfied that Vanquis has dealt fairly with Mr Ss complaint and I cant fairly order 
it to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9551634