K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc wouldnt agree to increase his overdraft 
because its records relating to accounts  he held with it in the past are inaccurate.
 
background
In February 2019  Mr B asked HSBC to increase the amount of his overdraft. HSBC  didnt 
agree to this and Mr B says it told him this was because hed previously  held an account with 
HSBC that had been written off.
Mr B complained to HSBC. He explained  that HSBC had admitted it had made an error  
when it incorrectly recorded  a loan hed repaid as written off and this should  have  been  
removed from its records. HSBC didnt  uphold the complaint. It said it had rejected Mr Bs 
request for an increase  in his overdraft on the basis  of affordability.
Mr B wasnt  happy with HSBCs response  and referred his complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He thought  HSBC  had 
reviewed Mr Bs application and declined it due to concerns about affordability.  He also 
noted HSBC had updated its records regarding  the previous account.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators recommendation. He says HSBC has told him several 
times that its removed  the incorrect information  about him from its records  but has failed  to 
do this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, banks are entitled to make commercial  decisions on whether or not to allow their 
customers to increase their overdrafts.  I wouldnt normally  interfere with such  a decision 
provided I was satisfied it had been  made  fairly and reasonably. I agree that it wouldnt be 
fair and reasonable for HSBC to refuse a request from Mr B for an increased overdraft on 
the basis of incorrect  historical information.
But Im satisfied that, on this occasion, HSBC assessed Mr Bs request on the basis of 
affordability. Im not persuaded I could reasonably decide its decision to decline the 
application wasnt fair and reasonable.
Mr B thinks  that HSBC may still have incorrect information about  his previous accounts in its 
records. HSBC has assured this service  that the incorrect information has now been  
removed. I can see why Mr B is worried he may have problems in the future because of 
incorrect information held by HSBC. But he hasnt had any more issues  at the present time 
and I cant make a decision about  something  unless and until it has actually happened.
Ref: DRN99822742my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make no 
award against HSBC  UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9982274