K822xcomplaint
Miss C is unhappy with the settlement  offer made by Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  
following a claim for a lost ring under her contents  insurance policy.  
background 
In October  2018, Miss C claimed for a lost ring under her contents  insurance policy held with 
Lloyds. Miss Cs ring was valued  in 2013  for £4,275. Miss C said the ring held a particular 
sentimental value  as the ring was purchased for her by her late partner and was engraved 
personally for her. During dialogue with our investigator, Miss C confirmed her late partners 
family said the ring was purchased abroad.
Lloyds accepted Miss Cs claim  and asked for the valuation document. Miss C was then 
asked later to provide  photographs which she believe delayed  the claim. Miss C was then 
put in touch with Lloyds  supplier (a jeweller) which said it had a similar ring available  that 
could replace Miss Cs ring. Miss C was also offered vouchers up to the value of the rings 
replacement value. Miss C rejected this offer from Lloyds. 
Lloyds then offered  Miss C a cash settlement totalling £1,850 which  included the policy 
excess deduction of £350. Miss C was unhappy with this offer as she said she wouldnt be 
able to use her own jeweller  with the amount it offered. 
Miss C raised a complaint with Lloyds and a final response was issued on 30 October  2018.  
This stated  Miss Cs ring could be replaced for £4,200. It also confirmed the cash settlement 
offered is the equivalent to that amount  it wouldve  paid to replace Miss Cs ring.  
Miss C believed Lloyds  final response letter stated it would pay her £4,200 minus the 
excess payable under the policy  terms. Lloyds  said its offer was to replace the ring with a 
similar one with its provider, offer vouchers to the equivalent amount  or pay Miss C a cash  
settlement totalling  £1,850. 
Miss C contacted our service and our investigator  reviewed her complaint. Our investigator 
initially upheld the complaint and said she felt Lloyds should pay Miss C £4,200  minus  the 
policy excess. 
Lloyds rejected the investigators initial view. And told our investigator  that its supplier offers 
a bespoke service and would be able to make a replacement ring for Miss C. 
Miss C said she felt it wouldnt  be possible for the supplier  to make the ring to the 
specification she required. Miss C provided  our investigator with the locations where the 
supplier was based and said it wouldnt be possible for her to travel  to meet the craftsmen 
due to the distance from her home.  
Miss C maintains that she wanted  to use her own jewellers to replace the ring. Miss C says 
using her own jeweller would cost Lloyds the same  as using their own supplier. 
Our investigator explained her opinion to both Miss C and Lloyds. She said she still didnt  
think Lloyds had acted  fairly by replacing the ring with what  Miss C considered  to be 
dissimilar from the original  ring. And the cash settlement wouldnt be enough  for Miss C to 
replace the ring by having it made by her own jeweller. 
Ref: DRN97932712Lloyds told our investigator it had other available suppliers and would be able to remake 
Miss Cs ring. Our investigator felt this was a fair resolution to Miss Cs claim as the ring 
would be made  up to the value of the one lost. Miss C said she wasnt  informed during the 
claims process that Lloyds had other  suppliers.
Our investigator considered the level of service Miss C received during the claims process.  
She felt Lloyds should pay Miss C an additional £100 for the trouble and upset this has 
caused her. 
Miss C rejected our investigators view. She said she didnt  want Lloyds involved with the 
remaking of the ring due to the level of service she had received from it during the claim. 
She also didnt believe  the ring its supplier had was a like-for-like replacement, and provided  
our investigator with customer reviews from its suppliers website which  she said would 
discourage her from using  this particular supplier. 
Miss C also maintained that Lloyds told her in its final response  that it would pay her £4,200, 
minus any excess, and considers this is a fair offer under the circumstances. As Miss C 
disagrees with our investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, Ive come  to the same  conclusion as our investigator. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Miss C, and I also appreciate  the ring Miss C lost held sentimental  value 
because she said it was purchased for her by her late partner. However, I will explain  the 
reasons for my decision below.  
Like most contents insurance policies, Miss Cs claim is subject to claims conditions  which  
are set out in the terms and conditions of the policy. A section of this states the following: 
How we settle claims under your Contents covers  
We can either repair or replace any item or make a money  payment instead  
We will pay the cost of replacement  as new if available  or otherwise the nearest  
equivalent less any discounts obtainable 
If an item is irreplaceable, we will base our payment on expert opinion  of its value 
immediately prior to its loss or damage.
Miss C provided Lloyds with a copy of a valuation that was carried out back  in 2013. Miss C 
said she paid an additional premium so that in the event this type of claim was made she 
would be able to receive a suitable replacement or a cash  settlement to the value of the 
rings worth  at that time. For clarity, the rings  value isnt disputed  here, whats disputed  is 
the fairness of the settlement given by Lloyds.  
There has been a number of interactions between Miss C, Lloyds and our investigator  about 
indemnifying or  putting Miss C back  in the position she wouldve been in had the ring not 
have been lost  in order to resolve this claim.   
Ive read through the information on file and I do sympathise with the situation Miss C is in 
given the ring was a gift from her late partner. But ultimately I must decide if I think Lloyds 
Ref: DRN97932713offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And as mentioned  above,  I do believe it 
has acted fairly and in line with the policy terms. 
The policy entitles Miss C to receive a suitable  replacement, or the cash  equivalent less any 
discounts Lloyds  would  obtain.  Lloyds  initially  offered to purchase what  was at the time 
considered to be a suitable replacement; however Miss C didnt think  the replacement ring 
from Lloyds suppliers was similar enough  to hers. 
 
Lloyds also offered Miss C vouchers to use with its suppliers to replace the ring with a new 
ring or another item to the value of Miss Cs ring. And a cash settlement was also offered 
totalling £1,850. This is the equivalent  to what Lloyds would pay its supplier to replace the 
ring after deducting  the policy excess.  Lloyds have evidenced it wouldve received this 
amount of discount  had a replacement ring been purchased from its supplier, or new one 
made. So I find Lloyds  acted fairly by applying the discount  to the cash  settlement. 
Miss C said Lloyds told her within its final response  letter dated 30 October  2018  that it 
would pay her £4,200 minus  any excess. Ive reviewed that letter  and I dont agree with Miss 
C. The letter  states  the cash settlement offered is equivalent to the amount Lloyds would pay 
its supplier to replace  the item. As stated above,  Ive seen evidence that Lloyds wouldve 
obtained a significant discount  from its suppliers.  And I find that the policy is clear that the 
discounts are taken into account when making a settlement.  So I dont think its 
unreasonable for Lloyds to pay Miss C the equivalent to what  it wouldve paid to replace the 
ring. 
Lloyds has said its supplier provides a bespoke service to remake Miss Cs ring, which I 
understand has been rejected by Miss C because she would like her own jeweller to make 
the ring. I note Miss C also provided  some customer feedback from this supplier which she 
said discouraged her from wanting to use this service. Lloyds later confirmed it has other 
suppliers that would be able to remake a ring for Miss C up to the value of its worth  
immediately before the time of loss. 
In the circumstances of this case,  and based  on the different options discussed between  
Miss C, Lloyds  and our investigator Im satisfied Lloyds has acted fairly to indemnify her and 
has offered a reasonable replacement for the lost ring. I appreciate this will be disappointing  
for Miss C given the sentiment attached  to the ring.
Lloyds has said it has paid Miss C the cash settlement  totalling  £1,850.  I dont think I could 
reasonably ask it to do more to indemnify Miss C, as I think  it has provided suitable options  
to replace the ring. Lloyds have said they remain willing to arrange for a supplier to make a 
replacement ring. If Miss C decides to do this she will need  to pay £1,850 to the supplier, or 
return the settlement  to Lloyds. 
Turning to the level of service  Miss C received during the claims process. Im in agreement 
Miss C should be paid £100 for the trouble  upset  she experienced by chasing  Lloyds for 
updates and not receiving  a number of call backs when promised. So if Lloyds hasnt already 
paid Miss C this additional  £100 it will need to arrange for this payment to be made. 
Ref: DRN97932714my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
to assist Miss C replace  or remake the ring through its supplier should Miss C wish this to 
happen. 
I also require Lloyds  Bank General Insurance Limited to pay Miss C £100 for the trouble and 
upset caused  to her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2019.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9793271