K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains (on behalf  of herself  and the estate of her late husband Mr S) that 
Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out PPI alongside a mortgage  in 1994. The policy  protected their 
mortgage monthly repayments in the event  of accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mrs S disagrees. 
Mrs S told Nationwide that they hadnt  known they had PPI. She also told us that the policy  
exclusions werent explained and the policy wasnt suitable  as Mr S was self-employed.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Usually, Id look at the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened  at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been  presented. But Nationwide hasnt been able to provide 
anything signed  by Mr and Mrs S when the PPI was taken  out. 
I dont think thats  surprising. This mortgage  account  closed almost 20 years  ago. I wouldnt 
expect Nationwide  to have kept records about a closed account  for so long. Mrs S 
remembers speaking with an advisor  at one of the building  societys  branches when they 
arranged their mortgage and the PPI. So even though she wasnt  sure of the date they did 
this, I think thats probably what happened.
But what  she says about the way they were sold the PPI isn't enough  on its own for me to be 
able to uphold  their complaint. I have to look at all the available information and decide what 
I think is most likely.  
In order to uphold  this complaint Id have to find it likely that Mr and Mrs S werent given a 
fair choice  about  PPI or that it was added to their mortgage account  without  their consent. 
But I cant fairly say this based on the limited information Ive got. 
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Ss home wouldve been  at risk if the mortgage  payments werent  kept up to 
date. I think its more  likely that they felt they wanted  to have the benefits PPI offered and 
they decided to buy the policy.  
 
Its completely understandable that Mrs S might now have forgotten some of these details. 
But, based on what we know  about the way Nationwide  sold PPI to mortgage customers, 
I think its likely that Nationwide made Mr and Mrs S aware that the PPI was optional and it 
was added to their account  at their request when they chose to have it. 
Ref: DRN92292432Mr and Mrs S took out their mortgage  in joint names when they were both in work and 
contributing towards  paying the mortgage.  Mrs S told us they had joint cover  under the 
policy. So although  Nationwide  couldnt  confirm whose name the policy was in, I think its 
reasonable to assume that Mr and Mrs S probably  wouldve  shared the policy benefits 
between them. 
Nationwide didnt advise  Mr and Mrs S to take out the policy. But Ive looked carefully at 
whether it gave them clear, fair and not misleading information so they could decide for 
themselves if they wanted to have PPI.
Ive taken into account what Mrs S told us about  her sick pay entitlement through work. But 
the policy couldve paid out for up to 24 months per claim if either (or both of them)  were off 
work as a result of accident or sickness. It wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing  a 
useful benefit  at whats likely to have been  a difficult time if Mr and Mrs S faced extra costs  
as a result  of being ill or disabled  especially  bearing in mind  Mr S had no sick pay.  
In addition to this, PPI wouldve also paid out if either of them became unexpectedly 
unemployed. 
Repeat claims were possible giving Mr and Mrs S long term protection.
Mrs S mentioned having no savings or other insurance cover  they couldve relied on. Having 
PPI meant Mr and Mrs S could  depend on being able to continue to cover their mortgage 
monthly repayments if they werent  working. Based on everything Ive seen about their 
circumstances at the time, I think the policy offered a range of benefits to Mr and Mrs S. 
Its possible  some information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. And there were some  things the policy  didnt cover. But it doesnt  look 
as if Mrs S was affected by any of the conditions  limiting  the policys  main benefits. 
And Ive taken into account  Mr Ss employment situation  and everything  Mrs S has said 
about this, including the comments  made in response to our adjudicators assessment. 
The policy wouldnt  have paid out to anyone who chose voluntarily to leave their employment  
 whether they were employed or self-employed. The PPI was intended  to provide cover in 
the event a policyholder lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work.  
So, for instance, this could include  a self-employed person not having sufficient work to be 
able to earn enough to keep his business  going and provide an income to cover  his 
reasonable living expenses.
Under the policy wording, to qualify for payment of unemployment cover,  Mr S wouldve had 
to register as unemployed with the Department  of Unemployment.  
Theres mention in a policy leaflet that suggests Nationwide thought a person who was 
self-employed may have found it more difficult to register with the relevant government 
department. But I think thats just highlighting  the fact that in order  to register for 
unemployment a person  had to show he was genuinely available  for work. This means  that 
someone whod been self-employed wouldve had to show hed stopped  trading. 
Ref: DRN92292433So I dont  think that it wouldve  been significantly harder for Mr S to make  an unemployment 
claim than it wouldve been for someone  who was employed. 
And it doesnt look as if Mr S was affected  by any of the other main conditions  that mightve 
limited the policys benefits to him. So, even if not everything was mentioned, I dont think its 
likely that having  clearer information about the policys exclusions  and limitations wouldve 
put Mr and Mrs S off buying  the PPI. 
I dont know if or how the policy costs  were explained to Mr and Mrs S when they took it out. 
But Ive seen nothing  to suggest that the PPI wasnt  affordable  for them.  As this was a policy 
they paid for each month, Mr and Mrs S couldve cancelled  it at any time at no extra cost if 
they didnt want  to pay for it. 
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  But I think 
Mr and Mrs S still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd been better informed as it gave 
them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont  think having better information 
wouldve put them off buying it.
 
Looked at overall, this means I dont find Mr and Mrs S have lost out as a result of anything 
that Nationwide did wrong. So it doesnt need  to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9229243