K821x#15complaint
Mr F has complained about a number of loans he took out through  a company called Elevate 
Credit International  Limited, trading at the time as Sunny. Mr F says he was lent to 
irresponsibly and the loans caused him financial problems.
To keep  things simple  Ill refer mainly to Sunny throughout this decision.
background
We now know that Mr F took out 4 instalment loans from Sunny between September  2016 
and November 2016. Ive enclosed a summary  of Mr Fs borrowing with Sunny, based on the 
information it provided to us. It can be found  in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said they thought  it should  be upheld  
for loan number 4 only. Sunny said it didnt agree and it hadnt  done anything wrong. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice, on our website. Ive followed this approach when  thinking  about Mr Fs 
complaint.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that Mr F could 
repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These  checks  ought to have  taken 
into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total repayment  
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Sunny should  have  fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Sunny was required to establish 
Ref: DRN93056392whether Mr F could sustainably repay the loans;  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr F could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define  sustainable as being  without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Sunny told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend to 
Mr F including  assessing  his income, expenditure and creditworthiness. It says all this 
information showed that he would  be able to make the loan repayments  he was committing 
to. Ive thought  about this and also looked  at the overall pattern  of lending history  with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at some  point, 
Sunny should  have  realised that it shouldnt  have provided any further loans to Mr F. 
Ive also taken account of what Ive said above, about the length of the lending  relationship,  
and applied  it to the circumstances of loans 1  3 in this case. And I dont think its clear  
enough that what Sunny would have would have  seen,  from its checks,  suggested loans 1  
3 were either  unaffordable  for Mr F or that the information from the checks it carried  out 
undermined the income or outgoings Mr F had himself declared. 
I accept that Mr F may have already been  finding  managing his money  quite difficult at this 
point. However, theres no clear  record that the type or depth of credit checks  that were  
carried out at that time would have exposed  these issues. So Im afraid I dont agree that 
Sunny knew its lending was unsustainable.  I therefore dont uphold this part of the complaint.
However, I think from the point of loan number 4, the situation was different. Mr F applied  for 
this loan the month directly after loan 3, meaning that he been  given  4 loans in just 2 
months. At this point he also still had outstanding balances  with the previous Sunny loans 
hed taken out which I think shows there  was a financial risk emerging.  I recognise that the 
amounts being  lent were  relatively moderate sums,  but Mr F was on a particularly low 
income and I think Sunny  should have seen  the additional vulnerabilities  that this presented.
Our experience of short-term lending tells us that consumers who have difficulty  managing 
their money are less likely to be able to sustainably repay a loan.  More  thorough  and 
proportionate financial checks  at this point would  have clearly shown that Mr F had little 
room for manoeuvre and had several  other short-term  loans  outstanding.  This would have 
demonstrated that he was having  financial trouble  and relying  heavily on short-term lending.  
With this information,  I dont think Sunny ought  to have  lent him the money for the loan 4. I 
dont think it was responsible to do so.
putting things right
In order to put things  right for Mr F, Sunny should:
Ref: DRN93056393refund  all interest and charges Mr F paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 4 and treat any payments 
Mr F made  towards this loan as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Mr Fs loan 4 account as Ive directed results in Mr F effectively having 
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed, then Sunny should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Fs loan 4 account leaves  an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Sunny can use the total refund for any other outstanding loans to offset this. And if 
there is still an outstanding capital balance  then I would remind Sunny that it should 
take a sympathetic view when seeking  to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr 
F for the remaining  capital
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Fs credit file in relation to loan 4.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr F a certificate showing 
how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I partially uphold  Mr Fs complaint and direct Elevate Credit International Limited to put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix
Taken  Out Repaid Instalments Amount Highest Combined  Payment
1 10/09/2016 outstanding 6 £150.00 £45.48
2 17/09/2016 outstanding 6 £100.00 £74.26
3 05/10/2016 outstanding 6 £50.00 £89.95
4 10/11/2016 outstanding 6 £50.00 £104.88
Ref: DRN9305639