K820x#14Complaint
Ms A complained to us about a payment protection policy (PPI) she had with her mortgage; 
she thinks she was mis-sold this cover. 
The PPI was sold by Abbey  National,  but Santander UK PLC is now responsible for 
answering the complaint. To keep things consistent,  Ill therefore  mainly refer to Santander 
throughout this decision.
Background
I can see that getting her complaint to this stage has been a frustrating affair for Ms A. Im 
very sorry about this and Id like to assure  her that I fully understand all the points  she makes 
and why she thinks the PPI was mis-sold. 
It also seems  two of our adjudicators have already assessed this case and told Ms A 
different things. Again, Im sorry about that, however the most recent adjudicators view 
outlined to Ms A that her complaint about the mis-sale is unlikely to be upheld. I see Ms A 
has now been offered  some money  back by Santander in relation  the commission element of 
the sale.
Ms A still thinks the PPI was mis-sold in the first place and that all the premiums  should be 
returned to her with interest, so she has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision 
about this.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. 
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt  that Ms As recollections are honest 
and genuine. Nevertheless, Santander  tells us her mortgage was advanced in 1993 and the 
PPI in 1995. This is all quite a long time ago and however accurate Ms A thinks shes been, 
its obviously possible that the passage of time could be affecting her recollections.
Also, we dont have  access to any point of sale documentation because  Santander  says 
its too long ago. Santander  however makes  certain  assumptions about Ms A being told the 
PPI was optional  and that she didnt  need  to buy it if she didnt want  to. Ive discounted 
these assumptions because Santander  is in no position, in my view, to make  them  in this 
case. Ive also discounted  what Santander  says about the PPI sale taking place well after 
the mortgage sale. Thats because it has provided other information which seems to be 
somewhat inaccurate  and looking at the investigation it carried  out, I think  it lacked the 
thoroughness we ask major banks for.
But Im afraid this still doesnt  take Ms As complaint about the mis-sale much further. Its a 
simple fact that we just dont have any evidence from the sale which suggests Ms A was 
told the cover was something she needed  to have.  And my general experience with these 
types of sales is that a separate application process  would  have  been  required, indicating 
Ref: DRN93884432the PPI was an optional add on to the mortgage. On balance, I find that its more  likely to 
have been portrayed as such.
Ms A also appears to be saying that having  paid for the PPI over several years,  and never 
had to use the cover, its therefore  been  a waste of money. I understand the point being 
made but Im afraid that this is the nature of insurance  you hope  not to have to use it, but 
its there in case you do.
Knowing what I do about these types of sales I think the policy was probably recommended  
to Ms A. This means it ought to have  been suitable  for her needs. Overall, I think  it was. 
I say this because  Ms A appears  to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any 
of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these  policies. I note we asked more  about a 
medical condition  she says she had which probably wouldnt have been covered under  the 
PPI policy  rules. I wouldnt wish to imply  this condition  wasnt an important  issue for her, but 
its not the kind of illness  she would have  been  anticipating ever being absent from work 
because of for a significant period. So this medical  condition doesnt change what  I think  
about the relevance of the PPI, or the protection it otherwise offered. 
Ms A also said she didnt need  the PPI because  she already had sickness protection  with 
her job and was unlikely to ever become  unemployed. Ive thought very carefully about her 
job and the likely benefits it had, and I agree her benefits would have probably been good.
But this doesnt  make the PPI unsuitable.  The mortgage was secured against Ms As home 
and so the consequences of her not being able to keep up payments could have been 
serious. In the event  of a successful claim, the cover was payable for up to 36 months. This 
was a relatively generous level of protection and would have been in addition to  and 
much longer  than - any other  means Ms A already had in place at the time.  So although I 
cant say why Ms A decided to buy this policy, I dont think it being recommended it to her 
was unreasonable. I think  the policy was suitable.
 
Santander also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I 
cant confirm if she was told everything  she ought  to have  been. But I think the costs of the 
cover were  most probably set out on the forms she would have been given, as would some 
brief details about what was covered. I therefore  think she probably had enough information 
on which to make an informed decision.
Im very sorry this has all taken so long to sort out. There just isnt enough  evidence  for me 
to uphold the complaint and Ive had to base my decision on what  is more likely to have 
happened. Businesses arent required to keep records  indefinitely  and so Ive used my 
experience of other similar sales Ive come  across from that time period.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms As complaint about  the PPI being mis-sold. And I dont direct Santander 
UK PLC to do anything  more with regard to that. My understanding is that Ms A has already 
received some money back for the commission element but if she hasnt, then she should 
contact us. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020.
Ref: DRN93884433Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9388443