K822xcomplaint
Mrs G is dissatisfied with the service shes received from Lycetts Financial Services Limited 
(Lycetts). She says shes had incorrect or inadequate information which has meant shes 
been unable  to plan properly for her retirement. Shes also unhappy with the performance of 
one of her pension arrangements.
background 
Ive considered Mrs Gs complaint before.  I issued a detailed provisional  decision on 
17 September 2020. I upheld the complaint in part. Very briefly my main findings were:  
Mrs G was Lycetts client and had paid for Lycetts services. 
The issue about the change to her retirement date was down to the provider, not 
Lycetts. 
Lycetts hadnt invested  Mrs Gs pension fund incorrectly. Poor performance wasnt 
necessarily indicative of unsuitable advice. Wed want  to be sure that the fund had 
been invested in line with the investors  attitude  to risk and that any specific 
instructions given by the investor had been followed. 
Mrs G had confirmed the fund initially selected. Shed said she later gave a verbal  
instruction to switch  funds. But if that hadnt been  confirmed in writing it was difficult 
to establish that instruction was given  and the details. I didnt think  it would be fair to 
say Lycetts had failed to implement a fund switch instruction. When  it later became 
clear that Mrs G wasnt happy  with the fund, a switch was undertaken. 
She had been  given  incorrect  information.  There was an error in a letter  from Lycetts. 
Some of the documents had inconsistencies or errors, including an incorrect 
retirement age. Varied future growth rates had been used in projections. But the 
current fund values  shown were correct and the pension that could be provided, 
based on the assumed future  growth rates indicated, was clearly  set out, together  
with the shortfall  against Mrs Gs target  pension income. The projections did provide 
a basis on she could  reasonably assess what her fund might be and what  sort of 
income that might provide when she came  to retire.  
Mrs G knew  that her pension funds werent going to provide the level of retirement  
income she was seeking. If she wanted,  and was in a position, to increase her 
contributions, she could have raised  that with Lycetts. 
The wrong or inconsistent information had caused Mrs G frustration, distress, 
disappointment and inconvenience.  Lycetts should  pay her £300 compensation. 
I didnt think Mrs Gs fees should be refunded. She hadnt been told her adviser had 
left in January  2018. She only found  out when  she contacted Lycetts. A meeting with 
the new adviser was arranged  for early July 2018. But, if shed have contacted 
Lycetts in the interim that would  have been passed on to the new adviser and hed 
have dealt with any specific queries  or instructions. So Mrs G could have  accessed  
advice from Lycetts  during that period, had she needed it. But Lycetts accepted it 
should have informed Mrs G of the change  in advisers. Mrs G had suffered some 
inconvenience. I said Lycetts should pay her a further £50.  
Ref: DRN95057002Lycetts had detailed the fees it had taken. I agreed an ongoing fee must be in return  
for providing an ongoing service.  I thought Lycetts  had provided  that service.  It had 
reviewed Mrs Gs pensions annually and she had the option  of a meeting. Lycetts 
had dealt with other  ad hoc queries and requests, including fund switches. And there 
was a period when  Lycetts undertook to monitor her fund but not charge Mrs G for 
that. Overall I didnt think Mrs G had been overcharged. 
Lycetts had accepted  that it didnt deal with Mrs Gs complaint as it should have 
done. It had offered  £250 which I thought was fair and reasonable. 
I upheld the complaint  in part and said that Lycetts should pay Mrs G compensation 
totalling £600 - £300 for the errors in letters, projections etc; £50 for the failure to tell 
Mrs G that her adviser had moved on; and £250 for the delay in dealing with her 
complaint. 
Mrs G was happy with my provisional  decision. We told Lycetts that shed accepted  the 
decision and it said it didnt want to comment further.  
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have accepted my provisional decision. So my final decision is as set out in my 
provisional decision and summarised above. 
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Gs complaint in part. Lycetts Financial  Services Limited must pay Mrs G, in 
total, £600 for the distress  and inconvenience  shes suffered. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 October  2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9505700