K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about the quality of a vehicle supplied to him by Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc (Santander). He says it was faulty  at the point of supply and he wants  to reject it and 
terminate his finance agreement.
background
Mr D took receipt of a used vehicle in April 2017.  The car had been pre-registered  in March 
2017 and had only completed five miles.  He funded  the deal through  a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander.
Mr D had some problems  with the car early on when the service light illuminated  and the ad 
blue pump  needed replacing.  In February  2018 he says he also had to return  the car to the 
dealership when the engine management  light illuminated and the dealership  said there was 
a recall theyd need to attend to. The car was booked in for a week on April 16 2018 but 
wasnt returned until 28 April as the dealership told Mr D they had problems rebuilding the 
engine. 
But no sooner  had Mr D collected his car than a further warning light illuminated; telling him 
there was a problem  with the coolant  level. He had to return the car again  for this to be 
resolved. Mr D says he didnt use the car much  after that but in mid May he noticed fumes  in 
the cabin. The garage diagnosed a leaking head  gasket and tried to repair  the fault but their 
attempt was unsuccessful  and Mr D again  noticed fumes in the car. He took the car back  to 
the dealership  and they have subsequently repaired the engine gasket again but Mr D said 
hed lost faith in the car. He told Santander it was dangerous and he wanted to reject  it.
But Santander disagreed. They said they were only responsible for the condition  of the 
vehicle at the point of supply and as it had been  more than six months since  Mr D took 
receipt of the car the law required him to prove there  was a fault with it from the beginning.  
They were  not satisfied hed been  able to do that and they noted that the car had now been 
fixed and was ready for him to collect.
But Mr D was still dissatisfied and he referred his complaint  to this service. Our investigator 
didnt think a reasonable person would expect an almost new car to develop such significant  
issues so soon. He didnt agree with Santander  that the law necessarily required Mr D to 
prove the issue was present from the start and he didnt  think  it was fair to hold Mr D 
responsible for repairs of this level of seriousness that had occurred after only 13,000  miles 
of driving. He said that it was clear the manufacturer didnt  think this was usual either  as the 
first service  wasnt  due until the car had completed 21,000 miles. He said he hadnt  seen  any 
evidence to suggest the faults had occurred because of anything Mr D did or didnt do and 
he thought the cars service history  suggested  it hadnt been of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. 
So he suggested that Santander  agree to take the car back; end the finance agreement and 
refund Mr Ds deposit. And he also thought  Santander should pay Mr D £250  to compensate 
him for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced.  
But Santander disagreed with the investigators  interpretation of the relevant law. They  
insisted Mr D needed to demonstrate that the faults  he complained of were present at the 
point of supply  and they also said that, as the vehicle  had now been repaired, it was clear 
Ref: DRN96444802Mr D had authorised a repair and therefore he no longer had a right to reject  the goods  
under the relevant legislation. They therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
was the car faulty at the point of supply?
Mr M acquired his car under a conditional  sale agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Santander is 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
But Santanders responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst  they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
Santander are right to suggest that wed usually  assume that if a car developed a fault in the 
first six months it was likely to have been  there from the point of supply but if it happened 
after that wed usually  look to the consumer  to prove  this was the case. 
But we need  to look at the circumstances of each case to decide whats  reasonable too. 
Here Mr D has complained that a head  gasket has failed on three occasions in the first 13 
months of ownership. This was an almost  new car. It had completed only five miles when 
Mr D took receipt of it and I dont  think a reasonable person would expect such  a significant 
problem to occur once, never mind three times,  on a new car in such  a short space of time. I 
note, as the investigator did, that the first service wasnt due on this vehicle until 21,000 
miles and I think  it would be reasonable to suggest  that the manufacturer  therefore  wouldnt 
expect this sort of fault to arise  in such a short space of time either.
And the relevant legislation also tells us that, when we consider satisfactory quality, we 
should consider  whether the vehicle has proven to be suitably  durable.  And here I dont think  
that can be the case. Mr D has had to return the car on three  occasions  for the same  issue 
and in addition  to that he also returned to have the ad blue pump replaced earlier in the 
agreement. I think  thats  below  the expectation  for an almost new vehicle and so I think there 
is reason for Mr D to be allowed to reject the car.
does the subsequent repair to the car mean  that Mr Ds rights to reject  are erased?
Santander has suggested this is the case because the relevant legislation, the Consumer 
Rights Act (2015) says:
Ref: DRN96444803a consumer  who agrees  to the repair of goods cannot require the trader  to replace them  or 
exercise the  right to reject,  without giving the trader a reasonable time to repair  them 
But Mr D did give the dealer the opportunity to repair  the car  twice, and the repair  failed. 
He made  a complaint to this service  before the third repair was completed and I think its 
clear that at that point his intention was to reject the car. He said:
Our car is with the dealer now, we have  been  told that one of the gaskets is faulty   I am 
afraid to say I do not want the car back as I have completely lost faith in the performance 
and safety of my vehicle  
So, whilst I accept the dealer may have stripped the car to identify the fault, I dont think  
theres evidence  that Mr D had authorised a repair. In fact I think the opposite is true. Hed 
expressed a wish to reject  the car because it was of unsatisfactory quality and had not 
proven durable   and I agree.
So I think Santander should take the car back and terminate Mr Ds deal. Its clear he has 
been inconvenienced by this issue and I agree with the investigators  suggestion  that 
Santander should therefore  pay him some compensation for this. In the circumstances I 
think £250 is reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:
allow Mr D to reject his car and cancel  the finance agreement  with nothing further to 
pay
collect Mr Ds car at no expense to him
refund  Mr Ds deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
pay Mr D £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9644480