K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 1991. The policy covered Mr P only. Mr P and Mrs Y say Nationwide Building 
Society mis-sold  them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr P and Mrs Ys case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
There isnt very much  evidence available about  the sale. Mr P and Mrs Y say they felt they 
had to take the PPI for their mortgage application  to be successful.  But they havent given us 
much detail about what was said or why they felt this. And Nationwide  hasnt been able to 
send us any evidence  from the sale showing Mr P and Mrs Y chose to take the PPI. Due to 
the amount of time that has passed since the sales though, I dont think this is unreasonable.
But what  it does mean is that, because of the limited  information available,  I dont think  
theres enough evidence for me to say that Nationwide made Mr P and Mrs Y think  they had 
to take the PPI for their mortgage application to be successful.  So I think  its likely 
Nationwide made  it clear to them that they had a choice about the PPI, and that Mr P and 
Mrs Y chose to take it.
Mr P and Mrs Y have said they felt pressured  into taking the PPI. But they havent given us 
much detail about why they felt this. This is understandable  given how long ago the sales  
were. But I dont think theres enough evidence here for me to say that Nationwide  unfairly 
pressured them into taking out the PPI.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Nationwide gave Mr P and Mrs Y any personalised advice 
about the PPI. So I dont  think  it recommended the PPI to them. This means it didnt have to 
check if the PPI was right for Mr P and Mrs Y. But it did have to make  sure they got the 
information they needed to decide  if the PPI was right for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr P and Mrs Y about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it 
doesnt look like Mr P was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. 
And its likely  the policy  couldve paid out for significantly longer than the sick pay Mr P was 
entitled to. So it would  have been useful for Mr P and Mrs Y if something went wrong. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would 
have put Mr P and Mrs Y off taking it out.
Ref: DRN91707762my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P and Mrs Y 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9170776