K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about information recorded on his credit file by Barclays Bank  UK PLC.
background
Mr M has a credit  card account with Barclays. He says his credit  file shows a missed 
payment on the account for October  2018  which he says isnt right. Hes also unhappy about  
an over limit fee which Barclays applied to his account. 
Mr M complained to Barclays, asking them to correct the information on his credit file and 
refund the over limit fee. Barclays didnt uphold the complaint.  They said they hadnt 
reported a missed payment for October 2018. And that the over limit fee had been applied  
correctly.
Barclays said they had reported a missed  payment in July 2018  and another one in 2013.  Mr 
M asked them to remove  these entries  and explained they were due to family bereavements. 
Barclays considered  Mr Ms requests but didnt agree  because  they said the entries  were  
correct. The entry from 2013  was the subject  of a separate complaint to this service so Im 
not going to comment on it here.
Our investigator thought Barclays had acted fairly, so he didnt ask them  to do anything. Mr 
M asked for the complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He says the missed  payment 
entry on his credit file for July 2018 is wrong  as payment was made within the same  month.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M wasnt able to provide a copy of his credit  report but we obtained one from the credit  
reference agency. Barclays have also provided  details  of the information they reported to the 
credit reference agencies about  Mr Ms account. From what  Ive seen, Im satisfied that 
Barclays didnt report a missed payment in October 2018. And there  isnt a missed  payment  
recorded on Mr Ms credit file for that month.  So I dont uphold that part of Mr Ms complaint.
Regarding the over limit fee which  Mr M has queried, his statements show  that he had 
exceeded his credit limit at the time. From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied the fee was 
applied correctly, in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
As to the missed payment  recorded on Mr Ms credit  file for July 2018, Barclays  say they 
received a payment towards the end of the month,  some three weeks after the July payment 
deadline. So they say they hadnt  received payment at the time they made  their monthly  
report to the credit reference agencies. Barclays say the payment made in late July was 
recorded on Mr Ms August statement. And they recorded his account  status  as being OK for 
that month.  I think thats a reasonable explanation. And its confirmed by the information Ive 
seen. I note that Mr M tried to make payment in early July but his Direct Debit  was returned.  
Therefore Barclays didnt receive payment  from him by the July payment deadline. So I dont 
think they did anything  wrong by reporting  his account in the way they did for July 2018.
Ref: DRN99660212my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9966021