K821x#15complaint
Mrs T is unhappy  with how Chubb  European Group  SE (Chubb) has handled  a claim made
under her property insurance policy, and with the claim settlement shes  been offered.
background
There was an escape of water at Mrs Ts property in May 2017 which  caused  damage,  and a
claim was made to Chubb.  A loss adjuster  was appointed, and Mrs T wanted her own
contractor to carry out repairs, which Chubb  agreed  to.
Mrs T was unhappy with the initial settlement  offered  and complained to Chubb. The first
and second final responses were  issued by Chubb in September 2017. They  commented  on
various complaint  points  raised, the settlement at that time and paid £300  compensation,
which was later increased to £400. A further complaint response was issued in April 2018 in
which Chubb said they werent renewing the policy.
Since the loss in 2017, there has been ongoing  discussions  and communication between
Mrs T, the loss adjuster(s), Chubb  and Mrs Ts contractor. Various negotiations have
happened around the works required and how much  these should cost,  but the claim
settlement still hasnt been agreed, or the claim or repairs concluded.
Chubb issued  their most recent final response on 12 March  2020. In this Chubb  touched  on
the background of what happened and said they would be offering  a further full and final
settlement of £26,781.35.
Chubb went on to say that despite asking for a final quote for the works, this hasnt
been provided. Chubb also said the quotes that have been  provided arent clear, and various
revisions have been  made, and works unrelated  to the original loss (but which stem from
further losses which a new insurer is dealing with)  have also been included,  which  means
Chubb is unable  to separate them easily.
So Chubb  said they wouldnt enter  further  negotiation, and the offer would be in full and final
settlement of the claim.
Our investigator initially issued his view on the complaint in December 2017 but Mrs T didnt
agree. And since then,  he has been  included in communication from Mrs T to Chubb  (and
others connected to the claim). But the claim has significantly  moved on since that complaint
first came to us in 2017. But its not yet finalised,  and Mrs T says that there are further costs
to be added and some have been  missed by Chubb.
As an agreement hasnt been  reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
I decided to issue a provisional decision on the complaint. This is because  both the claim 
and complaint(s) have evolved so much since the case first came to us in 2017.  The 
settlement has changed at various  times and disputes have arisen  over the settlement  and 
been increased following negotiation. Complaint points have been  added,  changed and 
resolved throughout as a natural progression of the claim. And weve asked Mrs T what 
remains in dispute  for the claim and complaint, and what  hasnt been  resolved, so we can 
see if its been raised and addressed by Chubb.  But this hasnt  been  made  clear.  
Ref: DRN96371462So I decided to issue a provisional decision to outline my initial  thoughts, findings and next 
steps around the complaint points  and claim and to give both parties a chance  to respond,  
before issuing my final decision.
my provisional findings
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim period
Mrs T has remained in contact with this service following  our investigators 
assessment in 2017 which  she disagreed with and provided extensive 
correspondence throughout.  Mrs T has copied  us into many  emails she has sent to 
the various parties involved in the claim. Much of this has been the repair cost 
negotiations, along with various points Mrs T has been unhappy  with when theyve 
arisen, and before Chubb (or other parties) had considered them  or indeed  included 
them in the changing claim cash settlements.
But the claim has continually evolved  since the complaint first came to us in 2017, 
and because of that some of the items in dispute  have  also moved on. Some of the 
complaint points have  been resolved and new points have  developed.  But Mrs T 
hasnt been clear what remains in dispute or what she is unhappy with specifically,  
other than she doesnt agree the full and final settlement is enough, because she 
says that Chubb has missed  or misinterpreted  costs submitted to them. And Ill 
comment on that specifically below.
One of my ombudsmen colleagues gave Mrs T some options in relation to her 
complaint because both the claim and complaint had evolved so much.  This was 
either to look up to the original final response(s) in 2017 only,  or up to more recent 
times.
Mrs T didnt  want  our service to limit the complaint to only 2017.  So, my ombudsman
colleague asked  Mrs T to list what she remained unhappy with specifically from what 
had happened, and which hadnt been  resolved, or moved on, so we could focus  on 
that. But this hasnt yet been clarified by Mrs T, beyond general unhappiness  with 
Chubb and the claim,  and that she feels the settlement offered isnt enough. Ill 
comment on the complaint points  below.
But firstly Im going to explain what period I am commenting on here, as part of this
provisional decision. The original loss was May 2017 and this is the start of the claim.  
And the first final response was in September 2017.  However, the claim has moved 
on since that original  final response was issued,  and the current  and most recent final 
response was dated 12 March  2020 in which Chubb made its final offer of settlement. 
So the period Im considering is from the date of the claim to the most recent  final 
response, but only the points and issues that have been raised  by Mrs T and 
addressed by Chubb.
Ref: DRN96371463And I dont  mean it as a discourtesy to either party, but as both parties  are aware  of 
what has happened, albeit they might not actually agree on certain  points, I dont 
intend to comment  on each individual event which has occurred since 2017.  Rather  
my focus will be on what  remains  in dispute  from what I can establish,  which  Ill 
explain in more detail  below.
The complaint points
I do also need to draw a line under what has happened and what  Im considering or 
not considering,  and separate  that from new complaint points, what  might  happen, or 
new information which Mrs T might present in the future to Chubb  for consideration.
As Ive said,  my ombudsman  colleague asked Mrs T to list what she remained 
unhappy with specifically from what had happened, so we could focus  on that. But 
beyond general  unhappiness with Chubb  and the claim and that Mrs T feels  the 
settlement offered isnt enough,  Mrs T hasnt listed this.
Its not for me to decide what Mrs T is unhappy  with, thats for her to decide.  But 
there are some points  which I can conclude  Mrs T remains  unhappy  with from her 
more recent  correspondence, where she has made  this clear.  So Ill comment  on 
these here,  and explain what Im asking  for in response to this provisional decision  
around what remains in dispute and how, or if, Ill consider those  points when 
reaching my final decision.
The claim length
Mrs T has said that Chubb have been  negligent  in the handling  of her claim, as its 
still ongoing since 2017. But I do need to bear in mind that Mrs T was using her own 
contractor for works, and the first cash settlement was offered in 2017 and her 
contractor needed  to submit further invoices for works to be completed beyond  that 
original scope of works agreed. And the level of repairs has increased significantly 
since that time. Its not unusual for further  works to be identified during the repairs, as 
escape of water claims can mean some damage  is undetected until later stages.
But this has been  further complicated  by further losses,  which are being dealt with by 
a new insurer, which Chubb isnt responsible for. But there has been some  overlap 
with the repairs  from the original loss, and those which are the result of the new 
losses and lie with the new insurer.
Mrs T was unhappy with the first loss adjuster that was appointed, and that they 
didnt reach  agreement over certain things being claimed for. For example, replacing 
all the tiles rather than just a small portion of them. But Chubb did appoint a new 
adjuster to take over and move  things forward. And I think this was reasonable and 
did help to progress  the claim.
Whilst I can see that Mrs T has also been  unhappy with the second  loss adjuster, as 
Ive said, the claim has become complex, and involved many different parties. And 
whilst I appreciate Mrs T has been unhappy  with Chubb overall, claims of this 
complexity, with various parties involved, will likely always need  some negotiation 
especially where a policyholder is using  their own contractor and has asked for a 
cash settlement. So I agree that the claim has been  ongoing for a long period of time, 
Ref: DRN96371464but much  negotiation has been needed, which was inevitable in a claim of this 
complexity.
But Id invite  Mrs T to let me know in response to the provisional decision if there are 
specific points in the handling  of the claim that she remains unhappy with, which 
havent been resolved by the increased claim cash settlement when she made 
Chubb aware, and Ill take this into account when reaching my final decision.
Loss of rent since September 2019
One other point that I can see from the correspondence that Mrs T remains  unhappy 
with is loss of rent since September  2019. But I dont intend  to consider that as part 
of this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs T says that the tenant had to move  out to allow further repairs,  which stem  from 
Chubbs negligent handling of the claim.  It appears that she has tried to claim loss of 
rent from her current  insurer (who Im not considering  here).  But from some  of the 
correspondence this service has been copied into between Mrs T and that new 
insurer, it appears that they say Chubb are responsible for this.
But I cant see that this point specifically has been put to Chubb  by Mrs T or that 
Chubb have had an opportunity to consider it or give their response on those 
conclusions. And its likely that Chubb  would  need  further information from Mrs T 
about this, for example from the other  insurer, in order to give their position. So that 
isnt something I can consider here,  as Chubb  havent had the opportunity to 
consider it yet, and from what I can see havent been made aware of this.
Complaint points  what  Im asking for, and why
In response to the provisional decision, Im also asking Mrs T to respond outlining  
exactly what she remains unhappy with specifically, which remains outstanding or 
that she would like me to reach a decision on. And what she thinks Chubb need to do 
to put that right. As I say, its not for me to decide  what Mrs T remains unhappy with, 
only she can decide that.
Without this from Mrs T, I can only reach conclusions  based on what I think is still
outstanding and in dispute,  which Ive commented on above  (and below). But to be 
clear, this is from the date of the claim to the date of the most  recent  final response 
(12 March 2020)  so nothing past that point as thatll need to be directed to Chubb 
by Mrs T in the first instance.
So to confirm, Im asking Mrs T for the specific issues she remains  unhappy with or 
are outstanding, and what  she thinks Chubb should  do to put those right.
At the moment Im not intending to award compensation, but this might change  
depending on the responses to my provisional decision. And Ill take Mrs Ts 
response and points into account when  reaching my final decision and whether 
compensation is warranted. And Ill also decide  whether its a point for me to consider 
here, or whether in fact it hasnt yet been considered  by Chubb and Mrs T needs to 
raise this with them  when (or before) she lets them know  why she thinks the 
settlement isnt enough. Ill cover this point around the settlement below.
Ref: DRN96371465But I should also make  it clear that Chubb will still need to consider new issues 
presented by Mrs T, such as the loss of rent example  Ive referred  to above, 
alongside any further information  Mrs T presents  around why the settlement already 
paid isnt reasonable as separate new complaints. And if further disputes arise,  then 
Mrs T will need to bring them to this service  as a new separate  complaint(s).
The full and final offer from Chubb
Mrs T hasnt  been clear what she is unhappy  with specifically around the most recent
settlement offer for repairs,  other than that she doesnt agree the full and final 
settlement is enough, because  she says that Chubb has missed or misinterpreted 
costs and invoices  shes submitted.
From what  appears a straightforward escape  of water loss in 2017, its become 
complex.
The expenditure on the claim has gone  considerably beyond  the settlement that was
originally agreed to the current  position of around  £95,077.80, including the most 
recent settlement  offered  by Chubb.
But Chubb  has made its most recent  offer of £26,781.45  in full and final settlement  of 
the claim.  They have said that whilst  they understand that Mrs T would like the claim 
left open in order to present additional costs,  they arent willing  to do this, and the 
offer being  made is in full and final settlement.
Chubb have gone on to say that the quotes  that have been provided  havent  been 
clear, and despite asking for final costs, they havent  been  provided. So theyve 
made the offer in full and final settlement of the entire claim, and said they wont 
negotiate further. But I dont think that would be fair to Mrs T, Ill explain why.
The difficulty  I have here in saying whether that would  be a fair position for Chubb 
and Mrs T is that Mrs T says that some costs have been missed,  misinterpreted and 
more costs are still to come. But Chubb (and our service) hasnt yet been  presented 
with those costs by Mrs T, or an explanation  of why whats  being offered already isnt 
reasonable.
So that limits  what I can consider here or reach  a finding on. As neither party has yet
presented or considered those costs,  it wouldnt be reasonable for me to say that the
settlement offered is fair in full and final settlement. And it also wouldnt be fair to say 
Chubb didnt have to consider anything additional  if and when  its presented by 
Mrs T, if she explains why the settlement isnt enough  and evidences it.
If there are genuine costs  connected solely to the claim  that Chubb  are responsible  
for, and which are covered under the policy, then Chubb should  still need to pay 
those costs under the claim,  subject to any remaining policy terms. But as they arent 
known yet, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to say that Chubbs most recent 
position, that this offer would be full and final settlement, would be fair as the alleged 
repair costs are unknown  to Mrs T, Chubb,  as well as myself.
But I do recognise that its clear that what should have been a relatively 
straightforward loss and claim has become complex and protracted. And as Chubb 
Ref: DRN96371466has said to Mrs T, they have had issues with being  able to understand the quotes  
being provided. But I also have to take into account  that there have been further 
losses, being handled by another insurer (which Im not specifically commenting on), 
and this inevitably further complicates matters for Mrs T when presenting her costs, 
especially as the other  insurer  has mentioned it thinks Chubb is responsible for some 
of these.
I also do appreciate that the claim has also been  complex for Mrs T to manage,  as 
the property is located  abroad which will pose its own challenges when dealing with 
multiple parties, and orchestrating payments,  deliveries etc. And I do appreciate too 
that there  have been some very difficult personal circumstances for Mrs T, alongside 
this claim.
So the position we are now in is that Chubb has said that the offer is full and final 
settlement and they wont negotiate further.  But Mrs T says that its not enough  to put 
her property in pre-loss  position.  But at this stage Mrs T hasnt said what is, the 
reasons why, and what she thinks has been  missed, misinterpreted or not included.
And some of those  costs  may well be connected  to the other losses  since this claim,  
which Mrs T wont know until those claims have been  fully considered by the other  
insurer. So if Mrs T doesnt know at this stage, and Chubb hasnt considered those,  I 
equally cant  conclude whether the amount is enough and therefore a reasonable full 
and final settlement, or likewise, thats its not enough and should  be increased.
So Im not minded to say that Chubb offering this amount  in full and final settlement 
at this stage is fair. Rather, Im minded to conclude that Chubb should pay this 
amount as an interim payment to Mrs T, rather than in full and final settlement. I 
understand Chubb has already paid this so Mrs T can continue  with works in the 
interim.
If Mrs T is able to obtain further  information as to why that amount isnt reasonable, 
then she should  present  this to Chubb  for consideration. If there are further 
disagreements once  those costs are presented,  we could then look at these as part 
of a new, separate complaint.
So to be clear, my provisional decision on this point is whether Chubbs offer is fair 
as a full and final settlement of the claim,  which I dont think it is for the reasons 
explained.
So in response to my provisional decision, both parties need  to say whether  they 
agree with the payment  being interim, rather than full and final and Ill take into 
account the responses when reaching  my final decision. But my intention  isnt for 
Mrs T to explain here, or provide evidence  to demonstrate that, shell  need  to do that 
separately to Chubb, and we would consider that as a new,  separate complaint, if an 
agreement cant be reached.
So in my provisional decision,  I asked Mrs T to provide information as to what shes  unhappy 
with so I could  determine  whether its been raised and addressed  by Chubb. And therefore 
whether it was for me to consider as part of this complaint. I was also minded to conclude  
Ref: DRN96371467that Chubb should pay Mrs T the settlement offer of £26,781.35  as an interim payment,  
rather than in full and final settlement of the claim.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision.
The response from Chubb
Chubb responded to my provisional  decision setting out that they didnt agree that the 
settlement should  be interim. They  said that the offer theyve made totalling £26,781.35 
should be in full and final settlement as Mrs T has had an opportunity  to present her costs 
via her contractor a number of times.  But this hasnt  been clear  and has continued to be 
added to ad-hoc.
Chubb also referred to some previous  occasions  in the claim where  theyve paid above and 
beyond what they deemed reasonable in an attempt  to reach a settlement. They highlighted 
the overall claim costs  are considerably above what it should  originally have been. They  also 
said that if this payment  is interim, rather than full and final settlement, then Mrs T will 
continue to be able to present new information  for consideration,  and there have already 
been challenges understanding previous costs submitted and what  they are responsible  for.
On this basis, Chubb said they think this should be a full and final settlement payment. They  
say Mrs T has had enough opportunities to present the final information, and say she prefers 
to do this ad-hoc  at various stages. They also said they appointed a new loss adjuster to 
move things forward which resulted in increased settlements since. They  further added they 
dont see a reasonable final estimate to be forthcoming based on whats  happened  
previously.
They also said the policy doesnt provide loss of rent cover, and that Mrs T has been told this 
from the outset.
The response(s) from Mrs T
Mrs T sent a number of emails in response  to my provisional decision. She commented on:
some  events that happened during  the last three years, but also around the costs still 
to come and;
some  things which she says havent been included  in the previous settlements, but 
also that some things she is still yet to calculate (or provide to Chubb)
Mrs T also explained why she thinks loss of rent is due since  the tenant moved out in 2019 
and has provided  an email from her current insurer which  she says supports her view that 
Chubb has caused this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint points
Ref: DRN96371468It isnt the role of this service to handle the claim on behalf of either party.  Mrs T and various  
parties connected to the claim have copied  us into correspondence throughout. The claim 
and complaint have  evolved, and as its continually changing, this makes it difficult  to 
establish whats in dispute and therefore  hasnt moved on. 
Its clear what  Chubb has addressed in the final response(s). But it isnt clear, beyond  whats  
specifically been  addressed in these, what Mrs T remains unhappy with. Or what  she wants 
Chubb to do to put things  right.  She says theyve been negligent, but Chubb  has increased 
the settlement  as and when new information has been presented.  But because things have 
continually changed,  its not been entirely clear what  the complaint  points  are. 
I can only consider complaints which Chubb have had an opportunity to address in the first 
instance. So in response to my provisional decision, I asked Mrs T to say what  was still in 
dispute or she was unhappy with, and what she wanted Chubb to do to put things right.  
I said following this, Id then decide  whether the points have been raised and addressed by 
Chubb already.  And whether Id then include it in my final decision here. Or alternatively if 
Mrs T would need to raise  it/them with Chubb.  And I also said that Chubb would still need to 
address anything it hasnt addressed as a complaint, which  Mrs T remains unhappy with.
Despite asking Mrs T for this information and specifics in response to my provisional 
decision, this still hasnt clearly been provided.  Mrs T has mentioned some of the 
background as to what happened, and she thinks theyve  been negligent, but this is very 
much linked to the settlement which she doesnt  think is enough and why. And this is 
interlinked with her current insurer declining parts of her new claims. But thats not yet been 
submitted to Chubb  for consideration or addressed by them as a complaint. 
The original  final responses were in September 2017, and this addressed  multiple things at 
the time,  based  on the information  then. This included the scope of repairs and claim 
handling at the time,  but this has moved  on considerably since.  In that final response, Chubb 
apologised for the slight  delay of around three to four weeks, and also gave a timeline  of 
what happened. 
With any claim there will be disruption  and inconvenience. There  was negotiation needed 
over the original scope  of works, along  with interim payments being  made.  And its not 
unusual to discover further work  needed once works  start. Chubb  ultimately  provided  £400 
compensation in September 2017 for the overall  disruption and handling, and I think that 
was reasonable  based  on what had happened at that time. 
The most recent final response in 2020 only touched on the background briefly  as a 
reference, but the focus in that response was a full and final settlement offer rather than 
addressing any other complaint points. 
So only limited complaint points have clearly  been raised with Chubb and addressed as a 
complaint since 2017  including  the 2020  complaint. And with the complexity of an evolving 
claim, its difficult to establish  what specifically remains  in dispute, without Mrs T clearly  
identifying this to Chubb to address in the first instance.
This service cant advise Mrs T what to complain about. My role is to look at things from an 
impartial independent point of view. So this limits  what I can determine, as Mrs T hasnt 
Ref: DRN96371469made this clear. And in the absence of clear points,  Chubb has been unable  to address 
them.
As much has happened since 2017, and the complaints and claim have moved  and become 
unclear, if Mrs T remains unhappy with any specific complaints points that werent 
addressed in the 2017 (early claim handling), 2018 (renewal) and 2020 (offering a full and 
final settlement payment) final responses, then she should submit these to Chubb. 
Itll then be clear for both parties what the remaining  or historic specific issues  are, the 
reasons why Mrs T is unhappy,  and what she wants Chubb to do to put those right. Chubb 
will then have the opportunity to clearly address these  points.  If Mrs T remains unhappy after 
this, we may be able to look at this as a new separate complaint, with all parties clear on 
what points remain in dispute, and what now needs to be decided.
Loss of rent 
I said in my provisional decision that I can see specifically  that Mrs T remains unhappy with 
loss of rent since 2019 when her tenant  moved  out. But Im not commenting on this here for 
the reasons outlined in my provisional  decision.
Chubb has said loss of rent isnt covered under the terms. I agree that this is the case,  and 
Im not saying Chubb should pay this in the early stages of the claim up to the final response  
in September  2017, as its not covered.  And Chubb gave compensation in their final 
response for the handling at the time. And as Ive said above, I think that was reasonable.
But to clarify  for Chubb, Mrs T isnt trying  to claim for loss of rent since 2019 under her 
policy. Rather she is saying that the tenant  had to move out in 2019 because  of Chubbs 
negligence in the earlier handling  of the claim. And I cant see that Chubb has considered 
this or addressed  this complaint point yet. I said in my provisional decision, its possible that 
Chubb would need further information  from Mrs T consider this, such  as information from the 
other insurer.
But either way, as I cant see that this point specifically has been  put to Chubb by Mrs T or 
addressed by them, its not something  which I can consider here.  So if Mrs T wishes  to 
pursue this complaint point for loss of rent since 2019, then shell  need to raise it with Chubb  
in the first instance  (along  with anything else shes unhappy with as outlined above). And if 
Mrs T ultimately remains unhappy, we may be able to look at this as a separate new 
complaint(s). 
The full and final offer from Chubb
As I commented on in my provisional  decision,  from what appears a relatively  
straightforward escape of water loss in 2017, its evolved due to ongoing issues  and a large 
volume of correspondence between the parties. And the claim settlements have gone far 
beyond the original settlement in 2017.  Chubb made its most recent settlement offer totalling 
£26,781.45 in full and final settlement  of the claim. 
In response to the provisional decision Chubb  said they think  that Mrs T has had enough  
opportunity to submit  final costings  but hasnt done  so. And they also say this settlement is 
Ref: DRN963714610partly made up of increased amounts above  what they thought  was reasonable in order  to 
try to reach settlement, and thats  why they say this should be full and final settlement.
I acknowledge Chubbs opinions on this, but Im still of the view that this should be an interim  
payment, rather than full and final settlement.  The reasons were outlined  in my provisional 
decision, but Ill further comment  on them below.
As I said,  Mrs T says Chubb  has misinterpreted  and missed some costs. She also says 
further quotes need to be obtained and sent to Chubb, but she hasnt yet been able to do 
this. And Mrs T also says her current insurer says some of the costs she claimed from them 
are Chubbs  responsibility, but is yet to submit this to Chubb. 
So, as neither party has established these  costs yet, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me 
to say that the settlement  already offered was fair in full and final settlement. And it wouldnt 
be reasonable to say Chubb doesnt have  to consider anything  additional  if and when its 
presented by Mrs T - if its something  that should  be covered.
So I dont  think Chubbs position  that this is the full and final settlement is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, so it should  pay this as an interim  payment.
If Mrs T is able to obtain further  information as to why this amount isnt reasonable, then she 
should submit this to Chubb for consideration first. This is because this service isnt able to 
act as a claims handler, so Chubb need to be able to consider these costs  in the first 
instance under Mrs Ts policy and claim.  If after this Mrs T remains  unhappy with Chubbs 
position on the costs shes submitted, we may be able to consider that as a new separate 
complaint(s)  along with the complaint points next steps as outlined  above.
my final decision
Its my final decision that Chubb  European Group  SE should pay the settlement offered 
totalling £26,781.35 as an interim  payment, rather than in full and final settlement  of the 
claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2021.
Callum Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9637146