K821x#15Complaint
Company G complains that Santander  UK Plc didnt  pay a standing order from their current 
account when  they should have done,  leading  to reputational loss with their accountant.
Background
In May 2017  a standing order for £68.50 wasnt paid to Company Gs accountants. 
Company G have told us it was their accountant  who told them they hadnt paid the standing 
order when the company  accounts were being completed. Company G have said the missed 
payment was added  to the final years accounts by the accountant. And the lack of a credible 
response from Santander meant they couldnt  explain  to their accountant what  had 
happened. Company G have told us they first complained in July 2018.  
In August  2018  Santander replied to the complaint. They said security restrictions were  
placed on Company Gs account several days before  the standing  order  was due to be paid. 
They said this was due to concerns around  the security of the account. Santander go on to 
explain they appreciate the consequences  of this decision  but they have an obligation to 
protect their customer and themselves. So while its unfortunate,  this was in line with their 
procedures. Santander  added Company G could keep this letter  to show non-payment of 
this standing order was due to the restrictions they placed  and it shouldnt  have any impact  
on Company Gs good reputation.
Company G wasnt happy with this, so asked us to look into their complaint. One of our case  
handlers did so, and in summary  said Santander didnt do anything  wrong  by applying the 
block, and were allowed  not to tell them. He also said because  of the time thats passed its 
not possible to gather all the evidence and work out exactly what happened.  And he said he 
felt Santanders  letter clearly explained Company G wasnt  at fault  so Santander had done 
enough to put this right. But he also said Santander  should say sorry, as several  days after 
the transaction Company  G called  Santander to make a phone transfer, and werent told 
about the blocked standing order.
Company G didnt agree with these findings,  so the complaint has been  passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Company G have told us theyve been given conflicting information about  when the block  
was placed. Theyve  also said phone calls took place  around the time of the transactions,  
but they were  told no fraud was present on their account.
But because of the time thats passed Santander dont have the records wed need to fully 
work out why the block was placed, or what was said on phone  calls. This doesnt  seem 
unreasonable to me, as not all records are kept for a significant  period of time.
When there isnt enough  evidence  to be certain  of events  I need to decide the outcome 
based on what I think more likely  than not happened.
Ref: DRN90402892The current  explanation is that a block was placed  on the account, and then when Company 
G called up around  a week later  and passed  security  this block was removed.
No clear alternative has been  put forward to this. And looking at all the information given to 
me by both Company G and Santander it seems more likely than not to me this is what  
happened.
Company G have raised a number of arguments  about why they dont agree Santander were 
allowed to block a payment, and not tell them at the time.
I can see why Company G would be frustrated by this  but looking at the terms and 
conditions Santander  are allowed to place a block on the account if they think  its 
appropriate. And theyre not required to tell Company G theyd stopped  a payment  if that 
payment was stopped for security reasons.
But I do think when Company G called up around a week later  and passed security  its 
something Santander should  have  told them theyd done. Not doing so prevented 
Company G the opportunity to make  the payment and avoid any potential  reputational 
damage. Santander couldnt have known what impact this might  have, but could reasonably 
foresee it might have  some impact. For this I think Santander should write a letter  of apology 
to Company G.
I can see that Company  G have  argued this payment  not being made to their account has 
caused reputational damage.  But when Santander investigated the complaint  in August 
2018 their letter explained it wasnt Company Gs fault. This was only a month  after the 
complaint had been first raised. Santander  didnt unreasonably delay  a response to 
Company Gs complaint   as theyre  allowed eight weeks to investigate  matters. So I think  
this was sufficient  to repair any damage  that may have been caused  between Company G 
and their accountant.
I note Company G have  referred to payments being made inside the time period when the 
account was blocked. Ive looked  at the information on file  and only one payment  was sent 
out, which wasnt covered  under the terms of the block.
Company G have also referred to the Banking  Code and expressed  their frustration that 
Santander can just block payments without telling them. Company G havent pointed me to 
anything that makes me think Santander have acted  unfairly   so for the reasons Ive 
mentioned above  I dont  make any award  against  Santander for blocking the account   and 
not telling  Company G. But I think  Santander  could have done  more around a week later.
Ref: DRN90402893My final decision
It follows I partially uphold  this complaint, and order Santander to write a letter of apology  to 
Company G. This is because Santander  should  have  told Company G a payment hadnt 
been sent out when  they spoke  on the phone around a week later.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Company G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 December  2019.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9040289