K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Sarasin Investment Funds Limited failed to clearly  state  its anti-
money laundering requirements and then repeatedly  failed to respond promptly to their 
queries and redemption request. These failures resulted in considerable delay, unnecessary 
phone calls and correspondence, and a large, unnecessary legal bill.
background
Sarasin rejected the complaint. 
It said it had initially written requesting  updated  identification documentation  in 2015 but did 
not get a reply till 27 July 2017.  It responded within five working days, on 3 August, setting  
out the various anti-money laundering requirements  and these  were  not met till 29 
September at which point  the redemption request was processed.  It outlined  its view of the 
intervening timeline  which it said showed  it had responded appropriately, and spelt out what  
was still needed  to meet its requirements.  
Mr and Mrs C and their solicitor replied,  saying:
The solicitor wrote to Sarasin on 3 July 2017 and did not receive a substantive 
response till 20 July
She returned most of the newly-certified  documentation on 25 July, and this included  
all the required forms and signatures
On 29 August Sarasin  said, in a phone call to their solicitor,  that it needed an original 
proof of address  document  but its 20 July letter,  setting  out its requirements,  did not 
state this. It also said documents needed  to be less than three months old but they 
would have been if it had responded quicker
 While  it had previously corresponded with their solicitor it now said it couldnt do so
It wasnt until 12 September (12 days after its previous  letter)  that it said it needed 
details of any children  or spouses of the settler along with a certified  copy of the 
authorised signatory  list for CDV trustees  
Sarasin said a deal would be placed  and a form automatically generated and sent to 
the principal holder  for signature. It did not say that it would also need two signatures 
from the CDV trustees   this only became apparent  on 21 September after she 
contacted it again
If correspondence had been  dealt with expeditiously  and it had been  clear from the 
outset the precise money-laundering requirements, then the redemption would have 
been completed earlier
This lack of clarity  resulted in a legal bill of more  than £700 plus VAT and an 
inordinate number of phone  calls and correspondence
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel the complaint should be upheld for these reasons:
Ref: DRN90746452While  Mr and Mrs C fulfilled Sarasins money laundering requirements back  in 2015 
but other documentation was required
It wrote to Mr and Mrs Cs solicitors  on 5 October 2015 to explain that other 
documentation remained  outstanding. While the complainants representative said 
this wasnt received, Sarasin had a copy of the correctly-addressed  letter  so he 
couldnt fairly conclude it hadnt sent one
The bank  statement submitted in July 2017  was out of date and Sarasin reiterated 
what it needed in response to the accompanying letter
While  Mr and Mrs C incurred solicitors costs in seeking to resolve matters, he was 
not persuaded that Sarasin had done  anything wrong so couldnt reasonably be 
asked to pay towards these
Mr and Mrs Cs representative did not agree,  and said:
Even if Sarasin are not wholly responsible,  they should accept some responsibility for 
the inordinate  delays
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I am satisfied  that Sarasin spelt out, back in 2015, that there were outstanding  
identification requirements relating to this trust/investment, albeit these involved a third party.  
Even if Mr and Mrs Cs solicitor was not sent, or didnt receive, this letter, I am still satisfied 
Sarasin communicated  the information  to the crucial parties.
The fact that Sarasin received no response  till July 2017 is, in my view,  a major reason why 
the process could  not be completed as quickly as Mr and Mrs C wanted.
I say this because  anti-money laundering and other data requirements have become quite 
specific and often place  an onerous burden on those needing  to provide documentation, 
particularly when this involves third parties and trustees. So, generally-speaking, it is not 
surprising if misunderstandings arise about what a particular  business believes it needs to 
meet its legal requirements,  and delays are not uncommon.
That said,  if the delays  are clearly the fault of the business this service would uphold a 
complaint. But in this case  I dont believe, firstly, that Sarasins  responses  were 
unreasonably delayed. I dont believe it was required to respond to each request within  a 
couple of days  as Mr and Mrs Cs solicitor seems to argue. There  were  small delays  by all 
parties but nothing  which  I feel was manifestly unprofessional.
I also dont feel that it failed to explain what it needed in order  to process the redemption. Its 
original checklist may not have specified  that a photocopy of a document  would  not meet the 
residential address  requirement but it did state  that copies printed from the internet would be 
acceptable and referred to Documents  we accept as Evidence  of Address  not copies of 
documents. So if there was any confusion I dont feel Sarasin was to blame for this. I also 
dont agree that it should have acted  more quickly or if it had done so the three month  
deadline would have been met.
Ref: DRN90746453I have considered Mr and Mrs Cs other  points  and I accept that Sarasin couldve been more 
explicit about several issues but in order to uphold this complaint I need to conclude  it clearly 
did something wrong  not merely that it might, in ideal world,  have  done  things differently. I 
do not believe there is sufficient evidence to reach  such a conclusion.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9074645