K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited handled the recovery  of his vehicle 
when he made a claim under his roadside assistance policy.
background
Mr W has a roadside  assistance policy through a vehicle recovery  organisation. This policy  
is underwritten by Ageas and so it is ultimately responsible  for this complaint. References I 
make to the actions of Ageas also refer to the actions  of the vehicle recovery organisation.
Mr W and his family were going  on holiday in their car. It broke  down and Mr W contacted 
Ageas. It arranged for an engineer to attend  the scene to fix the problem. He checked  the 
car and said it was safe to drive and Mr W could carry  on with his journey.
A little later the car broke down again.  So Mr W called Ageas back and it arranged to send  
out a second engineer. But there was some confusion over Mr Ws location and this caused  
a delay in this engineer attending  the scene. The engineer and Ageas attempted to contact 
Mr W but there was no response. The engineer ended  up leaving the scene when Mr W took 
some time to call back.
When the engineer  didnt  turn up, Mr W contacted Ageas again and the confusion over his 
location was cleared up. So a further engineer was requested and he took approximately two 
hours to arrive at the scene.
This engineer diagnosed the problem and ordered a taxi to take Mr W on his onward journey 
to his destination. There were some  problems with the taxi not having an appropriate  child 
seat but these  were  resolved on the scene. 
Mr W complained  to Ageas and it said it accepted  it had caused delays to Mr W receiving 
assistance. But Mr W wasnt happy with its response and brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator said, in summary,  he thought Ageas should pay Mr W £150 for the impact of the 
problems it caused.  Ageas  disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman  to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts  of this case arent in dispute  and, as theyve  been provided in some  detail in our 
investigators view, I dont intend to go over them again. Instead Ill only comment  on those  
things I consider relevant to the decision I need  to make here.
Ageas accepts that it let Mr W down  but says it did what  it could to resolve  the situation. In 
doing so, it says it offered Mr W some  things that it wasnt  required to under the policy terms 
and conditions. And it thinks this was enough to recognise the impact  of its failings. In short, 
it doesnt think the £150 recommended  by our investigator was justified.
Mr W says that while  he accepts the £150,  he doesnt think this fairly reflects the impact  on 
his family.
Ref: DRN99468052So what  I need to do here is decide on a fair and reasonable amount for Ageas to pay Mr W 
to recognise the impact  of its failings on him.
the impact of Ageass failings
Ive taken into account what Mr Ws said about  the people he was travelling  with  his wife 
and their two children,  one of whom was a baby and the other  a teenager  with a 
developmental disability. 
I cant consider the impact  of the delays and problems on Mr Ws family as he is the sole 
policy holder. However, I will take into account  how Ageas failings are likely  to have 
impacted the distress  he experienced   including that caused by his concerns for his family  
in this situation.   
Im mindful that attempting  any long journey with a very young child already presents some 
challenges and when this journeys impacted by a car breaking down it follows  that this 
makes things all the more difficult. However, it wasnt Ageass  fault that the car broke down. 
But it is responsible  for some of the delays  Mr W experienced in attempting to get the car 
fixed and the family  to its destination.
Ive borne in mind that Ageas could have correctly diagnosed the problem with the car when 
the first engineer  inspected it. But Mr W was given the all clear  to carry on the journey  only 
for the car to fail again just a few hours  later.
Mr W then found himself  and his family stuck in a layby in an area of road he considered to 
be dangerous for several hours without food or water. And this was because Ageas  
mistakenly sent its engineer to the wrong place. I accept  that Ageas did make attempts to 
speak to Mr W to locate  him but these were unsuccessful. But it doesnt take away  from 
Ageass error and its impact.
And having eventually been  picked up by an engineer Mr W and his family were  delivered to 
a fast food restaurant  where they had to wait until 11.30pm.
I understand why all this would  have  been stressful for Mr W particularly bearing in mind  
what Ive said about his travelling companions.
Mr W says the whole situation has caused  him great stress and consequent health  issues. 
But he hasnt presented any medical evidence  to back this claim up. And so Im not satisfied 
I can safely conclude that Ageas  is directly responsible for these health  issues. 
what Ageas  did to help
I acknowledge that Ageas did take steps  to help and to put things right that it wasnt  obliged  
to do. It offered to recover Mr Ws vehicle  for a third time as a gesture of goodwill when the 
local garage wasnt able to repair it. And I acknowledge  that its assistance  should have 
ended once the vehicle was delivered  to the local garage that Ageas recovered it to after the 
original breakdown. But as Ageas had already committed to provide Mr W with recovery to 
his home  address and this was honoured under the breakdown policy.  I have borne this in 
mind when reaching my decision.
Ref: DRN99468053Ive considered this all at some length  and, bearing  in mind everything  Ive said above,  Ive 
decided that the £150 recommended by our investigator is a fair amount for Ageas  to pay 
Mr W in recognition of the impact  its failings had on him. I realise Mr W doesnt think this is 
enough and Ageas thinks its too much but overall Im satisfied  its fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances.
Mr W made reference to the Sale of Goods acts in his submissions. This act was replaced  
by the Consumer Rights Act 2015. But this case relates to an insurance claim so Im not 
persuaded these  acts apply to the service Mr W received. In this decision, Im looking at 
whether Ageas has fulfilled its obligations  under the insurance contract and for the reasons 
Ive explained  I dont think it has. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  Ageas Insurance  Limited to pay 
Mr W £150 in recognition of the impact of its failings  on him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9946805