K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that Sainsburys  Bank  Plc debited his account with a series of card 
payments totalling  around £7,000 which he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.  
background 
Mr G has a credit card with Sainsburys Bank  Plc (Sainsburys).  He had set up a direct debit 
to make minimum payments  each month  from a third-party current account to pay towards 
his credit card balance. 
In May 2016  Mr Gs account  balance was around  £1,500. The card then wasnt  used  from 
June 2016 to January 2017. Each month between January 2017 and July 2017  there  were  
purchases on Mr Gs credit card. He says that none of these transactions were authorised by 
him. Mr G said that his card had been cloned. 
In mid-2017 Mr G cancelled his minimum payment direct debit. Around four months later,  as 
no monthly payments  had been  received, Sainsburys  applied a default  on his credit file. 
Mr G complained to Sainsburys and said that he hadnt used  the card since  2011 and 
wanted a full refund for all transactions since then. Mr G said that he had never  received 
statements from Sainsburys and wasnt aware of his balance. 
Sainsburys looked into Mr Gs complaint and said they didnt believe that any fraud had 
been undertaken. Sainsburys  said that there had been occasional  manual payments made 
to cover the spending,  and it was unlikely a fraudster  would do this. Sainsburys also said 
that the transactions didnt follow usual  fraudster behaviour of attempting  to empty  the 
account as quickly  as possible, rather than making a small number of transactions  over a 
longer period. 
Sainsburys said that Mr G was responsible for the transactions  and therefore liable to pay 
the entire outstanding balance of around  £7,000. 
Mr G didnt accept Sainsburys response, so he brought  a complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Gs complaint. Mr G confirmed to them that he had 
been using the card up to and including May 2016. However, Mr G said that some  
transactions in May 2016 werent authorised by him. 
In summary  our investigator said that it was more likely than not that all the transactions  from 
January 2017  were  fraudulent and hadnt  been  authorised by Mr G because  they were  out of 
character and all were  made online or via telephone. She also said that it was more likely 
than not that Mr G had authorised all the transactions up to and including  May 2016 as Mr G 
was in possession  of the card and agreed  that he had made most of the payments. And the 
transactions were  in line with Mr Gs normal pattern  of spending.  The Investigator thought 
that Mr G had forgotten that he had made some of the transactions on or before May 2016.  
Ref: DRN96904972Sainsburys on review agreed with our Investigator, that the transactions  from January 2017  
looked out of character.  So, they agreed to amend Mr Gs credit card account  and refund 
those transactions.  After  refunding all transactions from January 2017 onwards  including  
all interest and charges  on these  transactions - and taking into consideration Mr Gs 
minimum payments  Sainsburys said a balance of £999.65 remained outstanding, which 
Mr G would be liable to settle. Sainsburys also offered to pay Mr G £200 compensation for 
his material distress and inconvenience.  And offered to remove any adverse information on 
Mr Gs credit file from January 2017.  
Our Investigator  said that Sainsburys offer was fair and reasonable. She said that Mr G 
would now need  to start making repayments to Sainsburys  for the outstanding £999.65.   
Mr G said that he didnt  owe Sainsburys anything  and didnt accept their offer. As Mr G 
didnt accept the offer, the matter  was passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As part of this Im required to take into 
account relevant:  law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;  codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. And where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  on what  
I consider is most likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator previously set out for much  the same reasons. Therefore, I partially uphold      
Mr Gs complaint. 
Generally, Sainsburys  can hold Mr G liable for the disputed  transactions  if the evidence 
suggests that its more  likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.  
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Gs genuine card and PIN were used 
to make some of the transactions up to and including May 2016. But the regulations relevant 
to this case say that this is not, on its own, enough to enable Sainsburys to hold him liable.  
So, I also need to think about whether the evidence  suggests that its more likely than not 
that Mr G consented to the payments  being  made.  
all transactions  up to an including May 2016
Having carefully considered everything  that both sides have  said and provided, I think it was 
more likely than not that Mr G did authorise all the transactions  up to an including  May 2016. 
This is because: 
Mr G agrees that the vast majority of these were  authorised by him. 
The transactions dont  fit the normal pattern we would expect to see if a fraudster was 
using the card.  For example, there are no attempts to use all the available credit on the 
card quickly. 
There was no spending on the card whatsoever  from June 2016  until January 2017. It 
would be unlikely  for a fraudster  to stop using the card for a number of months  as there  
would be a risk that their transactions would be noticed, and the card would be 
cancelled. Preventing  any further  use by the fraudster. 
Ref: DRN96904973A chip and PIN transaction  was carried out in May 2016. So, its likely that this was 
carried out by Mr G. Mr G says that he thinks his card was cloned and that someone 
used a cloned card. However,  we havent seen any examples to date where a chip on a 
card has been cloned,  so this doesnt change my mind. Mr G said that he didnt lose the 
card or give anyone else permission to use it. Mr G said that he cut the card up 
sometime around May 2016,  so we know that the card remained in his possession until 
he destroyed the card.
Mr G initially disputed a number  of other  transactions - up to an including  May 2016- and 
later recalled  that they were authorised by him. So, I think its possible that Mr G has 
forgotten that he authorised some  of these transactions.  These transactions are also in 
line with Mr Gs spending.  
As I think  its more likely than not that Mr G did authorise the transactions up to and including 
May 2016, its fair for Sainsbury to hold him liable for them.
transactions made on or after January 2017
Mr G said that he didnt  authorise any of the payments made on or after January 2017. 
Sainsburys accept that Mr G didnt  authorise  these payments  and I agree that its more 
likely than not that Mr G didnt make these  transactions. I say this because: 
All the transactions  are card not present transactions,  so they were phone  or online 
transactions. 
The transactions are not in line with Mr Gs previous  card use.
The entire  available  credit was used  in around  seven months, which  is not in line 
with Mr Gs previous account management.  
Sainsburys have already returned  Mr Gs account to the position  it would  have been  in had 
all transactions  from January 2017 not taken place  including refunding associated interest 
and charges  which is what  I wouldve recommended. But Sainsbury says this leaves  an 
outstanding balance of £999.65  which Mr G is liable for. 
One of the reasons Mr G says he isnt liable  for the balance is because he never received 
statements from Sainsburys and doesnt  accept that any balance  was owing. I accept that 
Mr G didnt receive statements as the address shown on Mr Gs account  statements is 
incorrect. However, Mr G says that he has been receiving statements for his third-party  
current account which do display Mr Gs minimum payments  to Sainsburys.
So, Mr G knew  that there  were minimum payments going from his current  account to 
Sainsburys. Therefore,  I think it would  have been reasonable to expect Mr G to have made an 
enquiry with Sainsburys to confirm his address and ensure that he received his statements. 
Especially as Mr G doesnt use online banking. And as Ive previously  explained I think  that 
Mr G authorised the transactions made on the account up to including  May 2016, which is what  
makes up the balance owed including interest and charges on those transactions.
I note that Sainsbury  applied  a default to Mr Gs credit file. From  what  Ive seen around mid-
2017 Mr G cancelled his minimum  payment direct debit to Sainsburys,  and it was around 
four months later that Sainsburys  applied the default. I think  Sainsburys actions were  
reasonable here as Mr G was still liable for part of the balance on the account  at that time 
and was required under  the terms of the account  to continue making minimum payments. 
Ref: DRN96904974Sainsburys have accepted that they couldve provided a better  level of customer service to 
Mr G with regards to investigating the disputed  transactions from January 2017 sooner, and 
have offered to pay Mr G £200  compensation for this. And they have offered to remove any 
adverse information  on Mr Gs credit file from January 2017.  I feel this is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
For the reasons  Ive already explained I think its most likely that Mr G made the transactions 
that make  up this balance  of £999.65,  therefore  its fair for Sainsbury to hold Mr G liable for 
it. I would suggest  that Mr G talk to Sainsburys to arrange a payment plan.
my decision  
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I partially uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
I require Sainsburys Bank Plc to: 
pay Mr G £200 for his material distress  and inconvenience if they havent already 
done so.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.  
Anthony Coyne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9690497