K822xcomplaint
Mrs N complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) turned down her loan 
application, having previously advised her it would be approved. Shes  upset about the poor 
service she received and would like to be compensated for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
background 
In January 2018 Mrs N visited a branch  of RBS and applied for a loan to cover some  legal 
fees relating to a probate issue. The bank advisor  wrongly informed her that her loan 
application should be approved but it wasnt and Mrs N said this has caused  her significant 
distress. She also complains that the bank advisor  insisted  she opened a savings account 
with RBS before she had the loan approved and she thinks he shouldnt have done that.
She complained to RBS and they accepted  that the bank advisor  shouldnt  have suggested  
the loan would be approved. They didnt think the advisor had done anything  wrong  when 
suggesting that Mrs N needed to open  a savings account as they said she had expressed a 
desire to have the funds paid into a different account  from her current  one. 
Mrs N was dissatisfied with their response and she referred her complaint to this service.  
Our investigator acknowledged  that the bank had been wrong to suggest  the loan would be 
approved when it wasnt and she noted  Mrs N had been kept waiting when she later called 
them. She explained she couldnt interfere  with the banks lending decision as it was for 
them to apply their judgement  to commercial decisions. Overall, she suggested  the bank pay 
Mrs N £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience  shed  experienced. The bank 
accepted this settlement.
But Mrs N didnt. She said that, given the errors  in customer care,  the length of time it had 
taken to get to a resolution and the huge distress  shed experienced, £100 was 
unacceptable. So she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this has been a distressing  incident thats  occurred at what must have 
been an upsetting time for Mrs N but having  reviewed the case, I think the resolution the 
investigator suggested is sufficient in the circumstances. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered everything Mrs N and RBS have sent and told us, but Ill 
concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific  
point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about   it but because  I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Before agreeing to provide a loan a business should check that the loan is affordable. The 
type of checks which  a business should carry out should be proportionate, so (for instance) a 
Ref: DRN93609872mortgage lender  will ask for bank statements and payslips, but a catalogue  offering a low 
credit limit doesnt have  to go into so much detail. 
Here the loan was unsecured and reasonably large, so it needed  to go to a separate  
department to be approved. That department  explained it didnt feel the loan was serviceable  
on a monthly basis and the bank explained  to Mrs N why they thought  that was the case. 
RBS is able to make  its own lending decisions and its not for this service to interfere with its 
commercial judgement. So it wouldnt be fair for me to suggest the bank took a different 
view.
But its clear that the banks representatives at the branch did misdirect Mrs N. They 
suggested that her loan was likely  to be approved and as it hasnt been, its clear this was 
the wrong advice.  I can see the loan is extremely important to her, but RBS was entitled to 
decline the application and it considered the application correctly. So it wouldnt be fair for 
me to tell RBS to pay compensation for not approving the loan. But what  I think is fair here is 
for RBS to compensate Mrs N for the impact the misleading information  had on her.
I can also see that Mrs N has been  kept waiting when shes  made  calls to the bank but I 
dont think they were wrong to set up a new account  for her to transfer the funds to. It 
appears this Mrs N didnt want to have the funds transferred to her current  account, a new 
account would be required  and there  was no cost to Mrs N in doing so. 
Overall, and having taken all of this into account, I think  RBSs offer of £100 to compensate 
Mrs N is sufficient in the circumstances and I wont be asking them to take any further action 
than this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell The Royal Bank  of Scotland 
Plc to pay Mrs N £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience  their actions have 
caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9360987