K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays)  mis-sold  him fee-paying  
Additions and Additions Plus packaged  bank accounts.
Specifically, Mr B has complained that Barclays  told him that hed have  to upgrade  to get a 
bigger overdraft.
background
Mr Bs account history is as follows:
Opened as a fee-free  account in 1992
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions account  around 1996
Upgraded to an Additions  Plus account  February 2008
Additions Plus withdrawn and all account  holders changed to a Tech and Travel Pack 
in January 2017
Barclays said that our service couldnt  consider  the complaint as Mr B had complained  too 
late. An adjudicator eventually concluded that, our service could consider the complaint on 
the basis that Mr Bs specific  complaint was that he was told to get the accounts to get a 
larger overdraft. And Barclays agreed that we could look at this specific concern of Mr B on 
that basis.
An adjudicator went on to assess whether the accounts had been mis-sold and they didnt 
think that they had. Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
As our service  is only able to consider Mr Bs complaint because it is specifically that the 
packaged accounts were mis-sold to obtain an increased overdraft, I wont be addressing  
the other points previously raised by Mr B in this decision as if these were reasons  as to why 
Mr B thought  his accounts were mis-sold it is likely that we could not consider  his complaint 
at all.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
And Ive used this approach to help me decide  Mr Bs complaint.  Having  done  so I dont 
think the packaged accounts  were  mis-sold.
Additions account
Mr B has complained that Barclays led him to believe that hed have to have a packaged 
account to increase his overdraft facility. Unfortunately because of how long ago the 
Additions account was sold,  Barclays has no information about Mr Bs overdraft limit. 
Therefore, I dont know whether the overdraft  limit did increase  when  the account was sold 
to Mr B. 
Ref: DRN94404182Where there is a lack of evidence and matters are in dispute,  as they are here, I have to 
decide matters  on a balance of probabilities. In other words, I have to decide what  I think 
was most likely to have happened, based on everything  that has been said and any 
information that can be provided.
At the time,  the account cost £5 per month and in return  provided a guaranteed  overdraft 
facility (although its now not clear how much that wouldve been) with the first £100 of the 
overdraft being  interest  free. It also provided other  benefits such  as purchase protection,  
cardholder protection and life insurance  cover. And if Mr B chose to keep his account as a 
fee-free account,  it wouldve charged  him £5 per month to use an overdraft,  plus interest on 
any overdrawn balance.
Its clear,  based on what Mr B has said, that having  an overdraft was important to him. So I 
think its more likely  that Mr B agreed to the Additions account because  it guaranteed an 
overdraft limit, didnt charge interest  on the first £100 and more importantly, didnt cost any 
more than the £5 monthly overdraft charge that wouldve applied to his account had it 
remained as a fee-free  account. So given all of this I dont think Barclays  mis-sold the 
Additions account to Mr B.
I appreciate that the account  benefits  changed  overtime and the fee gradually increased.  But 
this doesnt mean that Barclays was wrong  to have sold it to him at the time.
Additions Plus
Mr B maintains that he was sold the Additions Plus account to increase his overdraft facility.  
However, I think it would  be unlikely that Mr B was given the same (wrong)  information about 
the Additions Active account as he says he was given for the Additions account - given that 
there was around  10 - 12 year gap between the two sales.  
Barclays hasnt been able to provide the information about Mr Bs overdraft limit at the time. 
But as Im looking at an event that took place over 11 years ago, I dont think thats 
particularly surprising. Nevertheless, Barclays has been able to provide bank statements 
from the time. And looking  at them, I can see that Mr Bs account remained in a credit 
balance in the months before and after the upgrade took place. Given this I think  its unlikely 
that Mr B agreed to the upgrade to increase his overdraft facility,  when  it doesnt  look like he 
had a pressing  need for any overdraft  at the time let alone an increased one.
At the time the Additions Plus cost £14.50  per month (£3 per month more than the Additions 
did) with the main  difference being  that it also provided worldwide travel insurance, 
alongside the benefits that were already on the Additions account   which at the time were 
mobile phone insurance,  home emergency  cover, breakdown  cover  and a £250 interest free 
overdraft facility, amongst  other benefits.
Looking at Mr Bs statements, I can see that he was regularly travelling both before and after 
the time of the upgrade. Therefore, I think its more  likely that he agreed to the Additions 
Plus account  for benefits it provided  such as the travel  insurance benefit, rather than 
because he thought he had no choice but to upgrade from one packaged account to a more 
expensive one to increase  his overdraft facility.
I appreciate that, with the benefit  of hindsight, Mr B may now think the packaged accounts 
were poor value for money. However,  that doesnt  mean that Barclays  was wrong or acting 
unfairly in selling them to him. 
Ref: DRN94404183So given everything, Im not persuaded that the packaged accounts were mis-sold for the 
reason that Mr B has said. I therefore dont think it would be appropriate  to require Barclays  
to refund the account fees that Mr B has paid for the packaged accounts.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9440418