K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained about the administration of his motor insurance  policy  by 
Aviva Insurance Limited.
background
In June 2017, Mr K applied online  for a motor  insurance policy  with Aviva.  He told Aviva  he 
had 14 years no claims discount (NCD). Aviva agreed to provide cover for an annual  
premium of £566, subject  to Mr K providing  satisfactory proof of his NCD entitlement.
Mr K was unable to provide proof which  satisfied  Aviva. It therefore wrote to him to explain it 
was reducing his NCD to zero years and he needed to pay an additional  premium  of £284. 
Aviva didnt receive any response  to this request. It therefore cancelled the policy  and 
returned the balance of the premium to Mr K.
Mr K then got in touch  with Aviva to explain  he hadnt received its earlier  communications. 
He asked it to reinstate  his policy so he could pay the additional  amount.
Aviva said it couldnt do this. It said Mr K could  take out a brand new policy  but quoted a 
price of £2,500  for this. Mr K didnt take up this offer but instead  took out a policy  with 
another insurer for just over £1,100.
Mr K complained to Aviva about  its actions.  Aviva didnt uphold  the complaint. Mr K therefore  
referred his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In her opinion, Aviva 
had done nothing wrong.
Mr K didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He considered Avivas  quote for a new policy  at 
a cost of £2,500 showed that it was penalising him which he considered to be unfair.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Mr K told Aviva  he had 14 years NCD. However,  it turned out that this had been  earned as a 
named driver of a fleet car on a company policy. The online application explained that these 
circumstances wouldnt meet Avivas recognition criteria for NCD. I therefore think it was 
reasonable for Aviva to treat Mr K as if he had zero years NCD.
Aviva emailed and wrote  to Mr K in September 2017  to explain it had reduced his NCD to 
zero years and that this meant he needed  to pay an additional premium of £284. It also later 
sent him a text message  asking him for this money. Mr K has explained that he didnt 
receive Avivas letter because he had moved address and its email went to his spam folder. 
This is unfortunate  but Mr K hadnt told Aviva of his change of address so I dont think  it can 
be held responsible for the letters non-delivery,  or for the diversion of its email message to 
Ref: DRN94122522his spam folder. Furthermore, Ive no reason to suppose Mr K didnt receive  the text 
message. Im satisfied  Aviva made  reasonable effort to contact Mr K about  the situation.
When Aviva  didnt hear from Mr K it cancelled his policy with effect from 2 October 2017 and 
refunded him the unused premium. I think  this was fair.
Mr K later became aware of the cancellation. He contacted Aviva but it wouldnt reinstate the 
cancelled policy. I dont  think  Aviva  was under any obligation to do so.
Mr K says he obtained a new online quote  from Aviva but that this was £2,500. I havent 
seen any evidence of this quote but Aviva has assured  us that the quote  would  have been  
based on its current rates and Mr Ks circumstances.  I note that, as well as having no NCD, 
Mr K was also this time applying from a different address so I think the new quote  wasnt 
necessarily directly comparable to his earlier quote. In any case, I cant see that Mr K was 
disadvantaged. He was under no obligation to accept Avivas new quote and indeed chose 
instead to take out cheaper  cover  from another insurer.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9412252