K820x#14complaint
Miss H says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card 
in October 2006.  Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) is responsible for the sale.
background
Miss H bought the PPI whilst applying for a new credit  card by post. Our adjudicator who 
looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold  shouldnt be upheld. 
However, Miss H has already been  offered some money  back  for the commission  BoS 
received from selling her the PPI. However, she still thinks she was mis-sold the PPI and 
disagrees with the adjudicator. The complaint has been passed  to me for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
Miss H says the PPI was added without her agreement. But I was sent a copy of her credit 
card application  and this shows she was given  a choice to either have or not have PPI with 
her new card. Miss H selected the box to add the PPI and she signed  the form. 
So I think Miss H agreed to the policy and has since forgotten she did this.
As this was a postal  application Miss H would  have probably made her way through the 
application herself. So it wasnt an advised sale and BoS only had to make sure Miss H had 
enough information to make an informed  decision about what  she herself wanted to do.
I can see ways in which the form could have been set out in a better way, but overall  I think 
Miss H probably had enough  information and I havent seen anything that makes me think  
Miss H would have acted any differently. 
The application was part of a leaflet-based form and at the point where Miss H was asked to 
decide about the PPI, she was directed to information about the policy. The evidence  shows  
she wanted the PPI and I also think she was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the main exclusions  we tend to see in these types of policy. Looking  at the work she did, I 
agree the sickness  protection she had with her job would have been quite good.  But this 
doesnt mean the policy wasnt of use. For example, the PPI policy would  have paid out 10% 
of her outstanding credit  card balance for up to a year if shed needed  to claim for sickness  
or losing her job. This wouldve been  in addition  to any other means she had at that time. I 
also see that the cost was 78p per £100  outstanding  on the card, which  I think would have  
been affordable  for Miss H.
Taking account of all these things,  I think this policy was of use to her.
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss H but this means  Im not upholding her mis-sale  complaint.
Ref: DRN92710692BoS has already  offered to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss H because  when 
the policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium).  It should  have told Miss H about that. Because  it didnt, that was 
unfair.  
To put that right, BoS has already offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Bank of Scotland plc has already offered to pay her for the commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9271069