K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that First Rate Exchange Services Ltd (trading as Post Office Money)  
didnt do enough  to help her when  she couldnt  use the money  on her Post Office Travel  
Money Card.
background
When Miss M was on holiday abroad  she tried to use her Travel  Money  Card  but the PIN 
didnt work.  She phoned Post Office Money and it sent her a new PIN by text but that didnt 
work either. She then asked it to transfer  her money  from the Travel  Money  Card  into her 
own bank account  but the money didnt  arrive.
Post Office  Money said its records indicate the PIN was entered incorrectly each time. And 
when Miss M came back from holiday it sent her card to be analysed. But the card wasnt  
found to be faulty.  
While Miss M was still away  it arranged for a CHAPS payment to be sent to her bank 
account. But the other bank returned  the money. It said the only option it then had was to 
send a cheque  to Miss Ms home  address. And it converted  her funds to the rate of 
exchange at the time of purchase  so she didnt lose out.
Our investigator didnt  think Post Office  Money  had done anything wrong. He could see that 
itd sent the card to be analysed. And the report said it wasnt  faulty. Its records showed Miss 
Ms card was declined because the wrong PIN had been used. So he couldnt see itd been  
responsible for the problems with Miss Ms card.
He was satisfied  Post Office Money had sent Miss Ms funds to her bank account using the 
details shed given  it. So he didnt think it was Post Office Moneys fault the other  bank 
returned the funds.
Miss M wasnt  happy with this. She didnt  think  Post Office Money had done everything it 
could to help her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Miss Ms distress and frustration  at being on holiday abroad  but not being 
able to access her money. But for similar reasons given by our investigator I dont think  her 
problems were the fault of Post Office Money.
Miss Ms card was analysed  when  she returned  from holiday and wasnt  found to be faulty. 
And the records of Post Office Money indicate the card was declined because the wrong PIN 
had been used. Post Office Money  sent Miss M a new PIN by text but that was also declined  
for the same reason.  So I cant  fairly find Post Office Money was responsible for Miss M not 
being able to use her card.
Ref: DRN90954582Because of the problems she was having  with her card Miss M asked for a CHAPS payment 
into her bank account. Post Office Money  arranged this but the funds didnt reach  her 
account when  expected.  I can see it sent the funds to her bank account using the details  
shed given it. So I agree  with our investigator  that it wasnt the fault of Post Office Money 
when the other bank  returned her funds.
Miss M doesnt think Post Office Money did enough  to help her and wants  us to listen  to the 
phone calls she had at the time. But I can see from the notes  of the phone  calls that each 
time Miss M phoned Post Office Money it did what it could. It resent her a new PIN. It asked 
her to try it while she was on the phone.  She then asked for a CHAPS bank transfer which  it 
arranged for her. When her money  didnt arrive in her bank account  it offered to add £200 to 
her Travel Card as a temporary measure. Taking all of that into consideration I think  Post 
Office Money did all it could to help her. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9095458