K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  he was given unsuitable  advice by an adviser with 
Connacht Financial Services Ltd, an appointed representative (AR) of 
TenetConnect Services Limited (Tenet).  He says he was advised to invest  his and his 
childrens money in a high risk investment which wasnt suitable for them.
He feels that as Connacht Financial Services was an AR of Tenet, Tenet is responsible  for 
their losses.
background
Mr L had a portfolio  of investments and an ISA and told us hed been advised  by the AR for 
around 25 years. He says that in December 2011  and January 2012,  he was contacted 
several times by the AR about investing  in Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd (GKP).  Over the 
next couple of years,  Mr L invested in the shares but says he was never given a valuation, 
so didnt realise how poorly the investment was performing.  In July 2016 the AR told him to 
sell his investment which  resulted  in a large  loss.
Mr L says the investment  was a higher risk than he was prepared to take and that the AR 
was working outside  its authority because it gave  advice  on an investment which  wasnt 
approved by Tenet.
Tenet said the orders were all carried out on an execution  only basis  the AR didnt advise 
Mr L to invest  in GKP, it simply acted on his instructions.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded  that, 
for every instruction, Mr L had signed  a letter to confirm that he was acting without advice 
and that he understood the investment was outside  of his assessed  attitude to risk. Our 
investigator thought  this was supported by the ARs meeting records  and that, because the 
trades were  carried out on an execution  only basis,  Tenet  wasnt  responsible for Mr Ls 
losses.
Mr L didnt agree. He replied in detail saying, in summary, that:
Tenet hasnt  supplied all of the requested documentation, including  the AR contract.
Mr L cant access his portfolio and ISA  everything is done by the AR. During the period 
October 2011 to January 2012, around  £270,000 was realised from his investments 
without his permission. The AR mustve  been making sure Mr L had enough cash  to 
invest in GKP.
The letter authorising  the sale of his investments  in September 2011 was only provided  
by Tenet after our investigator  asked for evidence that Mr L had agreed to the sale of 
investments and wasnt included with its business file at the start of the investigation. 
Mr L says hes not seen the letter  before and he didnt sign it. The letter says that stock 
markets have been fluctuating, but theres  no evidence  of this. It makes  no sense that 
he wouldve agreed  to liquidate all of his equity holdings into cash because of risk to 
capital, and then decide to invest in a high risk investment.
Ref: DRN98598882The file Tenet supplied to us included meeting notes which  werent date stamped and 
hadnt been mentioned  before.  It looks like the AR has created these notes to support  its 
position.
Hed never heard  of GKP before the AR brought it to his attention.  He was encouraged 
to invest because the advisor said he was investing his own money in the shares.
The AR was acting as a representative of Tenet and Tenet shouldve realised what was 
going on. The AR acted outside  of its permissions  and wasnt authorised  to complete 
the transactions. He wants to be put back in the position  he was in before these 
transactions took place.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L says he invested  in his own name, but also on behalf of his children. This decision is 
only about the investments he made  in his own name as we dont  have his childrens 
authority to investigate their complaints.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
I understand Mr Ls strength of feeling  on this matter. His submissions are detailed  and 
substantial and he has raised a significant  number of points. I have fully considered 
everything he has told us, but I am not going to respond to every point one of the parties has 
made or to answer every question raised.  That isnt because I havent taken into account  
what Mr L has said, but because my role is to focus on what  I consider material  to the 
outcome of the complaint.
In response to our investigator,  Mr L said that some of the records  provided by the business  
were created  as a result of his complaint   namely  the records  of meetings and phone calls 
and the letter of instruction dated 13 September 2011. Im not able to look into allegations of 
fraud. If Mr L believes Tenet, or the AR, acted dishonestly and wants to pursue that issue, 
hell need to do so through the appropriate authorities.
In September  2011, the AR recommended that Mr L either switched to a lower risk profile, or 
into 100%  cash as a temporary measure. This was against a background of a possible 
default by Greece.  It looks likely that the letter outlining this recommendation was handed to 
Mr L and discussed  because Mr L signed it on the same day. He indicated he wanted  to 
switch to 100% cash. Overall, I think Mr L gave permission to liquidate his investments. And 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that this was in preparation for investing in GKP  the first 
mention of this investment was around  three months later.
At the end of January  2012, the first investment in GKP took place.  Further  investment was 
made over the next couple of years until all of the shares were sold in July 2016.
Ref: DRN98598883Mr L says the AR recommended he invest in the shares. If it did give a personal 
recommendation, it wouldve been  obliged  to make sure the shares were  suitable for Mr L. 
Mr L told us he hadnt heard  of GKP until the AR told him about it. And I accept  thats 
probably the case. Mr L and the AR had formed a close relationship,  having  known each  
other for around 25 years.  So its not surprising that the AR may have talked about 
investments more widely and mentioned GKP because he was planning a personal  
investment. But I havent seen  anything to persuade me that any discussion about GKP 
amounted to a personal recommendation for Mr L to invest in the shares.
The AR prepared  a letter of instruction for Mr L to sign for every instruction he gave. This 
including the wording:
I confirm  that my decision to purchase  these  shares bas been  made  without advice or 
recommendation from CFS Independent Financial Advisers or its employees and that it has 
been explained to me that this investment  falls outside my assessed attitude  to risk.
Mr L confirms he signed each of these letters and I think it was reasonably  clear  that he 
wouldve understood the AR hadnt advised  him to buy the shares. And that he understood 
the risk involved was higher than his previously  agreed attitude  to risk, but that he wanted to 
go ahead  anyway.
After each transaction, the AR wrote to Mr L to confirm the transaction.  This letter repeated 
that the ARs  role was to facilitate the transaction and that it hadnt  given advice.  It also said 
that the investment was regarded as very high risk.  Mr L signed this letter  for every 
transaction.
I accept these letters  and the wording  used  were provided by the AR. But I find it was 
clear from these letters that Mr L was giving instructions on an execution only basis.
Im sorry  this investment  resulted in a loss for Mr L. But as I dont  find the AR gave him 
advice, I dont find Tenet is responsible for his loss.
Its disappointing that Tenet wasnt able to provide a copy  of the AR agreement.  But Ive 
made my decision based on the evidence and information we have been given. And the lack 
of an AR agreement doesnt  change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9859888