K821x#15complaint
Mr Hs complaint concerns the advice he received in 2010  from Positive  Solutions  (now 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd) to switch an existing group  personal  pension to a personal 
pension Mr H already  held.  He questions whether this was appropriate  and in his best 
interests. He says he was advised  to consolidate his pensions  without  being  given any 
comparison of the benefits or otherwise of doing  so. He believes he may have been 
financially disadvantaged. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 27 October  2020.  A copy is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I set out that I was intending to uphold the 
complaint.
Mr H accepted the provisional decision.
Quilter did not accept the provisional decision and made further submissions. In summary it:
Queried whether Mr H had re-joined his group personal pension  plan.
Said that it had provided evidence that Mr H was intent on moving all his pension  
plans into a plan he held with Scottish Widows, irrespective as to whether advice was 
provided or not. He had done  this in 2008.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I did discuss Quilters submission that Mr H had, some years  
earlier, transferred a pension on an insistent client basis  and set out my view of that. My 
view remains  the same and I would refer the parties  to the provisional  decision. Mr H has 
said that, rather than being adamant he wished to switch  or transfer  pensions,  it was only 
that it seemed  a logical  thing to do to move his pensions into one plan  and that would be a 
reasonable assumption for an ordinary individual.  But Mr H needed to be in a fully informed 
position about the advantages and disadvantages  of doing that before making that decision.  
There is no persuasive evidence that he was in respect of this switch. Making assumptions 
as to what Mr H wished  to do based on an unrelated transfer  some  years previously is not 
safe in this situation.
As to Mr H re-joining his group personal pension, whether  he has done  so or not does not 
change my decision. Mr H switched his Scottish Widows pension  plan in 2016 and, as 
discussed in the provisional  decision, redress should be calculated  taking that into account
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and order Quilter Financial Services Ltd to calculate  and pay redress  
as set out in the attached  provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 January 2021.
Ref: DRN95122932David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN95122933copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr Hs complaint concerns  the advice  he received in 2010 from Positive Solutions (now Quilter 
Financial Services  Ltd) to switch an existing  group personal pension to a personal  pension Mr H 
already held.  He questions whether this was appropriate and in his best interests. He says he was 
advised to consolidate his pensions without being given any comparison  of the benefits  or otherwise  
of doing so. He believes  he may have  been  financially  disadvantaged. 
background
In 2010 Mr H was a member  of his then employers group stakeholder pension scheme. The value of it 
was then transferred in April 2010 to Mr Hs existing  Scottish  Widows personal pension.  
Mr H complained to Positive Solutions  (PS) but it did not uphold the complaint. It said that Mr H had 
not complained  within the relevant time limits. It also did not believe that there was evidence that the 
adviser was representing PS when providing any advice to switch pension.  
An ombudsman at this service then issued  a decision as to whether  we could consider the complaint. 
She decided that the complaint had been made within the relevant time limits and that the adviser had 
provided the advice before  he had ceased being a representative of PS. So this was a complaint that 
we could consider.
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
This complaint is one of three about PS that Mr H has referred to this service. They  concern  the 
actions taken  by a PS adviser over a number  of years  in respect of Mr Hs pensions.  They  all concern 
the switch or transfer  of Mr Hs pensions. I have considered each of those  complaints separately  but 
when doing so I have  taken into account the overall sequence of events and background. 
An ombudsman has already decided  that the complaint was made  in time and so I will not review that 
issue. PS also said originally that there was no evidence that the adviser had recommended this 
pension switch whilst  representing PS. However Scottish  Widows historic records  indicate that 
commission was paid in 2010 to PS in respect of the pension value  received from the switch  of the 
Aegon group stakeholder personal pension. As I will discuss, there is a pension report of April 2010 
that records it was produced by a business representing PS. In addition there is a letter enclosing  a 
pension illustration  for the group stakeholder pension  of 24 March 2010 from Aegon  to PS. This is in 
the period before the adviser ceased being a representative of PS. It is therefore clear that the adviser 
was acting  for PS when  arranging this pension switch. I will therefore  go on to consider the merits  of 
Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H has said that he was advised by the adviser to regularly consolidate  his pensions as he was 
told, this was best for future growth. This is what he says happened with respect to his Aegon 
stakeholder pension. I have not seen any formal recommendation about this 2010 pension switch or 
any fact finding undertaken by the adviser. However Mr H has a documented history of being  advised  
by this particular adviser dating back to at least 2007 and continuing to 2016.  At least four pension 
transfers or switches were arranged  by the adviser for Mr H in that period. So I am persuaded  it is 
more likely  that this adviser did undertake this switch (as discussed on behalf of PS) and advised Mr 
H to do so. 
As discussed, I have not seen the usual financial documentation that would  be expected when such  
an advised switch is made (such as recommendation  or suitability reports).  However,  there is a 
Ref: DRN95122934Individual Pension Review document dated 13 April 2010  which sets out it has been prepared  by an 
adviser of Kim Bayliss Wealth Management (Positive Solutions). 
The report set out to compare  the current Aegon group  stakeholder scheme  value  to that which could 
be available if a switch  was made to Mr Hs existing  Scottish  Widows personal  pension.  It was 
recorded that, based  in certain assumed growth rates, Mr Hs fund would be significantly lower (by 
about 10%) at age 65 if the switch went ahead.  
The documentation provided by Aegon for the group  stakeholder  pension shows that the charges 
applicable to the pension were very low  about 0.5% a year.  This would not be unexpected with 
such a group stakeholder  plan. A switch from such a plan would need  justification. I have not seen  
any such justification and in fact the switch  was likely to disadvantage Mr H because  the charges  of 
the Scottish Widows  plan were much higher (it seems  to me approximately 1.5% per year or higher  
dependent on the investment funds chosen). This does not include the effect  of any fees or 
commission received by the adviser when  recommending  this switch. So the switch was not in Mr Hs 
best interests and he should not have been advised to make that switch.  In fact he should have  been 
advised against it. 
I note PSs reference  to a 2008 pension transfer that it asserts was made on an insistent client basis 
(i.e. a transfer  made against the advice of the adviser)  to consolidate a pension  into the Scottish 
Widows plan.  It could be argued that Mr H had a desire to do this here. 
However, if he did have a desire  to consolidate,  say for ease of administration, then he is still entitled 
to receive suitable advice and a full explanation of the ramifications of doing so  which there is no 
evidence he received here.   
And therefore  it is highly unlikely that Mr H proceeded as to this pension switch on an informed  basis. 
There is no evidence  in respect of this switch  that Mr H agreed to proceed even though the pension 
review document showed that he would  facing higher charges and, on assumed growth  rates, less 
benefits. As I say, he should have been advised  against this. It would not be safe or reasonable  in 
such circumstances to assume that Mr H was in agreement  with the switch or he would  have agreed 
to the switch if correctly  advised. 
I therefore  intend  to uphold this complaint.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put Mr H as close 
to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable  advice. 
I think  with suitable advice Mr H would have kept his existing Aegon  pension.  Mr H has said he has 
re-joined this scheme.  Therefore I believe that PS should equalise the value of that scheme with the 
value it would  have had if the switch  had not been made to Scottish  Widows. In so doing  it can take 
account of whatever value that switch value  had accumulated within  the Scottish Widows plan as of 
the date in 2016 when  it was switched  away from Scottish Widows (my understanding  is that such a 
switch was made in 2016 on the advice  of another business). 
In summary, PS should:
1.Obtain  the notional transfer  value  of Mr Hs Aegon group stakeholder pension plan, as of the 
date of the switch in 2016,  if it had not been transferred to the Scottish  Widows plan.  
2.Obtain  the transfer value, as at the date of the switch in 2016, of Mr Hs Scottish  Widows plan 
that is represented  by the Aegon 2010 switch value. 
3.To the amount of (1  2) apply  the rate of return that would have been achieved on that value 
from the date of the switch in 2016 to the date of my final decision. Then pay this total value  
Ref: DRN95122935into Mr Hs Aegon plan so that the transfer value is increased by the amount calculated.  This 
payment should take account of any available  tax relief and the effect  of charges.
In addition, PS should pay Mr H £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
I have set out each point in further detail below.
1.Obtain  the notional transfer  value  of Mr Hs Aegon group stakeholder pension plan, as of the 
date of the switch in 2016,  if it had not been transferred to the Scottish  Widows plan.  
PS should ask Aegon to calculate the notional transfer value that would have applied as at the date of 
the switch in 2016 had he not switched  his pension in 2010 but instead remained invested.  
If there  are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income 
Total Return  Index should be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have 
been achieved if suitable  funds  had been  chosen.
On-Line should assume that any contributions or withdrawals that have been made would still have 
been made, and on the same dates.
2.Obtain  the transfer value, as at the date of the switch in 2016, of Mr Hs Scottish  Widows plan 
that is represented  by the Aegon 2010 switch value. 
This should be confirmed by Scottish Widows. 
3.To the amount of (1  2) apply  the rate of return that would have been achieved on that value 
from the date of the switch in 2016 to the date of my final decision. Then pay this total value  
into Mr Hs Aegon plan so that the transfer value is increased by the amount calculated.  This 
payment should take account of any available  tax relief and the effect  of charges.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications,  it should be 
paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction to allow for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. Typically,  25% of the loss could  have been  taken as tax-free cash 
and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement   presumed  to 
be 20%. So making  a notional deduction of 15% overall  from the loss adequately reflects  this.
I also believe that Mr H would have been caused inconvenience and upset by this unsuitable switch  
and the loss of benefits. I believe he should be awarded an addition  £300 in this respect.
The redress  will take into account any reduction in value  brought  about  by adviser fees or commission 
taken from the Aegon pension  value  in respect of this advice.  If, however, Mr H has paid any such  
charges in respect of this advice separately (i.e. from his own capital  or income)  then he should let me 
know.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and make the award above.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9512293