K820x#14complaint
Ms B is unhappy with the information Premium  Credit Limited  has provided to credit  
reference agencies.
background
Ms B renewed her credit  agreement  with Premium  Credit for her car insurance policy on    
22 August 2018.  The first payment was taken on 3 September 2018. But all subsequent 
payments were due to be taken on 28th of each  month.
On 28 February 2019 Premium Credit attempted to take £237.53 by direct debit. But the 
direct debit was returned unpaid.  Ms B says she had deposited funds into her account on      
28 February 2019. But the funds  didnt credit her account that day as she had missed  the cut 
off point (which she says had never happened  before). 
Ms B says she did query  this with her bank who told her Premium  Credit would re-attempt  
the direct  debit. Ms B waited five days but the payment hadnt  been taken so she contacted  
Premium Credit. She says she wanted  to make a one off payment over the phone that day 
but was told not to as they would  re-attempt  the direct debit.  Premium  Credit did re-attempt 
the payment on 13 March  2019 and it was successful.  It also charged Ms B a late payment 
fee.
Ms B says on 26 March  2019 Premium Credit reported inaccurate information to credit 
reference agencies.  So she asked Premium  Credit  to correct  the information it had recorded 
but it refused  to do so. As a result she says her mortgage application was declined. 
Ms B brought her complaint to our service as she remained unhappy with Premium Credits 
response. Our investigator looked into the complaint but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. In summary he said Premium Credit had acted in line with the terms and conditions  
of the agreement. Ms B didnt agree. She was still concerned  that the late payment wasnt 
recorded to credit reference agencies until the 26 March 2019. So she felt it wasnt a true 
reflection of what happened. Ms B remained unhappy so the case was passed  to me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding    
Ms Bs complaint. I will explain why. 
This wasnt the first agreement Ms B had in place to pay her car insurance policy. By          
28 February 2019 Ms B has made several  payments by direct debit to Premium  Credit. So I 
think its reasonable to suggest she was aware  the direct debit would be taken that day.     
Ms B has admitted that the funds were credited  to her account later as she had missed  the 
cut off point and because of this, the direct  debit request failed.
I have seen the welcome letter which was sent to Ms B on 22 August 2018. In this letter  it 
outlines that each time there  is a missed payment a fee of £27.50 will be charged. 
I have also considered the pre contract agreement which Ms B had signed, which states:
Ref: DRN98229112We may report  your non-payment to credit reference agencies which will adversely  
affect your credit  rating.
So while I appreciate that Ms B did contact her bank and Premium Credit (within  five days of 
missing the payment) the payment wasnt made on time and therefore she breached the 
terms of the agreement. So even  if Ms B had made a manual one off payment  over the 
phone when she contacted Premium Credit, she would still have missed  the payment date 
and therefore  breached  the terms of the agreement.
As the pre-contract agreement states that Premium Credit can report late payments to credit  
reference agencies  and Ms B had breached the agreement,  I dont think  Premium Credit 
acted unreasonably in reporting  the information.  They are regulated  by the FCA and have a 
duty to ensure payment  performances are recorded accurately to credit reference agencies.  
I understand that Ms B is concerned that the missing payment was reported nearly three 
weeks after the incident had occurred. But I can see that Premium Credit  has explained that 
it reports to credit reference agencies on a monthly  basis. So because the February  2019  
payment wasnt successful, this information was passed to the credit reference agencies  in 
March 2019. Premium  Credit said that it was successful  in taking the payment on               
13 March 2019.  And so that information would be recorded in April 2019.  Its not unusual  for 
a financial business  to report to credit references  agencies once a month. So I dont think  its 
unreasonable that this information was passed  to the credit reference agency a couple of 
weeks after the incident occurred. 
Ms B has said due to the information  that was reported her mortgage application was 
declined. But as I explained above,  I cant say Premium Credit  did anything  wrong  as it has a 
duty to ensure it reports missing payments. But Im pleased to see that Premium  Credit 
provided Ms B with a letter date 17 April 2019  to show to her mortgage advisor. This letter 
outlined what had happened and when the credit reference agencies  would be updated.
With the above in mind,  I wont be asking Premium  Credit to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Jade Rowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9822911