K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Austin-Chapel Independent  Financial Advisers  LLP (Austin-Chapel)  
didnt pass on a pension  transfer quotation relating  to Mr Ss occupational  pension. And it 
took several months to transfer Mr Ss pension to a new provider. 
background
Mr S was a member of an occupational pension scheme. He decided  when he retired,  he 
wanted to transfer  his pension from the occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal 
pension.
Mr S met a representative  from Austin-Chapel during a retirement seminar.  So, he asked 
Austin-Chapel for advice on his pension.
Austin-Chapel first contacted Mr Ss OPS in March  2015 when it requested a transfer 
quotation for Mr Ss pension. Austin-Chapel also chased the OPS  the following month.  
But Mr S was still an active member  of the scheme at that time and so, the OPS  said it was 
unable to produce a transfer quotation.
Austin-Chapel again contacted the OPS in July 2015, after Mr S had retired to ask for a 
transfer quotation. It chased up its request  10 days later. The OPS  sent the transfer 
quotation to Austin-Chapel on 14 August 2015.  The quotation was only guaranteed for three 
months and cited a transfer value of the pension of £450,035.94.
Austin-Chapel say it forwarded the quotation to Mr S at that time. However, Mr S says he 
didnt receive it and wasnt aware  of its existence  until after it had expired.
In early 2016 Mr S said he became aware  of the earlier quotation from the OPS during a 
meeting with Austin-Chapel.  Mr S said he was keen to go ahead  with transferring his 
pension. However,  Austin-Chapel said it was unable  to provide Mr S advice on transferring 
his occupational pension to a personal pension as it wasnt qualified  or regulated  to do so. 
It recommended Mr S use a pension  transfer  specialist and recommended a firm, which  
might have been able to advise Mr S about  the transfer.
Austin-Chapel also requested an updated quotation from the OPS in June 2016.  
The pension was then valued at £404,132.92.
It took several months for the pension transfer specialist to transfer Mr Ss pension. 
During this time Mr S experienced financial difficulties and needed to sell his car in order to 
release funds. The OPS  gave  a third transfer valuation  for the pension in November 2016 
which was then valued at £435,244.70. This was the valuation used in the transfer which  
took place in late 2016.
In early 2019 Mr S complained to Austin-Chapel  as he said he was unhappy he hadnt 
received the August 2015 transfer quotation  from his OPS. He was also unhappy  that the 
whole process took several months to complete, which he says led to financial  difficulties.  
Mr S brought his complaint to us after eight weeks had passed  and he hadnt had a 
response from Austin-Chapel. Our investigator  looked into the complaint and Austin-Chapel 
said it had responded to the complaint but had sent its response to an incorrect email 
address. Austin-Chapel felt that the complaint  should have been directed towards the 
Ref: DRN92294642pension transfer  specialist who completed the transfer. But Mr Ss complaint was about 
Austin-Chapels actions,  so our investigator  looked into the complaint. 
Our investigator said he would have  expected  to see evidence of Mr S chasing  Austin-
Chapel if first quotation request had it not been  received. So, our investigator felt he wasnt 
able to safely say the quotation hadnt been received by Mr S.   
Mr S disagreed as he maintained he hadnt  received  the first quotation and so the case was 
passed onto me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  to determine  in this case is whether Austin-Chapel sent the first pension  transfer  
quotation from the OPS  to Mr S. And whether  Austin-Chapel caused a delay in Mr S 
transferring his pension.
Mr Ss OPS provided its account  of its contact with Austin-Chapel. From this I can see 
Austin-Chapel made several requests  and follow-up calls in order to obtain  the transfer value 
of Mr Ss pension on his behalf.  The OPS  sent the transfer value quote to Austin-Chapel on 
14 August 2015.
Austin-Chapel provided us with a scanned image  of the transfer quotation. On the top of the 
letter it had hand  written sent to client 17/08/15. Austin-Chapel says this shows  it forwarded  
the quote to Mr S on 17 August  2015.
Austin-Chapel also provided us with the cover letter it said it sent to Mr S with the quotation. 
The cover letter was correctly addressed  to Mr S and dated 17 August 2015. Austin-Chapel 
sent a screen  shot of the cover letter saved on its system. The letter  was saved  as 2015-08-
17 Lett Austin-Chapel say its normal practice  for it to save  letters  in the format  of the date 
they were sent.
Mr S said that he didnt receive the quotation  and thinks this was because Austin-Chapel 
didnt forward it on to him. Mr S also said he phoned  Austin-Chapel  several times between  
October and December 2015 but he was told there was no news. He was unable to provide 
any call records.  
When evidence is incomplete and matters are disputed, as they are here, I must  decide 
whats most likely  to have happened  taking into account the evidence available.   
Im satisfied Austin-Chapel made numerous  attempts to get the quotation from the OPS. 
Austin-Chapel has also now provided  the covering letter for the quotation which  was 
correctly addressed to Mr S and dated  near to the time it received the quotation. It had also 
handwritten on the letter  to say it had been  forwarded on to Mr S. Although this isnt 
conclusive evidence, I think, on balance its more likely Austin-Chapel  did forward  the quote 
on to Mr S by post. That isnt to say Mr S received  the letter, but that isnt something  I can 
hold Austin-Chapel  responsible for, particularly as it was addressed correctly.
Mr S also complains it took several  months  to complete the pension  transfer leading him to 
face financial difficulties  during that time. 
Ref: DRN92294643Mr S says he called  Austin-Chapel  on several  occasions during late 2015  but was told there 
was no news. He also says he met Austin-Chapel in January 2016 when he first found out 
about the first transfer quotation.  Austin-Chapel say it sent Mr S the transfer  quotation in 
August 2015 and was then contacted again  by Mr S in early 2016  at which  point it arranged  
a meeting with Mr S and referred him to the pension transfer specialist. 
Its not possible to say, based on the evidence Ive seen exactly what  happened between 
August 2015 and early 2016 when  Mr S was referred to the transfer  specialists. But I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest Mr S asked Austin-Chapel to go ahead with transferring his 
pension before early  2016. And Mr S hasnt been  able to provide evidence that he was 
attempting to contact  Austin-Chapel during that time.  
Even when  Mr S was referred to the pension transfer specialists it still took six months to 
complete the transfer. During  this time Austin-Chapel still had a role to play, as it was still 
passing information between Mr S and the transfer specialists. Im unable to say whether 
Austin-Chapel contributed to these  delays, but I have seen evidence that it forwarded on 
Mr Ss paperwork and chased up the pension  specialists  during that time.  In any event, the 
delays during this period caused  the transfer value to increase  from around £404,000 to 
around £435,000. So, I dont think Mr S has lost out financially in this respect.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, but I think Austin-Chapel did forward him 
the quotation from his OPS  in August 2015. Although I accept  Mr S may not have received it. 
I also dont think theres  sufficient evidence to hold Austin-Chapel responsible for the delays 
Mr S faced.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 December 2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9229464