K821x#15complaint
O&I complain that HSBC  UK Bank Plc unfairly placed a block  on their business bank 
account.
background
In November 2017, HSBC wrote  to O&I as it needed to complete a review and update their 
records as didnt have  all the required information about the business on file. A telephone 
appointment was completed in December 2017 and O&I said they were  told at the end of the 
call the review was complete.
In January 2018 HSBC wrote to O&I again. It said it needed more  information and despite 
several attempts  hadnt  been able to reach them. Because it still didnt have the required 
information on file, it let O&I know it would be stopping certain services from March 2018  and 
would close the account in May 2018. 
O&I called HSBC to find out what information was needed  as they believed  the review had 
been completed and the letter was factually incorrect. Despite being  told they would get a 
call back in 24 hours this didnt happen.  O&I called again around a week  later to be told the 
same thing.
 
Two further  call backs were arranged by HSBC but again these didnt happen. 
In March 2018 HSBC limited  O&Is  account as the required information  remained 
outstanding. It also wrote to O&I in April 2018  to say the account would be closed in 
May 2018 if the information wasnt provided. O&I had difficulties making payments from their 
account and called HSBC again,  but they say the call was disconnected after being  on hold 
for some time. 
When they spoke  to someone  at HSBC they were told an email had been sent requesting  
information. HSBC  confirmed they had the right email  address for O&I but O&I said they 
hadnt received  it so were told HSBC would resend it. The further email  wasnt received and 
so, O&I raised a complaint with HSBC.
HSBCs final response said they made  several  attempts to contact O&I regarding the 
information required but as they no longer  had contact  information for O&I on their system, it 
needed them to contact it to provide the information. O&I werent happy with HSBCs 
response, so they brought the complaint  to our service. HSBC didnt close  O&Is account in 
May 2018, but the account remained limited. O&I contacted HSBC  as requested and the 
limitation was removed in August 2018  but reapplied shortly after. Following this O&I closed 
the account.
Our investigator didnt  think we should  uphold O&Is complaint. They said HSBC  made  O&I 
aware of the information it required,  and the deadline to submit it by, before the limitation  
was placed on the account. They also thought  O&I could have done more to provide the 
information earlier and avoid some of the issues they experienced.
 
O&I didnt  agree  with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review  the case. They 
said theyd called several times to resolve  the issue with HSBC, had been promised call 
backs and emails they didnt receive. They also pointed  out they suffered losses  as they 
couldnt access their account.
Ref: DRN92894352I issued a provisional decision on 12 March 2020 and in my provisional  findings I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
O&I have made several detailed points. Ive considered all of them but Im going  to focus my 
decision on what I see as the central  issues to this complaint. I dont intend this as a 
discourtesy; rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in it.
 
Based on what Ive seen  so far, Im minded  to uphold  O&Is complaint. Ill explain why. 
HSBC said it tried to contact O&I several  times following the review   but from its internal 
contact notes I cant see it did. So, I can understand why it wouldve been concerning for 
O&I to receive the letter in January 2018 to say HSBC had been  trying  to contact them and 
their account  would be limited and closed. O&I called HSBC  several  times in January 2018 
to find out what  information  was needed.  O&I said they would be happy  for the questions to 
be emailed to them but during the calls they were told they had to be called back. So, I think  
O&I tried to answer HSBCs questions and as they had been told they would  need  to be 
called, they were expecting a call back.
 
I cant see HSBC did return the calls as promised and HSBCs  internal notes say following 
one of O&Is  calls, it completed most of the questions, without speaking to them.  I can see in 
January and February 2018, following O&I calling, HSBC emailed them twice requesting 
different pieces of information. Firstly, to query  some  transactions and in a second email, 
asking them to provide identification  and information such as their nationality, time at current  
address and previous addresses. The information  requested in the first email wasnt  
included in the second, which still appeared to be outstanding when the account was limited. 
O&I said they didnt  receive these emails,  but from looking at the screenshots provided by 
HSBC Im satisfied these emails were  sent to the correct email address.
I can also see a system note from February  2018, between the two emails,  showing what 
appears to be a list of the outstanding information. Some of it is populated and other lines 
are blank, indicating  these questions are outstanding.  But these questions dont appear to 
be consistent with the information HSBC asked O&I for in its emails.
So although  the emails were sent I dont think HSBC has been clear or consistent in the 
requests it has made to O&I or did it make them aware of all the information  needed.  
Because of this, even if O&I had seen the emails and responded to HSBC,  Im not satisfied 
this wouldve  been enough to complete the list of outstanding information at the time - and 
prevent the account from being  limited.
The account  was limited in March 2018.  When O&I became aware of this, they spoke to 
HSBC online  and over the phone during April 2018  to find out what was needed, but again  
Ive not seen anything to show  HSBC  provided O&I a clear  answer  to this. 
I agree  O&I didnt  make  regular contact  with HSBC following this, but I can understand why. 
Theyd tried on numerous occasions to resolve the issue  with HSBC but it still hadnt clearly  
told them  what information they needed  to provide.  So as calling HSBC had yielded no 
results - and a formal  complaint had been raised,  I dont  think  its unreasonable  that they 
didnt keep calling and waited for an outcome. Having looked through  everything,  I think 
HSBC have done something wrong  here and should  do something to put it right.
Ref: DRN92894353O&I said the limitation  being placed  on the account meant they were unable to operate  their 
business, meaning it was not producing an income   and at the time HSBC issued its final 
response, the limitation had been in place for around four months. O&I also said as they 
were unable to access  their account, and services such as internet banking,  they 
experienced issues when completing  their VAT return as they were unable  to provide all the 
required information - and had to make  alternative arrangements. O&I incurred  additional 
accountancy costs  as a result and have provided an invoice and a letter  from their 
accountant who listed the extra work  completed  at an extra cost of £896.
To put things right, I think HSBC should  pay the extra accountancy expense incurred by O&I. 
Im also minded to direct HSBC to pay O&I £850 compensation as I think  it fairly reflects  the 
inconvenience they have been caused.
Ive considered whether a loss of earnings  payment is due. But Ive not seen anything from 
O&I to support this. I will however consider any evidence of loss of earnings if O&I can 
provide it.
O&I have confirmed they accept the proposed settlement in my provisional decision.
HSBC hasnt sent me any further  comments or information,
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been provided for me to consider. My 
decision and reasoning remain the same  to what I explained in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold O&Is complaint.  
To put things right, HSBC  UK Bank Plc should:
Refund the additional accountancy costs O&I incurred with 8% simple interest per 
annum added from the date the invoice  was paid to the date of settlement.
Pay O&I £850 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.  
Ref: DRN92894354Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask O&I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9289435