K820x#14complaint
Miss E says Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  for a 
mortgage.
background
Miss E took out a PPI policy  with a mortgage  in 2004, and increased the cover  alongside  a 
further advance  in 2005. Miss E paid for the PPI with a regular monthly  premium,  which  
didnt attract interest.  It covered her secured lending repayments in case  she was off work  
sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss E disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Es case. 
Having done that, Ive decided that Miss Es PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Miss Es mortgage application had a section  for insurance, which  offered her the option  to 
take out PPI or turn it down. The option  to buy PPI was chosen, whereas the option to turn it 
down was left blank, and Miss E signed  the form to confirm her choices. She also signed 
and submitted a separate application specifically for PPI. And she set up a direct  debit to pay 
for it, separately to paying for the mortgage itself  the policy  was not part and parcel  of the 
borrowing.
In 2005, Miss E again  signed and submitted an application specifically for PPI in order  to 
increase her cover. She updated her direct  debit to pay for it. Lloyds fact find document 
records that it recommended the policy to her  and this was only a recommendation, which  
Miss E was free to accept  or decline.  It was not a requirement. And her loan offer reiterated 
that she didnt  have to buy any insurance  from Lloyds  if she didnt want to. Overall, I think  
that Lloyds made it clear  to Miss E that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it at the time  though  I can understand if she no longer recalls doing so after 
so many years.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss E, so it had to check it was right for her. And based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example,  it looks  like 
Miss E was eligible for the cover  and wasnt affected  by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Miss Es work benefits and savings, and it 
covered her for much  longer than those wouldve lasted. While I understand Miss Es family 
may have  been  happy to help, there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when  
needed. And this mortgage was Miss Es sole responsibility  I dont  think  it wouldve been 
suitable for Lloyds  to recommend she rely on other people to pay it. Its worth bearing  in 
mind that if Miss E fell behind on her repayments, she couldve  lost her home. It looks  like 
the PPI couldve  really been useful for Miss E in protecting her home.
Ref: DRN92920102Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Miss E about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  Here, Miss E chose  to take out PPI, which  implies  she wanted this type 
of cover.  As I explained  above, Miss E wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover, and it couldve  really  been useful for her in case something went  wrong. The 
policy was competitively priced  given how much it would pay out in a claim.  And the PPI was 
paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Miss E could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont  think that better information  was likely to have put her off taking  out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9292010