K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Old Mutual  Wealth Life Assurance Limited  has unreasonably refused 
his claim for total and permanent disability (TPD)  benefit. To resolve  his complaint, Mr H 
wants his complaint to be paid in full. 
background
Mr H took out a Skandia Lifetime policy in 1996.  The policy has since  been taken over by 
Old Mutual. It provides  critical illness cover, along  with both waiver of premium  (WOP ) and 
total and permanent disability (TPD)  benefits. The policy was taken out through  an 
independent financial  adviser.  
In 2018, Mr H sadly suffered from a cardiac arrest. He asked Old Mutual to make a claim 
under his policy, but it informed him that cardiac arrest  was not a claimable condition within 
his policy  terms. Instead, it considered whether  Mr H met the policy terms for TPD.   
When reviewing the claim,  Old Mutual  revisited Mr Hs original policy  application. It noted 
how Mr H was given both the WOP and TPD benefits based on a 100% administration role 
(stated as a Director of a property company), in accordance with Skandias  underwriting  in 
1996. It did this because Mr H had confirmed as such on his policy  application. However, 
when the claim was made, the claim form noted  that there was a split between  
administrative and manual work, with three-quarters of Mr Hs job being of a manual nature. 
Old Mutual said that if Skandias underwriters been  aware of the true split of Mr Hs job 
between 25% administrative and 75% manual duties, it would have been unable to offer 
WOP and TPD benefits to Mr H at all. 
Despite this, Old Mutual agreed to assess Mr H against the 100% administrative occupation 
he had quoted on his policy application. It agreed  to accept a WOP claim as at 1 December 
2018 (after a six month deferred period), as Mr H was currently unable to complete his job, 
but it did not accept  he was permanently  unable to do so. It therefore rejected the TPD claim 
on the basis that Mr H was still undergoing further  treatment.  
In January 2019, Old Mutual sought further evidence from Mr Hs treating consultant as to 
whether he met the policy definition for TPD, asking specifically about  the extent of his 
limitations. In February 2019,  Old Mutual issued a claims decision. It again explained that it believed the 
true position  of Mr Hs job in 1996 included manual duties. But, even if it was to look at the 
claim on the basis Mr H had previously only undertaken  100% administrative duties, it still 
didnt accept the claim. It said it accepted  that Mr H had some restrictions following the 
cardiac arrest such as dizziness, breathlessness and the inability to drive, this did not 
prevent him from being totally unable to perform  his occupation, whether that occupation 
was 100% administrative or not. 
Mr H complained in March 2019.  He said his job had never been purely administrative, as he 
was required to visit sites.  However, his job was not 75% manual either,  as Old Mutual had 
suggested. He said when he carried out site visits these  were mostly supervisory and 
managerial.  Mr H also said that newer  policies offer cover for cardiac arrest and cardiomyopathy  
Ref: DRN96912012whereas his policy does not include those as listed conditions. If he had been given the 
benefit of revised  conditions  being added to his policy,  then he wouldnt have needed to rely 
on a TPD claim  at all.  
Further, he said it simply wasnt possible for him to return to his job. At that time,  he was 
visiting the hospital twice or three  times per week. He also suffered from arrythmias in 
addition to breathlessness and dizziness, which taken all together  prevented  him from 
working. Though he has returned to work for one or two hours  here and there, this was to 
facilitate a handover  of his duties to others.  He said he remained unable to undertake  an 
active role in the running of the business.   
Old Mutual rejected the complaint. It reiterated that it could not have  offered  either  TPD or 
WOP benefits to Mr H if it had known the actual split of his work duties between manual and 
administrative, and its underwriting  from the time supported that. It noted Mr Hs job had not 
changed since he took out the policy, and on the occupational information form completed 
for the claim,  his IFA confirmed the 25%/75% split. It had therefore revisited what  Mr H had 
declared on his original policy application.   
Old Mutual said it had behaved  more  reasonably in the circumstances than it was obliged  to. 
Under relevant  law, it could have cancelled Mr Hs WOP and TPD benefits from the outset. 
However, it instead considered claims for both benefits against Mr Hs declaration  of being in 
a 100% administrative role.
It said it had dealt with Mr Hs claim  fairly.  While it agreed to review  any future evidence, it 
said the information it had received so far from Mr Hs treating doctors  did not show  that he 
met the TPD policy definition. Further, it said that the terms of the policy were such  that 
newer conditions  could not be added. However,  Mr Hs policy had inclusions such as 
angioplasty benefit and low-grade prostate critical illness cover that newer  policies did not 
include. So it would not be reasonable to amend the policy terms.  
Mr H remained  unhappy and referred the claim to this service,  where it was considered by 
one of our investigators. Our investigator  said there had been confusion about the nature of 
Mr Hs job, but he had clarified the split was a third of his time in an office and two-thirds at 
property sites, where his time was spent inspecting  works, occasionally  at height (ladders or 
scaffolding).   As such,  the investigator said his view was that Old Mutual ought to revisit the claim with the 
clarification of Mr Hs specific  occupation. 
Mr H said the investigator  hadnt  fully appreciated his work situation.  What he had clarified 
with Old Mutual and his IFA at the time of making the claim was that he worked a 25%/75%  
split between office and site work, not between administrative and manual. He did not 
consider any of his job to be manual.   
He also said he disagreed that Old Mutual  would  not have offered TPD benefit had it known 
his job because at the time of the policy application he asked  his financial adviser to put in a 
request for cover for a building surveyor and Old Mutual did not refuse the insurance.  
 Our investigator revised  his view. He said that Old Mutual had since  supplied underwriting  
evidence showing that it could not have  insured  him if it had applied guidance of construction 
jobs as a best fit for Mr Hs occupation  in 1996. So, it was not unfair to refuse the claim as 
Mr H shouldnt have been offered  TPD cover in the first place.   
Ref: DRN96912013Mr H disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. He said it was 
entirely unfair to have  retrospectively assessed his job as one which fell within a construction  
role. He said when  his role was out of the office, it required client viewings, lettings, 
inspections of properties, and day to day management issues. All construction and manual 
labour jobs were referred to contractors. To this end, he supplied witness  statements 
covering a history  of more than 25 years, confirming for that period and beyond, his role 
wasnt a manual one.  
Further, Mr H said his IFA has put his job position  to Old Mutuals pre-underwriting  team and 
it said though  it couldnt offer someone with his line of work own occupation  TPD benefit,  it 
would offer insurance on an activities of daily work basis.   
The matter  was passed to me to consider. However,  I was not able to issue my findings at 
that time.  I asked our investigator  to obtain further  information about the underwriting  in 
1996, specifically  requiring  wider evidence than only the construction  industry  underwriting 
supplied to date.   
Old Mutual supplied the information I had asked for and made some further comments. It 
said though it recognised  what  the witness statements said, Mr H had told it differently in 
September 2018. Based on his comments at the time of the claim, its underwriters have  
confirmed that TPD for Mr H would have  been  declined. Finally, it recognised Mr H is not 
and was not a general builder, but it felt that the general builder role had the best split of 
physical and non-physical occupational demands for retrospective underwriting purposes. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked  carefully at the information,  I agree  with the outcome  reached  by our 
investigator that Old Mutual has fairly refused  Mr Hs TPD claim.  I will not be asking Old 
Mutual to pay a claim now. I realise that isnt the outcome Mr H has hoped  for, but Ill set out 
below why I have  reached my decision.  
Id also like to thank  the parties  for their patience whilst this matter  has reached a final 
decision, particularly  since  once I received the complaint  for decision, it was necessary to 
obtain further evidence from Old Mutual.
When applying for insurance,  if an applicant doesnt  tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. 
Industry guidance and relevant law on consumer disclosures in insurance contracts allows 
an insurer to consider if any misrepresentation occurred from the outset  of a policy. If the 
circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe  a misrepresentation may have 
occurred within an application,  its entitled to consider  what  ought to have  happened  at that 
time. That is what Old Mutual  has done.
At the point of the claim,  Mr H completed a claim form dated  18 September 2018  which  
detailed some of the duties of his occupation   and this form gave a number of manual 
activities as being  a routine part of his work, including lifting, reaching above  head height 
and climbing (set out as ladders and scaffolding).
Ref: DRN96912014I appreciate that Mr H says his position in the company differs from the form, which was filled 
out with his IFA (though signed by Mr H). But, it was this form which conflicted from the 
quoted company Director  profile given to Skandia in 1996. And, the medical evidence from 
one of Mr Hs treating consultants dated 13 September 2018 says Mr H works at height. Old 
Mutual has therefore rightfully looked  at the actual nature of Mr Hs job to decide  what it 
ought to have done in 1996 because the disclosure on his policy application said his job was 
100% administrative. 
Importantly, the underwriting should  be based on Mr Hs role in 1996  not that as quoted for 
by the IFA now. A recent quote  the IFA sought  from Old Mutual is not the same  as an 
assessment of underwriting in 1996  by Skandia, as it used different underwriting  criteria at 
that time.  
To decide what ought to have happened involves  reviewing  the underwriting  guidance from 
that time.  Mr Hs job remains unchanged since 1996, so he can comment  on it now.  He now 
says if he was to define  his role he would liken it to being a property  agent,  project  manager  
and/or building assessor. Having looked  at all the evidence, Mr Hs role is not entirely  
sedentary  around a quarter of his time is spent on desk-based work, with the remainder  
actively travelling by car, meeting clients or assessing properties on site.  
That being  said,  I disagree with the retrospective underwriting  assessment of Old Mutual, 
where it alleged  the closest  fit to Mr Hs stated  job was that of a general builder. After it 
replied to my request supplying underwriting for all types of occupation as at 1996, I do not 
agree that Mr Hs stated  occupation best fits that of general builder. The list of occupations 
under Professional/Managerial/Clerical  includes occupations of Building Inspector and 
Surveyor (Administration Only) and Surveyor  (On Site). 
In my view, Mr Hs role best fits that of Surveyor (On Site). That encompasses the bulk of 
Mr Hs employment, where  more time is spent at property locations  (not undertaking labour 
but nonetheless performing some activities such as bending  or climbing  to inspect works) 
than completing administrative work  in the office. But, it makes the distinction from a builder 
or construction role which the evidence shows is manual labour specifically carried out by 
third-party contractors, not Mr H. The underwriting manual for the Surveyor role shows that 
Skandia would have offered him TPD cover, albeit  at an additional  rating of +200.
However, this still does not mean  I find that Old Mutual should have done anything  differently 
and I believe it has acted  fairly in the context of this complaint. 
Though Old Mutual took the view there  had been a misrepresentation given the confusion 
over Mr Hs duties,  it did not apply any retrospective rating,  nor has it voided  his TPD cover,  
despite insisting  that it couldnt have offered it in 1996. So, it has chosen to disregard any 
misrepresentation and it wont  make  any changes to Mr Hs policy,  where it could have 
applied a retrospective rating  for misrepresentation.  
Instead, it reviewed the claim against what was stated on the policy application  to Skandia.  
Old Mutual has gone further than relevant industry  guidance or law on misrepresentation 
sets out and it is prepared to carry on measuring Mr H against the 100% administrative 
occupation he stated  in the 1996  application  form, since this was undertaken with the 
previous insurer. Given  Mr H now asserts that he did not undertake manual roles, this is a 
reasonable response from Old Mutual  in the circumstances where it had no part in offering 
the policy or the initial disclosure on the application  form in 1996.  
Ref: DRN96912015Looking at the TPD definition, it sets out that it shall mean total, permanent  and irreversible 
disability by reason  of accident or illness to the extent that the Life Assured is unable to and 
will never again be able to perform his own occupation.   
Notably this definition  is a higher threshold  than that required for a waiver of premium  claim, 
which can be met where a policyholder has a period of more than six months with a 
disability. TPD goes  further and requires that the policyholder  can never again return  to his 
or her stated occupation because of a total, permanent and irreversible disability.  
The evidence from Mr Hs consultant(s) thus far doesnt set that out. It is stated by his 
consultant cardiologist that he may regain his licence from the DVLA  in due course. It is also 
set out that he cannot perform many on-site tasks because of proximity to equipment  which 
may interfere with Mr Hs implantable cardioverter  defibrillator, which  was fitted  after his 
surgery.  However, though  Mr H may be prevented  from visiting  certain  sites,  it is not evidenced  as to 
how this, alongside  the symptoms of dizziness, breathlessness and concentration issues are 
permanent impairments  such  that Mr H couldnt  return to his job, with adjustments or in 
some reduced capacity. So, at the time Old Mutual  had receipt of the relevant medical 
information I cannot conclude that it was unreasonable or unfair  to refuse  the claim as the 
threshold for a valid claim is to be unable to complete his job ever again. 
Old Mutual has told Mr H that it will reassess the claim at any time. Given Old Mutual  is 
willing to keep the policy as it was, Mr H may wish to engage his treating consultant and ask 
that his inability to work  is looked at against  1) the policy definition and 2) the job stated on 
his 1996 policy application, which is that of Director of a property company (100% 
administrative). If Mr H still has not returned to work whilst  the policy is in force, he may also wish to require 
that Old Mutual  appoint  an independent  medical examiner to assess his incapability against 
the specific administrative duties  of his employment. 
As an aside,  I know Mr H has also stated he feels it is unfair  that Old Mutual will not allow  a 
claim for cardiac  arrest  or cardiomyopathy but Old Mutual has rightly looked at the contract 
of insurance that exists  between itself and Mr H, that it took over from Skandia.  Those two 
conditions are not included in his policy terms.  
I realise Mr H feels that it is unfair  for Old Mutual  not to update  policies when new conditions 
are added with periodic revisions  to its critical illness insurance offering. But I have to look at 
the contract  of insurance between the parties, and it doesnt allow for variations of that 
nature.  That is fair because  when looking at industry codes of practice (from the Association of 
British Insurers) for suggested  wording in critical illness  policies, some  model  critical 
illnesses have had the wording become more stringent over time. This is due to medical  
developments in certain fields meaning some  diseases have become less serious  or carry a 
lower risk than they might have done  before.
If an insurer could amend an existing policyholders terms and conditions each time it 
revised its insurance offering for new customers,  some types of policy  wording would 
become harder to meet  or could be removed. Whilst some  changes might be advantageous, 
Ref: DRN96912016others could be equally  detrimental  and a policyholder wouldnt know  if he or she may go 
on in the future to make a claim  under an amended term. On that basis,  the terms and 
conditions of long-term insurance  policies like these  remain fixed from the outset.  
my final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr Hs circumstances, I cannot uphold  his complaint. That is 
because Old Mutual has reasonably refused his TPD claim since (at the time of the claim) it 
did not meet  the terms of his policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2020.
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9691201