K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with what British Gas Insurance Limited (British  Gas) did after the boiler  in a 
property he owns failed  an emissions test in January 2019. 
background
Mr S has insurance with British Gas which covers repairs to the boiler in his rented property. 
In mid-January the boiler failed an emissions test which British Gas said was because  of a 
problem with the flue. However, it said the parts  for this were now obsolete.  Mr S sourced 
the part at an approved  supplier. British  Gas then said Mr S could order this himself and it 
would reimburse  the cost.  Mr S said he couldnt do that because of difficulties in getting the 
part delivered. He also raised concerns about  being given incorrect  information  by British 
Gas over whether  scaffolding required to replace the flue would be covered under  his policy.  
Mr S didnt get a response to those queries and says he therefore had no choice but to 
arrange for the boiler to be replaced which he did on 30 January. He said British Gas should  
pay him the costs  it would have incurred if it had carried out the work  to his boiler. British 
Gas acknowledged  Mr S had been  given incorrect information about  whether flue 
replacement was covered and the position on scaffolding. It also accepted there had been 
delays in responding to him. However,  it didnt agree any compensation was due. 
Our investigator thought there had been a number of failings by British Gas which  had 
caused Mr S inconvenience.  He thought it should  pay £300 in recognition  of this. British  Gas 
didnt agree but didnt provide any further comment.  
Mr S didnt agree either. He felt British Gas had tried to manipulate  him into buying a new 
boiler and said he only had its word that the flue was the cause of the problem. He said if the 
parts for his boiler  were  obsolete British Gas had taken payment for insurance  when  it 
couldnt deliver on the contract. He continued  to feel it should pay him the costs it would 
have incurred if the work to his boiler had been  carried out. He said that was around £1,200.  
So I need to reach a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr S has found this a difficult and distressing  experience and hes made a 
number of detailed  points about what he feels British  Gas got wrong and the reasons for 
that. However, while I have considered the issues he raised I dont think its possible or 
appropriate for me to respond  to each individual point. Ive sought to focus on what  seem to 
me to be the key issues. 
Mr S has queried whether  the flue was the cause of the problem with his boiler.  As the boiler 
has now been replaced I dont see theres  a way of confirming  that - though as the boiler 
failed an emissions  test it does seem  plausible there  was a problem  with the flue. But it 
doesnt seem to be in dispute British Gas got things wrong after that. It provided  inaccurate 
information about whether work  to the flue and the cost of scaffolding would be covered. And 
it initially told Mr S the replacement part for his boiler was obsolete. That wasnt correct as 
Mr S was subsequently  able to find the part at a British  Gas approved  supplier.  
Ref: DRN95532062Mr S has said if British  Gas wasnt able to provide insurance because the parts  were  
obsolete then it wasnt providing the cover  hed paid for. However, his policy says Well try 
to get parts  from the original manufacturer or our approved suppliers. If we cant  get hold of 
the parts we need we may need to cancel your agreement (or part of it) unless youre eligible 
for a replacement. So if parts arent available the policy does allow British Gas to cancel it. 
But that isnt what  happened here; the parts were available from an approved  supplier. The 
issue is that British  Gas wrongly  suggested  they werent. 
British Gas also suggested the relevant part could only have been ordered with a new boiler  
but that doesnt appear to be correct  either.  Our investigator contacted the supplier who told 
us it could only be ordered as an individual part and wouldnt  be supplied with a new boiler.  
Given this was a British Gas approved supplier I think  it would have been reasonable of 
British Gas to obtain the part itself rather than telling Mr S hed need to do that. British Gas 
has also accepted  there  were delays in it responding to Mr S while he was waiting  for his 
boiler to be repaired.  
Mr S feels  these  issues were part of a deliberate attempt by British  Gas to persuade him to 
buy a new boiler  from it. Ive not seen other  evidence of that but, in any case, I dont need to 
determine that. Its not in dispute  that, for whatever  reason,  British  Gas got things
wrong. And I agree with our investigator  that this will have caused Mr S unnecessary 
inconvenience at a time when he was clearly concerned about the wellbeing of his tenants 
who were without a working boiler  during the winter  period. 
But I dont think the right outcome is for British Gas to pay him what  it would  have cost to 
carry out the repairs. Where we find a business has got something wrong wed look to put a 
complainant back  in the position theyd have been  but for the problem. In this case the costs 
Mr S has referenced  arent ones hes had to pay out so they arent a loss to him. I appreciate 
he has paid for a new boiler  but as his previous  boiler was well over 25 years  old 
replacement isnt something thats covered by his policy. And he and his tenants do now 
have the benefit of a new boiler (which  Mr S has recognised himself). So I dont think thats 
something it would be appropriate for British Gas to reimburse him for either.  
I think the loss to Mr S is the inconvenience caused by the delay and provision of inaccurate 
information by British Gas. I accept  that will have  caused him uncertainty about what the 
position was with the repairs  and will have put him to some unnecessary trouble (for 
example in researching the costs of scaffolding). However, in considering fair compensation 
Ive also taken into account the relatively short period these issues  took place over which 
was around two weeks from mid January  until the start of February.  On balance I think  the 
compensation our investigator recommended of £300 is the fair amount in this case. 
Ref: DRN95532063my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. British Gas Insurance Limited will need to pay Mr S 
£300. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9553206