K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained that American Express Services  Europe  Limited  (Amex) has unfairly
declined his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
Im aware this matter  has also affected  his wife, Mrs P. However, as Mr P is the cardholder,
hes the eligible  complainant under our rules,  not Mrs P. For this reason I refer only to him,
and I intend no discourtesy  to Mrs P.
background
facts
Mr P decided to buy a new kitchen, from a supplier I will call O. Unfortunately,  it didnt
arrive. Despite repeated  attempts  to contact O about  it, he remained (and remains)  without
the new kitchen.  The cost was £24,818, but Mr P paid a total of £24,718. Hes explained this
was because O didnt  take an £100 payment, although its unclear why this was. As I
understand it, O is now in liquidation, so this may explain  it. Mr P paid £1,688 of the total
using his Amex  credit card. Amex has refunded this amount,  on the basis  of non-receipt of
goods/services, by way of chargeback. But Mr P wanted Amex to reimburse the rest of the
money he paid, so lodged a claim  under  section  75. 
Amex considered his claim, but declined  it. It said that it didnt meet  the requirements of
section 75. It said there had been a fourth party called Stripe involved when Mr P made  the
payment on his Amex  card. It said that the involvement of Stripe in the transaction  meant  the
requirements of section 75 hadnt  been  met.
Mr P was unhappy with this, and brought a complaint  to our service.  He said that he hadnt
been aware of Stripes involvement, and that his Amex card statement showed the name of
the supplier, O. He thinks it should have shown  Stripe, so hed have been aware there  was
another party involved. Had he known,  he says hed have cancelled the payment and made
it by other  means, so as to ensure he had the protection of section 75.
One of our adjudicators looked  at what had happened. She agreed  that the involvement of
Stripe had broken the debtor-creditor-supplier (d-c-s) link that section 75 requires. Ill
explain more about what this is, and what it means,  below.
Mr P felt this was unfair.  In summary, he said that Amexs terms and conditions  made  no
mention of a fourth party meaning  the link was broken.
The complaint was then passed to me. As I disagreed  with our adjudicator, I issued a 
provisional decision setting out my reasoning.
my provisional decision
First, I will clarify my role. I am not a court. That means Im not deciding  Amexs liability
under section 75. My role is to take into account  the law, which  includes section 75. Then
having done so, I need to decide what I think is fair and reasonable. So, Ive thought  about
whether Amex did enough when  it looked at Mr Ps claim and, if not, what  it should do to put
things right.
I appreciate what Mr P has said about the terms and conditions. I will not comment on this
Ref: DRN92491342though, because I dont think the complaint turns  on it. So I am not making  a finding on this
point. Rather, I disagree with Amexs interpretation  of how the role of Stripe affects the d-c-s
link. My provisional decision is that it doesnt.  Ill explain why.
Section 75(1) says the following:
Liability of creditor for breaches by supplier.
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within  section 12(b) or
(c) has, in relation  to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation  or breach of contract, he shall have a like
claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and
severally liable to the debtor.
So, if there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract by O, then its fair to require Amex
to put things right  provided the requirements of section 75 are met.
Amex said in its letter to Mr P, dated 26 January  2018, that there  is no d-c-s link, so this
requirement of section 75 hasnt been met. It said:
Stripe is a Merchant of American  Express but they act only as an aggregator, they
are not the supplier  of goods/services as defined by section 75. As there  is no
contractual link between American  Express and [O], we cannot be held liable for their
alleged failings to you.
I agree  that Stripe isnt the supplier. The supplier is O. But in a 2007 case in the House of
Lords - Office  of Fair Trading (Respondents) v. Lloyds TSB Bank plc and others (Appellants)
and others  (Respondents) [2007]  UKHL 48 - the judgment said, regarding transactions paid
for by credit card:
Almost invariably - leaving aside American  Express and Diners Club, who make
their own arrangements - they are entered into today as part of a four-party
transaction. But there is nothing in the language  of section  75(1) to indicate  that
transactions of that kind are excluded from the right of recourse.
(I note here that the reference to Amex is historical,  so I dont consider this reference  to be
relevant to Amexs  arrangements  in 2017, when Stripe was involved in Mr Ps transaction.)
In the same  judgment, it also said:
In the courts below,  the appellant card issuers contended that the consequence of
the development of four-party schemes  - whereby a credit card can be used to pay a
supplier not recruited into the network  by, and not in a contractual relationship  with,
the relevant card issuer - was that there were no arrangements, pre-existing or in
contemplation, between that card issuer and supplier  within  the meaning of s 12(b)  of
the 1974 Act. So, they submitted, section 75(1) could have no application. Both
Gloster J [2005] 1 All ER 843 and the Court of Appeal (Waller, Smith and Moore-Bick
LJJ) [2007] QB 1 rejected that submission, and the House refused permission to
appeal on the point.
Its clear to me that the court decided that the involvement of a fourth  party, that wasnt in a
contractual relationship with the card issuer, didnt  necessarily  break  the link. I see no
Ref: DRN92491343reason why it would  be fair or reasonable of me to depart from the courts findings.
Amex has described  Stripe  as being its merchant.  It is clear to me that under section 12(b)
of the Consumer Credit  Act, referred to above, there only need to be d-c-s arrangements
between the parties  (including the contemplation of future arrangements)  - there doesnt
need to be a contractual link between them. So if Amex signed up Stripe as a merchant,
knowing what Stripes business  model was, then I consider  that this was reasonably  within
the contemplation of Amex - and therefore  meets the d-c-s requirements. This wasnt a
private arrangement  between O and Stripe.
Even if Stripe were not a merchant of Amex, it has certainly  acted as a payment aggregator
 and Amex has also described it as acting as such. And Im not satisfied that is sufficient
to break the d-c-s link, because there would have been an arrangement in place, or the
contemplation of future arrangements. But in any event, is seems clear that Stripe was
signed up as a merchant.
The involvement of Stripe is a reflection of how modern day transactions  may take place.
And Im satisfied the wording of the legislation does not preclude such  modern day
developments from being covered by section 75. Amex was aware that Stripe would be a
party to transactions   it has described  it as both its merchant  and an aggregator. And Ive
explained why, in Mr Ps case, this does not affect the d-c-s link.
So, to summarise.
O had an agreement  with Stripe, specifically so it could accept card payments from
providers such as Amex.
Amex has a merchant  agreement with Stripe,  so that Stripe can offer card payment
services to retailers such as O.
Amex is aware of Stripes operating model,  and that it provides facilities to retailers
that wish to accept  payments made  by Amex.
Whilst Amex has no direct  agreement with O, the legislation  speaks of
arrangements.
The link connecting O, Stripe and Amex  is sufficient, for the reasons Ive explained,
to bring Mr Ps transaction  within the scope of section 75.
For these reasons, I dont  think  Amex  acted fairly  in turning down Mr Ps claim on the
basis of there being no d-c-s.  This means I need  to think about  what  Amex  should  do to put
things right.
I dont think its in dispute that theres  been  a breach of contract  by the supplier. Despite
Mr Ps best efforts, he remains without the kitchen. Amex appears to have  already  accepted
there was a breach of contract, given  it gave a refund through the chargeback mechanism.
And from my own research, O is in liquidation. So it looks as if Mr P will not be getting  the
kitchen he paid for.
Ive looked at what Mr P paid, and when. Its as follows:
31 May 2016. This was a payment of £1,000, by debit card. Mr P has explained he
no longer has this account,  but has provided proof  of the transaction  in the form of
a receipt from O.
28 April 2017. This was for £9,149.56  by bank transfer. (I note that there were two
payments out, but one was in error  and was re-credited.)
Ref: DRN9249134429 September 2017. This was for £12,880.44 and was by bank transfer.
7 December 2017. This was the £1,688 paid on Mr Ps Amex card, which  has already
been refunded.
As there has been a breach of contract by the supplier, and Im satisfied d-c-s is in place, I
think its fair that Amex  refunds Mr P the amounts above, that it hasnt yet refunded.  And as
Mr P has been without the funds, it should  add 8% simple interest a year to each amount,
from the date Mr P made  each payment, to the date of settlement.
I cannot award compensation for the distress  and inconvenience Mr P has suffered because
of Os failings. But Ive thought about whether Amex has also caused him distress and
inconvenience. I think it has. As Ive explained, I think  it was unfair  of Amex not to meet
Mr Ps claim. This has caused him considerable worry, as he thought he would never recoup
his significant  loss. I think it fair that Amex pays him £250 compensation to reflect this.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr P agreed with my provisional findings.
Amex did not. It did not agree that, in this case, there are the required arrangements  in 
place pursuant  to section 12b of the Consumer Credit Act. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am upholding  Mr Ps complaint. I accept of course  that each case  must be 
considered on its merits. And, sometimes a scenario  may not be sufficient to have in place 
the required d-c-s link. However, I am satisfied it is in place here. Or in other words, Im 
satisfied that there are the required arrangements in place under section 12b of the 
Consumer Credit Act, for section 75 to apply.
This is for the same  reasons as I set out in my provisional decision,  which  is set out above  
and forms part of this decision. Amexs response had not added anything further to persuade  
me to depart from my position.  There is also further  case law to support  my position.  This is 
the High Courts judgment in Governor and Company of the Bank of Scotland  v Alfred 
Truman (a firm) [2005] EWHC 583 (QB).
Here, the court  was considering a five-party structure (a debtor, a card-issuer, a merchant 
acquirer, a solicitors firm and a car dealership).  The fifth party, the car dealership, had no 
contractual or other  direct  relationship with either  the Visa or MasterCard  scheme. But it was
held that there still existed  arrangements  sufficient  for d-c-s to be in place.
In Mr Ps case, this argument is even stronger. This is because  it involves a four-party 
structure - and Stripe is specifically and publicly in the business of payment processing.  And 
Amex had a specific  agreement in place with it. So, in Mr Ps case the card issuer  would 
seem in a stronger position both to know about  and to influence  or prevent the activities of 
the payment processor  than the card issuers were in the Truman  case.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that Amex should  have  met Mr Ps claim. I note, in this regard, that 
its clear Mr P did not receive his kitchen, and no dispute has been raised about this. To put 
Ref: DRN92491345things right, Amex  should refund the payments Mr P made  (which  I set out above, and 
excluding the refund it has already  given),  adding 8% simple  interest  a year,  as Mr P has 
been without these funds. It should also pay him £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the claim not being  met when I consider it should reasonably have 
been.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision to uphold this complaint.  I require  
American Express Services Europe Limited  to:
refund  Mr P the payments he has made,  that it has not already refunded, adding 8% 
simple interest a year, from the date of each payment to the date of settlement*; and
pay him £250 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
*If Amex considers  it should deduct income tax from any 8% interest element of my
award it may do so, but should give Mr P the necessary certificate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2020.
Elspeth Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9249134