K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr J initially complained also about  another credit card. But he didn't take out PPI with that 
credit card. So in my decision Im just looking at the way he was sold PPI with a credit card 
in April 1998. 
When he was in a Halifax branch, Mr J bought the policy at the same  time as taking out a 
credit card in April 1998. It protected his monthly card repayments  if he couldnt work  as a 
result of accident, sickness or unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  comes  to me to make a final decision.  
Mr J mainly says that PPI was never mentioned and he didnt know  he had it. He also told us 
he didnt ever take out PPI as he didnt need  it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Js complaint.
On the form Mr J completed to get his credit  card theres a pre-printed cross  in the box to 
have PPI added to the account. I think this probably reflects what Mr J told the advisor he 
wanted. Mr J signed  the completed agreement next to where  it says:  Sign it only if you want 
to be legally bound by its terms. So I dont think its likely  that Mr J wouldve signed the 
completed form before carefully reading all the information to make sure it was correct. 
On balance, I find that Halifax made Mr J aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose 
to take it.
Halifax told us it recommended the PPI to Mr J. If a business makes a recommendation 
about PPI, it doesnt  just have to give important policy  information  in a clear  way. It also has 
to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Mr J was eligible for the policy. He told us that he was entitled  to 6 months full sick pay 
followed by 6 months half pay from his employer. But the policy couldve paid out for as long 
as Mr J was off work as a result of accident  or disability or if he lost his job and was made 
unexpectedly unemployed  so it couldve cleared the outstanding balance on Mr Js card if 
he wasnt able to go back to work.  And repeat claims were possible. 
Ref: DRN94356502I dont know if hed always have  had savings he could rely on. And having PPI meant Mr J 
wasnt at risk of being forced to sell his car  perhaps when he mightnt get as much as he 
hoped for. 
Being entitled to redundancy  benefits wouldnt have helped Mr J if he was off work sick. And 
PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to any redundancy money he mightve got if hed lost his 
job, giving  him some  additional  financial  security  in those circumstances. 
Relying  on someone  else to help out in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
So I think the PPI couldve been  useful if Mr J had needed to make a claim. And I think 
Halifaxs recommendation was suitable in his particular circumstances. 
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  There were some circumstances when the policy wouldnt pay out. But 
I dont think having  more information  about  that wouldve  put Mr J off taking out PPI. I say 
this because it doesnt look as if there wouldve been any reason  why Mr J wouldnt have  
been able to take advantage of all the policy benefits. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr J when he bought  the policy.  But he chose  
to take out the policy when he didnt have to  so he seems to have  wanted  it. And it seems  
to have been affordable for him at the time.  Mr J couldve cancelled  the policy  anytime and 
without incurring any extra cost if he no longer  wanted to pay for it or he decided  he didnt 
want PPI any longer. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr J still wouldve  decided to buy the policy if hed been better informed  as it gave him 
useful protection  in his particular situation.  I dont think  better  information  wouldve stopped  
him buying it.
This means  I dont  find that Mr J has lost out as a result of anything that Halifax  mightve 
done wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9435650