K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the sale of a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.  
Mrs W says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC), trading then as Midland Bank, mis-sold it to her. 
background
Mrs W took out a monthly premium PPI policy in 1995, when she applied to HSBC for a 
mortgage. Its not entirely clear how the PPI was sold,  but she thinks it was during a 
meeting. HSBC says the policy was cancelled in 2002 and the mortgage ended  in 2018.
Mrs W feels the PPI was mis-sold. Among other things she says she wasnt given a choice, 
wouldnt have agreed to have PPI and wasnt aware shed taken the policy out. And she 
says she didnt really  understand what PPI was.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. But Mrs W disagreed, so the 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mrs Ws case.
Having done that, I dont  think  the PPI policy was mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Not surprisingly after such a long time, the paperwork  from the sale is no longer available.  
And there arent any records now of what was discussed about PPI when Mrs W applied for 
the mortgage, although Mrs W does recall having  a conversation  of some sort about  it. So I 
have to decide what I think most probably happened,  based  on what Mrs W can remember  
and what HSBC has been able to tell us about its usual sales process at that time.
Mrs W says she didnt know the PPI was optional and wouldnt have agreed to have it. But 
HSBC says Mrs W wouldve been  offered a choice, and the PPI wouldnt have been added 
without her consent. 
I cant be sure that HSBC followed its normal sales procedure on this occasion. But I think  it 
probably did. I cant fairly say that HSBC didnt give Mrs W a choice or get her agreement, 
just because it doesnt still have the relevant  paperwork  around 25 years later.  And equally 
understandably after so long, Mrs Ws memory  of the sale is very limited. On balance  I think  
its likely  Mrs W decided  to have PPI, knowing she had a choice  even if she doesnt recall 
that now. And Ive seen  nothing to suggest that she was put under unfair  pressure to have it.
Its not clear whether  HSBC recommended the PPI to Mrs W personally. But in order  to be 
fair to her Ive looked at the complaint as if it did, because this put extra responsibility on 
HSBC. It meant HSBC had to check that the PPI was right for her. I dont know what, if any 
steps it took to do that. But based on what Ive been  told about her circumstances at the 
time, and looking at the policy  she took out, I think it was suitable for Mrs W. In particular, I 
think she was eligible for the PPI and at the time she bought it she wouldnt have  been  
affected by any of the main things it didnt cover.  
Ref: DRN95125942HSBC also had to give Mrs W good enough information about the cost and main  features of 
the PPI. HSBC has told us that as part of its standard sales process, as well as its adviser 
explaining the PPI to her, Mrs W wouldve been  given documents  which  provided details of 
the cover. I think its still possible that the information Mrs W got about the policy  before she 
bought it wasnt  as clear  or full as it shouldve  been.  Mrs W certainly  feels it wasnt.  But as 
Ive said, I think she probably chose to have PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And as Ill explain  below, to my mind the policy  couldve been  useful for her. So I dont 
think getting better information  about the PPI wouldve put her off taking  it out.
Mrs W has told us that in 1995 she wouldve been entitled to some  sick pay from her job. But 
the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this and couldve continued  for up to 12 months at a time 
 much longer  than her sick pay.  It would also have paid out if shed lost her job, in addition  
to any redundancy  payment she mightve got. And Mrs W has told us she had no savings or 
other means  she couldve used for her mortgage  repayments, if she wasnt earning.
Ive taken into account that Mrs W says she was a first time buyer  with no experience of 
mortgage transactions. Shes also said money was tight at the time and she feels she was 
taken advantage of by HSBC. Ive thought carefully about this. But she was borrowing a 
large amount over a long period, in her sole name  and secured on her home. So the effect of 
not keeping up her mortgage  repayments  couldve been very serious, and in my view the 
PPI offered  her useful  protection and some peace  of mind. It initially cost under £9 a month 
and Ive not been shown  that this was unaffordable for her.
Overall, based on what Ive been  told about her circumstances  when she took it out, I think  
the PPI couldve  been helpful  for Mrs W.  And  as she was paying for it monthly, she could 
cancel it at any time without further  cost if her situation  changed  or she no longer wanted it. 
Shes said she didnt  know she had PPI, but from what HSBC  has told us I think  its likely  
that she wouldve  been given written details  of the policy  when she took it out, or sent them 
soon afterwards, and also that the premiums she paid for it wouldve appeared on her 
account statements. And HSBC says it has no record of her ever querying  those  payments.
Mrs W has complained too that she wasnt told she could take out PPI elsewhere instead, if 
she wanted to. But HSBC didnt have to tell her that, as long as it made it clear she didnt 
have to have the policy  it was offering  which as Ive said,  I think  it probably  did. Shes also 
told us she later became  self-employed, which  she feels mightve  affected  her ability to claim 
on the PPI from then on. But this decision is only concerned with her circumstances when 
HSBC sold it to her, at which  time she was an employee.
Ive thought about everything Mrs W and her representatives have told us. Its difficult  to 
decide a case  like this where theres very little information available  about  the sale,  which  
took place so many years  ago. I know Mrs W has put time and effort  into her complaint, feels  
strongly about it and will be disappointed by this outcome. But on balance,  looking at all the 
information Ive got, I dont think  I can fairly  and reasonably say the PPI was mis-sold to her.
That means HSBC  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W. But HSBC  
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because when the policy  was sold,  
HSBC expected to get a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it shouldve told Mrs W about that. Because HSBC  didnt tell Mrs W, that 
was unfair.  To put that right, HSBC  has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  thats fair in this case.
Ref: DRN95125943my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc doesnt  have  to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs W. But it does have  to pay back to Mrs W any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, and if so I dont award any further  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Chris Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9512594