K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that Yorkshire  Building Society  wont let him move his mortgage  to a new 
interest rate without  an early repayment  charge  (ERC). He also complains that it hasnt 
helped him reduce his interest only balance.
background 
Mr T took out a mortgage with YBS some time ago. Around ten years ago, he became 
unwell and to help with financial difficulties while he couldnt work, the mortgage was 
temporarily converted to interest only. The switch  was made permanent in 2011. Over the 
next few years, up to 2016, Mr T was in arrears  he says because he was being taken 
advantage of by another  person.
By 2016, Mr T was back up to date with the mortgage. But his health condition had 
worsened  and continues to worsen  and Mr T was concerned about being unable  to 
repay the balance  when  the term ends in 2032. He asked YBS to switch  the mortgage  back 
to repayment  terms. 
YBS assessed his circumstances and didnt think a full switch  to repayment was affordable. 
It agreed to convert part of the mortgage to repayment and leave the rest on interest only.  
Mr T also took a five-year fixed interest rate at this time.
In the years  since 2016, Mr T has made  regular overpayments. He has a direct debit set up 
to collect more than the contractual  payment, and also makes ad hoc payments when he 
can. His aim is to ensure the mortgage  is paid off by the end of the term.
Mr T says YBS hasnt  helped him with this. It applies his overpayments to the repayment  
element of his mortgage by default,  so he had to contact it every month and ask it to apply 
them to the interest  only part instead.  Mr T hadnt  realised this at first, so some of the 
payments were used  to reduce  his repayment  balance.
Mr T says he doesnt understand how much hes allowed to overpay by each year,  and 
doesnt know exactly what he would  need  to pay to ensure the mortgage is paid off by the 
end of the term. He says its in YBSs interests  as much as his to help him with that, but he 
cant get answers to his questions.
Mr T is also concerned that his condition continues to worsen and that this will affect his 
ability to proactively manage his mortgage in the medium  to long term. His five-year fixed  
rate expires in August  2021, and hes worried that by then he might  not be able to manage 
the mortgage himself  or be able to apply  for a new rate. He asked YBS to agree to give him 
a new interest rate, ideally  for ten years, now  which would mean he could set up a direct  
debit for the rest of the term and not need to worry. But if he exited the five-year  rate to do 
that now, he would have to pay an ERC of around  £5,000. He asked YBS to take account of 
his particular circumstances and agree to waive the ERC as a reasonable adjustment.
YBS didnt agree to waive the ERC.  It said it would  be applied  until the end of the rate. Mr T 
could apply for a new rate three months before the old one expires  around May 2021. And 
he could appoint a power of attorney to manage the mortgage on his behalf if he didnt  think  
hed be able to do that. In any case,  it doesnt currently offer ten-year rates.  The longest rate 
it currently offers is five years.
Ref: DRN98253052Mr T brought  his case to us. Our investigator didnt ask YBS to waive the ERC.  But he said 
YBS should  ensure that the mortgage  was re-calculated so that all the overpayments since  
2016 were applied to the interest only element. And it should make  sure the same happened 
with each overpayment  Mr T makes in the future  writing to him each month to confirm  that 
has happened. He also said YBS could have done more to help Mr T to understand what 
was happening with his mortgage  and what he would  need to pay. He recommended it 
increase an offer of £130 compensation it had made  when he first complained  to £400. 
YBS accepted what the investigator  said. Mr T said he understood why the ERC couldnt be 
waived. But he didnt  think YBS had done enough to help him or to recognise that he wanted  
the interest only mortgage to be repaid and needed to understand how he could do that. He 
thought it could have put more of the mortgage on repayment terms in 2016. He asked for 
an ombudsman to review  the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear of Mr Ts condition and the impact it has on him. I can appreciate  that things 
havent been easy for him in recent years, and I can understand  why he wants above all to 
secure his future. 
Ive therefore  thought  very carefully about  what its fair to ask YBS to do in this case. I accept 
 its not in dispute  that Mr T has a disability. But I dont think the legal obligation  to make 
reasonable adjustments is a factor here. The purpose of that duty is to ensure adjustments 
are made to a provision,  criterion  or practice  that puts a person with a disability at a 
disadvantage compared to a person without a disability.  But the duty is only to make  
adjustments that are reasonable and dont fundamentally  alter the nature of the service.
The courts have said that changing the nature of a mortgage  for example, from repayment  
to interest only  goes  beyond whats  required by way of a reasonable adjustment. So I dont 
think YBS is required to convert Mr Ts mortgage to repayment for that reason. And while Im 
not aware of a case in which its been considered, theres to my mind  a fundamental 
difference between  a mortgage with an early  repayment charge and a mortgage  without  one. 
I dont think its likely  a court would say waiving an ERC would be required by way of 
reasonable adjustment either.
However, in deciding this case I dont simply  look at what the law says. Relevant law is one 
of the things I take into account  but in the end Im deciding whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. So the key question  I have to answer is whether I think  it would be fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances to ask YBS to waive  the ERC.
The purpose of doing so would be to allow Mr T to bring his existing fixed  rate to an end and 
select another. He wants certainty of payments for the rest of his mortgage term, so that he 
can be sure what  he needs  to pay to clear  it by the end, and so that if in future  hes unable to 
manage it himself theres no risk hell revert to a higher standard variable rate by default.
I can see why Mr T would want those things. But Im not persuaded that waiving the ERC  
now would  help him achieve them. His rate ends in August 2021, and he can book a new 
rate three months before that, in May 2021.  Thats only six months  from now.  And while  I 
can understand Mr Ts worries, Ive seen no medical  evidence to suggest  that hes at risk of 
Ref: DRN98253053a sudden and substantial deterioration in his condition such that its likely he wouldnt be 
able to do in six months  time what he can now. 
Also, even if Mr T were  to fix a new rate now rather than in six months, it wouldnt take him 
near to the end of the term in 2032.  YBS doesnt offer ten-year rates,  as Mr T says he wants. 
Its longest current rates are for five years. A new five-year rate now will expire not in 2032 
but in 2025  and if back-dated to when Mr T asked, in 2024. 
I therefore dont  think that taking  out a new product now will have the impact on his position 
Mr T considers it will. And waiving the ERC comes at a cost to YBS.  Im not persuaded that 
its something YBS should fairly be required  to do.
When his current fixed rate was taken  out in 2016, it was the longest rate YBS had available  
at the time. That met Mr Ts requirement  for longer term stability. And I can see from the 
notes at the time that YBS explored  whether  the whole mortgage  could be converted  to 
repayment, but that wasnt affordable   so it agreed to convert the most it could. 
I think it was working with Mr T to help him pay as much of his mortgage off as possible. 
Mr T says hes been able to overpay each month in the years since,  and therefore  could  
have afforded  to convert more in the first place. But I dont think thats necessarily the case.
Thats because affordability doesnt  just mean whether Mr T can make the payments at any 
moment in time. The rules of mortgage  regulation set out a very strict affordability 
assessment that must be carried out. Thats  important, because  once  a mortgage (or change  
to a mortgage, as here)  is agreed, the borrower is contractually bound to keep up with the 
payments. If Mr T makes  voluntary overpayments,  nothing happens if he misses one. But if 
hes committed to paying that amount, he would go into arrears if he didnt. I dont think the 
fact that Mr T has been able to make overpayments since 2016 means that YBS was wrong 
to say that he failed  an affordability  assessment for the whole  amount  on repayment terms. 
Since 2016, Mr T has been making overpayments.  His clear purpose in doing  so is to reduce  
the interest only element. For some time, YBS was apportioning his overpayments  across  
both the interest  only and repayment elements. More recently, Mr T had to contact it each 
month specifically to request that the whole overpayment go to the interest only part.
Since our investigators involvement, Im pleased  to say that YBS has re-calculated  Mr Ts 
mortgage so that the whole of the overpayments hes made since 2016  have  now been 
allocated to the interest only part. And its agreed to make sure that continues to happen  
going forward, and will write to Mr T each month to confirm it has done  so. I think  thats fair. 
YBS has also, via the investigator, let Mr T know what he would need  to pay each  month for 
the rest of the term to ensure its paid off. Thats based  on his current interest rate, which 
expires next year. But when he takes  a new interest  rate in 2021, it should  give him a 
revised figure.
As I say, Im pleased that YBS has now re-allocated Mr Ts overpayments and will continue 
to do so in the future. But it could  have done so sooner. Its been  aware  for some  time of his 
situation and the difficulty he has in getting in touch each month. So it should  have made  
arrangements to ensure his overpayments always go to the interest only element much  
sooner. I think the delay  in doing so has caused Mr T substantial  upset and inconvenience, 
and I agree £400 compensation is fair  including whats  already been paid..
Ref: DRN98253054my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Yorkshire Building Society to:
Increase its offer of compensation to £400  in total;
Continue to allocate Mr Ts overpayments wholly to the interest  only element of his 
mortgage, and write  to him each month to update him on what  its done;
Pro-actively contact Mr T at the earliest time in 2021 he can book a new interest rate 
and work  with him to select the most appropriate one;
When putting the new rate in place, tell Mr T what overpayments he would need to 
make each  month to ensure the mortgage  would be paid off by the end of the term.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN9825305