K821x#15Complaint
Mr S complains HSBC UK Bank  Plc trading as First Direct (First  Direct) should refund him a
payment of £4,900 he was tricked into paying as a resulted of a third-party  scam.
Background
Ive considered the relevant information about  Mr Ss complaint. Ive decided to uphold  his 
complaint.
Its not in dispute  that Mr S was the unfortunate victim of an authorised  scam payment  of
£4,900. He was duped  over the phone by someone pretending to be an officer from HMRC
who informed him he had a tax liability  for the above  sum and needed  to pay it to avoid  a
warrant for his arrest being  issued that day.
The scammer spoofed HMRCs phone number and instructed Mr S to ring First Direct  while
they were on the line in order to make a payment to what  they said was one of HMRCs
accountants. Mr S was told he would meet with the accountant in person, but the funds
needed to be secured  first. Mr S was told to tell First Direct the payment  was to his own
accountant.
I issued a provisional decision in February  2021 upholding Mr S complaint. Here were my 
findings:
Under the Payment  Services  Regulations  2017,  Mr S authorised  (consented)  to the
payment. This is the case whether or not he was tricked into making it. So, in terms of the
regulations, Mr S is liable  for the loss he suffered. But I also need to consider the law,
regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider  was good
industry practice at the time. Having done so I find First Direct  ought to have:
- Monitored  Mr S accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter various risks,
including anti-money  laundering,  countering  the financing of terrorism, and preventing
fraud and scams.
- Looked out for unusual transactions or other  signs that might indicate  Mr S was at risk of
fraud (among other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated
fraud and scams in recent  years, which banks are generally more  familiar with than the
average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment  channel  used, have taken additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment  Mr S was instructing it to
make, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether,  to help protect him from
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud.
When Mr S rang First Direct to make the payment,  he said he needed to pay his accountant
urgently. A payment  of this size was clearly  unusual for him, given Ive seen no history to
show payments like this were normal for him, or that he had made  payments to an
accountant before  he says he hadnt. Mr S also wanted to make the payment urgently,
which shouldve triggered some concern into what lay behind this need. After all, First Direct
would understand that victims of scams do often want to make  payments due to the
pressure theyre being  put under by scammers.
Ref: DRN93626672Its telling  Mr S was prepared to forego the benefit of the interest rate on his savings
account, which wouldve  needed only seven further days  to mature.  Hed been conscientious
to build his savings over a consistent  period, making  payments totalling  £300 each month.
And the statements First Direct  sent to our service show hed never made a transfer out of
that account before. So, Mr S wanting  to undo  all of his efforts shouldve alerted the advisor
that something might be wrong.
Given the above, Im satisfied First Direct ought  to have  been concerned  about  the nature of
the payment Mr S was asking it to make.  And it needed to ensure it asked sufficient
questions of him and received satisfactory  answers  to mitigate  against  the risk of him falling
prey to a scam or fraud.
First Direct  are well placed to understand that the reason  a victim of a scam  may initially give
for a payment  may not be what it at first seems.  First Direct understands that scammers
often coach their victims to present a seemingly legitimate reason for a payment. So, where
appropriate, First Direct  may need to interrogate the reason behind a payment further, and
not just take it at face value.
Mr S told First Directs advisor  the payment was to his accountant. He was also asked how
he obtained the account number and sort code, which he said were given to him over the
phone. But in Mr Ss circumstances  I dont think these  were sufficient questions to discharge
First Directs duty to take reasonable care to protect his interests. Mr S was after all asking
First Direct  to make a payment that would dissipate most of the funds in his savings and
current account. So, while his reason  carried an air of plausibility, the advisor  still ought  to
have asked some pre-eminent  questions, such as:
- Why did the accountant need the money  so quickly given Mr S was losing out on the
benefit of the interest rate on his savings account?
- Why couldnt his accountant wait for him to realise the interest  rate? And what would
happen if he waited?
- What  liability  was the payment for? And why hadnt it been paid before, given its a
sizeable sum that Mr S appears not to have known about?
- When  did Mr S find out about the payment and by what means?
- When  did he employ his accountant, given this was a new payee?
Neither did the advisor warn Mr S of the risk of being scammed before acting on his
instruction, which  I find is an important omission. If First Direct was concerned about a
payment  which it ought to have been  here  reasonable care shouldve  been taken to
make Mr S aware  of the possibility of being  scammed. In particular, it wouldve been
important to at least  highlight:
- The sophisticated  nature of scams  and how genuine they seem.
- That a customer being contacted to make payment out of the blue to meet an
Ref: DRN93626673otherwise unknown and urgent liability is a hallmark of being  scammed.
- What  made  Mr S think he wasnt being  scammed? And what had he done to ensure
he wasnt being scammed?
Had questions of this nature  been asked, I think Mr Ss responses wouldve likely  given
First Direct  further cause for concern. I think he wouldve revealed he only found out that day
about the payment; that he was told he could be arrested if he didnt make  payment - the
threat of imminent harm being a common ploy of a scammer; and that the payment was to
pay tax owed to HRMC  a known scam.
The above  questions are not overly  cautious given the nature of the payment Mr S wanted to
make and the effect it would have on his accounts.  And had questions  of this type been
asked, the situation wouldve likely unravelled, and Mr S or First Direct wouldve realised
Mr S was at imminent risk of being  scammed. I find at this point, it wouldve been a
proportionate step for First Direct  not to have executed the payment until more robust
checks were done. This wouldve most likely resulted in Mr S not making  the payment, being
as once he became  suspicious, he contacted  HMRC  independently and verified  the scam.
First Direct  say had they probed Mr S further  about the payment he may still have provided
answers in line with what the scammer  told him to say. So, whatever it asked, a reasonable
explanation wouldve been given. But I havent seen evidence to conclude this wouldve
been the most likely  outcome if First Direct had asked more probing  and robust questions.
Mr S was told to say the payment  was to his accountant who he would meet the following
week to go through  his taxes at HMRC.  Barring the fact that the accountant wasnt his  it
was his accountant in terms of the person he thought he was going to deal with - this was in 
fact what he thought was going  to happen. Mr S has said he wasnt  told not to reveal his
alleged HMRC tax liability, that he was at risk of arrest or to give a cover story.  And I believe
him.
Its important to remember Mr Ss concern was not that his account was at risk or that he
needed to take secret action to prevent  a fraud.  Instead, he was concerned he was at risk of
arrest if he didnt make an urgent payment  to HMRC. He became suspicious once the
scammer asked for a further  £5,000 payment as a deposit before meeting the accountant.
So, I doubt it wouldve  made sense to him if the scammer had told him to contrive wholly
different facts to what he understood the situation to be. From his perspective First Direct
had nothing to do with his tax liability, so why would he need to go to lengths  to hide this.
Even if Mr S did think he couldnt  reveal what the reason  for the payment was, I suspect his
answers wouldve  lacked  specificity, arousing  further concern. Or he wouldve needed  to
discuss what was being asked of him with the scammer while on the phone  - which wouldve
rung alarm bells for First Direct. Again, I doubt  Mr S wouldve had a script or a grand
narrative to tell First Direct, as this wouldve raised his suspicions if he was asked to do this.
On balance, Im satisfied First Direct  failed  to ask sufficient questions of Mr S when he gave
his instruction for payment.  And had First Direct done more,  Mr S wouldnt have  fallen victim
to the scam.
Ref: DRN93626674Ive considered whether Mr S should bear some  responsibility by way of contributory
negligence. However, its clear  that up to and including the time of authorising the payment,
he was convinced he was speaking to an officer from HMRC. Hed specifically asked this
person to terminate  the first call he had with them, and to ring back  from HMRCs number,
which the person  did. I understand why receiving a call from what appeared to be the
genuine number  was convincing. And I believe him when he says he didnt know phone
numbers could be spoofed in this way. I doubt  he is privy to the various methods scammers
employ to come across  as genuine.
From how Mr S has described the call, he was clearly very concerned about his immediate
future. In other words,  he was more susceptible to the instructions of the scammer
considering he thought  his liberty was at stake. So, I understand why he wanted  to ensure
he wasnt arrested. And in this context,  I dont view Mr Ss actions as akin to contributory
negligence. So, I dont find he should bear some liability for the payment he was tricked  into
making. He was simply the unwitting  and blameless  victim of a sophisticated scam.
In the circumstances, I am satisfied First Direct  should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mr S
for the loss he suffered  without  any reduction  together with interest to compensate him for
being deprived of the money  he lost. I am satisfied  that had the fraudster  not taken the
money from Mr S, the part which constituted his savings would have remained in his savings
account and he wouldve  realised the interest rate on that account.
I also think it appropriate to make an award  of £500  for the distress  and inconvenience  Mr S
suffered. In reaching  that conclusion I am mindful  that his loss was ultimately  caused  by the
callous act of a fraudster and it was an unauthorised  transaction, but I find First Direct clearly
couldve prevented  the loss by asking more pertinent questions.  It was clear Mr S was
vulnerable at the time, having only recently  lost his job and the funds represented his hard-
earned savings  and remaining account  balance  which hed have considered very important.
From listening to the calls Mr Ss comments clearly show  he was in turmoil due to the loss,
and he was very worried about his immediate future. He revealed  on one of his subsequent
calls to First Direct that his doctor had prescribed him medication to help him to cope. I find a
substantial part of this worry  couldve  been prevented had First Direct done  more.
Mr S accepted my findings, but First Direct rejected them and raised  a number of points. In 
summary it says:
-I didnt reference  the basis for my provisional  findings. I didnt mention the Banking 
Protocol  which doesnt apply to Mr S complaint  or the BSI code to which First 
Direct arent a signatory.
-My findings conflict with the recent  judgement in the case of Philips v Barclays.
-Mr S was confident  on the phone and there was no reason to be suspicious about 
the payment.  Tax liabilities  often fall due in January and customers  sometimes need 
to make larger payments.  So, there was no need  for First Direct  to be concerned  and 
ask Mr S further  questions.
-I failed to place  enough weight on Mr S telling First Direct the payment was to his 
accountant. He was untruthful. So, my findings about what  Mr S wouldve said or 
done had First Direct asked further  questions arent  reliable.
-Mr S ought to carry some liability  for his loss. He was negligent and shouldve taken 
Ref: DRN93626675measures to ensure  he wasnt  falling victim  to a fraud or scam, particularly when 
threatened with arrest.  A reasonable person wouldve done this. Simple  online 
searches wouldve revealed he was being  scammed.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided to uphold  the 
complaint for the same reasons I gave in my provisional decision, which are repeated  above  
and form part of this decision.
First Direct  has highlighted  a number of concerns, which  Ill now address.
First Direct  says I have not referenced  the specific rules and regulations  on which  I based  
my provisional decision. But I am mindful that my fellow ombudsman and I have referenced 
the relevant rules, codes of practice and good  industry practice at the time in many  previous 
decisions, both to First Direct and published on our website. But as a reminder to First 
Direct, Ill now detail those considerations.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations (in this case the 2017  regulations) and the terms and conditions  of the 
customers account.  That was the case in July 2017, and remains  so now, and I have taken 
that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable  in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:   
Regulated firms like First Direct  are also required to conduct  their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6). 
Firms also have  a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish  
and maintain effective  systems and controls  for compliance with applicable 
requirements and standards under the regulatory system  and for countering the risk 
that the firm might  be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R, which has 
applied since 2001). And over the years, the FSA and its successor the FCA have  
published a series of papers setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor 
practice found when  reviewing measures taken by banks to counter financial crime.
Firms are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and 
countering the financing  of terrorism requirements.  In July 2017 those requirements 
included maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and procedures  to 
identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through  customer 
due diligence  measures and the ongoing  monitoring of the business relationship 
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken  throughout the course of 
the relationship).    
Ref: DRN93626676The law itself also recognises that a bank may liable to its customer if it makes a 
payment in circumstances  where it has reasonable grounds  (although  not necessarily 
proof) for believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the 
funds of its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty). I am mindful, however, that 
the courts have  interpreted Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case and I am not suggesting Quincecare applies in 
this case, only to make  the point that the broad legal  position  that a bank is expected  
to process payments  that a customer  authorises is not absolute and Quincecare (like 
the other matters  I have  referred  to here)  is an example of that. 
 
In addition, as a matter  of good industry practice in July 2017, I consider firms should in any 
event have taken  proactive  steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something also 
recognised by the FCA in recent  years  and by the British Bankers Associations  
February 2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual  or out of 
character transactions   that could involve  fraud  or be the result  of a scam.   
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available. I 
have not found the banking protocol relevant to Mr Ss complaint, considering the 
transaction didnt  take place in a First Direct branch.
I am aware  that First Direct considers too high a standard has been  applied to what is 
expected of it in terms of identifying payments that might indicate  a consumer is at risk of 
financial harm; and it has referred to the Quincecare duty in support  of its argument in 
referring to Philips  against Barclays. I am mindful  that the courts  have interpreted  
Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this complaint are different to that case.  Our 
fair and reasonable remit also enables us to take account of regulatory and industry 
standards beyond  the narrow legal duties considered in that and other  court cases. 
In any event, I am not suggesting Quincecare  applies to this case, however the broad legal 
position that a bank  is expected to process payments that a customer  authorises is not 
absolute  and Quincecare (along with regulators rules and guidance,  relevant codes of 
practice and good  industry practice  at the time) is an example of that.
First Direct  says it had no reason to suspect Mr S was at risk of financial harm. So, it didnt  
need to ask more questions  than it did. And, it says Mr S didnt state the payment he wanted 
to make was urgent.
But Mr S presented a payment instruction to First Direct, which  meant he would spend  all his 
savings shortly before he would realise  the interest rate on the account. Its fair to say most 
customers wouldnt want to forgo the benefit of interest unless necessary, and Ive seen no 
reason to understand why this was any different for Mr S. In this context, its reasonable to 
conclude Mr S presented  First Direct with an urgent need to make  the payment. He didnt 
need to state the word urgent for First Direct to understand this.
Mr S payment request was also unusual for him because of its size. He hadnt made a 
payment close to this size before.  So, taken  together Im more  than satisfied First Direct 
Ref: DRN93626677ought to have been concerned enough to have asked Mr S more questions  before 
processing the payment.
First Direct  points  to the fraud taking place at a time when tax assessments  are due and 
large liabilities might arise. Its true tax liabilities  may be more  likely in January. So, some 
customers might make  larger  payments  than normal around this time. But a sudden tax 
liability can also be a hallmark of a potential tax scam. And First Direct ought to know  
scammers may be likely  to conduct  tax scams around the time tax assessments are 
submitted.
First Direct  says I didnt account  for Mr S saying  he thought tax liability  might  be due to an 
error with his employer.  I have accounted  for everything Mr S said. But him rationalising how 
the liability could  have arisen isnt a reason for First Direct to not have asked  him more 
questions before acting on his instruction. 
First Direct  understands HMRC would never ring a customer  about  a debt the customer 
doesnt already  know  about. So had First Direct  asked Mr S more questions, Im satisfied he 
wouldve revealed he wasnt  sure how the liability arose, hed first heard about it through  a 
phone call, and he was told his liberty was at risk if he didnt make payment. Together this 
wouldve alerted  First Direct that Mr S was probably falling victim to a scam.
First Direct  says the reason Mr S provided - he was paying his accountant - was enough to 
be satisfied he wasnt at risk of financial harm. I disagree. First Direct is well placed to 
understand customers often believe they are speaking to legitimate persons or businesses 
when in fact they are being scammed. So, while a reason might sound  plausible, it doesnt 
mean First Direct shouldnt ask further questions when appropriate. I dont find the questions  
I suggested are interrogatory  in the way First Direct suggests, considering  Mr S 
circumstances.
Mr S was making a payment to a new payee for a large sum hed never paid before, and he 
was using up all his savings. So, it was reasonable for First Direct to at least ask Mr S more  
about how and why the payment request arose, what liability it regarded, why couldnt  it wait 
and what would happen if he waited. Had First Direct done so, Im satisfied it wouldve 
realised Mr S was about to fall victim to a scam
First Direct  says I cant know what Mr S wouldve said if he was asked further questions.  And 
its true, I cant know for certain what Mr S wouldve said or done. But I must make  findings 
based on the balance of probabilities. So, I must decide what I think  is more likely than not to 
have happened.
Mr S has been consistent and given specific detail about what the fraudster  told him. First 
Direct say because Mr S said the payment was to his accountant, he mustve been given a 
cover story. But from Mr S perspective, he was meeting the accountant assigned to him by 
HMRC  so I dont find the use of his particularly telling.  And I dont find its enough  to 
conclude he wouldnt have discussed his tax liability if asked about  it. 
Mr S says he realised something was wrong when the fraudster acted outside  the realms of 
what was plausible  in relation to what hed been told. The fraudster asked for a further 
payment to meet the accountant,  which didnt make sense to Mr S. So, the veil of the scam 
was lifted. If Mr S had been given a cover  story  to tell First Direct, I think  this wouldve 
Ref: DRN93626678caused him to question  what  the fraudster was telling  him. It wouldnt make sense to him 
why he would need to deceive  First Direct regarding a tax liability.
First Direct  says a reasonable person would have taken steps to query what the fraudster 
was telling them. But in the circumstances Mr S faced, I find the reasonable person could 
have fallen victim to the same scam without taking the steps  First Direct suggest.  
Im satisfied the reasonable person would think they were speaking to a genuine employee 
given the phone number appeared as the authoritys genuine phone number. And Im not 
persuaded a reasonable person ought  to know fraudsters can spoof telephone numbers. 
The reasonable person probably doesnt know the extent of HMRCs  powers or how it 
communicates. And HMRC is an arm of the government, so its quite possible they wouldnt 
doubt the possibility of arrest. So, I dont find Mr S negligent or that he should bear some of 
the liability for his loss. 
I dont place weight  on the remarks Mr S made after hed been defrauded. Its normal for 
someone to blame  themselves when theyve  been  tricked in the way Mr S was  victims of a 
scam often  do.
Putting things  right
 
HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First Direct should:
:
- Pay Mr S £4,900.00
- Pay interest on the sum of £3,600 which was transferred  out of Mr Ss savings
account at the savings  rate he wouldve realised  if the funds had stayed in his
savings account  from the date of loss to the date of refund.
- Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the sum of £1300 which was paid out of Mr Ss
current account from the date of loss to the date of refund.
- Pay Mr S £500 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should  pay redress in accordance 
with my directions given  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Liam King
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN93626679
Ref: DRN9362667