K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) made mistakes  in administering  his account.
background
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and linked to a separate 
complaint. In summary there were  mistakes made by BoS in the opening of an account for 
Mr Ds daughter and that another  daughter was able to withdraw  money from an account  
she shouldnt have  been able to do so.
BoS has apologised and upheld Mr Ds complaint. It accepts it made mistakes and has 
explained what happened. BoS has offered Mr D £450 compensation.
Mr D brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought  overall the compensation offer 
was fair and reasonable. The investigator thought  the impact on Mr D by the mistake was 
limited and the money that had been  withdrawn had stayed within the family  and could  be 
given back to the correct person. The investigator  accepted the consequences of the 
mistakes could have been  far more significant.
Mr D says his wife has lost money  as a result of what happened  and that money should be 
returned. He would  also like the investigators view looked at by an ombudsman and 
questions if any interest  should be paid.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator.
There is no doubt here that BoS made mistakes in how it handled Mr Ds account. I accept in 
those circumstances  Mr D would have  been  concerned about what  happened and has, with 
his family  members, spent  some  time trying  to find out what happened. But Im satisfied BoS 
has explained what took place and more  importantly that it accepts it made a mistake. Im 
also satisfied that its fairly  apologised for what took place.
So the key question is about  the level of compensation it should pay. And Ive come to the 
conclusion that the offer of £450 is fair and reasonable and reflects  the level of its mistake  
and the impact it had. I think  it also fairly reflects the fact that Mr D didnt suffer  any financial 
loss as a result of what took place.
I appreciate that Mr Ds wife paid money to her daughter as a result of what took place. But 
for the reasons the investigator has given, I cant fairly ask BoS to repay  that money as firstly 
Mr Ds wife is not the complainant here.  And secondly I think it likely that she will be able to 
get that money back from her daughter. I say that as I can see that we have been told that 
will be the case. I also dont think it fair that BoS pay any interest as I cant  be sure any 
interest was lost.
Ref: DRN98354572my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland plc has made a fair and reasonable offer of 
compensation of £450. Mr Ds acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of 
this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9835457