K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that a van that was supplied to him under  a conditional sale agreement  with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.
background 
A used  van was supplied to Mr S under a conditional sale agreement  with Moneybarn  that 
he signed in August 2018. He returned the van to the dealer  in September 2018  because of 
a knocking noise and it took the van to a manufacturers dealer where it was identified that it 
had a very low oil level. He says that he returned  the van to the manufacturers dealer in 
January 2019  because  it was still making a knocking  noise and a piston issue was identified  
which it said was due to the service  history.  The van was then taken  back  to the dealer and 
Mr S says that the van was with the dealer for about a year before it was returned  to him.
He complained to Moneybarn  about the van in May 2019 but it said that it had received no 
evidence to support  that the issues that Mr S had raised were inherent  or developing when 
he purchased the van. Mr S wasnt satisfied with its response so complained  to this service.
Mr S says that there  was damage to the van when  he collected it in January 2020. There  
was a further issue with the van in June 2020 so Mr S stopped making the payments for the 
van and he arranged for a diagnostic test. The test showed a damaged or broken head 
gasket. Mr S then voluntarily terminated  the agreement and returned the van. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld.  She said that Mr Ss 
concerns about  the knocking  noise  from the engine were raised  at the outset,  an oil service 
was completed in September 2018  which seemed  to have fixed the issue but the knocking 
noise reappeared in January 2019 causing the van to breakdown  with a piston fault. She 
thought that a reasonable person wouldnt expect  a van to break down within  six months of 
purchase and she was persuaded that the issues were related. So she said that Moneybarn 
should have accepted his rejection of the van and ended the agreement.
She recommended that Moneybarn should:
waive any outstanding  balance on the finance;
refund  the deposit of £400  paid for the van, with interest;
refund  the payments from January 2019 to January 2020 (other  than for any time that 
Mr S was provided  with a courtesy van) and from the end of June 2020;
refund  the £240 paid for the rocker cover  gasket and injectors and the £120 paid for 
wiring work on the reversing light in January 2020;
refund  the £40 cost of the diagnostic report;
remove any default from Mr Ss credit file and record the agreement as settled; and
pay Mr S £300 for the trouble and upset the situation has caused.
Moneybarn says that it doesnt believe that Mr S has provided any evidence to substantiate 
that the van wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale, in August 2018. It says that 
Mr S raised his complaint with it over eight months  into his agreement  and he was asked to 
provide evidence to support his assertion  but didnt do so. It says that the investigator has 
accepted the testimony of Mr S rather than being provided with any evidence. It says that it 
cant see how a determination  can be made  as to whether any faults  were  present at the 
point of sale and are the responsibility of the dealer, rather than Mr S. It says that Mr S 
Ref: DRN94531882voluntary terminated  his agreement in December 2020 and the outstanding balance  on his 
account is £7,060.35.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.  Having  done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator for these reasons:
Moneybarn, as the supplier of the van, was responsible for ensuring  that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend  on a number of factors, including  the age 
and mileage of the van and the price that was paid for it;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within  
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the van that was supplied  to Mr S was about  a year and a half old, had been  driven  
for 63,800 miles and had a price of £16,554;
the dealers invoice for the van says that the dealer was unable  to provide a service  
history and Mr S has provided a copy of the vans  history  which  shows  that its 
cylinder head gasket  and thermostat  were replaced in January 2018;
Mr S returned the van to the dealer in September  2018  because of a knocking noise 
and it took the van to a manufacturers dealer where  it was identified that the oil level 
was below the minimum level  the vans mileage was recorded  as 65,971 so Mr S 
had only used the van to drive  about  2,000 miles  and I consider that it was 
reasonable for him to expect that the van would have been  supplied to him with oil at 
the correct level;
he says that he returned  the van to the manufacturers dealer in January  2019  
because the knocking  had come  back but with greater frequency and it said that 
there was a piston  issue which was due to the service history and wasnt  covered by 
the vans warranty  the invoice from that dealer which confirms  the piston issue is 
dated in May 2019 and records the vans  mileage  as 74,215 but Mr S says that it 
took place in January 2019  and that the van was then with the supplying dealer until 
January 2020;
its clear that Mr S was provided  with a courtesy van for some of that time but neither 
Moneybarn nor Mr S has been  able to provide detailed evidence  to show when he 
had a courtesy van;
when the van was returned to him in January  2020 he said that it was rusty, 
damaged and smelly and he paid £240 for repairs to the rocker cover  gasket  and 
injectors and £120 for wiring work on the reversing light that was required for an MOT 
test  and the van passed an MOT test in February 2020  when its mileage was 
recorded as 75,271   only about  1,000  miles more than the mileage recorded  on the 
manufacturers dealers  invoice dated  May 2019;
Mr S was able to use the van until June 2020 when he says that it stopped working 
properly so he stopped making the payments under the agreement to Moneybarn 
(and he says that it recorded a default on his credit  file);
Ref: DRN94531883Mr S paid £40 for a diagnostic test on the van in July 2020  which  identified  a 
damaged or broken  head gasket  Mr S says that he then stopped  using the van and 
he returned it and the conditional sale agreement was voluntarily terminated  in 
December 2020 with an account  balance  of £7,060.35;
I consider it to be more likely than not that the van hadnt been  serviced  properly 
before it was supplied  to Mr S, that it was supplied to him without enough oil and that 
there were engine faults that were either  present or developing  a cylinder head 
gasket and thermostat  had been replaced in January  2018,  the engine  was making a 
knocking noise  in September 2018  and I consider it to be more likely  than not that a 
piston issue was identified in January 2019;
Mr S then didnt have the van until January  2020  and it stopped working with a 
damaged or broken  head gasket in June 2020;
I dont consider that its reasonable to expect a van of this age and mileage and that 
cost £16,554 to have so many  issues in this time frame   and I consider it to be more 
likely than not that the van wasnt of satisfactory  quality when it was supplied  to Mr S 
and that Moneybarn should  have  allowed  him to reject it in May 2019 when he 
complained to it;
Mr S has returned the van and voluntarily terminated the conditional  sale agreement 
and I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Moneybarn to waive  the outstanding 
balance on his account;
I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for it to refund the deposit of £400 that 
Mr S paid for the van, with interest,  and for it remove any default  that its recorded  on 
his credit file relating  to the agreement  and to show the agreement  as settled;
I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for it refund to Mr S the monthly 
payments that he made under the agreement  for the period from January 2019  to 
January 2020  (when the van was with the dealer)  - other  than periods for which 
Moneybarn is able to show that Mr S was provided with a courtesy van  and for the 
period after the end of June 2020 when  the van stopped working  (all with interest);
Moneybarn says that a courtesy  van that was provided to Mr S was returned with 
damage caused when being  driven  by a third party to whom  Mr S had lent the van  
but I havent seen enough  evidence to persuade me that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to deduct any cost of that damage from the payments to be made 
to Mr S;
I consider that its fair and reasonable for Moneybarn to keep the other monthly 
payments that Mr S has made  under the agreement as payment for the use that he 
had from the van;
I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for Moneybarn  to reimburse Mr S for 
the £360 that he paid for work  on the van after he collected  it in January 2020 and 
the £40 that he paid for the diagnostic test (all with interest); and
these events have  clearly caused  significant  distress and inconvenience for Mr S  
and I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Moneybarn to pay him £300  to 
compensate him for that distress  and inconvenience.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and I order  Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited to:
Ref: DRN945318841.Waive the outstanding  balance  on Mr Ss account.
2.Refund to Mr S the deposit of £400 that he paid for the van.
3.Remove any default that its recorded  on Mr Ss credit file relating to the 
conditional sale agreement and to show the agreement  as settled.
4.Refund to Mr S the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement for 
(a) the period  from January 2019 to January 2020 (when the van was with the 
supplying dealer)  - other than periods  for which Moneybarn is able to show  that 
Mr S was provided  with a courtesy van; and (b) the period after the end of June 
2020.
5.Pay £360 and £40 to Mr S to reimburse him for the cost of the work  on the van 
after he collected it in January 2020 and the cost of the diagnostic  test.
6.Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 4 and 5 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
7.Pay £300 to Mr S to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Moneybarn to deduct tax from the interest  payment  
referred to at 6 above. Moneybarn must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2021.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9453188