K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B say National  Counties Building Society (NCBS) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for their mortgage.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out with a further advance  in 2002. 
Mr and Mrs B paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract  interest. It 
covered both of them.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. NCBS disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.  
NCBS previously questioned whether we had the jurisdiction to deal with this complaint. A 
colleague assessed its concerns and concluded that it was within  our jurisdiction. Ive not 
seen anything that would make me conclude otherwise.
Having looked  at all the relevant information, I agree with our adjudicator  that Mr and Mrs Bs 
policy was most likely mis-sold, for much the same reasons. Ill explain my thoughts.
It doesnt look like NCBS  gave Mr and Mrs B a personalised recommendation to take out 
PPI, so it didnt have to check  the policy was right for them.  But it did have to give them  
information about the PPI that was clear, fair, and not misleading, so they could decide for 
themselves whether it was right for them.
This PPI policy excluded claims that were caused by a pre-existing medical  condition.  But 
I cant see that NCBS highlighted this significant  exclusion  to Mr and Mrs B in any prominent  
way at the time of the sale.
I think this exclusion wouldve mattered to Mr and Mrs B. Mr B had a long-term  medical 
condition which had caused him to go to hospital and take time off work just before buying 
the PPI. From what Mr and Mrs B have told us, at the time of sale the condition  significantly 
impacted his day-to-day life and ability to work, and needed regular treatment along with 
frequent visits to the doctor.
So at the point of sale, it sounds  like Mr Bs condition wouldve been the most likely thing to 
cause him to be off sick again. And its worth  bearing in mind  that the policy excluded not 
just time off for the condition itself, but any disability that was caused by it  which  cast a 
potentially wide net. And so Mr B couldnt have  claimed on the policy  for everything  he 
mightve expected  to be able to.
Ref: DRN92787432NCBS has sent us a copy  of the insurers contact notes. The notes say client  made aware 
of medical exclusion . NCBS pointed  out that, despite this, Mr and Mrs B didnt then cancel 
the policy. So it argues that the exclusion cant have been that important to them.
I understand NCBSs argument  here, but I disagree. Firstly, theres  no details about what  
was actually discussed, and in what level of detail. I cant  be sure that Mr and Mrs B were  
given clear enough information  about  how the exclusion worked and so how much  it could 
affect them.
Secondly, that discussion was had after Mr and Mrs B completed  their application, and after 
the policy had already  started. Even  if the information the insurer  gave was clear,  the onus 
was on NCBS to provide  this information  at the time of the sale,  and certainly before the 
policy was already in force. It is not good enough  for NCBS to expect  a third party to give the 
information for it after the sale has already happened,  or to expect Mr and Mrs B to notice 
the flaws in the sale after the fact and cancel  the policy.
Taking into account Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances,  I think  that if NCBS had given them clear 
enough information about the PPIs exclusions at the point  of sale, then they probably 
wouldnt have bought it. And so I think Mr and Mrs B have most likely  lost out because of the 
problems with the sale of their PPI policy.
Lastly, when NCBS first got Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, it mistakenly told them theyd never  
taken the PPI, and this delayed things. NCBS has offered  Mr and Mrs B £150 compensation 
for that, and I think that offer is fair for that particular mistake.
putting things right
NCBS should  put Mr and Mrs B in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and NCBS should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B back  the amount they paid each month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  NCBS can take off what 
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires NCBS to take off tax from this interest.  NCBS  must give 
Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. Mr and 
Mrs B can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
As above, I also think NCBS should pay Mr and Mrs B the additional  £150  compensation it 
has offered, if it has not already paid this.
Mr B has been in an IVA, and I understand his insolvency practitioner has an interest in this 
complaint. So he may have to give some or all of his compensation to the insolvency 
practitioner. Mr B should keep this in mind  he may need  to speak to his insolvency 
practitioner about any compensation he receives.
Ref: DRN92787433my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
National Counties Building Society  should  put things  right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 March 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9278743