K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (AC) engaged in irresponsible lending to him.
background
Mr R says AC didnt carry out satisfactory  credit checks  and affordability checks before 
deciding to lend to him. He says he has email correspondence clearly showing his gross  
income and expenditure were almost  completely  the same amount. And he says he believes 
AC couldve helped  him at numerous  times to discuss  renegotiation of his loan, when he 
asked for it.
So, Mr R says he wants AC to refund the interest  hes paid and to write off the loan.  And he 
says he also wants compensation for its errors  and the poor customer service hes received.
AC says its pre-lending  checks ensure the amount  of credit it lends is affordable to its 
customers. It says it makes calculations of affordability by asking customers to indicate their 
income and expenditure. It says this informations accepted in good  faith and a decision to 
verify income will be based on comparison of such data with available  third party  reports.
AC also says on his application Mr R indicated he received  a net monthly  income of £1,115. 
It says this was verified by information  on his credit  report and was then compared  to the 
monthly expenses hed listed of £655, to help determine an affordable monthly  payment  
amount for him. 
In addition, AC says it also examined Mr Rs credit files to identify any existing debt 
obligations. It says it cross-referenced  these to his previously verified monthly  net income 
and expenses to gauge  the affordability of an additional obligation.  It says this supported its 
calculation of the affordability of an additional  credit obligation.  And it says it also examined 
Mr Rs past repayment  history and his credit score. It says these metrics had a significant 
influence when evaluating his application  with its industry-leading  risk assessment model, 
prior to making a credit  decision.
So, AC says it doesnt consider it failed to properly assess the affordability of an additional 
credit obligation  for Mr R prior to making a credit decision about his loan application.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Rs complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. So, the matters been referred to me to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
I see when Mr R applied for his loan he completed  an online income and expenditure form 
on which he said his income was £1,115 per month and his expenditure was £655. I see 
based on this information AC calculated Mr R would be left with disposable income  of £460 
per month and that his loan repayments of £91.76 per month would be affordable.  From 
Ref: DRN94495712what Ive seen I dont  think AC shouldve had any reason to consider the loan would be 
unaffordable to Mr R. 
Theres no specific list of checks a lender must carry out before deciding to make a loan. 
The information Ive seen indicates  the checks AC carried out were proportionate  to the loan 
of £1,500 it made to Mr R and that they were appropriate, in the circumstances. 
I see Mr Rs also complained about  various aspects of the customer service hes received 
from AC, including in relation to an email he was wrongly sent about arrears. And in relation 
to an occasion  when he says he was kept on hold when phoning AC and it then hung up. 
But I havent seen  enough information  to conclude the service  Mr R received was sufficiently 
below the expected standard  to justify me requiring AC to pay him any compensation.
I also see Mr Rs complained that the interest  and charges  on his loan werent properly 
explained when  it was sold to him. But all of this informations  clearly set out in his credit 
agreement. So, I cant uphold this aspect of Mr Rs complaint.
In addition, I see Mr R says he believes AC couldve helped him at numerous times to 
discuss renegotiation  of his loan, when  he asked for it. Businesses are expected to respond 
positively and sympathetically if a consumer makes  them aware of financial difficulties 
theyre experiencing. But I havent  seen supporting information, such  as letters or emails, 
confirming Mr R raised these issues with AC. 
So, taking into account everything Ive seen  I cant fairly and reasonably uphold Mr Rs 
complaint.   
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against  AvantCredit  of UK, LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9449571