K821x#15complaint
Mrs R is unhappy Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited has declined a claim 
under her pet insurance policy.
background
Mrs R has a dog, which Ill call B. In January 2019, Mrs R took B to the vet as hed been 
vomiting. The vet ran some tests  and prescribed medication. Mrs R contacted Red Sands to 
make a claim.
Red Sands  initially  wrote to Mrs R saying it would  accept the claim but it then said it had 
made a mistake and declined the claim saying it was a pre-existing condition.  It felt B had 
showed signs of vomiting  before the policy started. 
Red Sands  said the policy  doesnt  provide cover for pre-existing conditions.  It also said had 
it been made aware of Bs history and previous episodes of vomiting, it would have added an 
exclusion to the policy from the date it started,  for all claims  with respect to the digestive 
system. Red Sands said the claim also wouldnt have been  covered because of this 
exclusion. It apologised for incorrectly telling Mrs R the claim had been accepted. 
Mrs R wasnt happy and complained to our service. Our investigator looked  into the 
complaint and didnt think  Red Sands had fairly declined the claim. She said there  was 
nothing that linked the episodes of vomiting  and so it wasnt  fair for Red Sands to treat B as 
having a pre-existing  condition. She also didnt  think it was fair for Red Sands to apply a 
retrospective exclusion to the policy, as it didnt  ask a clear question  about Bs history when 
Mrs R took out the policy. The investigator also said she thought  the exclusion for any claim 
relating to the digestive system was too wide and unfair. The investigator  thought  Red Sands 
should pay Mrs R £100 compensation  for the inconvenience she had been  caused.
Mrs R said she accepted  the investigators  findings.  Red Sands, despite being  chased, did 
not respond to the investigator  so the case has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Red Sands fairly  and reasonably declined the claim in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. And, if it fairly added a retrospective exclusion to Mrs Rs policy. 
Based on the evidence  I have I dont think it did. Ill explain  why. 
the claim
The policy is clear theres no cover for any claim relating to a pre-existing condition  or for an 
illness that first showed clinical signs before the policy started.
The policy says pre-existing condition means  any condition, symptom  or sign of a condition  
occurring or existing in any form and at any time prior to the commencement date; ...
Before Mrs R bought  the policy,  B had been  seen by his vet on three occasions for episodes  
of vomiting. 
Ref: DRN97569772Having reviewed the vets notes  I can see in October 2015 Mrs R had just moved house and 
reported B as being very anxious and unsettled, he was also being  treated with steroids for 
an eye infection. B had been vomiting  after being given steroids and Mrs R was told to stop 
their use. Within the follow  up visits, the notes say B had been  vomiting  clear  liquid  after 
walks. The vet thought this was potentially down to B producing  an excess of saliva and 
noted this was possibly down to overexertion and potentially overheating when switching 
between the cold and indoor temperature. The advice  at that time was to monitor the 
situation. 
In April 2016, B was again treated for vomiting,  but the vet suspected B had been 
scavenging. I take this to mean hed probably eaten  something he shouldnt of. B was given 
medication and the situation resolved itself. 
This claim  relates  to an episode of vomiting in January 2019. The treating  vet on this 
occasion notes  that B had been vomiting but was also showing signs of being  unable to pass 
stools. The notes  also mention its possible B had eaten something he shouldnt have. The 
vet notes two possible  causes as gastroenteritis or foreign body.  B was examined under 
sedation and nothing  remarkable was found. B was then given medication to stop the 
vomiting and reduce  stomach acid. Follow  up visits  note the situation  was resolved.
Im satisfied the evidence  from the treating vet show Bs episodes of vomiting are unrelated  
and no underlying condition has been identified. Because of this, Red Sands cant  
reasonably say Bs episode of vomiting  in 2019  was a pre-existing condition  and use this 
exclusion to decline the claim. 
retrospective digestive system exclusion
When Mrs R bought  the policy Red Sands only asked her to tick a box to say shed read the 
statement of presumptions. One of those presumptions is that Red Sands  reserves the right 
to apply an exclusion in respect of any illness or conditions it subsequently learns were    
pre-existing at the start of the policy (or within the first 14 days).  
The law does allow  the addition  of retrospective exclusions but only in cases  where there 
has been a relevant misrepresentation. In this case,  Red Sands didnt ask Mrs R a clear 
question about  pre-existing  conditions when she bought the policy. If it had done  so, and 
Mrs R gave incorrect answers,  it might be fair to apply the exclusion it has  if thats  what it 
would have done, had it known the true position.  
However, as Red Sands  hasnt shown me it asked Mrs R a clear question about  any        
pre-existing conditions B may have  had, there  isnt an issue  of misrepresentation. Because  
of this, Red Sands cant apply a retrospective  exclusion  to the policy.
Red Sands  should  remove  the specific exclusion on all claims with respect  to the digestive  
system with effect from the start of the policy. It cant rely on the exclusion to decline the 
claim.
Because of the reasons  set out above, I require Red Sands to pay Mrs Rs claim in line with 
the remaining  policy terms  and limits subject to any excess. As Mrs R has already paid the 
vet, Red Sands must add interest  to any payment as Ive set out below.
Other matters 
Ref: DRN97569773Mrs R has said initially being told the claim would be accepted meant  that she took action to 
pay money off her credit card. I appreciate our investigator has said she would always  had to 
have done this and therefore  she hasnt lost out. However, I consider that she only took this 
action as she thought she would be receiving  money from Red Sands relatively quickly.  So, 
this wouldve  caused her some inconvenience  as she could  have chosen  to budget 
differently. 
Shes also said that when she was told a few days later that her claim was actually still under 
consideration, this caused her to worry and make several calls to the business  to find out 
what was happening.  
While I can see Red Sands did apologise for its mistake,  I do think Mrs R was caused some 
worry and inconvenience.  I agree  with the investigator here that Red Sands should pay 
Mrs R £100 compensation to reflect  this. 
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Rs claim against  Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited. I require it 
to do the following:
pay Mrs Rs claim  in line with the remaining policy terms and limits  and subject to any 
excess and plus interest* at 8% a year simple from the date Mrs R paid the vet until 
the date of settlement, 
remove the exclusion for all claims with respect  to the digestive system with effect  
from the start of the policy, and
Pay Mrs R £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Alison Gore 
ombudsman
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold  income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs R how much its taken  off. It 
should also give Mrs R a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9756977