K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Shawbrook Bank  Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected  the claim he made  
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (the Act)  in relation to a solar panel 
system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr D is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
background
Mr D was contacted  by a company Ill refer to as P that supplied  and installed solar  panel 
systems. Following a meeting, Mr D agreed  to enter  into a contract with P for it to supply and 
install a solar panel system at his home. To fund this Mr D also agreed to enter into a 15-
year fixed  sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.
Mr D made  a claim under section 75 of the Act via the CMC.   It said P told Mr D the solar 
panels would be self-funded and the monthly  loan repayments would be more  than off-set 
by the feed-in-tariff (FIT)  income he would receive. But that hasnt happened.  Instead, the 
monthly loan repayments had been higher than the income.
In its final response letter,  Shawbrook said that it didnt think the benefits  of the solar panels 
had been misrepresented  to Mr D. Unhappy with this response, Mr D referred the complaint  
to our service.
During the course of our investigation Shawbrook made an offer to resolve the complaint. 
Shawbrook offered to calculate the potential savings  and income to Mr D over the term of 
the loan. It then said it would restructure  the loan so that he didnt pay any more than this 
over the 15-year term of the loan. It also offered to pay Mr D £200 to recognise the trouble 
and upset caused.
The CMC rejected this offer and explained the following:
Mr D moved  to a new house in April 2016;  
P told him that he could relocate the system free of charge; 
Mr D contacted P to arrange the relocation of the system and was told he had to 
reapply to receive FIT payments, but the scheme had ended  which  meant new 
applications would not be accepted.
The CMC suggested  we speak to Mr D for his recollection. When  our investigator spoke to 
Mr D, he told us:
P told him in the sales presentation that he could relocate the system  to a new 
property if it was south facing;
it didnt mention a cost for this service so Mr D believed it would be free;
he didnt have an intention to move at the point of sale;
he contacted  P in January or February  2016 to speak about moving the system to his 
new property and this was when P told him he would have to reapply  to receive FIT 
payments; 
he refinanced his Shawbrook loan to mitigate his losses  and that refinancing is also 
now repaid.
Ref: DRN94059412One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator  didnt think that the offer fairly 
compensated Mr D. She thought Shawbrook should  offer to make  the solar panels self-
funding (as it had offered)  but to the date Mr D sold his house.
As Shawbrook did not respond,  the case has been  passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Shawbrook,  nor Mr D, dispute  that the benefits of the solar panel  system were 
misrepresented. As a result,  this decision will only deal with what  I consider to be fair 
compensation. 
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. 
The CMC did not mention  that Mr D had moved  to a new house in the initial complaint to 
Shawbrook. However,  they have provided an email from November 2016 where Mr D 
explains the following;
Solar account was not moved  to new address. 
We were originally told by the sales representative that we could move it if move  
house [sic] but that was incorrect as the feed in tariff stays  with the address.
This email is dated around seven months  after Mr D moved  to his new house and I think  
demonstrates what happened when he contacted P to relocate the system. 
Mr D has been consistent with his version of events, and I have not been provided with, or 
seen any further  information, that contradicts his version of events. I have  no reason to 
doubt what hes said, and I think his actions demonstrate that he believed  he could relocate 
the system and retain the benefits if he moved  house.
The FIT payments provide the main  income  which is generated by the system. My 
understanding is that once a system has been  registered for FIT payments it cannot be 
reregistered at a new property. So, whilst Mr D would  have  been  able to transfer his system, 
he would  have been unable to reregister his system to receive FIT payments at his new 
home.  Therefore,  Mr D would not have been able to transfer the FIT to his new house. So, I 
am satisfied  that the representation  made  by P that the system  and associated  benefits 
could be relocated  was not correct.
Mr D has let us know  that he did not have an intention to move to a new house when he 
bought the system. However,  I think  that P letting him know that he had this option in the 
future would have impacted his overall  decision to buy the system. The FIT scheme provides 
payments quarterly for 20 years and therefore the commitment to purchase the system was 
a long-term investment. Im satisfied that knowing that he could retain  the financial benefits  
from the system if he moved home  would  have induced Mr D to enter the contract.
Shawbrook have provided a call note from June 2019 of a call between P and Mr D. The call 
note explains that P let Mr D know that it would cost £300-£500  for him to relocate the 
Ref: DRN94059413system. I do not however consider this record is material to what was said when Mr D 
bought the system or at around  the time he sold his house three years earlier.
Having considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, I dont think that the 
current offer made by Shawbrook is fair.
I think that Shawbrook  should do the following:
Calculate the benefits that the system generated since it was installed up to when Mr 
D sold his house and reduce the total payable for this period so that it equals this 
amount; and
Pay to Mr D the difference  between this amount and the amount that Mr D actually 
paid plus 8% simple interest per year from the date Mr D sold his house until the date 
of this decision; and
Refund all the monthly  payments made by Mr D to Shawbrook from the date Mr D 
sold his house  up to the time the loan was repaid  but as this loan was repaid by Mr 
D refinancing with another lender, also:
Pay a sum equal  to all the payments made  to the second  lender, that is both the 
monthly repayments and the final repayment  when  Mr D repaid that loan early.  Mr D 
will need  to provide Shawbrook with details  of the second  lender and authorise it to 
provide information  to Shawbrook so it can calculate this part of the fair redress. 
Pay interest at 8% simple interest on all the payments  made by Mr D to either  
Shawbrook or the second lender (including the final repayment) since  the date he 
sold his house  at 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment out by Mr D 
to the date of this decision; and 
Pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience  caused to Mr D (as previously offered).
Payment should be made within 28 days of Shawbrook being notified of Mr Ds 
acceptance of this decision and his providing the information about his second loan 
and the authority to the second lender as mentioned above.  If it is not, interest is to 
be paid on the unpaid redress at the rate of 8% simple interest from the date of this 
decision until the date of payment.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and I direct Shawbrook  Bank Limited  to 
pay fair redress and interest as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2021.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9405941