K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains about the advice she received from Intrinsic Wealth  Limited to take out a 
lifetime mortgage.
background
Following advice from Intrinsic Mrs D took out a lifetime mortgage in 2014.
Mrs D complained in 2018. She said that the mortgage wasnt  suitable  for the following 
reasons:
The IFA had not offered  or provided  alternative products;
She was vulnerable due to family circumstances and illness;
She had been  encouraged to borrow more  money than she needed;
She didnt know why another interest  only mortgage hadnt  been recommended;
She had planned at some stage to move  near to one of her daughters, but this was no 
longer an option.
Intrinsic didnt agree that the mortgage hadnt  been  suitable for her needs.  It said,  in 
summary:
Mrs D had been referred to it as she was looking to take out additional funds for various 
reasons and her mortgage adviser  was unable to obtain a conventional mortgage for her 
as she was retired;
At the recommendation meeting Mrs D had stated she required a total of £90,000, of 
which £35,000 was to repay  her existing interest  only mortgage, £34,000 to gift to her 
daughter and £21,000 for holidays.  This was documented in the fact find which she had 
signed, and the suitability report;
After the meeting, Mrs D contacted Intrinsic  to say she wanted to reduce the release  to 
£80,000 as she only required £10,000 for travel;
The adviser had confirmed that as part of the advice process  he compared all the equity 
release products on the market, and that other products werent suitable for her 
objectives and circumstances;
The lifetime mortgage recommended was portable,  enabling  her to potentially transfer 
her current  mortgage  product to a new property;
The adviser had confirmed he had explained  to Mrs D how the lifetime  mortgage worked. 
In addition, he had asked Mrs D to consider the information and talk to her daughters 
about her plans. Mrs D hadnt  wanted  to involve her daughters further;
Mrs D had taken legal  advice  to ensure that she was fully aware  of the risks and benefits 
of this type of product. This included a solicitor  signing a certificate  to confirm her 
understanding.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. He said, in 
summary:
The suitability letters recorded  that Mrs Ds objectives were to repay  her outstanding 
interest only mortgage with Santander,  raise money  to lend to her daughter  and to 
establish a fund for travel;
The suitability letters also recorded that her only income was from her pensions of just 
over £1,000 per month, while her monthly  disposal income was around £250. And while  
Ref: DRN98458022Mrs D had said that the mortgage on her property was for the benefit of her daughter,  the 
evidence showed  that the mortgage was in Mrs Ds name, and so was her legal 
responsibility;
Mrs D had said that all her daughter  wanted was a loan of £34,500 but the fact that 
Mrs D was reliant on her pension income  may well have limited her access  to other 
lending alternatives. And Mrs D still had the issue of the outstanding  interest  only 
mortgage;
Whilst the initial conversations were  for borrowing  £20,000 for travel  needs Mrs D 
appeared to have  revised that figure  to £10,000.  This indicated to him that she knew 
about the loan and its purpose and had considered  how much she felt she needed  to 
borrow;
The key features documents and mortgage  offer clearly documented both the roll up of 
interest payments  and when  an ERC  may be payable. 
Mrs D doesnt agree with the adjudicators conclusions. She says in particular  that, while the 
interest only mortgage was in her name,  it was for the benefit of her daughter and arranged 
on the recommendation of her mortgage adviser. She says the mortgage adviser should 
have contacted her daughter and arranged  an appropriate loan for her daughter to meet her 
needs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs D asked whether I would call her so that she could explain  her points to me. The 
adjudicator explained that its unlikely this would be necessary. And after reviewing all the 
evidence, including  Mrs Ds detailed written  statements and a recording of her call with our 
adjudicator, I find that I have enough  information to reach a fair decision about  this complaint
I do not underestimate the distress  that this matter has caused Mrs D. And Ive considered 
the evidence and arguments  very carefully in reaching my decision. Having done so, I agree 
with our adjudicator  that Intrinsic hasnt acted  unfairly. I appreciate  how disappointing this 
will be for Mrs D, so Ill explain why Ive reached  this decision.
At the time of the advice in 2014  Mrs D was aged 68 and retired. She had no financial 
dependants. The fact find, which was signed  by Mrs D, records  her monthly income as 
approximately £1050  and her outgoings as approximately £790 per month. It also shows  an 
outstanding interest  only mortgage on her property for £35,000.
I appreciate that Mrs D says that the mortgage on her property was for the benefit of her 
daughter. But, as the adjudicator has explained, it was in Mrs Ds name,  and so was her 
legal responsibility.  
The fact find also records that Mrs D wanted to repay her mortgage,  assist her daughter with 
a gift of £35,000,  and have funds to spend on her lifestyle, holidays  and home renovation as 
required. Intrinsic says, and I accept,  that given that Mrs D was retired and reliant on her 
pension income,  she would have had difficulty in raising this money by alternate  means. 
I note that Mrs D says that she didnt  need the money. She says that she had sufficient  to 
fund her lifestyle and holidays. But I see that, while the original fact find recorded that she 
Ref: DRN98458023wanted £21,000 for holidays  and lifestyle, she subsequently changed this to £10,000. This 
indicates to me that Mrs D had considered how much  she wanted to borrow  at the time.
Mrs D also says that she was vulnerable  at the time of the advice due to family and health  
issues. She says in particular that her original mortgage adviser should have contacted her 
daughter, and arranged a loan for her daughter  instead  of Mrs D. 
Ive considered what Mrs D has to say on this issue  very carefully. But, although Mrs D had 
clearly been through a very difficult time,  Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that she 
lacked capacity to make a decision. Im satisfied that Intrinsics advice was clearly set out in 
the suitability letter, and further information about  the lifetime mortgage  was contained in the 
key facts document. Intrinsic advised Mrs D to discuss the advice with her daughters.  And 
she also took independent advice from a solicitor before taking out the mortgage.  So Im 
satisfied that she would  have understood what was being recommended.  And, if she had 
any queries, then Im persuaded  she had the opportunity to raise  them  at the time.
Mrs D says that the fact she has the mortgage means she is unable to move to another 
property nearer to her family. However,  I suggest  she may wish to discuss  this further  with 
the mortgage lender. I say this because  the mortgage is portable. This means that she does 
not necessarily need to pay off the mortgage before moving. Instead, she may be able to 
transfer all or part of the mortgage to a new home,  which  might  enable her to achieve her 
aim.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9845802