K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains that Payzone UK Limited  mis-sold her a hire contract  for a payment 
terminal.
background
In December 2018 Mrs F entered into a hire agreement for a card terminal.  She says the 
representative from Payzone told her the contract  would be free for the first 6 months  and 
that she could  cancel the contract after that time if it wasnt  working for her.
In January 2019 Mrs F noticed that two payments had been  taken from her account relating 
to the contract. She contacted Payzone and discovered that there  were  two contracts, a hire 
agreement contract for the card terminal and a contract for online card payment services.
Mrs F complained to Payzone. She was unhappy  because shed been told that the service  
would be free for the first 6 months.  She also said shed been  told that she could cancel after 
6 months, but had subsequently found out that this wasnt  the case.
In response Payzone offered to close the online  service and reduce the minimum monthly  
service charge. It said there was no evidence that its representative  had advised  Mrs f that 
she could cancel the agreement after 6 months and said that the minimum period applied to 
the payment hire agreement.
Mrs F wasnt happy with the response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said the agreement wasnt  suitable for the type of 
business being operated  by Mrs F and that this shouldve been  taken  into consideration by 
the representative from Payzone. The investigator  recommended that Payzone should 
release Mrs F from the contract.
Payzone didnt  agree.  It said that irrespective of the suitability  of the agreement,  it was Mrs 
Fs decision  to enter into the agreement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F has provided  a consistent version  of events.  She says she was approached by a 
representative of Payzone  offering her a payment terminal contract that would enable  her to 
take card payments for her new business.  Mrs F says she was told that the service was free 
for the first 6 months and that she could cancel  at any time if the service  didnt work for her.
Unsurprisingly Mrs F was happy to enter into the agreement, thinking that she had nothing  to 
lose.
Payzone has said that Mrs F entered into the agreement willingly.  Whilst that may be 
correct, its the actual circumstances of the complaint which are important. Mrs F has said 
she was told that the first 6 months  would be free and that she could cancel after 6 months.  
Im satisfied that both of these representations  were material  factors  in Mrs Fs decision to 
enter the agreement. Looking at the terms and conditions, and whilst I can see that the first 6 
Ref: DRN94714172months are free from charges, its clear that theres  a minimum period of hire which  means 
that Mrs F wasnt  able to cancel after 6 months.
Although Payzone has said theres no evidence  that a misrepresentation about the hire 
period was made, theres  no evidence to suggest  that the representation wasnt  made  either. 
On balance, Im persuaded by Mrs Fs testimony and Im satisfied that the representative 
misrepresented the terms of the contract as to her ability to cancel.
Ive also considered the suitability of the agreement taking  into account the nature of Mrs Fs 
business. The representative told Mrs F there would be no charges for 6 months.  Whilst this 
may be correct in relation to the hire agreement, it wasnt made clear to Mrs F that she 
would incur charges  to the merchant acquirer  if she didnt  register  £1500  worth of 
transactions through the card terminal each month.
I understand that Mrs Fs business  is a new business which  she runs from a room  in her 
home. She is the only employee. Shes said that even if every single one of her customers 
paid by card,  she still wouldnt  turnover £1500  each month. Ive looked at Mrs Fs bank 
statements and I can see that in the period June-December 2018  shes never earned £1500  
per month. I think it would have been  obvious to the representative from Payzone that a start 
up business being operated from one room by one person was very unlikely to achieve 
turnover of £1500 each month. The agreement  isnt suitable for Mrs F.
Taking everything into account  I think Mrs F entered into the agreement  on the basis of a 
misrepresentation about her ability to cancel. Im also of the view that the agreement  isnt 
suitable for Mrs Fs business and that the representative knew  (or ought to have known) this.
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold the complaint.  
my final decision
Payzone UK Limited  should cancel the agreement and cease  asking Mrs F for any further 
payments. It should also collect  the terminal at no cost to Mrs F and ensure that no adverse 
information is recorded against Mrs F in relation to the agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9471417