K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains that Santander UK Plc made errors which caused her to have access 
issues with her current account.
background
I issued my provisional decision in March  2020, a copy of which is attached  and forms part 
of this decision. In it I explained that I intended  to partially uphold Mrs Gs complaint and in 
order to put things right thought Santander should;
Issue a letter of apology to Mrs G, confirming it made an error returning particular 
cheques marked as stolen.
Pay Mrs G £400 for the trouble and upset  its actions have caused her. This is in 
addition to the money credited to her account when she first complained.
responses to my provisional  decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further  information  
before I reached a final decision.
Santander did not provide  any additional  comments or information.
Mrs G did not fully agree with my decision. She felt that the recommended  redress was 
slightly derisory given the distress caused.  She reiterated the reasons why this had been 
distressing and asked  that I consider recommending  a higher amount. She also said that 
while she agreed a letter of apology would be correct, she said she would like the right to 
come back  if the letter  was not suitably apologetic or didnt fully explain how Santanders 
actions caused  the issues to arise.
She also reiterated that she was unhappy that Santander had not retained a call recording 
even though it shouldve realised this would be important to an imminent  complaint. She said 
she felt this was not in line with what other  organisations do. And she added that while  she 
appreciated banks  looked  to reduce fraud,  she said it was not for Santander  to decide how 
many uncashed cheques she had or to cancel them.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As I noted  in my provisional decision, it was disappointing that the call recording of the 
discussion that resulted  in the cancellation of cheques  wasnt retained.  But while this is 
unfortunate, the role of the ombudsman service is to consider complaints informally  and 
decide what we think the fair and reasonable way to resolve them  is. It isnt part of our role to 
fine or punish businesses and we are not the regulator. So while having access  to this call 
wouldve been helpful, it not having  been retained is not reason alone for me to recommend 
that Santander pay further redress. Ive instead just had to decide what I think  on balance  is 
more likely to have  happened based  on the information that is available. 
Mrs G has said it isnt for Santander to decide  how many uncashed cheques  she has 
outstanding. But Santander is allowed to set its own policies and procedures around risk and 
Ref: DRN96377162how it is willing to manage accounts. And this use of its commercial judgement isnt 
something our service can generally  interfere with.
Santander has explained that its policy is not to issue new cheque  books if, based on its 
records, there are above a certain number of uncashed cheques still active  on an account. 
And it will not issue another cheque book until some of these are cancelled. Again, this is a 
decision that Santander is entitled to take. And its records, a copy  of which have been 
provided to us, showed that Mrs Gs account was in that position  at the time she called, due 
to not having received a new chequebook. 
Based on this I think its likely that a discussion  did take place about the need to cancel  
some cheques  and Santanders notes  reflect this. Mrs G says she doubts the accuracy of 
these notes. But a new chequebook could not have been provided  without  some  older  
cheques having  been stopped. So, Im still of the opinion that, on balance, this was likely 
discussed. But as I said in my provisional decision,  I believe there was a misunderstanding 
around which cheques  were to be stopped. And this led to the later problems with cheques  
being incorrectly marked as stolen.
I know Mrs G is unhappy  that the cheques were  marked as stolen  and shes asked why 
Santander didnt  make the connection  between the names of the payees  and herself  before 
doing this. And I agree  if someone  had noticed this and made further  enquiries  the situation  
mayve been avoided. But I cant change what has already happened and, as I explained in 
my provisional decision, I think marking the cheques as stolen was an error by Santander. 
Ive reviewed the other findings made in my provisional decision. Having done  so Ive seen 
no new information that leads me to change my conclusions in respect of those  other issues.
So with that in mind what  Im left to decide  is what the fair way of putting this right is. Again it 
is not our role to fine or punish  a business  for a mistake,  its to look at what we consider to 
be a fair and reasonable resolution. I know Mrs G feels strongly  about  this and doesnt think  
the amount recommended  in my provisional decision is enough. But having considered 
everything again, including her further comments,  I remain of the opinion  that Santander 
issuing a written apology and paying an additional  £400 is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN96377163Mrs G has said she wants the right to come back to us if she thinks the letter from Santander 
isnt suitably apologetic or doesnt  explain things clearly enough. Im conscious  that what  is 
considered suitably apologetic  is subjective  and Mrs G may have different views on this to 
us. But for the avoidance of doubt, and in an effort to ensure matters are resolved, for the 
letter of apology to fairly address the complaint  Id expect it to include;
a direct apology from Santander to Mrs G and the other people  affected
an acknowledgement of the error  (marking  cheques incorrectly  as stolen) 
confirmation this should not have happened
confirmation that the cheques were not stolen 
confirmation the recipients were not at fault 
details of the cheques that were affected  by this error
In terms of being able to bring the matter back to our service  a final decision  marks the end 
of our process. And once a decision is issued we cannot review the same complaint again.  
So, we will not be able to review this complaint again if Mrs G is unhappy with the letter  of 
apology. But hopefully the points above  should  go some way to ensuring that doesnt 
happen.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Mrs Gs complaint in part.
Santander UK Plc should;
Issue Mrs G a letter of apology addressing the error made,  which should contain a 
summary of the information Ive set out above
Pay Mrs G £400 for the distress  caused by its actions. This is in addition to any 
amounts paid to her when she first complained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2020..
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN96377164Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mrs G complains that Santander UK Plc made errors which caused her to have  access  issues with 
her current account.
background
Mrs G had a current account with Santander. In February 2018,  she requested a new cheque book be 
issued as one had not automatically been  provided.
Santander provided a new cheque  book  as requested. Mrs G was then notified by the recipients,  her 
sons, of cheques  she had written from her previous cheque book  that these  had been returned unpaid  
and reported as stolen. 
Mrs G complained to Santander saying it had stopped the cheques in error and had caused  the 
recipients, her sons, significant problems with their own banks by marking them  as stolen. She said 
this had put a strain  on her relationship with her sons causing her a great deal of distress  and asked 
that Santander  contact  the recipient banks to confirm  the cheques were  not stolen.
Santander initially apologised for stopping the cheques in error and said it would pay £50 into Mrs Gs 
account to address this. It then said, after listening to the phone call in which  the new cheque book 
was requested, it didnt think it had made a mistake when  it stopped the cheques. It explained that, 
the reason a new cheque book hadnt been issued  was that there were a number of unused  cheques  
from previous cheque books. Santander said that during the call in which  the new cheque book was 
requested it had confirmed this with Mrs G and asked which books were  no longer being used   so 
that these  could be cancelled.  It went on to say that it had not reported any cheques as stolen and the 
unpaid cheques hadnt been presented  to it for payment. So, it didnt think  it had done anything  to 
cause the issues between the recipients and their banks. As a result, Santander  didnt feel it had 
made an error so didnt intend to do anything  further, but it confirmed  the £50 it had already paid 
would remain in Mrs Gs account.
Mrs G contacted Santander  again  in April 2018. She says this was to request information about  the 
balance on her account.  She says that she was then made aware a block had been placed on her 
account. Santander said this was because of mail being returned to it. It said it places a returned  mail 
block when post is returned to ensure no mail is sent to an address that might be incorrect. Mrs G 
asked for details of what post had been returned but Santander said it was unable to find this. But it 
was satisfied  it hadnt  made  an error.
Unhappy with Santanders responses Mrs G complained  to our service. As well as being  unhappy  
with the cheques  being stopped  and block being placed  on the account, she said she was also 
unhappy with how Santander had dealt  with her concerns. She felt the block on her account might 
have been due to her making a complaint about the cheques and, if she hadnt called  to enquire  
about her balance, she couldve been left unable  to use her account which  wouldve been 
embarrassing. And she felt Santander had been  unhelpful  and provided  poor customer service, which 
she says was possibly  motivated by her age.
An adjudicator considered Mrs Gs complaint but didnt  think it had done anything wrong.  Although a 
recording of the call in which the new chequebook was ordered was no longer available, based on 
Santanders notes of the calls he was satisfied  that on balance it made Mrs G aware that previous 
cheque books  would be stopped. He also said he was satisfied that the cheques had not been 
reported stolen by Santander. 
In terms of the block placed  on the account he said he didnt think Santander had done anything 
wrong  even though a copy  of the returned letter could not be provided.
Ref: DRN96377165Finally, in relation to the customer  service provided, while  Santander hadnt been able to provide 
recordings of all the calls Mrs G had with it, he was satisfied from the ones he had listened to that 
Santander had acted professionally and there was no indication it had treated Mrs G unfairly.  So he 
didnt think he could fairly say it had done anything wrong.
Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She said she was surprised  that the call, in which the 
new chequebook had been  requested, had not been retained  or made  available,  as she had 
complained very soon after it took place. She disputed  that there had been a conversation about 
cancelling cheques and said she wouldnt have agreed to this as the ones that eventually ended up 
unpaid had already been written. Mrs G also maintained Santander had marked the cheques as 
stolen  and provided some further evidence  of this, including a stamped copy of one of the cheques.
Turning to the block  on her account, she said she was not satisfied this had been applied for a 
genuine reason and doesnt  think correspondence  was returned undelivered.  She also added it was 
only by chance shed learned about this before it had caused greater  inconvenience. On the point of 
customer service,  she said there was obviously  a difference of opinion  based on perspective  her 
having been  on the phone and the adjudicator  listening  as a third party. As she disagreed, she asked 
for an ombudsman to review her complaint - so it has been passed to me to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
should the cheques have been stopped
Santander has explained that if there  are too many unused cheques still available  on one of its 
customers current accounts, it wont be able to provide a new cheque  book until some of these 
cheques are cancelled and stopped. It has provided  evidence that at the time Mrs G requested  a new 
chequebook there were  more active unused cheques than its system would  allow. So, based  on what 
Ive seen, I think some of these wouldve needed to have been cancelled to allow it to issue the new 
chequebook Mrs G wanted.  
It is disappointing  that the call Mrs G made to Santander to request the new chequebook  was not 
retained. Especially  because, as Mrs G points out, a complaint was made  soon after this call took 
place and Santander referenced and relied  on this call to issue its final response saying it hadnt 
made an error. But without it, I have to decide on balance  what  I think  is likely to have happened.
I dont though think Santander made an independent decision to cancel cheques. Santanders notes  
of the call indicate  cancellation of old cheque books was discussed. As Ive said, Im satisfied that 
Santander wouldnt have  been able to issue a new chequebook without cancelling some of the 
existing cheques. So, on balance, I think a discussion  about having to cancel some older cheques 
likely did take place and so I dont think it would  be fair to say that it was wrong to cancel any 
cheques. 
But I also believe its unlikely Mrs G wouldve intentionally  agreed to cancel cheques  that she had 
recently issued.  I think  what is most likely  to have happened is that there has been  a 
misunderstanding and a human error. And I think the cheques already  being used by Mrs G to make  
payments to her children  were probably cancelled by mistake, likely due to the misunderstanding Ive 
mentioned. 
As Ive said I think this mistake was likely due to a genuine human error. So, Ive thought  about  what  
the fair way to address  this issue is. Having done  so, I think the £50 already paid by Santander is fair, 
so I dont think it needs  to do anything  further  in respect of this issue.
cancelled cheques marked as stolen
Ref: DRN96377166When Mrs G complained about the cheques having been stopped, she also raised that theyd  
incorrectly been  recorded as stolen,  causing  problems for the recipients. Santander denied  this and 
said the cheques hadnt been presented to it for payment,  so the recipients own banks mustve come 
to that conclusion  on their own. And Santander maintained this position until recently.
Mrs G has provided us with copies of the information the two recipients received from their respective 
banks when the cheques  were not paid. The two banks are not associated and are not part of the 
same banking  group. One has provided  a copy of the cheque presented  to it that is stamped payment  
stopped theft reported.  The other has provided  processing notes that say cheque returned as 
payment stopped theft reported. Both of these pieces  of information indicate  the cheques were 
processed, so indicate they were presented to Santander for payment. In addition,  two separate, 
unrelated banks, independent of each other, have said that theft was reported  of these  cheques. I find 
it very unlikely  that they would independently  both have  reached this same conclusion. So, it appears 
Santander did report the cheques as stolen.
I put this to Santander. And it now accepts that the cheques were presented to it and that it stamped 
them as theft reported.  But it says this was done in error  and it hasnt recorded  the chequebooks  as 
stolen anywhere on its system. It has provided evidence  to support this and having reviewed this Im 
satisfied that it didnt  record  the chequebooks as stolen, so it appears that the cheques were simply 
incorrectly stamped.
Mrs G has said that this has had significant consequences for the recipients due to the subsequent  
actions of their banks.  But I cant look into the actions of the recipient banks and effect  on their 
account holders as part of Mrs Gs complaint.  I can only look at if Santander has made  an error and if 
so, what  effect  this has had on Mrs G and what it should do to put this right. 
The cheques were  incorrectly stamped as theft reported.  That is now accepted.  And this probably 
was again due to human  error. But I think this has had a significant impact on Mrs G. Having  read her 
correspondence in relation to this complaint  I think she has been caused  ongoing distress by both the 
error and Santanders refusal  to acknowledge  this error. And she has said this has affected her 
relationship with the recipients  which  I believe. 
Im also conscious that Mrs G has been given  incorrect and misleading information  about  this for a 
long time. Santander has said it didnt know it had returned  the cheques  as copies  were not retained 
on its systems. But given the consistent testimony and evidence provided by Mrs G, I think it wouldve 
been reasonable for Santander to have  requested information about  this from the recipient banks 
when she first complained. And if it had done so, this issue couldve been identified  a lot sooner  and 
rectified.
Santander has said that the cheques would always have gone  unpaid  due to the cancellation  I 
discussed above. But the reason that was marked on the cheques is what has caused a lot of the 
issues Mrs G is unhappy  about. And this was marked in error by Santander.
As a result, I think Santander should do something to put this right. I think it would  be fair for 
Santander to issue a letter of apology  to Mrs G for this error, confirming it incorrectly marked cheques 
from her account as stolen  along with details that would allow these cheques to be identified by the 
recipient banks. Mrs G can then share this with the recipients of the cheques  if she wishes to do so. In 
addition, I think Santander should pay Mrs G a further £400 to address  the upset  caused to her by this 
error.
Ref: DRN96377167the temporary mail block placed on Mrs Gs account
Santander has said it placed a block on outgoing  mail on Mrs Gs account  as a result  of mail having  
been returned  to it, indicating  Mrs G may have  changed  address. Mrs G disputes that mail wouldve 
been returned  and was concerned Santander couldnt confirm what was returned. She is also 
unhappy she wasnt contacted to discuss this and only found out when she got in touch  with 
Santander.
While I appreciate Mrs G wouldve liked it to be able to confirm exactly  which piece of correspondence  
was returned to it, I dont think Santander has acted unreasonably. Santander has its own internal 
processes for dealing  with returned mail. And it isnt our role to interfere with those processes. It has 
taken the decision  that it doesnt retain returned correspondence. And I can understand this given the 
amount and nature  of the data it would be required to store if it did. So, I dont think it not having a 
copy of the returned letter available  means it has made an error.
While Mrs G has said she doubts that a letter was returned  to Santander and thinks it may have done 
this because she had complained about the cheques, I havent seen  any evidence to support this. 
Santander has explained that the intention of a mail block  is to protect  an account  holder.  And I 
havent seen anything to suggest that this was applied for another reason here.
Mrs G says she is unhappy  that Santander didnt call her to discuss this. Santander has said this isnt 
part of its process. While  I understand why Mrs G wouldve liked Santander to contact her, Santander 
is entitled to decide its internal process for this scenario. So, I cant  say it has done anything wrong.
Mrs G has also talked  about  the embarrassment  that couldve been caused had she been  left unable 
to use the account.  While mail was blocked, I havent seen anything  to suggest  that other account 
facilities were suspended. In any event  though, I cant reasonably ask Santander to compensate Mrs 
G for something that couldve, but fortunately didnt,  happen.
Taking everything into account, I havent seen anything  that leads  me to think the temporary  block 
was applied incorrectly, so I dont think Santander  has made an error.
the level of customer service  provided
We havent been provided with recordings of all of the calls that Mrs G had with Santander about  her 
complaint. In those that I have listened to there was understandably a disagreement - as Mrs G was 
concerned by the issues that were at the centre of the complaint and the representatives  of Santander 
didnt think it had made  an error. But I dont think Santander  acted unreasonably.
Likewise, I havent seen anything  in the written correspondence that Santander sent that was 
dismissive or unreasonable.
As I mentioned when looking  at how the stopped cheques were stamped,  Mrs G was provided 
incorrect information. But aside from that, which  Ive already addressed, I havent seen or heard 
anything that leads me to conclude Santander acted unprofessionally or that it treated Mrs G 
differently because of her age. 
Ref: DRN96377168my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld  in part.
To put things right I think Santander UK Plc should;
Issue a letter of apology to Mrs G, confirming  it made an error returning particular cheques 
marked as stolen.
Pay Mrs G £400 for the trouble and upset  its actions have caused her. This is in addition  to 
the money credited  to her account when  she first complained.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9637716