K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that QIC Europe Limited (QEL) unfairly voided his Home  Select  insurance  
policy.
 
background
Mr W set up a home insurance policy via a comparison website which  started on 
20 February 2018. It was underwritten by QEL and administered QMetric Group Limited 
trading as Policy  Expert. For the purpose  of this decision, Ill refer to the business involved 
as QEL as they are ultimately responsible for the actions taken in this complaint. 
When Mr W bought the policy, one of the questions asked was have any of the occupants  
been declared bankrupt or served with a County Court Judgement  within 5 years? to which 
he answered no. 
On 1 November  2018, Mr W made  a claim on the policy following an escape of water. When 
investigating the claim, QEL found  that a County Court Judgement  (CCJ) had been 
registered against Mr W on 10 June  2015 which hed not told them  about. They said they 
wouldnt have offered him the policy if theyd known  hed been served with a CCJ, so they 
rejected his claim and voided the policy. 
Mr W says he was unaware  of the CCJ and had never been  served  with one. He said his 
understanding is that to be served with a judgement requires either a personal service  or 
some sort signed for delivery . QEL asked Mr W to provide evidence to support that he was 
not made aware of the CCJ at the time of its registration. They suggested  should  he contact 
the Court  or the creditor to confirm  that no notice was received, or the correct process wasnt  
followed. Mr W didnt provide them with such evidence, so QEL confirmed the voidance of 
his policy  and refused  his claim. 
As Mr W was unhappy, he referred his complaint  to us. One of our investigators  looked into 
it; he agreed with QEL.  He said QEL had provided evidence  of the existence of the CCJ and 
were entitled  to believe the Court took appropriate  actions to ensure Mr W was aware  of it. 
He explained  he couldnt look into the actions of the Court in registering the judgement. He 
acknowledged Mr Ws understanding of the serving process but said regardless of the 
process used to make Mr W aware of the CCJ, he wasnt persuaded the answer given by 
Mr W was correct. 
Our investigator said QEL had considered the incorrect information to have been a careless 
misrepresentation as defined  by the Consumer Insurance  [Disclosure and Representation] 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). In the case of a careless  misrepresentation,  CIDRA says the insurer  
should amend  the policy as if the correct information  been  given. 
In this case, QEL had provided information  to show they wouldnt have offered insurance 
had Mr W disclosed  the CCJ. So our investigator said QEL hadnt done  wrong  by voiding the 
policy and returning  the premiums. 
QEL accepted what our investigator said but Mr W didnt.  In summary he said that:
hed never been served with a CCJ
the insurers were simply using the CCJ to limit their liability under the policy
he didnt understand why the existence of a CCJ would have any bearing on a 
buildings insurance policy.
Ref: DRN92172402As there was no agreement, Mr Ws complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont dispute  that Mr W may not have been aware of the CCJ. But I cant comment  on the 
process of issuing or serving a CCJ  it is for the Court to decide those processes. My role in 
this case is to see whether QEL treated Mr W fairly  and reasonably.  
I think its reasonable for QEL to rely on the Court having made  sure that Mr W was made 
aware of the CCJ around the time it was registered.  So it follows  that I think  its reasonable 
for QEL to believe  Mr W was  or ought  reasonably have been  aware  of it. I think a clear 
question was asked  when Mr W was applying for the insurance and he answered it 
incorrectly  even if he wasnt aware  that hed done  so. QEL have provided information  to 
show that they wouldnt have agreed to insure Mr Ws property had he disclosed the CCJ. 
CIDRA is the law that applies to consumer insurance contracts such as Mr W entered  into 
with QEL.  It sets out various  levels of misrepresentation; careless,  reckless  or deliberate.  It 
also says what actions  an insurer can take depending on the level of misrepresentation. In 
the event of a careless misrepresentation  the lowest  level - where the insurer wouldnt 
have offered insurance had they been given the correct information, they may avoid the 
policy and refuse all claims. But they must  also return all premiums paid. 
In this case, I think it was reasonable  for QEL to believe Mr W was aware of the CCJ. So I 
think its reasonable that QEL would  expect he ought to have declared it in response to the 
question relating to CCJs. I note that QEL have accepted that his failure  to disclose the CCJ 
was careless (rather than reckless or deliberate)  and have taken the action CIDRA says they 
may  that is theyve  voided Mr Ws policy, refused  his claim and returned his premiums.
 
Mr W has said the insurer is simply using the CCJ to limit their liability and he doesnt 
understand why a CCJ would affect  an insurance policy like this. It is for the insurer to set 
their own underwriting  criteria based  on their perception of the risks involved. As Ive said, 
Ive seen their underwriting criteria which confirms they wouldnt have offered insurance had 
they been aware of the CCJ. I dont  think QEL are simply trying to limit their liability  as Mr W 
suggests; simply theyre ensuring their usual processes  are followed. 
Having reviewed all the information and evidence,  I cant see that QEL have  treated Mr W 
unfairly in the circumstances.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9217240