K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) has not been of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr N took receipt of a new car in September 2017.  He financed the deal through a hire 
agreement with VWFS. In September 2018 the car broke down due to a battery fault.  The 
battery wasnt replaced by the dealership until the car had broken  down  on three occasions 
as there  was a dispute about  whether the battery could be replaced under  warranty.  The 
battery was ordered  and eventually replaced on 21 November.
VWFS offered  to return one monthly  instalment to compensate  Mr N for his experiences.  But 
Mr N disagreed with them. He said hed had to wait at the garage for a whole day for his 
replacement vehicle and had to take two and a half weeks off work whilst  the car was being 
repaired. So he referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided her 
opinion.
She thought  VWFSs  offer was sufficient in the circumstances. She explained  that they were 
only responsible  for the vehicles quality at the point it was supplied  to Mr N and after a year 
and 18,000 miles of driving she didnt think shed been provided with sufficient evidence  the 
battery was failing when  Mr N received the car. 
Mr N didnt agree with the investigators view so he asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr N so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr N acquired  his car under a hire agreement.  The hire agreement is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Ref: DRN94137492In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr N. The car here 
was brand new so I would not expect it to have any faults at that time.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask VWFS to put this right.  
But VWFSs  responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Legislation would encourage  us to assume that if a car developed  a fault in the first six 
months it was likely to have been  there  from the point of supply. The relevant legislation 
says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
But if the fault happened after that wed usually look to the consumer to prove this was the 
case.
Ive not been persuaded, by the evidence provided, that this car was faulty  at the point  of 
supply. I can understand  that this battery failed a little earlier  and perhaps at the lower end of 
expectations but Im not persuaded that suggests it was faulty when supplied and think, on 
the evidence supplied; it was more likely to have  failed  due to wear and tear.
I can see that the battery was replaced and that it now appears to be functioning properly 
and I can also see that after the failures Mr N accepted  an offer from VWFS to refund one 
monthly instalment.  So even if Im wrong  about the battery not being faulty at the point of 
supply I think theres  evidence here that the business  offer has been accepted and it would  
therefore be unfair to override that agreement.
Mr N appears  to have been  off the road for a little under three weeks  and the business has 
refunded one monthly instalment. So it would  appear that they have taken reasonable 
account of the amount of time hes been out of action.
In the circumstances I dont think theres sufficient evidence to suggest they need to take 
any further action.
Ref: DRN94137493my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9413749