K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  Aviva  Life and Pensions UK Limited  failed  to act on his instructions when he 
wished to take his pension benefits.
background 
In 2009 on the advice  of his financial advisor,  Mr L invested  £12,500  into a personal pension  
plan with F a predecessor business of Aviva. He intended to take the funds as a lump  sum 
on his 75th birthday 10 February 2019  (referred to as his retirement  date).  
In August  2016  F sent Mr L a Planning ahead for your retirement  letter, and said hed get 
another letter six months before his retirement date.  Mr L thought  this was too early to take 
any action.  In August  2018 six months before his retirement date, Aviva sent Mr L a 
retirement options pack with some  information  to consider, asking him to call when hed 
decided what he wanted to do. Following  this letter Mr L tried to contact the financial advisor 
who originally sold him the plan without success.
In July 2018 Mr L had been diagnosed  with a health  condition which  required surgery.  He 
was in hospital for a week in October 2018,  followed by three months  convalescence. Aviva  
sent a retirement  notification letter  to Mr L in December 2018.  And a further  reminder on 10 
January 2019,  one month before his retirement date, which  said all Avivas requirements  
needed to be in place 14 days before his birthday. 
Mr L called  Aviva on 16 January 2019  apologising for not being  in contact sooner because 
hed been unwell. The call handler noted  hed made  an appointment with a new financial 
advisor on 30 January  2019 and would be in touch  after that. Ahead of the meeting  his new 
advisor called  Aviva  for details about  the plan. Mr L called Aviva after his meeting and 
confirmed his decision to withdraw the funds as a lump sum. Mr L already had the retirement 
options pack, so was told to phone Avivas retirement team. Instead, Mr L sent a letter 
enclosing a copy of his passport. In response, on 5 February 2019  Aviva sent Mr L another 
retirement options pack which he didnt return. But by this time he was already too late to 
take his funds in cash. 
Aviva wrote to Mr L on 18 February  2019 to explain his fund had been disinvested and hed 
now lost the option to take it as cash lump  sum,  and his only remaining option is an annuity. 
Mr L is unhappy as he thought hed given his clear instructions in good  time. He didnt think  
Aviva should  have frozen his investment before 10 February. And he got back  around  £400 
less than his original investment. So he complained.
Aviva explained  taking his pension in cash would now be against HMRC rules as his 75th 
birthday was a crystallisation  event.  It had written  to him several times to remind  him to act 
and had told him it needed  his instructions 14 days prior to his retirement  date. His letter 
wasnt sufficient as the retirement team  needed  to run through  the risk warnings with him 
and send out personalised forms. Mr L said his surgery meant he couldnt have contacted 
Aviva sooner, so it should follow his instructions to take his pension  as a lump sum. So he 
complained to this service. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She thought Aviva had given Mr L 
sufficient reminders so it shouldnt be required to let Mr L take his funds in cash. But she 
thought Aviva could  have  done more for Mr L when he called by asking about his health and 
if he needed assistance. And it could have reminded him everything needed to be in place  
Ref: DRN9063214214 days prior to his retirement  date. Although this was set out in its letter, she thought hed 
rely more  heavily on the information in the call. So she said Aviva should  pay Mr L £200.
Neither Mr L or Aviva accepted the investigators outcome. Mr L still wanted to take his 
pension as a lump sum and Aviva didnt think it had done anything  wrong so shouldnt be 
required to pay compensation.
So its been  passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it in 
part, for broadly  the same  reasons as our investigator. Let me explain why.
Mr Ls policy with F, subsequently taken  over by Aviva, came with certain  restrictions,  which  
Mr L may not have  known  about. Hes unhappy the original financial  advisor  lost touch with 
him and is disappointed with the performance  of his investment. But as the policy was sold 
to him through a financial  advisor not directly  by Aviva I cant look at those points. This 
decision is just about the service provided by Aviva  when  Mr L wished  to take his pension 
benefits. 
Taking pension  benefits  is an important and often irreversible decision,  so Aviva is required 
to send out its packs and reminder letters in good  time to enable people  to think  carefully  
about their options  and seek  advice from a financial advisor or Pensionwise. Although  Mr L 
knew what he wanted to do, he still chose to consult a financial advisor. He doesnt appear  
to have understood that once hed made  his decision the process  required him to call Avivas 
retirement team so they could  explain the risk warnings, generate a quote and send 
personalised forms. Hed need to indicate  his chosen option and return the form to Aviva,  
including a certified copy of his passport. And all that needed to happen  at least  14 days 
before his birthday on Sunday 10 February  2019 (so by 27 January 2019). 
Mr L may also not have  been aware  of the significance in pension  terms of his 75th birthday, 
although his financial  advisor may have explained this to him. Turning 75 is a crystallisation 
event under HMRC rules which means funds are automatically disinvested and if Mr L had 
wished to take his funds  as an uncrystallised  funds pension lump sum (UFPLS) that needed 
to happen before his birthday. Which is why Aviva told Mr L he needed to complete all steps 
of its process 14 days beforehand. 
 
Mr L chose not to act on the 2016 letter. He received the six-month  reminder letter  in August 
2018, after his diagnosis but before he went into hospital for his surgery. 
The letter includes  several leaflets and says on the front page Please note that under your 
contract benefits have  to be taken by age 75 and your options  will be restricted if you have 
not decided by then. It tells Mr L about Pensionwise, the importance of shopping around 
and that he should consider taking financial advice. The current value was around £12,076 
but is not guaranteed  and can still go down or up. And under Let us know what  you want 
to do it says Once youve read all the information  and considered any guidance or financial 
advice give us a call on [telephone number] when youve made  your decision.  I think using 
by rather than at makes  clear Mr Ls chosen  option had to be in place prior to his 75th 
birthday.
Ref: DRN90632143Mr L didnt call Aviva  about this letter, although  I understand  in September  2018 he tried to 
contact the original financial advisor without success, as at some point the firm had been 
taken over and the advisor had left. Taking  financial advice wasnt  compulsory for a pot of 
this size, but Mr L knew if he wanted financial advice  hed have  to find another advisor, and it 
doesnt seem he progressed this until much  later.  
Avivas letter  of 16 December 2018 would have  arrived towards the end of Mr Ls 
recuperation period and is headed  in bold We need to speak to you. It contains the same 
warnings about  the fund value and says in bold its important you contact us as soon as 
possible because you will lose some  of your options  when you reach age 75. And finally  
Until we hear from you we will not send you a quote, so please get in touch as soon as 
possible.  Mr L didnt  call Aviva  about  this letter either. I understand Mr Ls health would 
have been his priority. But I think both Avivas  letters make clear they wanted to hear from 
Mr L urgently, and he needed  to call rather than simply submit written  instructions. 
Im satisfied Mr L was given plenty of time,  even allowing  for his surgery and recovery 
period, to complete the process prior to his birthday, including  consulting  a new financial 
advisor if he wanted to, speaking  to Avivas retirement team,  receiving a quote  and 
completing and returning  the right form.
The 10 January 2019 letter, sent a month  before Mr Ls 75th birthday, says in the first 
paragraph Please contact us as soon  as possible. It warns  him You  need  to take action 
now  and then lists four consequences if he doesnt  tell Aviva which option he wishes to 
take. The final bullet  point says he will lose the option to take your pension as a cash  lump 
sum. 
It says If you are considering retiring shortly before your 75th birthday please make sure you 
return all the items  we need at least 14 days before then. It goes on to request a form of 
identification such as a certified copy  of a passport or driving licence. And if we do not hear 
from you before your 75th birthday your pension fund will be disinvested and . its value will 
be frozen. And finally the warning No payment  will be released .until  we receive  your 
written instructions including the illustration and application request form.
The 10th January letter includes the only reference  to the 14-day deadline. But I think Mr L 
read this letter carefully as he knew Aviva needed a certified copy  of his passport which he 
included with his letter of 30 January 2019. But he appears to have  overlooked every 
instruction to call the retirement team and didnt heed the timescale which was by now very 
tight. To meet it, Mr L would need  to phone the retirement team,  receive the forms, make his 
choice and send  the form back within two weeks. 
And the letter also explains the funds  will be disinvested and frozen  which is what happened 
when Aviva sent Mr L the last retirement options pack  on 5 February 2019, as Mr L hadnt 
completed the process in time. 
But I agree  with the investigator the call handlers Mr L spoke to could have done more  to 
help by managing his expectations about  the timescale. And I think they could do that 
without giving financial advice, which  they mustnt do. 
16 January 2019  call 
In this call the Aviva  member of staff makes no comment  when Mr L explains hed been in 
hospital. He didnt ask after his health or check if he needed any assistance. If Mr L had only 
just got out of hospital and genuinely hadnt  been  able to call sooner its possible Aviva  may 
Ref: DRN90632144have been able to slightly extend the 14-day timescale or offered additional help. But Mr L 
would need to play his part by acting  very quickly and phoning the retirement team. 
Our investigator established Mr L had only been in hospital  for a week  in October, but Aviva 
didnt know this. The agent simply says hell make a note on the policy that Mr L will be in 
touch after seeing  his financial advisor on 30 January 2019. I cant know  if Mr L had been 
reminded Aviva  needed everything in place  14 days before his birthday hed have called the 
retirement team or tried to get an earlier appointment. But Mr L came  away  from that call not 
being made aware hed be too late to meet  Avivas  deadline. 
30 January 2019  call
Mr L apologised for being  a bit late, but hed only just seen his financial advisor. The agent  
replied thats not a problem at all. I think this was just a verbal  nod as at this point Mr L 
hadnt been identified. 
Mr L said his policys retirement date is 10 February 2019 and he wants  to take the entire lot 
out on that date or shortly thereafter, which alerted the call handler to the time pressure. Mr 
L says hes got a retirement options  pack but hasnt responded as hed been recovering from 
surgery. The agent says thats absolutely fine. I dont think he meant acting  so late was 
fine, but it didnt  alert Mr L there  might  be a problem. So the agent tells Mr L to phone the 
retirement team on the number on the second page of the pack, and theyll  send him the 
relevant forms. He had first checked  whether Mr Ls financial  advisor  had submitted the 
forms on his behalf,  which might have made the call unnecessary, as the advisor would have 
been obliged  to go through the risk warnings. 
Mr L says he might  as well write,  as he has to send a certified copy of his passport and the 
agent responded, oh okay. Mr L says hell put it in the post on Friday, which the agent  says 
is absolutely fine. I dont think this comment was intended as an endorsement of Mr Ls 
chosen course of action.  But the agent could have stressed that Mr L still needed to call as 
well as sending his copy passport and referred  him back to the instructions and timescale as 
set out in Avivas  letters. Aviva received  Mr Ls letter and copy passport on Monday 4 
February 2019, but it was already too late, as the 14-day timescale had expired  before  this 
call took place. And Mr L hadnt  completed all steps of the process. 
Avivas submission to this service says Mr L refused to call the retirement team.  Having 
listened to the calls I dont think Mr L refused to call, he just chose  not to, perhaps not 
realising he had to. Its unfortunate he had difficulty getting an earlier appointment with a 
financial advisor, but I cant hold Aviva  responsible  for that. I think Avivas  letters  gave Mr L 
lots of notice, and the instructions about  what was required  of him by when were  sufficiently 
clear. And he didnt complete Aviva s process  in time to take his pension as a lump sum 
before turning 75. 
But for the reasons Ive explained,  I think the call handlers could have provided a better  
service to Mr L, even though their actions werent the reason Mr L wasnt able to take his 
pension in the way he wanted.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. Aviva  Life and Pensions UK Limited should pay Mr L £200.
Ref: DRN90632145Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9063214