K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs unhappy that Bank  of Scotland plc has registered a default on his credit  file. 
background
Mr G says he wasnt aware  a payment hadnt  been  made and he didnt receive  Bank of 
Scotlands default letters as they were sent to an old address. He wants the default  removed  
from his credit file.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  In summary she said:
In the course  of various phone calls about  Mr Gs situation  and payments  he was 
asked to confirm  his address. Bank  of Scotland sent correspondence  to him there. 
Mr G says he wasnt living at that address and had returned  to his home for a family 
matter but theres nothing to show he told bank of Scotland  of this. 
Its Mr Gs responsibility to tell Bank  of Scotland if he changed  address and until he 
did all subsequent  letters would be sent to the confirmed  address it had for him. Its 
not Bank of Scotlands fault if Mr G didnt receive the default notice. It was also his 
responsibility to ensure  he made  the agreed payments on time particularly as he 
knew a direct debit hadnt  been  set up to make  them. He shouldve  seen  Bank of 
Scotland hadnt been paid.
Mr G says a third party  has admitted  it incorrectly told him he wasnt  eligible for a 
student loan and if hed been properly advised  none of this wouldve happened.  But 
thats not Bank of Scotlands fault.   
Bank of Scotland hasnt done  anything wrong and she cant ask it to remove the 
default from Mr Gs credit file.
Mr G doesnt agree  and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  He says Bank of Scotland 
didnt support him at an extremely difficult time. His loan was managed  perfectly with no late 
or missed payments until hed problems.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
It was Mr Gs responsibility to make the agreed payments to Bank of Scotland on time. 
When he didnt do so it was entitled  to enter a default on his credit file. And its obliged  to 
accurately record the conduct of his account.
Its also Mr Gs responsibility  to tell Bank  of Scotland if he changed his address. Here  itd 
confirmed his address  during one of many phone calls with Mr G and it was reasonable for it 
to send post, including the notice of default,  to him at that address until he told it of any new 
address. Here he didnt  advise it of a change of address. Its unfortunate if Mr G didnt 
receive post from Bank of Scotland as a result but that isnt the banks  fault.
Ref: DRN91466612Bank of Scotland also isnt responsible for any incorrect advice Mr G was given by a third 
party about  his eligibility for a student  loan. 
Ive also seen nothing  showing Mr G made Bank of Scotland aware of any health issues.
Taking everything into account  I think Bank  of Scotland  acted fairly and reasonably  on the 
information it was given and had available.  And Ive seen nothing to suggest  its done 
anything wrong.
Although I recognise  Mr Gs strength of feeling and frustration I cannot fairly or reasonably  
ask Bank  of Scotland to remove the default its recorded on his credit file, as hed like.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9146661