K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that Secure Trust Bank Plc didnt  allow her sufficient time to decide on what  
she might  want  to do with her maturing fixed term bond. She also complains about 
shortcomings in its online service, and about the way it dealt with her subsequent complaint 
about both of these matters.
backgroundMs P opened an online fixed term bond with Secure Trust in March 2018. As it was due to 
mature on 11 March 2019, Ms P logged on to her account on 16 February to review her re-
investment options,  but discovered  these  werent listed.  She therefore attempted to contact 
Secure Trust through its secure messaging  system  only to find that she was repeatedly 
timed out. She therefore rang the bank.
During the call the adviser said that the bank would send its re-investment options letter 14 
days prior to Ms Ps account  maturing.  Ms P asked if this would be banking or calendar  
days. The adviser confirmed it would be calendar  days, that Ms P should receive the letter  
by 25 February and that she would be required to return her decision by 7 March.  Ms P was 
concerned that this wouldnt give her sufficient time to consider what  she wanted to do with 
the money and asked  the adviser  to log a complaint. She also raised her concerns about  
being timed  out online  resulting in her having  to ring the bank when that shouldnt  have been 
necessary. The adviser said hed ask a manager to call her back.
In the event it was the adviser who called  back. Ms P was again  told she should receive the 
maturity letter by 25 February, but that she could ring with her maturity  instructions if she felt 
that communicating by post would  give her insufficient time to decide on what  to do next. 
There was another  discussion  about  whether the 14 day letter referred to banking  or 
calendar days and having investigated  again, the adviser this time said the letter would be 
sent to Ms P on 25 February. He also confirmed that he had already logged her complaint, 
and would now add to it the fact that she was unhappy that he (an adviser) had rung her 
rather than a manager as had been  promised.
In its response to Ms P, Secure Trust addressed what it considered to be the main points of 
her complaint, namely:  that she wasnt given 14 banking days  notice of her bond maturing; 
that the adviser who had returned her call hadnt  addressed all aspects of her complaint; that 
the online banking  system timed  out after 2 minutes; that she hadnt  received a return  call 
from a manager,  but from an adviser;  that she should have received a 42 day letter about 
her bond  maturing and that she had incurred unnecessary costs ringing the bank about her 
bond.
Secure Trust upheld  only one of Ms Ps complaint points that being that the adviser hadnt 
responded to all of aspects of her complaint when he had rung her back.
Ms P was dissatisfied  with the banks reply and so she brought  her complaint to us. In doing 
so she reiterated  the points shed  already  made and emphasised the fact that she should  
have been able to deal with her maturity options  online as the bank had said the bond could 
be managed online  when she had taken it out. She also considered the banks maturity 
options letter  to be misleading in the way it presented the current  balance  on the bond. 
Our investigator didnt  consider Ms Ps complaint should be upheld.  In summary, he said that 
Secure Trust had given  Ms P the 14 day notice set out in the Financial Conduct  Authority 
(FCA) handbook, and that it hadnt  been required to give her any more notice than that. He 
Ref: DRN96200922also referred to the terms and conditions applicable to Ms Ps bond that said that maturity 
options would be sent to her by post, and they had been. And in commenting on the balance 
figure quoted in the maturity options letter, our investigator said that this was in line with the 
bond terms and conditions.
Ms P was unhappy  with the investigators  view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
doing so she set out the main points  of her complaint and supported  her arguments with 
extracts from the FCA handbook. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say at the outset that it is the FCA that regulates businesses such  as Secure Trust 
and not us. That means that our role in looking at these businesses  practices  and 
procedures is very limited, and generally restricted to determining whether they have applied 
their procedures fairly and whether they have done anything wrong.
Given that background I have nevertheless considered the main points raised by Ms P in the 
context of the regulations that apply  to banks and building societies and the FCA handbook 
to which  she has referred.
Ms P has said that when  she took out her bond Secure Trust said it could be managed 
online, although the bank  has said that it could also be managed by phone. Having taken out 
the bond online Ms P expected that shed also be able to complete all procedures relating to 
it online, including dealing  with her maturity  options.  I can understand why Ms P might  have  
thought that, but the fact remains  that the bond  terms  and conditions  explicitly  stated that 
maturity options  would  be sent by letter, which they were. 
Secure Trust has said that its internet platform is under constant  review and development, 
and that the option of dealing with maturity  instructions online is a facility it is considering 
introducing. And so whilst  I recognise Ms Ps concern at being  unable to view her options 
online, Im afraid I dont  consider that Secure Trust has done anything  wrong  in only sending  
them by letter. 
Having discovered  that the maturity options were not available online, Ms P then tried to 
contact Secure Trust by its secure messaging facility, but was frequently  timed out. Secure 
Trust has said that in the interests of account security  it automatically  blocks  account  access 
if a customer has been inactive for 2 minutes. And customers typing a secure message are 
regarded by the system  as inactive. 
Secure Trust is plainly right to take account  security very seriously, and I know  that most 
(and probably all) banks  include a time out feature as part of their online facility. The issue  
here is the length of inactive time allowed by Secure Trust before  it considers that the 
account is potentially  vulnerable, and it has taken the business  decision that 2 minutes  is 
appropriate. And whilst I agree with Ms P that 2 minutes is quite a tight timescale to draft a 
message, Im afraid  that I cannot interfere with Secure Trusts legitimately taken  business  
decision.
Ref: DRN96200923Having been unable to contact the bank online,  Ms P then telephoned. This was some 3 
weeks before maturity of her bond and in good  time for her to make  a decision about what  
she wanted to do next with the money. But she was upset  to discover that Secure Trust 
wouldnt be sending her options letter until 14 calendar days before maturity, which Ms P 
considered wouldnt  allow her sufficient time to make an informed decision. And she has 
pointed out that in practice the time allowed was even shorter because the letter  took 3 to 5 
days to be processed by the banks internal systems, and she had to respond no later than 4 
days before  bond  maturity. In the event  the letter arrived on Saturday 2 March  and Ms P had 
to return it the same  day as her maturity date was 7 March.
Under FCA guidelines Secure Trust is only required to write  to customers 14 days  before 
maturity, which is what it did here. And although it could have written much  earlier  it would 
then still have had to send a 14 day reminder letter. Secure Trust has pointed out that the 
drawback of writing  earlier is that investments can be withdrawn at short notice, and it could 
be that if it sent maturity  letters 42 days in advance   a time mentioned  by Ms P  options 
available at that time might be withdrawn by the time of the 14 day reminder letter.
Be that as it may I am satisfied that Secure Trust sent its maturity  letter  no later than it 
should have done, and has therefore not done anything wrong. However the bank may want  
to reconsider the timing of its letters in the light of points raised by Ms P given that its 
timescale required her to return her decision on the day she received the maturity  letter.  In 
saying this I recognise that the bank had told Ms P she could ring with her decision, which  
would have given  her a few more  days, but she decided  not to take advantage  of that offer.  
Im aware that Ms P didnt  reinvest with Secure Trust, and it may be that the tight timescales 
to which  it required her to work  was a contributory factor  in her decision to move  her money 
elsewhere.
Ms P is also unhappy about the misleading  balance figure included by Secure Trust in its 
account statements  and maturity letters. In both cases Ms P says the letter gives the 
impression that the balance includes interest  as at the date of the letter, which  it doesnt. The 
reason for this is that the account  terms and conditions  specify that although interest  is 
calculated daily, it is applied to the account  on 31 December  and on maturity. And so any 
balance received by Ms P after 31 December, but prior to her account  maturing will include 
interest only up to 31 December. 
I recognise why Ms P might find this confusing, and wish that Secure Trust included a more 
helpful explanation in its letters,  which is something it may wish to consider. But Im afraid 
that the account terms and conditions are clear  on when a balance  will be updated to reflect 
interest earned thus far, and the figures supplied to Ms P were in line with this. I therefore 
cannot conclude  that Secure Trust has made an error here or set out to mislead.
Ms P also complains about the way the bank dealt with her complaint on the telephone. She 
says the adviser  who rang her didnt answer all of the points she had raised.  Secure Trust 
has upheld that aspect of her complaint  and said feedback has been provided to the 
individual concerned. But the bank  subsequently  did respond in writing  to all of Ms Ps 
concerns and I do not consider that it need  do any more.
And so in summary, and whilst I recognise Ms Ps unhappiness about the functionality  of the 
banks online system  and about  the timing of its maturity letters,  Im afraid that I cannot 
reasonably find that it has done  anything wrong  here.
Ref: DRN96200924my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9620092