K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited.  He isnt happy about  
the way it is dealing with a claim  under  his motor insurance policy. 
background
Mr B took out car insurance  with Advantage and made a claim on his car insurance policy.  
He was provided with a courtesy car under the policy that he allowed the named driver on 
the policy to drive.
At the end of May 2018 the named driver reported an incident,  which  involved the police, to 
the insurer. Mr B called Advantage during the early part of June to remove  the named  driver 
from cover  only to be told about the claim from the end of May.
Mr B wasnt  happy that he wasnt made aware of the claim and that the named driver was 
allowed to make a claim. He was also unhappy  with the way the matter was being  
investigated and the amount of time taken to deal with the claim. So he complained  to 
Advantage and then this service.
Our adjudicator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He was of the view 
that Advantage hadnt acted unreasonably in looking into the claim made  by the named 
driver under the policy. And, although he acknowledged that the claim was taking  a while,  he 
didnt think that Advantage had done  anything wrong.
As Mr B didnt agree  the matter has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and despite the difficult  
position Mr B has found himself, Im not upholding his complaint. And Id like to explain why.
Mr B has raised a number  of issues in complaint to Advantage and this service.  But the main 
thrust of his complaint is that he doesnt think Advantage should  consider the claim by the 
named driver under his policy.
While I can understand his frustration, as he appears to have been let down by the named 
driver, that doesnt mean that Advantage has done  anything wrong. At the time of the 
incident the named driver was on the policy and I understand that Mr B had given her the car 
to use. He cant withdraw cover retrospectively  and Im sure the main reason he looked to 
withdraw cover was because of the difficulty surrounding this claim and the police 
involvement which is understandable. But at the time of the incident the named driver was 
covered by the policy and Advantage has to look into the claim as the responsible insurer. 
And even  if the claim wasnt reported to Advantage it would still have to look into things  as it 
was the insurer  at the time of the incident  which isnt in dispute
I know that Mr B has suggested  that he tried to remove cover for the named driver before 
this incident. But Ive not been provided with any evidence of this. And if that was the case  
Im surprised that Mr B gave possession of the courtesy car to the named driver if he didnt 
want her to use it.
Ref: DRN91658842I do understand why Mr B was frustrated that Advantage hadnt made him aware  of the claim 
but that doesnt mean it has done anything wrong.  It did send him a letter about the claim to 
Mr B after the incident was reported.
Furthermore, given the police involvement  in this matter  and the complications surrounding 
the claim I can understand why Advantages investigation is talking a while.  But, from what 
Ive seen to date, that investigation is necessary in order to find out exactly what  happened 
and to allow liability to be decided. The investigation has been  complicated by the named 
driver not cooperating  with the investigation and the need to have police involvement. 
I know Mr B is also concerned that Advantage has prejudged the outcome of the claim  but I 
dont think it has. Advantage has simply tried to manage  Mr Bs expectations around the 
claim and the particular difficulties it faces given the lack of cooperation by the named driver 
who Mr B placed on cover  and gave  the car to.
Ultimately, I think  Advantage has acted  reasonably  in looking to investigate this claim which I 
understand is now at an advanced stage and Id expect it to communicate the outcome to 
Mr B upon  conclusion.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9165884