K821x#15complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the amount of money  Acromas Insurance  Company  Limited  has paid 
him in settlement of a claim  on his breakdown  repair cover.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2018. I asked everyone to 
send me any further comments and information before I reached a final decision. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
Mr Os breakdown repair cover is provided  by the AA, but underwritten by Acromas.  
For ease of reference Ill only refer to Acromas  in the decision. 
Mr O contacted Acromas because of a breakdown  that happened on 29 June 2018.  
Acromas sent out a patrolman who said the breakdown was caused by a broken 
alternator belt. He didnt  attempt to fix the issue because he said pieces of the broken 
belt couldve  gone into the timing belt area. Instead he recovered  Mr Os car to a 
garage of his choosing for further  investigation.
The garage ran some  diagnostic checks,  and replaced the alternator  belt, timing  belt 
and water pump. It invoiced £538.13  (inclusive  of VAT) for these works, which Mr O 
paid on 2 July 2018. 
Acromas accepted the claim, but only for the amount of £117.22. It says Mr Os 
policy only provides  cover for the part that caused the initial  breakdown. And what  it 
agreed to pay was for the replacement alternator belt and a new timing  belt. It also 
said it would  only pay for repair times  in line with motor industry standards.  In this 
case, it said this was 1.3 hours.
Mr O is unhappy because  Acromas  is only offering him £117.22 towards  the repairs 
he had completed,  despite his policy covering him for up to £500.  Acromas says this 
is because Mr Os policy only provides cover for the part that caused the breakdown  
 which  it says was the alternator belt only.
Mr O says that the damaged part shredded itself into the timing cover in his car. He 
says the other parts needed to be removed to remove all traces  of the part, which 
caused the breakdown. This work included replacing  several  other parts. So, he feels  
these parts and the repair time should be covered under his policy. 
Acromas says the water pump and tensioner  that were replaced by the garage had 
nothing to do with the breakdown. It only agreed  to pay to replace the alternator belt, 
which was the part that failed, and the timing belt, which was damaged by the 
alternator belt. But it says paying for the timing belt was a gesture of goodwill as it 
wasnt actually covered under the policy.
Ref: DRN97878462Mr O has also pointed out that the patrolman  recommended further diagnostics 
before repairs were carried out, but Acromas isnt covering the garages  charge for 
this. Acromas have said that the cause of the breakdown was clearly the alternator 
belt. So it doesnt agree  that it should  pay for further diagnostics.
Mr O brought his complaint to our service where  it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. He didnt  think it should  be upheld. He pointed out Mr Os policy  said 
he needed to agree what repairs needed  to be done  with Acromas before they were  
carried out. But he couldnt see that he had done  this. He also thought  that under the 
policy, Acromas  was only obliged to pay for repairs  to the part that caused the 
breakdown  which he felt it had.
Mr O didnt agree with this. He provided some additional points for our investigator  to 
consider. He said the patrolman recommended diagnostic checks  and there was a 
delay in Acromas authorising the repair, so he felt it should pay storage  costs. And 
he said the industry standard repair times didnt take into account that the water  
pump area needed  decontaminating.
Our investigator thought about  what Mr O had said, but it didnt  change  his view.  He 
pointed out the patrolman and the garage identified the alternator belt as the cause of 
the breakdown.  And the policy doesnt  contain a timescale for approved repairs  or a 
provision for storage costs. And he referred  again  to the fact the policy  limits the 
repair to the part that caused the breakdown, which was the alternator belt. So he 
didnt think Acromas was obliged to pay for the additional parts Mr O had mentioned.
Mr O still didnt agree with the investigator, so the complaint  has been passed to me 
for a final decision.   
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Acromas has declined  to pay any more than the £117.22 its already  paid to settle 
Mr Os claim. It has pointed to its policy document which states  that the policy  
excludes:
Any faults identified by, or reported  to, the AA mobile mechanic,  AA 
appointed garage agent, or Your repairing garage, which  did not cause the 
initial Breakdown."
Based on this term Acromas says its only required to pay for the repair to the 
alternator belt. It also says it will only pay for 1.3 hours repair time and has again  
pointed to its policy which says:
Claims will be assessed in line with Manufacturer or Motor  Industry  standard  
repair times and retail price guides.
Our services approach  in cases like this is to consider whether the insurer  has acted 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. And  we also consider whether 
this is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances  of the complaint.  
Ref: DRN97878463From what  Ive seen I think Acromas application of the policy terms in this case  is 
too narrow, and doesnt produce  a fair and reasonable outcome. So Im currently  
intending to partially uphold  Mr Os complaint. Ill explain my reasons in more  detail 
below.
Acromas says the part that caused the breakdown  was the alternator  belt. It says it 
only covered the repairs to the timing belt as a gesture of goodwill. But looking at the 
breakdown report,  I think what  caused  the breakdown was probably  a combination of 
the alternator belt shredding and bits going  into the timing belt area and damaging it. 
I say this because  the patrolman elected  not to attempt to repair  the alternator belt at 
the scene, because he suspected further damage.
The patrolman recommended  further diagnostics to assess potential  further damage.  
And I dont  think its fair for Acromas to exclude  this under the policy. I say this 
because a diagnostic  check  is really part of the repair costs.  A mechanic needs to 
check in order to see which parts actually need  to be repaired.
So taking all of that into account, I think Acromas should cover the cost of the 
diagnostic check in addition to the cost of repairing both belts.
The invoice from the garage where Mr O had his car repaired says it took 3.9 hours 
to renew the timing  belt and water pump, and to replace the micro belt (alternator 
belt). And it charged one hour diagnostics. 
Acromas has provided data from the industry  technical information specialist, which  
states that repairing a camshaft  drive belt should  take 1.3 hours. But from what  Ive 
seen, this doesnt take into account the repair time for the alternator  belt. So I think 
Acromas needs to cover the cost of the repair time for the alternator belt and the one 
hour diagnostic  check  in addition to the 1.3 hours its already paid for.
When the garage repaired Mr Os car, it also replaced his water  pump  as part of a kit 
that came  with the timing belt. Acromas says the pump had nothing  to do with the 
breakdown, and its shown that the timing  belt can be purchased  individually,  so it 
doesnt agree that the new pump should  be covered. 
I contacted a technical advice helpline for Mr Os car manufacturer, and conducted 
some independent research into whether its good practice  to replace the water pump 
in a situation like this one. From  what Ive seen and been advised, it is good  practice  
to replace the water pump when replacing  the timing belt. This is because  once a 
new belt is put on, the extra tension in the belt can wear  out the water pump more 
quickly. This means it works out cheaper  for the customer, who might otherwise have 
to pay additional  labour  costs  which would exceed the cost of the new water pump 
 when having it replaced separately.
Ive thought carefully about whether I think this means Acromas should pay for the 
replacement water pump. But as the reason for it being good practice appears to be 
about cost saving and preventing future damage, rather  than putting right existing 
damage to the car, I dont think it needs to. I think its reasonable for Acromas to 
exclude the replacement water pump, and the associated labour  costs.
Ref: DRN97878464In summary,  I dont think Acromas has handled  Mr Os claim fairly or reasonably.  I 
think it should cover the repair and labour time for both belts  and the cost of the 
diagnostic check carried out by the repairing garage. But I dont think  it needs to pay 
for the replacement water  pump.
Both Mr O and Acromas provided detailed responses to my provisional decision.
Mr O said:
he didnt choose  the repairing garage   the AA patrol advised he should take the car 
there as they could  repair  it before  he needed  to return the hire car. If he wouldve 
known that the garage wasnt an AA approved repairer he wouldve asked for it to be 
taken to a garage closer to where he lived.
he has spoken to a dealership for his car manufacturer and been advised that it 
would take a minimum of 2.25 hours  to replace the two belts, without allowing time 
for decontaminating the timing belt and water pump area. He feels  the shards of the 
auxiliary belt are a contributory factor. He asked whether Acromas are stating that its 
acceptable to leave the contaminants in the car to cause a further breakdown.
Acromas said:
replacement of the alternator belt is included  in the 1.3 hours  it takes to replace the 
timing belt. It provided a breakdown of the work to show this.
because the timing belt cover needed to be removed for the replacement, no 
additional time wouldve been  required for diagnosis. It said it wouldve been  evident 
the belt had snapped  to the patrolman  and the repairing garage.  
even if it were to accept that some diagnosis was required,  it wouldve taken between 
5 to 15 minutes as it would only have been a visual inspection of the belts where 
diagnostic equipment or excessive dismantling  wouldnt  have been  required.
I also asked Acromas to comment on Mr Os point that he wasnt  given a chance to select a 
garage and only agreed  to the repairing garage based  on the recommendation of the AA 
patrolman. 
Acromas said it had discussed the case  with the attending patrol, who said he 
remembered the job well. The patrolman  said that Mr O was visiting the area and 
intended to stay for another couple  of days.
 
the patrolman says he initially spoke with a repairer around the location of the 
breakdown, but they were unable to complete  a repair within the two days. 
Acromas says this demonstrates  that Mr O did indeed want  a repair  and not a 
recovery. 
it says the patrolman  recalls Mr O asked  the patrolman to source  a local garage in 
the area to see if the repair could be completed. It says Mr O was informed that if the 
claim was approved he may have to pay and claim and that he would also be 
required to call the claims team.  
Ref: DRN97878465it says that whilst the patrolman  may know of garages in the area,  either due to their 
familiarity with the area or with the help of a particular garage guide, the repairers are 
not recommended by either the patrolman  or Acromas.
Acromas also says that Mr O had made a successful claim on his policy in the past. 
During this claim his car was recovered  to a garage near to where he lives. So it 
would expect that Mr O was aware of the claims process.
it says that based on the above it is confident that Mr O was given the correct 
information to make an informed decision.  And that he wanted the car repaired as 
quickly as possible while he was still in the area of the breakdown.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also carefully  considered the 
additional points  raised by both Acromas and Mr O. Ill set out my thoughts below.
repairing garage
When I discussed the sequence  of events that led to Mr Os car being taken to the repairing 
garage, Mr O told me that he and the patrolman initially  enquired about the repairs with a 
garage right next to the site of the breakdown. This is consistent with the patrolmans 
recollections. So I think its likely that the patrolman does remember the job well, as he has 
said. 
The patrolman says that Mr O told him he was staying in the local area for a few days, which 
is why the patrolman looked  for local garages  to carry out repairs. Acromas  has also shown  
that Mr O had been recovered to a garage  near to his home during a previous claim.  So 
taking everything Ive seen into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr O knew  that 
he couldve  been recovered to a garage near his home if he wanted  to. But that he wanted 
his car to be repaired in the local area.
car storage costs
Mr O had previously  mentioned that he felt Acromas should cover storage  costs for his car 
because of a 48 hour delay  in it accepting his claim. Our investigator said that Mr Os policy  
didnt contain  a provision for repair timescales or storage costs, but I didnt comment on this 
in my provisional decision.
Ive now spoken  with Mr O about  this, and hes confirmed that he wasnt complaining  about  
being charged for storage.  He has confirmed he wasnt  charged anything by the garage  for 
storing his car. 
It follows that I dont think Acromas needs to pay anything for storage costs.
Ref: DRN97878466water pump
Neither Mr O nor Acromas had any further comments or evidence regarding  my findings  on 
the water  pump and tensioner. So for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision I 
think it was reasonable  for Acromas not to cover the cost of the replacement water  pump  
and associated labour costs.
repair time and diagnosis
Mr O says that a dealership has advised  him that replacing the belts would take a minimum 
of 2.25 hours. But Acromas has provided  evidence that replacement of the timing  belt takes 
1.3 hours, and that as part of this repair the alternator belt is removed and replaced. So 
based on the additional evidence Acromas has supplied, I dont think  replacing  the alternator  
belt required  additional labour time.
Mr Os policy  states that claims will be assessed in line with Manufacturer or Motor Industry 
standard repair times and retail price  guides. So I think Acromas is entitled  to cover only 1.3 
hours repair time for replacing both belts.  
Mr O has pointed out that it would take additional  labour time to remove the fragments of the 
shredded alternator  belt. He feels this should be part of the repair because any fragments 
left behind could  cause a further  breakdown  that Acromas would be unlikely to cover.
The repairing  garage hasnt specified whether it added any time for removal  of belt 
fragments. So its difficult for me to know whether  it did add any labour time, and if it did how 
much longer  this took. But I agree that the fragments needed to be removed in order to 
deliver a lasting and effective  repair,  and that the cost of doing  this should be covered by 
Acromas. However, I dont think its likely  that removing shredded fragments of a rubber belt 
wouldve added a significant amount of time to the repair  overall.
In my provisional decision I recommended that Acromas should cover  the repair times to 
both belts  which I now understand to be 1.3 hours. And that it should  cover the one hour 
charge for diagnosing the fault.  Acromas doesnt  agree  that diagnosis was necessary. But 
taking into account  the fact that I think removing the belt fragments wouldve added some  
time to the repair I still think  a fair outcome here is for Acromas to pay for 2.3 hours total 
labour. Ill explain  why below.
Acromas says that an exploratory diagnosis wasnt required. It says the timing belt cover  
needed to be removed during the repair, so everything  wouldve  been visible.  It doesnt  
agree that it should pay the one hour diagnosis charged by the repairing garage. It says the 
diagnosis wouldve taken  15 minutes  at most.
From what  Ive seen, the repairing garage  spoke with Acromas before it commenced  with 
any repairs. The call records  indicate  that it told Acromas that it would diagnose the fault first 
and call it again before  commencing repairs. The garage then contacted  Acromas  again 
50 minutes later, to confirm it had diagnosed the fault. If Acromas wanted  to dispute that a 
diagnosis was required, I think it ought to have done  so when the garage  told it that it would 
be completing one. 
Ref: DRN97878467Based on the time between the garages calls to Acromas, the diagnosis clearly took 50 
minutes at most  and possibly less. But taking  into account that I think  removing belt 
fragments wouldve added some  additional  time to the repair,  I think its fair that Acromas 
should cover  the 2.3 hours  labour. That is 1.3 hours  standard  repair,  and one hour for 
diagnosing the fault and removing the fragments of the damaged belt.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision I uphold Mr Os 
complaint in part.
Acromas Insurance  Company Limited  should:
reimburse Mr O the cost of the diagnostic check carried out by the garage 
pay interest on this refund at 8% simple* from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Acromas  to take off tax from this interest. Acromas must  
give Mr O a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9787846