K820x#14complaint
Miss G took out a two year loan with AvantCredit of UK, LLC.  Shes unhappy  that they didnt 
check the loan was affordable when she took it out.
background
Miss G took out a loan with AvantCredit in 2016. During the life of the loan she fell into 
financial difficulties and struggled to keep up repayments. Shes complained  that they failed 
to check the loan was affordable for her. To resolve her complaint  she would like all of the 
interest charged on the loan to be refunded.
Our investigator found AvantCredit hadnt done  anything wrong. She felt theyd completed 
appropriate affordability checks when the loan was approved, and had satisfied themselves 
Miss G could  afford the repayments  at this time.  Because of this she didnt feel AvantCredit  
needed to do anything.
Miss G disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman  to review her 
complaint. She said her income  couldnt  have been verified  through  her credit  file - some of it 
was maintenance  payments from her ex-husband so this wouldnt  have  shown. She also 
said shed had multiple payday  loans,  which AvantCredit didnt question her about.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders are required to undertake reasonable checks to make  sure a loan is affordable at 
the time its taken out. What a reasonable check  is isnt specifically defined, but this would 
include things like income, expenditure and how any existing credit is being maintained. 
Ive seen Miss G declared her monthly  income as £2,559, which shes now explained  
included £400  of child maintenance. While I agree  this wouldnt show  on her credit file, it was 
still income Miss G was receiving at the time she applied for the loan. So shed declared this 
correctly when applying  for her loan.
Miss G also declared her monthly  expenditure as £1,101, but I note this didnt  include her 
council tax payments.  AvantCredit used an expenditure of £1,300 a month for their 
calculations to ensure  there was a buffer,  which  I can see wouldve allowed for the council 
tax payments Miss G missed out. So I think AvantCredit has taken into account Miss Gs 
expenditure when assessing affordability.
Based on the figures above,  Miss G wouldve had £1,259 a month disposable income  from 
which to pay the loan payment of £231.41. Excluding the child maintenance, the disposable 
income would  still have been £859 per month. I appreciate that circumstances may change, 
and Miss G found it difficult to keep  up repayments  on the loan, but I cant  say AvantCredit 
were unreasonable in saying she had the disposable income to repay the loan at the time 
she applied  for it.
Ref: DRN95884672Miss G also says she had payday  loans at the time she applied for the loan, and feels  
AvantCredit shouldve  questioned her about  these. When considering  affordability  the 
important thing is not where any existing money  was borrowed from, but how much the 
repayments are and whether they have  been  maintained. The repayments were declared by 
Miss G and wouldve  been confirmed by the credit check and considered  in the disposable 
income calculation.  The conduct of any loans  would also be on the credit check. Ive not 
seen anything to show that Miss G was unable to keep up repayments  her existing loans, so 
I dont think AvantCredit  wouldve  had an indication that Miss G couldnt afford to maintain 
her existing commitments.
While I appreciate Miss G wont necessarily agree with me, I cant  say that AvantCredit didnt 
undertake appropriate affordability  checks.  Because of this, I wont  be asking  them to do 
anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint about AvantCredit  of UK, 
LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9588467