K822xcomplaint
Mr J complained about what One Sure  Insurance Limited wanted  to charge him after they 
cancelled his motor  trade  insurance policy.
background
One Sure cancelled  Mr Js policy and charged him more  than £600.  Mr J didnt think  hed 
had a policy at all. But even if he did, he felt that it was too much for only a few weeks of 
insurance cover. He felt that he shouldnt  have to pay anything as he didnt cancel it, One 
Sure did. 
The investigator recommended  that his complaint should be partly  upheld. He didnt think 
that One Sure had been  unreasonable  to cancel the policy. But he did think that One Sure  
had charged Mr J too much. He suggested that they charge a reduced amount instead,  to 
more reasonably reflect their costs  and efforts of insuring Mr J for a few weeks. One Sure  
agreed but Mr J felt that the investigators  suggested  alternative  charge was still too much.  
And so his case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr J came to renew his motor trade policy One Sure, his broker,  asked him to provide 
evidence of the parking arrangements for his business. Mr J said hed been insured through 
One Sure for a year already and hadnt  had to provide this before. But One Sure  were now 
using a different  insurer and the new insurer wanted to assess  the risk related to Mr Js 
parking arrangements.  I dont think it was unreasonable for One Sure to use another  insurer  
as thats not unusual in the insurance  industry.  
Mr J sent One Sure a photograph of the parking arrangements but One Sure  thought that 
these may be inadequate  for Mr Js business needs. They wanted him to supply  
photographic evidence of private,  off road parking, within 7 days in order  to remain  insured. 
One Sure warned  him that theyd  have to cancel his policy if he couldnt. When Mr J couldnt 
provide this, One Sure did cancel his policy. They then charged  him £610.77. They  said all 
their charges  were  shown  in their terms of business and policy  wording which theyd sent to 
Mr J.
Mr J was unhappy about this. He didnt  think that One Sure had set up the policy  in the first 
place. But even they had, he didnt want to have to pay a cancellation fee, because it was 
One Sure, not he, whod  cancelled  the policy. However, as the investigator  explained  to 
Mr J, One Sure  have  shown us that they did set up the policy  then cancelled it. 
Mr J accepted that there had been a policy. But he still didnt think he should have to pay 
more than for the few weeks that One Sure had insured him. He felt that this should only be 
about £60. He also felt that One Sure had tried to intimidate him by instructing debt 
collectors and threatening court action for the debt. He said they wouldnt confirm  his No 
Claims Discount (NCD) information to any new insurer  until he paid the debt and this made  it 
hard for him to obtain alternative insurance, though  he did manage to do so. 
Ref: DRN94625622I see that One Sure told him they were withholding his NCD details until he paid the 
outstanding balance. I dont think thats  unreasonable in the circumstances, as One Sure 
had insured him and so were entitled to expect payment,  and to pursue that payment. And 
so I can see that it may have been  stressful for Mr J, I dont think that they were trying to 
intimidate him. And he did find an alternative  way to obtain the NCD information and obtain 
alternative insurance. 
I can see that Mr J is upset that they cancelled his policy, and that it did cause him some  
inconvenience. But I think that One Sure did give him time to produce the parking 
arrangements evidence, and so when  he didnt or couldnt provide that, they were entitled to 
cancel .So I dont think that was unreasonable of them.  But I have to look at whether their 
policy charges were fair.  
Insurers are entitled to charge a policyholder for their reasonable cost of insuring him for any 
period, and for the costs  of setting up and cancelling a policy, as long as they are 
reasonable. The investigator looked into why One Sure wanted to charge Mr J £610.77. This 
included £228  for the period of time theyd insured him, an arrangement fee of £250, a 
cancellation fee of £75, and loss of commission charge of £57.77. 
The investigator thought that, regardless of One Sure having explained their charges in his 
terms and conditions, it was unreasonable for them to charge him 610.77  when theyd only 
insured him for few weeks.  Specifically, the investigator didnt think  that it was fair for One 
Sure to charge Mr J a new business  fee/ arrangement fee of £250 as One Sure  couldnt 
show why they charged  it or how theyd calculated it. He also thought  that it was high 
considering that One Sure charged Mr J for a loss of commission fee too of £57.77. The 
investigator felt that they should  remove the new business fee. 
He did think however that One Sure were entitled to charge Mr J for the time they had 
insured him and a cancellation  fee too. These were explained in the terms of business and 
the policy wording.  They  said that One Sure  were  entitled to charge 20% of the annual  
premium for cancellation of the policy in the first month, and to a cancellation fee of about 
£50. 
So the investigator felt that the £228  theyd charged  was justified, as was the loss of 
commission fee of £57.77. This totalled  £285.77.  The investigator recommended  to One 
Sure that they reduce their charge of £610.10,  to £285.77. One Sure  agreed to this. 
I agree  with the investigators analysis of # One Sures charges and I think  that the reduced 
amount he suggested  is reasonable  and justified. So I think that One Sure  should reduce  
Mr Js charges accordingly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I partly uphold  this 
complaint. I require One Sure Insurance Limited  to reduce Mr Js policy charge of £610.10 to 
£285.77, and to charge him no more  than that. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Ref: DRN94625623Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9462562