complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policies - 
respectively taken out in1998 and 2002.  Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank  Plc, (trading  as C&G)  
mis-sold them the MPPI.  
background
Mr and Mrs H took out the MPPI in meetings at the same time as remortgaging  their home. The 
mortgages were in their joint names.  But the policies  only covered Mr H. The monthly 
premiums for the policies  initially,  were respectively about £15 and £22.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mr and Mrs H 
disagreed, the matter  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think C&G made it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have to take out the policies and that 
they chose to take them  out  although I can understand why they cant remember  this. I 
say this because  Ive seen Mr and Mrs H signed application forms and the direct  debit  
forms for the policies  and their premiums. These are separate  from their mortgage 
applications. So I find that this makes it clear  that the MPPI was a separate  product from 
the mortgages.
Further, in the case of the insurance  taken out in 2002, Ive seen Mr and Mrs Hs signed 
mortgage application. This has a section dealing with insurance. After several questions  
about home insurance there is a heading Payment Protection Insurance. Under this are 
two equally prominent  sentences with a tick box. The first to accept  MPPI  and the other to 
decline it. I can see that the first box has been  ticked. Whereas the second has been left 
blank.
Mr and Mrs H say that they felt pressured  into taking out the MPPI . Because  the sales  
were face-to-face I cant be sure what was said. And as the meetings were many years  
ago I dont think  that I can fairly rely just on Mr and Mrs Hs memory. And, in the absence  
of any more persuasive evidence, I dont think that I can fairly and reasonably conclude 
that C&G  put pressure on Mr and Mrs H to take out the insurance. 
K820x#14
Ref: DRN9030612K820x#14C&G  recommended  the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H, so it had to check that it was right for 
them. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. I say 
tis because:

oMr H was eligible for the policy and wasnt caught by any of its main  limitations  and 
restrictions  such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
oMrs H wasnt  working  so I dont think that the fact that Mr H was the only person  
covered by the MPPI  made it unsuitable for them;
oThe policy was competitively priced  by reference to similar policies available  in the 
market at the time and it had a reasonable benefit. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest that the premiums were unaffordable.  In any event,  had Mr and Mrs H later 
felt that they couldnt  afford  the insurance or no longer wanted it, they could  have 
cancelled it at any time without further cost, as it was paid for monthly;
oMr H was entitled to some sick pay from his employer. But he and Mrs H have told us 
that they didnt  have  any savings  or other insurances to help them make their 
mortgage payments  had Mr H not been working.  But following a successful  claim the 
policies would initially have  paid out about £200  and £260  a month. These  payments 
would have been made  in addition to any from Mr Hs employment. And they would 
have continued  for up to 12 months had Mr H not been working because  of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. So I think that the MPPI could have been of use to 
Mr and Mrs H.
Its possible the information C&G gave Mr and Mrs H about  the MPPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it should have  been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. 
So I dont think clearer information  about the insurance would have changed Mr and 
Mrs Hs minds and stopped them taking it out. I say this particularly bearing  in mind the 
serious consequences that could have arisen had Mr and Mrs H been  unable to make  
their monthly mortgage repayments.
Which means C&G doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs H.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said - including  what theyve said about 
never having used  the policy. But these points dont change my decision.
But C&G has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H because: 
C&G  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because C&G didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, C&G has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN90306123my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc doesnt  have to pay back all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9030612