K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the errors Tesco Personal  Finance PLC made when he requested a 
new credit  card.
background
Mr S had a credit  card account with Tesco. He then took out another  credit card account with
Tesco, but decided  he didnt need  the account  so cut up the card. In July 2018, Mr S
decided he would like to use the newer  account  so called Tesco  and asked for a new card to
be sent  as hed cut up the previous card. Tesco sent Mr S a card,  but for the original
account, not the new one.
Mr S used the new card and soon went over his limit  as this was his original account and
not his new account. Tesco sent Mr S letters about being over the limit, and a default notice.
Mr S complained to Tesco,  but it didnt raise a complaint until later. It also told Mr S that it
could transfer  his transactions to his new account  but this was incorrect  information.
Mr S was then later able to make transactions on his new card and did so. He was sent a
statement in August 2018 asking for a minimum payment of £25 by 4 September. Mr S didnt
make this minimum payment;  he explained that as Tesco was investigating his complaint, he
didnt feel he should be making any payments to the card until the matter was resolved.  As
Mr S didnt make his minimum repayment,  Tesco took away his promotional offer and
decreased his credit limit.
Tesco acknowledged  that it had made a series of errors and refunded Mr S all the late
payment charges hed incurred, it also credited Mr Ss account  with £340 compensation for
the trouble and upset it caused. It said that it wouldnt reinstate Mr Ss promotional offer or
original credit limit as he had missed  a payment, and it had taken this action  in line with its
terms and conditions.
I sent my provisional decision on 31 December 2019  a copy of which  is below and forms 
part of this decision. I explained  that I didnt intend to uphold this complaint as Tesco  offered 
fair and reasonable compensation for its errors.  I also explained that I thought Tesco had 
acted reasonably in taking  away Mr Ss promotional rate when he missed  a payment, as he 
was made  aware  of what his minimum payment was and that he needed  to pay it.
Tesco responded to my provisional decision to say it accepted  it. Mr S didnt respond.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any additional  comments or provided any other  evidence,  my 
decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision (which is copied below and 
forms part of this decision).
Tesco has made errors, but I think the £340 compensation it gave Mr S was fair and 
reasonable for the trouble and upset the errors caused him, so I wont be asking  it to do 
anything more. I also dont think there  was anything  to suggest Mr S didnt  have to make his 
monthly minimum payment to the card. So, I dont think Tesco acted unreasonably when it 
took away his promotional rate when he didnt make  his payment. 
Ref: DRN90340862my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN90340863Copy of provisional decision
Complaint
Mr S complains about the errors Tesco Personal Finance  PLC made when he requested  a
new credit  card.
Background
Mr S had a credit card account with Tesco. He then took out another credit card account with
Tesco, but decided he didnt need the account so cut up the card. In July 2018,  Mr S
decided he would like to use the newer account so called  Tesco and asked for a new card to
be sent  as hed cut up the previous card. Tesco  sent Mr S a card,  but for the original
account, not the new one.
Mr S used the new card and soon went over his limit  as this was his original account and
not his new account. Tesco sent Mr S letters  about being over the limit, and a default notice.
Mr S complained to Tesco,  but it didnt raise a complaint until later. It also told Mr S that it
could transfer his transactions to his new account  but this was incorrect information.
Mr S was then later able to make transactions on his new card and did so. He was sent a
statement in August  2018  asking for a minimum  payment  of £25 by 4 September. Mr S didnt
make this minimum payment; he explained that as Tesco was investigating his complaint,  he
didnt feel he should be making any payments  to the card until the matter was resolved.  As
Mr S didnt make  his minimum repayment,  Tesco took away  his promotional offer and
decreased his credit limit.
Tesco acknowledged that it had made a series of errors  and refunded Mr S all the late
payment charges hed incurred,  it also credited  Mr Ss account with £340 compensation for
the trouble and upset it caused. It said that it wouldnt reinstate Mr Ss promotional offer or
original credit limit as he had missed  a payment, and it had taken this action in line with its
terms and conditions.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. She concluded that the offer of
compensation for the errors made  was fair and reasonable. But she also said she felt it was
reasonable for Mr S to not have made his credit card payment, and asked Tesco  to reinstate
the original  credit limit and the promotional  offer.
Tesco disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. It
explained that Mr S had made new transactions on the card, and had been asked in his
statement to make  the minimum payment due. It explained that without the errors  the
payment wouldve been due, so it didnt think it was fair to reinstate the offer and credit limit.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so Im intending to reach  a
different outcome to our adjudicator. I think Tesco has already done enough to put things
right.
The errors
Its accepted by all parties that Tesco  made errors.  It shouldve sent Mr S the correct card at
the outset, and because it didnt Mr S went over his limit on his original  credit card account.
But Tesco has refunded  him any fees he was charged for this. Tesco  also gave him incorrect
information about being able to transfer his transactions to his new card when this wasnt an
Ref: DRN90340864available option. And Tesco didnt get back to him or communicate with him about  his
complaint when it said it would.
Tesco has compensated  Mr D with £340 for the trouble and upset these errors caused.  I
think this is fair and reasonable.  I understand that Mr S wouldve  experienced some serious
worry when he was told hed gone over his limit, and as this wasnt put right straight away I
think he wouldve been very frustrated. But I think £340 is fair compensation  to address
these errors by Tesco, and I can see that Mr S has been put in the position he wouldve
been in had the errors not occurred as hes been refunded his late payment charges. So, I
dont think Tesco needs to do anything more.
Promotional rate and credit limit
Mr S didnt make  his payment to his second credit  card account  when it was due. He had
been sent a statement  in August which  said his minimum payment was £25 and that it was
due by 4 September.  Mr S said he didnt make his payment as he felt both cards were  frozen
as his complaint was being  investigated. But Ive not seen anything to suggest he was told
he shouldnt make  his minimum payment.
I understand Mr S may have been confused, and was waiting to find out whether he could
transfer his transactions  to his new card, but this doesnt  mean  the minimum  payment for the
card wouldnt be due. And I dont  think it was reasonable for Mr S to not have paid the
minimum amount  when hed been told what it was in his statement. So, I dont think  Tesco
has acted unreasonably in reducing his credit  limit and withdrawing the promotional rate as
this is in the terms of Mr Ss credit card account.
Ive thought about whether this issue has been caused by the errors Tesco  made, but I dont
think that it has. Whether or not the correct  card had been sent in the first place, or if Mr S
was told about the transfer not being possible, he still wouldve had to make his minimum
payment. I think that it was the making  of the complaint that stopped Mr S making his
payment, but I dont think its reasonable  to not make contractual minimum payments if a
complaint is being investigated  particularly as the complaint wasnt about the transactions
Mr S made on his new account. And if in doubt, Mr S couldve checked with Tesco. So, I
dont think Tesco has done  anything  wrong in applying  its terms correctly to this situation.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9034086