K820x#14complaint
Ms H had a mortgage  with Santander  UK Plc. She complained because  the bank refused 
her application  to borrow more money when she wanted to move. Ms H said Santander 
didnt correctly take account  of her financial situation, and she felt theyd strung her along.
As Ms H went elsewhere for her mortgage,  she was charged an early repayment  charge 
(ERC) by Santander. She wants this refunded.
background
Ms H rang Santander and said that she was in the process of moving. She wanted to take 
her mortgage with her, and borrow more. 
Santander explained the process, and told her that shed need  to make a new mortgage 
application. There were  several phone calls in which Ms Hs situation was discussed.
Ms H had some debts, and told Santander that she planned to pay these off when she sold 
her current  property. Santander explained  that it assessed affordability  including  whatever 
debts she had at the time of the application.  So Ms H paid off her debts before her property 
sale went through, by borrowing from a family member. She told Santander she planned to 
repay this when she sold her current property.  
Ms Hs credit  record didnt immediately reflect this, and she had a number of calls with 
Santander about what shed need  to prove  shed  paid off the debts. These  calls also 
discussed other aspects  of her financial situation, including  benefits  and child maintenance. 
Santander declined  Ms Hs mortgage  application, saying it wasnt  affordable. It told Ms H 
that the issue was her child care costs. It said it had to take these into account at the amount 
shown on her benefits letter. Ms H said her ex-partner paid the child care costs instead of 
paying her maintenance. But Santander said it needed to use the figures on the official 
benefits letter.
Ms H found  another lender, but when  she sold her existing property and paid off her 
Santander mortgage, she had to pay an ERC of around £3,200.
Ms H complained, saying  shed been  misled and strung along.  She said shed been told she 
wouldnt incur any early  redemption fees,  and that if she paid off her debts, her application 
would be approved.
Santanders final response didnt agree that Ms H had been misled.  It listened to the phone 
call recordings  and said these didnt show Ms H had been told that if she paid off her debts, 
the application would be approved. And the redemption fees would only have  been  waived 
only if shed transferred (ported)  her current mortgage to her new property.   
But Santander said that if it had investigated Ms Hs childcare situation more  thoroughly,  it 
could have provided Ms H with the decision earlier. So it paid her £200  compensation.
Ms H wasnt  satisfied and complained to this service. She didnt believe Santander had 
taken proper account of her financial  situation. Ms H said that her ex-partner paid the 
childcare costs. And she believed that one of the debts shed cleared hadnt  sown  as paid 
Ref: DRN94010582until a few days after the decision  so she thought it wouldnt have been a problem  if shed 
waited. 
Ms H recognised that Santander had provided a goodwill  gesture,  but she said that the early 
repayment fees shed to pay when  her Santander mortgage was paid off were unfair. She 
wanted Santander to reimburse these.
The investigator didnt  uphold Ms Hs complaint. He explained that mortgage providers are 
entitled to set their own lending  criteria.  Santander  had declined  Ms Hs application  because  
of child care costs, not any outstanding debts. Ms H had said that her ex-partner was paying 
these instead  of maintenance, but she hadnt provided Santander with any evidence of this. 
The investigator said hed listened  to the calls and Santander hadnt  promised that, if Ms H 
paid off her debts, shed  be accepted. The call on 16 November had specifically said the 
application might  still be declined.  
Ms H replied  that Santander hadnt  asked her to provide details of the maintenance she was 
getting. So the investigator checked with the bank. Santander said it didnt have a recording,  
because the person Ms H had spoken to was a manager, but it provided  a call note. This 
said that the manager had told Ms H that Santander had been willing to take into 
consideration the repayment of her debts. But the application wasnt  affordable, because she 
had childcare costs, and couldnt  prove that her ex-partner paid these. The call note also 
commented that the benefits which Ms H received were calculated on the basis that Ms H 
herself, not her ex-partner, was paying  the cost of the childcare.
Ms H was still unhappy. She said she had evidence of maintenance payments being  made  
from September 2017, and Santanders  final response to her complaint hadnt said that was 
why the mortgage had been declined. She explained that all the calls shed made had been 
about her debts, not about childcare. So she still believed Santander hadnt treated her fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes listening to all available 
recordings of the phone  calls between Ms H and Santander.
Its correct that lenders  are entitled to set their own lending criteria. I have, however, 
considered whether the evidence shows that Ms H was, as she believes, unfairly rejected 
against those  criteria. Ive also checked  whether  or not she was promised  that she wouldnt 
have to pay an ERC.
Santanders case notes  show  that the reason it refused Ms Hs application was the child 
care costs. It wasnt the fact that Ms H had debts which shed paid off, but were still in the 
process of being  reflected in her credit file. Most of the phone calls do indeed  focus  on Ms 
Hs debts, but that was something which did need  to be sorted out too. I consider that it she 
hadnt done so, shed  have been rejected because of the debts.  Ive listened to these calls 
carefully and none of the advisers  promised Ms H that if she paid off her debts, her 
mortgage application would be accepted. And in fact on 16 November  the advisor 
specifically said there was no guarantee of acceptance even if she did pay off all her debts. 
Nor do these calls promise  that there would be no ERC payable. If Ms Hs application had 
been approved,  there wouldnt have been an ERC if shed transferred her mortgage to the 
Ref: DRN94010583new property. But there could be no such promise if the application was rejected, and none  
was made  in those  calls.
Ms H has also complained that Santanders final response to her complaint didnt say that 
childcare costs were the reason why the application  was declined. Ive considered this, but 
the focus of that letter is on Ms Hs complaint that shed been strung along and that shed 
been promised  she wouldnt  have to pay an ERC. Its not about the reason for the refusal, 
because that wasnt the focus of Ms Hs complaint at that time.  But I accept that when 
Santander told Ms H that her application had been declined  on the basis of affordability, it 
had told her that childcare  was the reason.
In her reply to the investigators  view,  Ms H said she can provide evidence  of maintenance 
payments from September 2017. But she didnt  provide this at the time and the banks call 
notes shows that the childcare issue, which  was the reason for the rejection, was discussed  
with Ms H at the time. I accept that it was correct for Santander to consider that Ms H was 
paying the childcare costs  which  the benefits statement said she was. The case  notes record 
that Santander told Ms H the only way it could disregard these costs  as part of Ms Hs 
outgoings, would be if she provided a revised benefits letter. 
So I find that Santander did not do anything  wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9401058