K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that he wasnt  able to use his MBNA Limited  credit  card when he was 
overseas and that it wont refund to him the fee that he paid for the card.
background 
Mr H had an MBNA credit card for which he paid an annual fee. He was going  on holiday 
overseas in March  2018 and says that hed been able to use the card to make  payments but 
his account was then blocked. He was unable to contact  MBNA and he says that he was 
caused distress and inconvenience. He complained  to MBNA and he closed his account. He 
asked for a refund of the annual card fee. MBNA  gave a pro rata refund to Mr H and it 
credited £81.67 to his bank account.  But he wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained 
to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that Mr H had 
done this trip before  without a problem and was inconvenienced when his card was blocked. 
He said that Mr H tried to contact MBNA but was unsuccessful  in doing so. And he said that 
Mr H relied on his credit card and had limited cash on him. So he recommended  that MBNA 
should pay £150 compensation to Mr H for the inconvenience that hed been caused.
MBNA has asked for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in 
summary, that:
there are no notes on its account records for Mr H to show that he contacted  it before 
going overseas;
one transaction  of £19.58 was declined four times within  two minutes  and, the 
following day, one transaction of £7.74 was declined  twice within  30 seconds; 
it contacted Mr H by text message immediately after the payment was declined but 
received no response;
when Mr H contacted  it, it removed the restriction  within three hours and responded 
to his complaint  within six hours;
there was no error by MBNA and it swiftly removed the restriction once Mr H had 
contacted it; and
it doesnt believe that the restriction caused  a significant and lasting impact to Mr H.
my provisional decision
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and to MBNA on 13 March 2019. In my provisional  decision  I said as follows:
Mr H was able to use his MBNA credit card to make payments  when  he was 
overseas in March  2018. But a payment was identified by MBNAs fraud detection 
system as being potentially fraudulent  and the payment was blocked. MBNA 
immediately sent a text message to Mr H asking him to contact it about his card use. 
Mr H wasnt able to receive that message because of the poor phone  signal  where 
he was so his card remained blocked.  MBNA says that a payment of £19.58 was 
tried four times within two minutes  but was declined  each time  and that a payment 
of £7.74 was tried twice  the following day but was declined.  And it says that Mr H 
contacted it two days after the first declined transaction  and that the block  was 
removed from his card. 
Ref: DRN96143012Credit card providers have a legitimate interest  in identifying and preventing 
fraudulent transactions. They have developed fraud  detection systems which try to 
identify potentially fraudulent transactions  and they have procedures  for contacting  
cardholders when a potentially fraudulent transaction is identified.  They  arent able to 
identify all fraudulent  transactions  and some  transactions that are identified  as 
potentially fraudulent will be legitimate transactions that the cardholder  wants to 
make. And that will often  cause distress and inconvenience for the cardholder.
Its clear that Mr H suffered  distress and inconvenience when his card was blocked  in 
March 2018. And I can understand the frustration that he mustve felt. Mr H says that 
he relies heavily on his credit card to make payments. But there  is always  a risk that 
a card could be blocked  or not work so credit  card providers would recommend 
cardholders to have  other means of payment with them   especially when travelling 
overseas. Ive seen  no evidence  to show that Mr H contacted MBNA before he went 
overseas to warn  it that his card would be used overseas. And MBNA says that it no 
longer asks its cardholders to do so - and that even if they do contact it, that wont 
stop payments  from being blocked  if theyre identified by its systems as being  
potentially fraudulent.
Im not persuaded that MBNA has acted incorrectly in these circumstances and I 
dont consider that it has acted unfairly or unreasonably  or in breach of the account 
terms and conditions  in connection with the blocked payments. So I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require MBNA to pay any compensation to 
Mr H or to take any other  action in response  to his complaint.
Mr H closed his account in May 2018 and asked MBNA for a pro-rata refund of the 
annual fee. It refunded  £81.67 to his bank account because  of a change  that it had 
made to the account. He accepted that refund and Im not persuaded that hes 
entitled to any further refund of his annual fee.
So, subject to any further representations by Mr H or MBNA,  my provisional  decision was 
that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint.
MBNA has accepted  my provisional decision but Mr H hasnt responded to it.
my findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
My provisional decision was sent to Mr H in March 2019 using the address that hed 
provided to this service.  And the investigator sent an e-mail to Mr H at the beginning of this 
month  using the correct e-mail address  for him - to let him know  that Id be issuing  a final 
decision on his complaint. But Mr H hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
As Mr H hasnt  responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions that I reached  in my provisional decision.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Ref: DRN96143013Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9614301