K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Leeds Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a monthly-premium MPPI at the same time as taking out a mortgage 
with Leeds. Both the mortgage  and the policy started in 2004. The insurance  only covered 
Mr D, even though  the mortgage was held jointly by him and Mrs D. It only covered  him for 
involuntary unemployment. The policy was free for the first six months  and then the monthly 
premiums were about £62. Following  a successful claim the policy  would have paid out 
about £1,500 a month.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mr and Mrs D 
disagreed, the matter  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Because of the time that has passed, neither  Mr and Mrs D nor Leeds have been able to 
send us copies  of the paperwork  from the time of the sale. Nor can either  party remember  
whether the MPPI was sold by post, over the phone or in a meeting. For the same  reason, 
we dont have  a copy of the terms and conditions of the actual  policy that was in use at the 
time. So Ive made my decision on the basis of what we know  generally about  MPPI policies 
and on the information that I do have. This includes  looking  at the terms and conditions of 
the MPPI  policies that Leeds says were in use in 2002 and 2005. These were very similar to 
each other  and I have  no reason to conclude  that the policy sold to Mr and Mrs D would 
have differed substantially from them. And Ive therefore based  my decision on the likelihood 
that their MPPI was in a substantially  similar  form as these.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. I explain why below.
I think that Mr and Mrs D knew that the MPPI was optional and that they chose to take it. 
I say this because  Ive seen a sample  of the layout  of a mortgage offer where MPPI was 
taken, that Leeds says was used at the time of the sale.  This says that the applicant  has 
chosen to take out MPPI. (My italics.)
I have also seen a sample  of the MPPI application  form which Leeds says was in use at 
the time.  This has three sections in it. The first is to be filled in if the applicant  wishes  to 
take the insurance. An, amongst other things, has a choice of boxes to tick to chose 
cover either for accident and sickness, or unemployment cover,  or both.  It also has the 
same set of boxes to be ticked  if the joint applicant also wants  cover. The second section 
is to be filled in if the applicant has alternative  insurance arrangements.  And the third is 
to be filled in if the applicant doesnt want to make any arrangements for this type of 
cover. I think that its reasonable to assume that Mr and Mrs D had to fill in a MPPI 
application in this form. 
Ref: DRN94335862As Mr and Mrs D only took unemployment  cover  for Mr D Im satisfied that it was likely 
that they considered their various options  for single, joint or no cover.
Leeds recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs D. This means that it ought to have taken 
reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable  for their needs. I dont know  what  steps 
Leeds actually  took, but I find that the MPPI  was suitable. I say this because, knowing 
what I do about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time and the likely terms and 
conditions of the policy:
oMr D was likely to have been  eligible for the policy;
oMr D was unlikely to have been  caught  by any of the MPPIs main restrictions and 
limitations  such as those affecting someone  with a pre-existing medical condition or 
who was self-employed.;
oMr and Mrs D had some savings.  But the policy would have paid out in addition to 
these, leaving them available to help Mr and Mrs D meet  their other expenses while 
Mr D wasnt employed.  These  payments would likely to have  been  made  for up to 12 
months. So I think that the MPPI  could have  been  of use to Mr and Mrs D;
oMr D says that he had sick pay entitlement from his employment  so I dont find that it 
was unreasonable that the policy didnt include cover for accident  and sickness;
oThe policy was competitively priced  by reference to other similar polices that were  
available in the market at the time;
oI dont know why the policy only covered Mr D. But I havent seen anything to suggest 
that this wasnt reasonable;
oIve seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr and Mrs D couldnt afford the premiums. In any 
event, as it was paid for monthly,  they could have cancelled the policy at any time 
had they later felt that it was unaffordable or they no longer required it.
Its possible that Leeds didnt give Mr and Mrs D all the information  about the MPPI that it 
ought to have so that they could  make a fully informed decision whether to take it or not. 
But, as Ive concluded that it could  have been of use to them, I dont  think that better  
information would have changed their minds and stopped them buying it. I reach this 
conclusion particularly  taking into account the possible  serious  consequences  of failing 
to keep up their mortgage repayments  which were  secured  on their home.
Mr D says that Leeds lured him into taking the policy with a free six-month  trial period 
and then just added  the premiums to his monthly mortgage payments. He asks where 
was the document that says that he signed up to the premiums and said that it was 
optional? 
Ref: DRN94335863I dont find that it was unreasonable for Leeds  to offer the first six months of the cover for 
free. And the document that Mr D asks about  is the MPPI application form to which Ive 
referred above. As Ive explained,  this was likely to have had a section which  they could 
have signed had he and Mrs D decided not to take out any cover at all to protect  their 
mortgage payments.  That is to say, showing that taking out MPPI with Leeds was 
optional. To re-inforce  this view, I note that the sample form says that Leeds strongly  
recommends that the applicant  protects  their [payments]. And after explaining that there  
will be no charge for the first six moths the form goes on to say that after that period, the 
premiums will be added  to the monthly mortgage payments.
Further, I note that Leeds wrote  to Mr and Mrs D near the end of the six-month free 
period. This letter advised them that the period was coming to an end and that the 
premiums would in future be added  to their mortgage payment. And it set out the cost. It 
then gave Mr and Mrs D the phone number to ring if they want to make  any amendment 
to their MPPI  cover.  Im satisfied that this reminded  Mr and Mrs D that they had the 
opportunity to cancel  the policy before they had to start paying  any premiums, had they 
so wished.
Mr D also says that he doesnt understand why our adjudicator  concluded that the MPPI 
would have been of benefit  to him, given that he had worked for his employer  for 20 
years and then went on to work for it for a further 17 years.  The fact that Mr D had been  
in the same employment for many  years was no guarantee  that it would have continued 
in the future. The point of any insurance  is to take steps  to cover unexpected 
eventualities. And the fact that these  didnt in fact arise doesnt mean that the policy  
could have been of no use at the time it was taken out;
This means that Leeds doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the MPPI to Mr and 
Mrs D as Mr D suggests.
But Leeds  will pay back  some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs D because: 
Leeds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because Leeds didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs D, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Leeds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Leeds has to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the MPPI premium. Leeds should also pay back to Mr and Mrs D any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Leeds should pay back to Mr and Mrs D the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of MPPI. Leeds should 
also pay Mr and Mrs D 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Leeds has to take basic rate tax off this interest.  Mr and Mrs D can claim back the tax if they 
dont pay tax.
Ref: DRN94335864my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Leeds Building Society doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs D.
But Leeds  Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 May 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9433586