K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) were irresponsible in increasing the 
credit limit on her credit card.
background
In December 2015, Mrs J was successful in applying for an Aqua credit card, with a limit of 
£250. That month, she withdrew  £120 in cash from the card and in February 2016, Mrs J 
missed her credit card payment. She remained fairly  close  to the limit each month  from 
December 2015  to May 2016. On 18 April 2016,  after enquiring,  Mrs J was advised  that she 
was not eligible for a limit increase and on 29 April she exceeded her limit. 
The following  month, on 12 May, Aqua wrote to Mrs J and offered a credit  limit increase from 
£250 to £1250. Mrs J accepted the offer on 19 May. 
From June 2016 onwards, the account was over its limit. Between January 2017 and 
April 2017, the account was also in arrears. Mrs J explained to Aqua that the arrears  were 
due to a temporary  reduction in income.  She further explained that she was experiencing 
financial difficulties and would not be in a position to make full payments immediately. 
She was advised  of the charges and the effect on her credit file. During this phone  call, 
Mrs J was also told of the risk of default  and she explained to Aqua again that this situation 
was due to a temporary reduction in income.   
In May 2017, Mrs J explained that she was eager to enter into a payment arrangement with 
Aqua and explained that she felt she was in financial hardship. An income and expenditure 
assessment was carried out and Aqua felt Mrs J was not eligible for a payment arrangement.  
The account  was defaulted, and the debt was later sold to a third party.  From the date of the 
increase to when  the debt was sold, Mrs J was over her limit. Further,  the amount she was 
over by, had increased  each month  until the debt was sold.  
Mrs J raised a complaint  with Aqua, stating that she shouldnt have been offered a credit  
limit increase as it was obvious that it was unaffordable. She requested a refund of the 
interest and any charges  plus statutory interest,  in addition to the removal  of any negative 
information placed on her credit  file.
In their response, Aqua explained why they did not uphold her complaint. Unhappy  with 
Aquas response, Mrs J brought  this matter to us. 
Our investigator did not think Aquas  checks  on Mrs J, prior to increasing  her credit card 
limit, were  proportionate  to the significant  increase.  As a result, they recommended Aqua:
refund  to the account all the interest and charges since the date of the credit  limit 
increase in May 2016;
remove any negative information  (including the default) from Mrs Js credit  file, 
placed there as a result of increasing  her limit to £1250; and
pay £100 to Mrs J for the distress and inconvenience caused.
As Aqua did not respond to our investigators  recommendation, this has been passed to me 
for a decision. 
Ref: DRN94772562my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aqua has told us they typically  offer credit  cards to people who are trying to improve their 
credit rating. Mrs J had five defaults and two active credit card accounts at the time of the 
application. Aqua has also confirmed that Mrs J met their criteria for a credit  card,  with a limit 
of £250 at the time of her application.  All things considered, I would say it was reasonable for 
Aqua to approve  Mrs Js initial application  and provide a credit card with a limit of £250. 
Five months  into the credit card agreement, after a cash withdrawal; a missed payment and 
a rejected application for a limit increase, Mrs Js limit was substantially increased to £1250.  
In the letter  offering the increase, Aqua stated theyd looked  at how shed  managed her 
credit card and believed the new limit was suitable.  
They were  therefore  aware of how she was managing her credit card account. But I am not 
persuaded by Aqua  that they had sufficient  information regarding Mrs Js circumstances, 
which informed their decision to increase  her limit. In particular, Mrs J was refused an 
increase on 18 April 2016, but was offered an increase on 12 May,  even though she had 
gone over her limit on 29 April. 
The relevant  rules at the time said that before a significant increase takes place, the lender 
must assess the customers creditworthiness.  In addition, the creditworthiness assessment, 
must be based on sufficient information. Aqua  have not provided satisfactory evidence to 
show sufficient information  was taken into account,  before taking the decision to significantly 
increase Mrs Js credit limit. 
Applying the rules  at the time, a lender is required to consider  whether the repayments  of an 
increased limit would be sustainable.  By sustainable I mean, consideration must be given  by 
the lender as to whether  the borrower would be able to make the repayments in a 
reasonable period of time.  They would also need to consider whether this could be done 
without adversely impacting their situation,  if they were to fully utilise the new credit  card 
limit. 
I appreciate Mrs J did not have to accept this credit limit increase, and Aqua correctly  
advised that she could decline it. However, some responsibility must lie with Aqua  for 
offering to increase the limit. Considering how Mrs J had managed  her credit card account,  I 
do not think it was reasonable for Aqua to increase  her credit limit. 
The £1,000 increase was significant, and I cannot see that Aquas assessment of Mrs Js 
eligibility was proportionate to this increase. There is insufficient evidence to demonstrate  
Aqua took reasonable steps to determine whether Mrs J was able to take on such a 
substantial increase of credit. 
I am satisfied that Aqua had carried  out suitable  checks to grant Mrs J the credit  card limit of 
£250. However, I do not think  they had enough information to allow  for such a sizable 
increase in the credit card limit. I am therefore of the view that Aqua should not have 
increased this limit. 
Having reviewed Mrs Js bank account  statements from that period, I can see that she had 
limited disposable  income  due to her efforts to clear  the debts she had already committed to 
Ref: DRN94772563paying. There is no evidence to suggest  Aqua made a reasonable effort to get a true picture 
of Mrs Js circumstances at the time of the increase. 
On 18 April, Mrs J was not eligible for a credit limit increase, but on 12 May she was. The 
only thing that changed during that time was that Mrs J went over her credit limit on 29 April. 
Aqua has already said they were aware of how Mrs J was using her credit card. Given  that 
this was so close  to them deciding to increase her credit card limit, Aqua should  have  
engaged with Mrs J to get a better  picture of her financial  situation. 
Aqua didnt do this and Mrs J found  herself  in an increasingly difficult financial situation due 
to the added interest and charges post credit  card limit increase. Going over a credit limit, is 
not an indicator  that someone  is suitable  for a significant limit increase. As I dont think  the 
credit limit increase should have been  granted, it would be unfair  to say the associated 
charges and interest were fair or reasonable in these  set of circumstances.  
I recognise that Mrs J has had the benefit of having  the increased  limit (as she has spent  the 
money). It is my understanding that this is being managed through  the third party who 
bought the debt from Aqua. And it has been confirmed that the third party has not applied  
any charges or fees since they purchased the debt in 2017.  As Mrs J has been able to come  
to an affordable repayment  arrangement  for this borrowing, I dont consider it unfair that she 
repays the money she borrowed.
It is my understanding that Aqua has recently  offered  to refund any over limit and late fees 
and a proportion  of interest  from the date of the increase (May 2016) to the date of sale 
(August 2017). Theyve said this will be offset  against any balance  remaining with the debt 
sale agent.  
Aqua has also added that if the balance has already been paid, this would  go directly to 
Mrs J. Mrs J is not happy with this offer and has said she would like all of the interest 
refunded in addition to the late and over limit fees. Whilst I am pleased to see that Aqua 
have made  an attempt to resolve this matter, I do not think  they have gone far enough.   
I think it would be fair and reasonable for Aqua to refund all of the charges and interest on 
the credit  card account, that relate to the amounts Mrs J borrowed over her original  credit  
limit. Further, the default notice should  also be removed from Mrs Js credit file.
Aqua didnt act responsibly in increasing Mrs Js limit in these particular set of 
circumstances. And as a result, Mrs J found herself  in a situation where she wasnt able to 
manage her finances. This was at a time when  she was already experiencing severe 
financial difficulties, and so this caused her additional distress.  A payment of £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused should therefore  be paid to Mrs J. 
Ref: DRN94772564my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I have decided to uphold  this complaint. 
I direct  NewDay Ltd to:
remove the default notice on Mrs Js credit file;
refund  all interest and charges applied to her credit card account other than those 
that would  have been incurred had the credit  limit not been increased;  and
pay £100 to Mrs J for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Chantelle Sayles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9477256