K822xcomplaint
Mrs O is unhappy with the increases on her home insurance policy premiums, held with 
Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva).
Mrs O has been represented throughout by a relative Mr D.
background 
The policy was sold and administered  by Bank A but the policy  was underwritten by Aviva. 
Aviva, as the underwriter,  was responsible for setting the price of the insurance based on the 
perceived risk it associated with insuring  Mrs Os property. For the purposes of this decision 
the amount Aviva  needed to charge to cover the risk of Mrs O making  a claim is the risk price.
But the cost of the policy is higher than the risk price. Thats because there is also a cost of 
operating the policy, which was shared by Aviva and Bank A. But as Aviva  underwrote the 
policy and set the overall price, it is responsible for answering Mrs Os complaint.
Mrs O held her home insurance policy for many years.  From its inception  in the late 1990s 
up until 2011 the premium gradually  increased to around £350.
From 2012,  the premium  cost started to increase more than it had done previously. 
In 2012, Mrs Os premium was £365.81.  In 2013  it was £658.24;  and in 2014 the premium 
cost £1,046.00.
In 2015, Mrs Os premium was to be £2,069.25. Mrs O contacted  Aviva  to discuss  her 
premium and it offered  to reduce  the premium down  to £1,315.48. 
Mrs O didnt accept this and obtained  alternative  cover with a different insurer for around  
£130 for the year.
Because of the difference in price,  Mrs O complained to Aviva. Mrs O considered she hadnt 
been treated fairly as her premiums had increased  significantly  in the later years. She thought 
she had been  loyal for many years and felt Aviva  had taken advantage  of that loyalty.
Aviva responded saying  Mrs Os policy had been  priced correctly  over the years.  Aviva  
explained that the increase in the policys cost in the later years was due to the property 
being rated as a high flood risk from 2012.  And this was because of a river that ran close  to 
Mrs Os property. Aviva also explained the river didnt have any flood defences in place 
which would enable it to reduce the flood risk rating  on Mrs Os property.
Unhappy, Mrs O referred her complaint to this service.
While the complaint was with our service, Aviva  offered to refund some  of the cost of the 
insurance. 
Aviva explained  it reassessed  the risk of flood  claims in 2012  and needed  to increase the 
risk price  of Mrs Os policy  due to flood risk. But it explained that because the risk price had 
increased, the operating costs had increased as well. In short,  the more  risk a property 
presents indicates  there is a greater chance  a consumer will need to claim. Claims means 
increased operating  costs  such as administration costs and staffing costs.
Ref: DRN91992792So, in order to resolve the complaint  and to ensure Mrs O wasnt  treated unfairly, Aviva 
offered to refund some of the operating costs that had increased as the risk price had 
increased.
Avivas offer of compensation was to refund some of the cost Mrs O paid in 2013 and 2014 
(the years where the premium had increased due to the risk) and some  additional  
compensation for Mrs O being out of pocket of that money (set at 8% simple interest per 
year up until settlement).
Its offer to Mrs O, in total, came to £657.15.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought Avivas offer was a fair way to 
resolve things.
As Mrs O disagreed and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed  to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. 
But I can look to see whether Aviva treated Mrs O fairly throughout the time she held her 
insurance policy.
If I find that Aviva hasnt treated Mrs O fairly,  I will look to see what  compensation would be 
fair, and in this case, whether I think what Aviva has offered is fair.
Having carefully considered whats  happened,  I think Avivas offer of compensation is fair. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs O, so Id like to explain why.
I would like to explain that an insurer hasnt necessarily done anything  wrong  by changing 
the premium at renewal   and there  are often risk related  reasons for an insurer  doing so. 
But where an insurer knew, or ought  reasonably  to have known, the consumer wasnt  
engaging with the renewals process, they should have taken care to make  sure they treated 
these consumers fairly  and that they didnt take advantage  of the consumers  behaviour by 
increasing their premiums just because  they didnt engage with the cost.  
Mrs Os policy automatically renewed,  and she didnt engage with Aviva over the cost of her 
policy at renewal. Mrs Os policy did increase in cost over the years and Mrs O is particularly 
concerned with the increase in the later years and doesnt think she has been  treated fairly  
so Ive looked to see what happened.
In the early years, Mrs Os premiums was fairly static and increased gradually. Having 
looked at this, I dont  think  anything went wrong. But there  were  steeper increases in the 
later years from 2012 onwards, and it is those increases that Mrs O is concerned about.
Ref: DRN91992793Aviva says the later increases in Mrs Os premiums  were  for risk related reasons and 
werent because  Mrs O wasnt  engaging  with her renewal cost. 
So Ive looked  to see what those reasons were.
In 2012, Aviva revisited the risk of claims from flooding. Each insurer, in determining its 
policys costs, is entitled to form its own view of risk regarding things such as flooding. And 
from this, it decides the costs associated with the risk. Theres no set way every insurer  has 
to follow  to work this out, so different insurers will come to different views as to what  they 
need to charge to cover  these risks.  
Insurers will typically, over the years, revisit and reassess the risk  using more up to date 
and refined models. If an insurer  thinks theres a greater risk than before, the premium will 
increase accordingly   theres nothing wrong  with this.
Aviva say this is what happened with Mrs O. Following the reassessment  of risk due to 
flooding, Mrs Os property was classed  as high risk. Because  there  was a greater risk  the 
premiums increased.
I know Mrs O is unhappy  because she considers her property isnt at a high risk of flooding.  
And Mrs O, as she was able to obtain much cheaper  insurance with a different provider, 
considers this shows she was either overcharged  or Avivas perception  of the risk was wrong.
I understand Mrs Os frustrations, but ultimately, Aviva is entitled to reassess the potential  
risk in insuring Mrs Os property each year. There is a river in close proximity to Mrs Os 
property. I appreciate Mrs O might not agree with Avivas risk assessment, but it is Avivas 
decision as to how much  risk a property  presents  and in turn the cost it then sets for the 
insurance. 
Also its not uncommon  for insurers to use different pricing and risk models. For example, 
Mrs Os new insurance provider  may not consider  Mrs Os property to be at such a high risk 
of flooding. But just because Mrs Os new provider assesses risk differently, doesnt mean 
Avivas perceptions of the risks were  incorrect at the time.
So it seems  to me that there were  legitimate  risk related reasons for Mrs Os premium 
increasing from 2012 onwards. 
But, as explained  above, I also have to make sure that Aviva treated Mrs O fairly when it 
comes to the overall price it offered her for insurance.
Aviva has explained  that because  the risk price  had increased, it meant  the operating costs 
increased also. And this is because  the greater the risk a consumer presents, the greater the 
likelihood a consumer  may need to claim. This has a knock-on effect requiring a greater 
expense of an insurers resources to handle things like the administration of any claims. 
Aviva has said that it recognises  that Mrs Os premiums had gone up due the risk it 
considered the property  presented, and in order to ensure Mrs O hasnt been treated unfairly 
it is willing to offer to refund some  of the shared operating costs of the policy Mrs O paid.  
This offer is to try and limit the increases (due to the risk) and to remedy any perceived 
unfairness Mrs O may feel because of the increases.
Ref: DRN91992794All things  considered  while there  were  risk related reasons for the premium increasing  
Aviva offering to pay back some  of the cost, so as to reduce the overall premiums  for the 
later years where the premium increased,  seems fair.
I appreciate that Mrs O obtained  alternative insurance for a lot less. Given  the difference in 
cost I can see why Mrs O is unhappy. But insurance practices have moved on over the years.  
Policies taken out now often come with a significant initial discount, with insurers  aiming to 
keep the consumer and recoup the discount  over the following years.  Consumers can also 
choose from various levels of cover   so buildings and contents with or without accidental 
damage, and consumers  can also choose  what limits and excesses they wish to have. 
These things combined, mean that the cost of insurance can be markedly  different  in price. 
More recently, online  practices and comparison  websites have meant  ever more competitive 
prices. And some consumers  can now manage  their policies online meaning less 
administrative costs to insurers   with the resulting savings being applied to reduce the cost 
a consumer pays for cover.
Insurers, as mentioned above, can also have a different perception of the risk a consumer 
presents  and again the cost between insurers can be different based on that perceived risk. 
So while Mrs O has obtained a policy for far less now, for the reasons explained above, I 
dont think it would be fair to compare the cost of that recent policy with the policy  taken and 
held for many years with Aviva.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Aviva Insurance  Limiteds offer to refund some  of the costs of 
Mrs Os home insurance policy is fair.
I direct  Aviva  Insurance  Limited, should Mrs O accept  the decision,  to update the 
compensation amount to reflect the additional  time Mrs O has been out of pocket.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9199279