K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2010. Mrs B 
says Tesco  Personal  Finance PLC mis-sold  her the PPI.
Mrs B took out her card and policy over the internet. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs B says that she didnt  know PPI was optional, and that it was made to seem that you 
needed to take out the PPI in order to get the credit card.  But I think  Tesco made it clear that 
Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
I say this because  Tesco has provided  information  about its online sales process  from the 
time Mrs B took out her card and policy  from this I can see that the PPI is presented as 
optional, and a consumer would need  to make an active choice in order to take it out  and 
then confirm this choice with an e-signature, separate to their agreement for the card. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Tesco did anything differently when Mrs B made her 
application.
Tesco didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs B got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But as I think she chose to take out the PPI - it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
This means  Tesco doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Tesco has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because  Tesco didnt tell Mrs B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs B has said - but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN97834162my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs B any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9783416