K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr D bought the policy in 1998 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint because:
 I think Bank of Scotland made Mr D aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose 
to take it. I say this because he signed the PPI section of the credit card application 
form, to show  that he wanted  the cover.
 Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for him. It was for Mr D to decide  whether or not the PPI was something that 
would be useful  for him.
Even if Bank  of Scotland had recommended the policy to Mr D, Im not persuaded it 
was unsuitable  for him. Mr D says he was entitled  to employer benefits if he couldnt 
work because of sickness or accident, and that he had an alternative  form of 
insurance. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition  to Mr Ds employer  benefits,  and 
wouldve been useful  to him if he couldnt  work. And from what  Ive been  told, I cant be 
sure that Mr Ds other insurance  policy provided  the same benefits  as the PPI policy.
So I still think Mr D wouldve  had some use for the PPI.
 Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it should have been. But its unlikely  Mr D would have been affected by any of the 
main things  the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Caroline Stirling
Ref: DRN91227752ombudsman
Ref: DRN9122775