K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that National House-Building Council (NHBC)  has incorrectly  
declined a claim for damage to their home under their building warranty policy.
background
In 2018 Mr and Mrs B discovered water coming through the light fitting in their bathroom.  
They contacted NHBC to report the damage and to make  a claim under their building  
warranty policy. NHBC arranged an inspection and reported  that the damage was caused by 
either wind driven rain or snow entering in or around the roof vent. NHBC said that the roof 
vent would  not be considered as a defect within the construction of the property and, as the 
policy only provided cover for the damage if a defect was detected, it refused the claim. 
However, it also stated that, even  if the damage  was shown to be caused by a defect, the 
cost of the repairs would be less than the minimum claim  value required for a claim for 
damage caused by a defect and therefore the claim would not succeed.
Unhappy with this response,  Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service. They  
referred to statutory Building Regulations and NHBC technical requirements which state 
roofs should  not allow water to penetrate the property  as water had entered their home,  
they say the building  has not been built to the correct standard and it is therefore a latent 
defect. As there are three such  roof vents,  Mr and Mrs B say NHBC needs to repair  not only 
the damage caused in this incident but also rectify the other sub-standard work. They also 
disputed the claim value, with Mr B providing  his own schedule  of works, which he said 
would exceed  the minimum claim value.
Our investigator looked into this matter but didnt uphold the complaint. He found that the 
policy only provided cover for physical  damage caused by a defect and so any claim would  
only be for the damage caused by this water ingress, not to rectify any other areas.  He 
pointed out that the policy  terms are clear in stating the minimum claim value is calculated 
based on the cost to NHBC for repairing the damage.  He found that there wasnt  enough 
evidence to show that things included in the costings by Mr B, such as the replacement  of 
plasterboard and insulation, were required and so he was satisfied the costs  put forward by 
NHBC were  fair and reasonable. In relation  to Mr and Mrs Bs argument  about the building 
regulations, he said that it was reasonable to suggest that the roof does comply  by 
protecting against precipitation as this appears  to have  been an isolated  incident. But in any 
event, as the minimum claim value hadnt been  exceeded this meant the claim had been 
fairly declined.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our investigator. They stated  that irrespective of the damage 
caused in this incident, as the construction doesnt comply with building standards  NHBC 
needs to fix the issue  with the other two roof vents.  Mr B also provided his comments on the 
schedule of works provided by NHBC and referred to areas where he felt the calculations 
were incorrect. His new costing of this work took the total to approximately  £500 over the 
minimum claim value.
In January 2021 I issued my provisional  decision. In it I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN91183202Were an informal dispute resolution  service, set up as a free alternative to the courts  for 
consumers. In deciding  this complaint Ive focused on what  I consider to be the heart of the 
matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made in turn. This isnt intended  as a 
discourtesy to Mr and Mrs B. Rather  it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit 
and my role in it.
Mr and Mrs B have  made a number  of comments in relation to Building Regulations and why 
they feel the construction doesnt  comply with the required standards.  They  think  the building 
certificate, confirming the building has been  built to correct standards,  should  not have been 
issued. Mr B is clearly very knowledgeable in this area, which I understand is due to his 
previous occupation.  Whilst I understand the arguments raised, this service doesnt have the 
authority to decide  on this issue. The crux of this complaint is whether there  is a valid claim 
under the warranty  for this damage - what I need  to consider is whether NHBC has fairly 
declined the claim.
The building warranty provides different cover depending on the length of time that has 
passed since the property was built. As it has been more  than two years since  the 
completion of their home,  any claim for damage  would generally  fall under section three of 
the policy. This section  applies  if there is physical damage to the property because  the 
builder failed to build parts to comply with NHBC requirements. There  is a list of the relevant 
parts covered and this includes roofs. It goes on to state that NHBC will take responsibility 
for having the work done to put right the physical  damageif the cost to us is above the 
minimum claim value .
When this complaint was first made  to our service, NHBC said that the water ingress to the 
property was not caused by a failure  to build the roof correctly  but more  likely through wind 
driven rain or snow and, as there wasnt a defect, there was no valid claim. Mr and Mrs B 
disputed this, saying  that the roof was allowing water into the property so there must be a 
defect. NHBC  has reviewed this matter again and said that, whilst the roof vent isnt 
defective, the underlay had been  fitted incorrectly around the vent.  It says the underlay  
should be fitted tightly around  the ventilator pipe in such a way to deflect water,  but it was 
turned downwards  which allowed the water to enter the roof space. NHBC has confirmed 
that it does consider this to be a defect.  Based on this new information Im satisfied the 
physical damage  caused to Mr and Mrs Bs home  was as a result of a defect.
In order for NHBC to be liable for completing the works, the cost to rectify the physical  
damage caused must exceed the minimum claim value  (MCV).  Ive noted  Mr and Mrs B 
think that this defect may be replicated  in other places in the roof where there  are more tile 
vents and that these  repairs should be included in the costs. But the policy  is quite clear in 
stating it only provides cover under section three for the physical damage  caused by a defect  
if the cost of that damage exceeds  the MCV  there is no reference to rectifying  any other 
areas which have  not been damaged or not caused damage in the incident.
NHBC has provided a costed schedule of works  that puts the total repair  figure at several 
hundred pounds below the MCV. It reconsidered  the costings following the recent 
identification of the defect,  however, NHBC has said the schedule already included  the 
removal of underlay  around  the vent and so there  wouldnt be any alteration to the cost.  It is 
important to note at this point  that the policy refers to the cost of the work to NHBC. Mr B 
originally provided his own detailed schedule of works which included things such  as the 
removal and storage of the bathroom cabinet and mirror, along with photographs  and a wall 
feature from the access area. Whilst Mr Bs schedule is clearly  more detailed in this regard 
than the one provided by NHBC,  I dont  think that these types of activities  would necessarily 
Ref: DRN91183203add to the cost.  I think its more likely  this would simply become part of the preparations and 
items would be moved to a room which was not impacted by these works.
Mr and Mrs B say the insulation and plasterboard  in the loft area will need  to be removed. 
They say there could be mould  growth  as a result of particles settling  on the wet insulation  
and that the plasterboard  will have been water damaged. NHBC responded to say the claims 
investigators report stated that the insulation was dry and there was no indication of mould 
growth. It also said that mould spores in the air needed a combination of factors, one of 
which is moisture, to grow  but if the insulation is dry then this cannot happen. And in relation 
to the plasterboard, NHBC said that, whilst there  is water staining  on the board, the main 
manufacturer states these should  be replaced if there is bowing, de-lamination or where 
mould growth is visible. As this isnt the case in Mr and Mrs Bs claim, NHBC has said it 
doesnt need to be replaced.
Ive thought about this carefully,  but Im not persuaded that replacement  of either of these 
two materials is necessary. The insulation has been  reported as dry and there isnt any 
evidence to suggest that it has been  or will be suffering from mould growth as a result  of this 
incident. And whilst  there isnt any doubt that the plasterboard has water staining, there 
doesnt appear to be any of the damage which would  indicate it needs to be replaced at this 
point.
Mr B has also disputed  other aspects of the schedule of works, such  as the estimations  for 
the amount of protection  required both internally and externally. He says that both are 
inadequate for the area which would need  to be protected  he has calculated  24m2  as the 
minimum internally  and says that externally a further 42m2 is required for the driveway.
NHBC has said that internally it has allowed 40m2  for dustsheets. It has also allowed for 
12m2 of a product called Multiguard which is a thicker type of protective covering. In terms of 
the Multiguard protection, it says the standard text used on this document  is incorrect  as this 
would be used just to cover the floor, rather than walls and this would have been  measured 
for use on the stairs and landing. NHBC has also said it has allowed  for the worst-case  
scenario by including this more expensive material, although this may not have actually  been  
necessary. In relation to the external protection, NHBC has said that it would normally allow 
protection in external areas for the location of the works, such  as where any scaffolding  
would be placed.  In Mr and Mrs Bs case, NHBC has said that only a small scaffold tower 
would be needed  as it is only a small roof area that needs to be accessed. It says it wouldnt 
need to protect  the whole driveway  and therefore believes its figures are correct.
I appreciate Mr Bs concerns in relation to the protection  of his home whilst works are 
completed but, based on the information  provided, Im satisfied that NHBC has appropriately 
considered the requirements. The internal protection does appear to cover the area Mr B 
requires, albeit by using different materials, and the explanation  given for the estimate 
externally is reasonable, so Im not persuaded it needs to increase these calculations.
When taking everything into account,  Im persuaded that physical damage has occurred  to 
the home of Mr and Mrs B as a result  of non-compliance with NHBC requirements relating to 
the fitting of the underlay around the vent roof tile. So NHBC shouldnt have declined  the 
claim on this basis. However, Im not satisfied that there is enough evidence to show that the 
cost of completing the works would exceed the minimum claim value and therefore NHBC 
doesnt have to fund the claim.
Ref: DRN91183204Mr and Mrs B have  referred to section  four of the policy  which they believe should cover the 
claim. Under  this section  there is cover  for works if the builder failed to comply  with certain 
Building Regulations when building the main structure of the home. Mr and Mrs B say there  
is a defect and so this should be covered under  this section.
NHBC has disputed that the relevant Building  Regulations have been  breached,  stating that 
it requires roofs to be adequately protected from interstitial condensation and this is what  the 
tile vent was doing. It says there  is no evidence  of such condensation in this case so it 
wouldnt apply. However, it has also pointed out that this section only applies if there is an 
imminent danger to physical health  or safety and this is not the case  for the claim under Mr 
and Mrs Bs policy. It wouldnt appear  to me that the issue being claimed for does constitute 
any imminent danger to Mr and Mrs B and so Im persuaded that this section wouldnt be 
applicable in these circumstances.
NHBC has not responded to the provisional  decision. Mr and Mrs B have replied to say they 
disagree with the outcome. They have said that section four of the policy  states NHBC will 
take responsibility for having the work  done  to put right the failure of the builder  to comply 
with the building regulations  so they believe their claim should be covered under this 
section. Mr B has provided detailed information about his expertise in this area and feels that 
we have failed  to take into account the relevant laws and regulations  regarding  this.
Mr and Mrs B have  also stated that the outcome fails to take into account good  practice   
which we say is our philosophy.  Specifically, they have referred to the points relating to the 
plasterboard and insulation that they say needs replacing. Mr and Mrs B have also said we 
have failed to obtain an independent  third-party  specification including costs.  And that the 
decision fails to ensure  that the property  would be put back into the condition  they enjoyed  
before the incident and to ensure all known areas of contravention are rectified.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I appreciate the comments made by Mr and Mrs B, Im afraid they dont persuade me 
to alter my outcome. As mentioned previously, Im unable  to comment  on the points made  by 
Mr and Mrs B relating to the role of the Approved Inspector  and the issuing of the building 
certificate on their property. I can only consider whether NHBCs decision to decline the 
claim made on the building warranty policy is fair and reasonable. 
The cover under section  four of the policy does include putting right the areas where it hasnt 
been built to comply with the required standards. However, this only comes into force  if there 
is imminent danger to physical health  or safety. Im not of the opinion that the incident that 
has occurred can be considered as causing  imminent danger. Im satisfied that NHBCs 
decision not to consider  a claim under this section is reasonable.
This leaves  only section three of the policy which states NHBC will repair  areas of physical 
damage only  there is no requirement  under this section of the policy for NHBC to inspect 
the remainder of the property to look for other  areas which may be non-compliant. 
In relation to the independent evidence, it is not the role of this service  to appoint experts. 
But both parties  have been  given  the opportunity to provide information that they believe is 
important to the complaint, including reports from any other  source they feel necessary. Mr B 
Ref: DRN91183205provided his own commentary on both NHBCs report  and also the schedule of works. His 
evidence, along  with that provided by NHBC,  has been considered but Im not persuaded 
that NHBCs schedule  of works isnt a fair representation of the repairs  that would need 
completing or that its estimated  costs to do this are unreasonable.  The policy makes it clear 
that the costs  are calculated based on the cost to NHBC, not Mr and Mrs B. And as the costs 
fall below the minimum claim value, Im satisfied that is fair for NHBC to refuse the claim.  
I did take into consideration  the comments Mr B previously made  in relation to the 
replacement of the plasterboard  and insulation, including the information from relevant 
manufacturers that he has referred to. But as explained in my provisional decision,  having 
weighed up the information provided by both parties, I found it reasonable for NHBC  to 
conclude that it didnt need  to replace  either  material. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, but I wont be recommending  that NHBC has to do 
anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 April 2021.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9118320