K821x#15complaint
Mrs L complains  about the loans CashEuroNet UK LLC, (trading as QuickQuid and 
Pounds to Pocket) (CEN)  gave  her. She says CEN didnt carry out sufficient checks and had 
it done so, it wouldve seen that she couldnt afford  these loans. 
background
A summary  of Mrs Ls lending history, based on the information provided  to us by CEN, can 
be found below.  
loan number loan provider loan amount received dateactual repayment 
date
1 QuickQuid £400.00 02/07/2013 27/07/2013
2 QuickQuid £700.00 28/07/2013outstanding 
balance
3Pounds  to 
Pocket£850.00 28/08/2013outstanding 
balance
QuickQuid provided  Mrs L with two payday loans. Mrs Ls first loan was due be repaid  by 
one repayment  of £500. Mrs Ls second payday  loan was due to be paid via three  
repayments, two repayments of £175  and then a final balloon  payment of £875. 
Pounds to Pocket provided  Mrs L with one instalment loan, which  was due to be repaid over 
a longer period of time.  Mrs L was required to make  11 repayments of at least  £142.25 each.  
Mrs L had some problems repaying  her final two loans from CEN  and currently  an 
outstanding balance remains on both of these.  In addition, it appeared loan 2 had been sold 
to a third party debt company. 
CEN looked into Mrs L complaint and it didnt think it had done anything  wrong in giving 
her these loans. Unhappy with CENs response, Mrs L brought  her complaint to our service 
where one of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. He didnt think CEN  had 
carried out proportionate checks for any of the loans.  And had it done so, it wouldve likely 
have found out that Mrs L wasnt in a position to take on any of them.  So Mrs Ls complaint 
was fully upheld.  
CEN agreed  with the adjudicators findings  and it told us loan two had been  repurchased  
from the third party debt collector. CEN  also explained it would remove the adverse 
information about these loans from Mrs Ls credit  file. But it said after it had paid the redress,  
Mrs L would  still owe it £150.13 worth of principal.  
Mrs L accepted  CENs offer. However, the day after Mrs L had accepted  the offer CEN  got in 
touch and explained a mistake had been  made. Due to the outstanding balance on the 
QuickQuid and Pounds to Pocket  loans  Mrs L would actually owe CEN  £434.58  of principal.
This updated offer was put to Mrs L, which she didnt accept. She explained that this 
oversight shouldnt have happened  and she said that shed like the balance  written off 
because she couldnt afford the loans at the time.  
Ref: DRN94138492Mrs L also told us she would find it difficult to repay  what  CEN  said she owed due to her 
current position. She also explained that she felt harassed by CENs staff and it didnt 
provide her with any support. 
We approached CEN with Mrs Ls comments about  the way she says it treated  her. CEN 
initially responded to say that as Mrs L hadnt  raised  this point previously, it would be a 
separate entity. I believe this to mean  that CEN  believes another  complaint would need to 
be raised. Although,  later CEN did provide us with some comments in order to explain what 
it says it did to assist  Mrs  L, once it says it found out she was having financial difficulties.  
No agreement could  be reached between Mrs L and CEN so the case has been passed  to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To begin with, it looks like both CEN and Mrs L agree that all 3 loans shouldnt have been 
given. To me, this means that there is now no outstanding dispute over the lending  decisions 
themselves. But, what  does remain in dispute is what CEN ought to do to put things right.
redress
Generally speaking at this service, we try and put a consumer  into the position they wouldve 
been in had the loans  not be been  granted. However, this isnt always  possible. The main 
reason being is because  in these types of short term lending complaints, a consumer  has 
had the use of the funds which were lent, so we do have to think  about what is fair redress in 
these circumstances.  And part of our thinking around this is that a consumer should repay 
the principal sum lent.  
Normally, if a loan has been taken out and fully repaid, wed ask the lender to refund any 
interest and charges a consumer has paid. The result of this means the consumer effectively 
received an interest  free loan. Wed also normally add 8% simple  interest  to any payment a 
consumer has made  which is above the principal sum borrowed. 
And in instances  where there  are loans which havent been fully repaid wed normally  ask 
the lender to rework  these  loans to make sure that a consumer repays no more  than the 
principle sum borrowed. And sometimes this means  that even after this service has upheld a 
consumers complaint, money  could still be owed to the lender, albeit a smaller  sum. 
Looking at the statement of account that CEN has provided it seems that even after weve 
upheld the complaint Mrs L is going  to have an outstanding  balance  that needs to be repaid. 
I know Mrs L is unhappy about this and she feels that even  though weve conclude CEN has 
done something wrong, we are punishing  her and she doesnt  think this is fair. I appreciate  
Mrs L may feel this way, but as Ive explained  above, our role is try and put someone back  in 
to the position they wouldve been  in had an error  not been made. In circumstances such  as 
this, part of that means that what the consumer borrowed has been repaid.  
Mrs L mentions that we may reach a different outcome for her complaint once a review  had 
been carried out. But as Ive already mentioned we have fully upheld  her complaint, and 
agree with her that the loans shouldnt have been  provided. So an additional review of the 
Ref: DRN94138493outcome reached  isnt going to change  anything.  And having reviewed the statement of 
accounts provided by CEN it does appear that after upholding  her complaint there  will be an 
outstanding balance to be paid.  
I do accept Mrs L was disappointed when was initially led to believe by CEN that she would 
owe it a smaller sum. But, CEN identified this problem  quickly, and I dont think this error, on 
its own, is sufficient to ask it to write off the outstanding balance. 
I can quite understand  why Mrs L wants to CEN  to take this sort of action. However,  as Ive 
explained above, Mrs L has had benefit  of the funds  provided by CEN and Ive not seen 
enough to make me think that CEN isnt entitled  to collect the outstanding  balance,  when 
based on what Ive seen, it appears that an outstanding balance  is due. 
I know Mrs L will be disappointed by my decision about the redress,  but in the circumstances 
I believe it is fair and reasonable for CEN to collect the principal sums borrowed for loans 2 
and 3. However, because there appears  to be an outstanding balance, Id remind  CEN that it 
has a number of options available to it when considering Mrs Ls personal circumstances 
when repaying  the outstanding balance. 
unfair treatment
CEN says that it wanted this aspect of the complaint to be considered  as a new entity.  But 
the matter of financial difficulties was outlined  in CENs  final response letter to Mrs L and Ive 
noticed that it has subsequently  provided this service with some comments  about the way it 
says it treated her. 
Mrs L says she was harassed and this affected her mental health. Weve  asked Mrs L to 
provide some further information and context  around  this aspect of her complaint. This 
wouldve allowed this service to help assess whether we think  CEN acted unfairly  in any 
way. But Mrs L hasnt  provided us with any further information  so when thinking about the 
actions of CEN, Ive used  the information  which I have to hand.  
We asked CEN for comments around what Mrs L told us. CEN  has explained that it initially  
found out about Mrs Ls financial  difficulty in November 2013. At which  point, CEN says 
Mrs L was put onto a repayment plan. And in March 2014 CEN says it was informed that 
Mrs L had entered  a debt management  plan. I can see from the statement of account  that 
CEN has charged no further interest on either loan 2 or 3 after November 2013.  This 
suggests that CEN treated  Mrs L positively and sympathetically once it found out she was 
having repayment difficulties. 
No repayments  were received, and so it seems  in August 2014 loan 2 was sold to a third 
party debt purchasing company. I can see emails were sent from Mrs L to CEN in May 2016 
explaining that she had been ill and was now in a position to make  payments. But at the time 
CEN directed Mrs L to contact the new owner  of the debt. Given the debt had been  sold,  I 
dont consider this to be an unreasonable course of action by CEN. 
In relation to loan 3, I can see from the emails  that Mrs L was becoming frustrated with what 
appears to be a systems  issue which affected how she could make repayments. However, 
after these  emails in 2016, it still doesnt  seem, based on what  Ive seen that any further 
payments were made  to CEN. 
Ref: DRN94138494So overall, based on the limited information  available, I havent seen enough to make me 
think that CEN has treated Mrs L unfairly.  However,  given what  CEN says about  there  being  
an outstanding  balance to repay, I would remind CEN that it has an ongoing obligation to 
treat Mrs L in a positive  and sympathetic manner. 
what CEN  should do to put things  right
It is also my understanding that CEN has repurchased loan 2 from the third party debt 
company. So, in order to put things right for Mrs L, CEN should, in line with the offer it has 
already made carry out the following:
refund all the interest and charges paid by Mrs L for loans 1, 
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement ; and
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ls credit file about  loans  1 -3.
For loans 2 and 3 CEN should remove all the interest and charges applied to the outstanding 
balance. CEN should  then re-work  the account  as if all payments made by Mrs L went  
towards the principle  sum. But importantly, CEN needs to make sure that Mrs L doesnt 
repay more  than the principle amounts she borrowed.  
If, after the account rework, Mrs L has already paid enough to fully repay the principle sum 
then any overpayment should be refunded to her with 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement
CEN can, if it wishes use the redress due on loan 1 to offset any outstanding  principle  sums  
due for loans 2 and 3. 
If after doing this, Mrs L still has an outstanding  balance with CEN then both parties should 
try and come to a mutually agreeable way forward in order to repay  what  is due. Again, I 
would remind CEN that it has an obligation to treat Mrs L in a positive and sympathetic 
manner. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires CEN to take off tax from this interest. CEN must give 
Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Mrs Ls complaint. 
CashEuroNet UK LLC should  put things right for Mrs L as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9413849