K820x#14complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about a claim he made under  his Ageas Insurance  Limited  legal 
expenses insurance  policy.
Mr P says that Ageas have unfairly  declined his claim.
background
This complaint follows two others  made to this service. Those  decisions arise  out of the 
same set of facts; namely  that Mr P was injured whilst skiing when  he was away  on holiday.  
He said that another skier crashed into him, which caused him to fall and suffer  injury.  He 
wanted to bring  a claim against the other  skier who he believed was negligent.
Ageas appointed panel solicitors to assess the claim. They  said the claim didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success, including prospects of recovery  and gave some  
information on how much  it would likely cost to pursue.  Ageas  turned down the claim for both 
of these reasons.  Mr P brought a complaint to our service about this. He wanted to use his 
own solicitors  to consider  the claim and to fund the costs of this as well as those of an 
enquiry agent  to help establish prospects of recovery. 
The deciding ombudsman said Ageas was entitled  to withdraw funding because  the advice 
they received  was that the claim would cost more to pursue than the likely damages  Mr P 
would recover. She also said that Ageas didnt have  to fund Mr Ps solicitors costs  in looking 
into things for him. But she went onto say that if Mr P could trace the other skier it was 
reasonable for Ageas to reassess  the claim.
Following that decision  Mr P found  an address  for the other skier. He presented this to 
Ageas and asked  them  to look into things  for him again. Ageas got advice from their panel  
firm who said the claim still didnt have  reasonable chances of succeeding, and that issuing 
the legal  claim and enforcing  any court  judgment abroad would be costly. They also said 
they didnt know  if the other skier  had any insurance  and whether his insurer  would cover  
him at this stage. They thought legal costs  may not be recoverable depending on the legal 
jurisdiction the claim was issued in and also that the claim was likely  to be defended.
Mr P didnt think the advice was correct or that the solicitors  were impartial. So he asked
Ageas to instruct another firm of solicitors and said this was something he was entitled to 
under the policy.  Ageas  refused so Mr P complained  to us. The deciding ombudsman said 
Ageas was entitled to rely on their panel  firms advice and that it wasnt  obviously wrong. 
She also said Ageas werent obliged to instruct another  firm of solicitors  to advice on Mr Ps 
claim.
Following this decision Mr P took his own advice. He obtained a barristers opinion  which  
said that it was overwhelmingly likely the other skier  would be held liable for the accident. It 
also went on to put Mr Ps claim broadly at £12,000- although this was subject to medical 
evidence and any additional consequential losses he could evidence. The opinion also cited  
that the other skier  had, through  his solicitors, accepted UK jurisdiction. The barrister said he 
thought there was a good argument that this meant  hed accepted the jurisdiction of the 
courts of England and Wales. 
Ref: DRN93185652Mr P put this to Ageas to consider and asked that they now fund his claim. Ageas rejected 
the claim but didnt  give reasons. Rather  they said their original decision to decline  cover still 
stood. Because  of this Mr P referred  his complaint to us.
Since the complaint was referred  Ageas have said they arent prepared to cover  Mr Ps claim 
for a number of reasons which are as follows:
-Their original decision to decline the claim was correct.
-The advice of the panel firm was that there were still concerns about prospects of 
success and recovery and proportionality  of costs.  In particular they said the barrister 
didnt consider prospects of recovery and wasnt in a position to comment on 
proportionality of costs. 
-The law cited by the barrister in his opinion may not apply after Brexit.
-Two conflicting views  would warrant a third independent opinion  but this would only 
serve to drain funds  from the policy further.  
Our investigator considered this and thought Mr Ps complaint shouldnt be upheld because  
Ageas were  entitled  to rely on the advice theyd received  that the claim wasnt proportionate 
to pursue. Mr P doesnt agree.. In particular he says:
-If Ageas case is that it will not agree to incurring  legal costs at all if the value of the claim 
is less than the costs  awarded, this would mean the policy would rule out the bringing of 
any personal injury claim, as legal costs will if not always,  then at least 90% of the time 
(unless settled prior to trial) outweigh the costs  of any award in damages.  Accordingly, 
such a condition if interpreted this way would potentially fall foul of the Unfair Contract 
Terms Act (UCTA)1977.
-In litigation the loser pays the winners  costs. This case  has good prospects of success  
so whether or not the other  skier eventually pays should not be a consideration. If it is 
then it would make an insurance policy pointless  and again subject to breaching UCTA.
-In personal injury claims involving a foreign element,  there is no fixed costs  regime.  
Legal costs are regularly as high as £50,000  and the court  does award these sums as 
costs. It is not disproportionate  to incur this level of costs in cases involving foreign 
personal injury claims.
-The other skier has admitted he has insurance.
-He has £50,000  worth of cover  so he should be entitled to use that.
-The underwriter of the policy has recently  amended their policy wording on the issue of 
proportionality which means the earlier wording  was unfair. The new policy now says 
where an award of damages  is the only legal remedy to a dispute and the cost of 
pursuing legal action is likely to be more than any award of damages, the most we will 
pay in costs and expenses is the value  of the likely award.
-The policy was mis-sold if interpreted as Ageas says because it would never have 
covered personal  injury  claims  as theyd always be disproportionate to pursue.
Because of this the matter  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Mr Ps 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
Mr Ps claim was turned down in the past because he couldnt show  that it was proportionate 
Ref: DRN93185653to pursue. He has since obtained a legal opinion from a barrister which goes  some  way in 
commenting on the merits of the claim,  but is silent on the issue of proportionality. And Mr 
Ps solicitor hasnt said how much he thinks the claim will cost to pursue.
The policy does require the claim to be proportionate to the costs involved in litigating  it. And 
at the moment,  Mr P hasnt provided any evidence  that his claim is proportionate to pursue. 
The ombudsman that decided his first complaint about this claim said Ageas  was entitled to 
withdraw funding  because the advice  they received was that the claim would cost more to 
pursue than the likely  damages hed recover. I havent seen anything that changes this 
position. Because of this, I dont think Ageas were  wrong to turn down cover.
Mr P has made a number  of submissions about personal injury claims being  disproportionate 
to pursue more  generally. But I dont agree. Proportionality of costs is dependent on both the 
value of the claim and the costs involved. Mr Ps claim is valued at roughly £12,000.  A 
significantly higher  claim  or one that involves a different costs  regime  will inevitably alter the 
position. And my decision is in relation  to Mr Ps claim  and not personal injury  claims more 
generally.
I know that Mr P feels strongly  that the proportionality  provision  within his policy is unfair. But 
we dont view it that way. We wouldnt expect a privately paying person to incur  more than 
theyre likely  to recover and certainly  not without a high chance  of recovering those costs- a 
legal expenses insurer cant  be expected to either. So I dont agree that the term itself is 
unfair. And I dont think the fact that the term has changed in subsequent policies means its 
unfair. Its not unusual  for insurers to change the terms of policies on an ongoing basis.  
Those changes dont mean there  was something wrong with their previous  iterations.  And 
ultimately the terms that govern Mr Ps policy are the ones he agreed to when he took out 
the insurance.
Finally, I havent considered Mr Ps submissions about the policy  being  mis-sold. Thats  not 
a complaint wed consider against  the insurer of the policy. If Mr P wishes  to pursue this, 
hell need to direct it to the seller of the policy in the first instance.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint  against  Ageas Insurance  
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.  
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9318565