K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) handled their travel  
insurance claim. 
background
Mrs H holds a travel insurance policy as a benefit of her bank account. For ease of reading, 
Ill refer to all submissions  by Mr and Mrs H as being made by Mrs H.
Mrs H had booked a 4-day holiday for her and her husband. They  were on their way to the 
airport when they got stuck in traffic  due to an accident. As a result, they missed their flight 
and returned home.  They  called AXA the next day to make  a claim for the cost of the 
holiday. But AXA told them it wouldnt pay the cost of abandoning the whole trip unless they 
would have missed  more than half of their holiday.  
The next available flight was at 4pm, on the day after the original  flight. But Mrs H says she 
would have missed  all the pre booked excursions, the first day of the holiday and most of the 
second day. And she didnt have the money  to pay extra costs for re-booking  her flights. 
AXA considered the claim  under the missed departure section of the policy and said it could 
only pay a sum equal to what  the cost of re-booking the flights  would have been, which  was 
just over £100. 
Mrs H didnt think this was fair as she had paid more than £700 for the trip and so she 
brought her complaint  to this service. She says she was given incorrect  information  by the 
adviser when she called to make  her claim  she says the policy does  not specify AXA will 
only pay for the cost of cancelling the trip if she would have missed  more than half of the 
holiday. And Mrs H says, had she been  given correct information, she would have  been  
forced to use her spending  money  to re-book  her flights and take the trip even if it was 
without the excursions she had paid for.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think AXA had done anything wrong as 
abandonment of the holiday in Mrs Hs circumstances  wasnt covered. 
Mrs H didnt agree and said she wouldnt have an issue if AXA declined her claim on the 
basis of something in the policy.  So the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think Mrs Hs 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
Mrs Hs travel insurance policy  sets out the costs AXA will pay in the event of a missed  
departure. Section 5 of the policy covers travel delay and missed departure  and says AXA 
will cover:
Arriving too late (as shown on your ticket) to board your booked  transport at your 
last departure point  from the UKWe  will pay you up to £1,000 for your reasonable 
Ref: DRN92580802and necessary extra travel and accommodation  expenses (room only) to allow  you to 
get to your trip destination.
AXA told Mrs H it could cover the costs of re-booking their flights  to allow them  to get to their 
trip destination under section 5 as outlined above.  There isnt any cover under the terms of 
the policy for abandoning the holiday as a result of a missed departure. So Mrs Hs claim for 
the cost of the trip in these circumstances isnt covered under the terms and conditions of 
her policy.
Mrs H says AXA declined her claim because  she wouldnt have missed more  than half of her 
holiday if she had re-booked the next available flight. 
Ive checked this point with AXA and it has confirmed that this criteria isnt contained within  
the policy but it has an internal practice to consider  claims  outside of the terms and 
conditions if more than half of the trip would be lost. In this case, if Mrs H had re-booked  her 
flights the day following  her flight, she wouldnt have missed  more than half of her holiday. 
This is a process which AXA follows as a gesture of goodwill to its customers. It doesnt form 
part of the contract  between  Mrs H and AXA, and there are no reasonable grounds on which  
I could fairly  ask AXA to amend its internal practice and apply it to Mrs Hs claim. 
Mrs H says her decision  about what to do would have been different if AXA hadnt given her 
incorrect information. But Ive listened to the telephone call between  Mrs H and AXA and 
have checked  the policy documents which are available online. AXA said it couldnt  pay the 
cost of the whole  trip as Mr and Mrs H wouldnt miss more than half of their holiday.  But it 
offered to pay the cost of re-booking flights under section 5 of Mrs Hs policy,  as I would  
expect it to do. So I dont agree that AXA gave Mrs H incorrect  information. 
Im sorry  to hear that Mrs H missed her flight and couldnt go on her holiday. But having 
carefully considered  the cover available, I dont  think AXA has done  anything wrong. It has 
offered to pay what Mrs H would have paid if she had re-booked  the next available flight. 
This is in line with the terms and conditions of Mrs Hs policy and I dont think  AXA has been  
unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 January 2020.
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9258080