K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2010. Miss B says Capital One (Europe)  plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
Miss B took out PPI during a phone  call with the business in 2010. The policy was designed 
to protect  her card repayments in the event she was off work sick, through accident or if she 
was made  unemployed. It cost 79 pence for every  £100 she owed on the card.  And it would 
pay out a monthly  benefit of 10% of the outstanding  balance for up to 12 months upon 
successful claim.
Miss B told us that at the time of taking out PPI she was working, entitled to employers and 
statutory sick pay, had some savings and was in good health.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  He said he thought  Miss B had been given a 
choice and there was nothing  to suggest Miss B had lost out such that Capital One should 
give her back  everything she paid for the policy. But Capital Ones  offer to pay back to Miss 
B some of the cost due to high commission was fair in the circumstances.
Miss B disagrees, so the complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Bs case.
Both parties  agree that this was a non-advised sale, in other words, Capital One didnt 
recommend the policy to Miss B or advise her to take it. So Capital One was only required to 
provide Miss B with enough information  about the policy so she could make an informed 
decision about whether or not to buy it herself.
Ive decided that in this case the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear  that Miss B didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
Capital One no longer  has a copy of the call recording, which isnt surprising given the 
time which has passed. But Capital One has provided a copy  of the telephone  call script 
it says  and which  I accept on the balance  of probabilities  was used during the phone  
call Miss B had when she took out PPI. And based on this I think it is more likely than not 
that the representative made it clear to Miss B that she didnt have to take the policy out 
but that she chose  to do so without undue pressure.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like Miss 
B was affected by any of the main  exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for her if something went  wrong. Although Miss B had 6 
Ref: DRN93621252months sick pay entitlement  from her employer and some share savings with the same 
employers, the PPI would have paid out in addition  to her sick pay and for up to 12 
months for each claim. And it would have paid out for up to 12 months  if shed lost her 
job on top of any redundancy  pay she got. At a cost of 79p per £100 of the balance,  it 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
This means Capital  One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B. 
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss B because:  
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss B about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Miss 
B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss B has said - but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided Miss B hasnt suffered loss as a result  of 
taking out PPI to the extent that Capital One (Europe) Plc has to pay back  all of the cost of 
the PPI to Miss B.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Miss B any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9362125