K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complained  that  ReAssure Limiteds recommended  life assurance policy 
wouldnt have paid out Mrs N had a pre-existing condition and was not in work. They 
questioned whether the policy would pay out in the event of Mr N changing,  or losing his job 
and said the six month  deferral on the Waiver of Mortgage Premium feature was too long 
given Mr Ns employment situation. They also said the policy was not affordable in the long 
term.
background
ReAssure rejected their complaint, explaining  why it was satisfied that the recommendation 
had been suitable. It noted  that the mortgage  provider insisted on life cover as a condition  of 
this additional  borrowing  and that the decreasing term cover  mirrored the term and size of 
this extra  loan. It acknowledged that Mr N had very limited employee protection  in the event 
of illness  but said that the six month  deferral  period  was the minimum available so this was 
the best option on offer.
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint  should  be upheld.  He felt the 
evidence showed  that there had been  discussions both about the critical illness cover  
which was only on offer for Mr N - and the waiver of premium element. He felt both were  
reasonable recommendations which fairly reflected  Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances at the 
time.
He said the policy only included life cover for Mrs N and her existing condition would not 
have affected  any pay-out.  He said there  was no evidence  to indicate the insurance provider 
would reduce the waiver of premium benefit in the case  of a policyholder becoming 
unemployed and in any case  Mr N had not changed  his job or been  out of work so had not 
lost out from any potential limitation.  He also said hed seen no persuasive  evidence to 
conclude that the policy had been  unaffordable either at the outset or since.
Mr and Mrs N did not agree, and said their complaint had not been dealt with satisfactorily 
and wanted an ombudsman to review the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the explanation provided by ReAssure and the further  points made 
by the investigator. Given this, I am not sure what more  I can add to what has already been  
said.
Crucially, the lender  insisted on life cover as a condition of this lending  so Mr and Mrs N had 
no choice but to take out insurance for this new borrowing.  From what Ive read they could 
have shopped  around to try and find a cheaper quote so whether they felt, or now feel, this 
cover was unaffordable is not a reason to uphold their complaint given they chose to take 
out this policy at the price quoted.
I fully understand  their frustration that the six month deferral  period could have  left them  very 
short of money given Mr Ns employer provided  very few sickness  benefits.  But, from 
experience, Waiver  of Premium clauses  typically insist on a minimum six month deferral 
Ref: DRN90842472period so I am not convinced  they could have found  a policy  with a shorter deferral period. In 
any case it was their choice to take out this benefit with this specific  limitation.
As I agree with the investigator about all the other  issues I will not repeat  his arguments.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 November  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9084247