K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with the way that their home insurance  claim for storm damage 
was handled by Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited, particularly in respect  of alleged 
damage to items returned from storage.
background 
In October  2018 Mr and Mrs Ts property  was damaged by a storm and they made a claim to 
Lloyds, who sent out a surveyor to assess the damage. He spoke with Mrs T and advised 
that her best option would be to accept  a cash settlement of £1,600. He asked her to sign 
papers agreeing to that. When  Mr T heard  about this he immediately contacted  the surveyor  
and said it wouldnt be sufficient and that they wanted Lloyds to arrange the repairs.  Lloyds 
later explained  that the proposed settlement  was based on there being no asbestos present.
Asbestos testing was carried out and asbestos  was found. Following this a revised schedule 
was drawn up. Mr and Mrs Ts furniture  had to be removed. Then the repairs were  carried  
out, to Mr and Mrs Ts satisfaction.  When the furniture and other items were  returned Mr and 
Mrs T noticed damage to several items which they said wasnt there before the items were  
taken. Mr T had taken photos  of the items before they were  removed. The removers  didnt  
admit liability  for any of the items,  save a broken  standard  lamp.  They  said the items  were 
worn and damaged  before removal and had noted  this on the inventory Mr T had signed.
Mr and Mrs T complained to Lloyds. It apologised  for the delay in the progression of the 
claim and for the way the cash settlement was communicated to Mrs T. It paid Mr and Mrs T 
£150 compensation and reimbursed £12 for the cost of phone calls. It agreed  that the lamp 
had been damaged and advised it would pay for this when Mr and Mrs T had found a 
suitable replacement.  
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that Lloyds had acted reasonably in 
assessing the alleged damage  to the items of furniture, and had paid reasonable 
compensation. Mr T didnt  agree, pointing out that the standard lamp  was part of a pair and 
they could no longer  buy the same model.  Our investigator then proposed  that Lloyds pay 
50% of the cost of the other lamp to compensate for the lack of match.  Lloyds agreed  to this 
payment without admission of liability.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim was reported on 9 October. The repairs were fully completed by 14 December. 
Following that the contents of the rooms were returned. In between those two dates, there  
was some slow progress  in getting  estimates and scopes of work drawn up. Mr and Mrs T 
had to do a fair bit of chasing.  Also the surveyor didnt make it clear that the initial  settlement  
offered was on the basis of there  being  no asbestos.  It also wasnt reasonable to pressure 
Mrs T into accepting a cash settlement.  But, having considered everything,  I think overall  the 
compensation paid of £150 plus the cost of phone calls was fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN98878172As for the damage  to contents items, I have to decide if Lloyds  acted reasonably in refusing 
to admit liability for them, except the table lamp. The following items  were said by 
Mr and Mrs T to be damaged:
2 seater  and 3 seater sofas
Coffee table and side table
TV
Window blind
Mr T has shown us photos of the items which  he advised us were  taken on the day, before 
removal. He has also shown us subsequent  photos  of damage to the items when they were 
returned, Against  that I have seen the inventory which identifies the sofas as scratched and 
faded,  the coffee  table as scratched , the side table as having a mark on top and the blind 
and TV as being gouged and worn.
I have to say that looking  at the before and after photos Im not able to say that any damage 
most likely occurred during removal or storage. The before  photos  are understandably  of 
the whole  items, whilst the after photos are of specific areas of damage.  There  is clearly  
damage there so it wouldnt  be of any use if I were to require Lloyds to inspect the items. I 
dont think the before photos show the areas that are shown to be damaged  in the after 
photos sufficiently  clearly for me to say the damage  wasnt present previously and was, 
therefore, most likely  caused by the removers. The coffee table has marks from a black  
marker pen, which  Mr T says was likely done to cover up the damage. The removers 
categorically denied  marking the table. Theres insufficient evidence for me to say how or 
why the table was marked like that.
Further the inventory sheet  that was signed  by Mr T clearly identified that the items were 
damaged in some way before they were collected. Mr T says he wasnt aware of the 
damage codes being  used. He assumed GW meant good working order rather  than 
separately gouged and worn.  The codes  were on the bottom of the inventory sheet, so I 
dont think Lloyds failed  to make this information  clear to Mr T. Im afraid it was up to him to 
challenge those  at the time.
Lloyds has accepted liability for the standard lamp and will pay 50% of the cost of replacing 
the other lamp. I think thats fair. Its not clear  whether Mr and Mrs T have been paid for this 
 they advised us they received a payment of £212.  Lloyds  should make the further 
payment. If it has already  paid for the broken lamp this should  be just for 50% of the other 
one.
So overall I dont  think theres sufficient  evidence to show  that, save for the lamp, its most 
likely that the damage to Mr and Mrs Ts items  was caused by the removal company.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited to pay 
Mr and Mrs T the cost of replacing  the standard lamp damaged by its contractors and 50% 
of the cost of the second standard  lamp.  If it has already paid for the damaged lamp it need 
only make  the 50% payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2020.
Ref: DRN98878173Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9887817