K820x#14Complaint
Mr N complains, in summary,  about  Barclays Bank  UK PLCs decision to close  his accounts 
and the inconvenience he subsequently  experienced  when trying  to gain access to his 
money.  
Background
In early 2018, Barclays wrote to Mr N to say that following a review  of your account(s)  with 
us and after careful consideration, we are unable to continue to act as your bankers.  The  
bank went on to explain that it would close Mr Ns accounts in a little over two months time, 
in accordance with its commercial and other obligations  although, in practice, it took the 
bank a little longer than that to finally close the accounts.
Mr N would like Barclays to reverse its decision.   He has said that it makes  no sense for the 
bank to strip me of the prestige of banking with them as a Premier customer since  the 
1990s   adding  that he has previously held a range  of other accounts, including a mortgage 
which has since been repaid.  
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Ns complaint, but she did not recommend that it be 
upheld.  She  said that the bank was entitled  to close Mr Ns accounts in accordance  with the 
relevant terms and conditions, and Barclays was not under any obligation to give a reason 
for its decision.  The adjudicator also felt that the way the bank had dealt with subsequent 
withdrawal requests was not unreasonable, and the notice period it gave to Mr N provided 
him with an adequate amount of time to make new banking arrangements.
Mr N did not accept the adjudicators conclusions.  In asking for his complaint to be reviewed 
he said, amongst other things, that he still wanted to find out what their reasons  are so I can 
fix any issues.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to 
the same  overall  conclusions as the adjudicator did, for much the same reasons.
The terms and conditions  for Mr Ns accounts provided for Barclays  to do what  it did, and the 
bank gave him the correct amount of notice.  So it is not really for me to ask, let alone  
require, the bank to reverse its decision.   And  on the question of why Barclays decided  to 
give Mr N notice to close his accounts,  as the adjudicator said a bank is not under any 
obligation to give a reason for such a decision.   This means  that, whilst I fully understand 
why Mr N would like to have more  information about this, again I am unable to require 
Barclays to give him a reason for its decision.
I do recognise that Barclays decision will have  caused Mr N some inconvenience, both in 
making new banking  arrangements  and when withdrawing money from his Barclays  
accounts.  But I also share the adjudicators  view that, when it gave Mr N notice, the bank 
also reasonably  set out what  would be needed when he wanted  to make any withdrawals.  
So, as I say, whilst I accept that Mr N will have needed to spend  some time over all of this 
I do not consider  that, in all the circumstances,  Barclays approach  was unreasonable 
overall.
Ref: DRN99103192My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9910319