K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that National  Westminster  Bank Plc (NatWest) refused to raise a 
chargeback in relation to a product they bought from a third party  company  (the company).
background
In June 2016 Mr and Mrs G bought  a product from the company,  promising  them discounted 
offers on various services. They paid in two instalments:  one using their debit card and one 
by bank transfer. They made two further  payments to the company in 2017. Again, one was 
by debit card and one was by bank transfer.  
By November 2018 Mr and Mrs G had become unhappy with the product as they say it 
wasnt giving  them the benefits theyd been promised. So they asked Natwest to raise a 
chargeback in relation to all four payments.
NatWest replied back to say that it couldnt  raise a chargeback in relation to the bank 
transfers because  the chargeback scheme rules only applied to debit card transactions.  As 
for the two debit  card payments, Mr and Mrs G had had a maximum of 540 days  from the 
date of those transactions to request a chargeback. So NatWest only raised a chargeback in 
relation to the debit card payment in 2017.  
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy about  the fact that a chargeback wasnt raised in relation to the 
remaining three transactions. So they brought their complaint  to our service.
Our investigator thought Natwest had acted within the scope  of the chargeback  scheme. So 
in the circumstances she could not ask the bank  to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed  and so their case has come to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.   
I think Natwest has acted correctly and didnt need to raise  chargebacks  for the three 
outstanding payments. I appreciate this is not the answer Mr and Mrs G hoped  for but I will 
explain how Ive reached my decision.
The chargeback scheme  rules are set by the relevant card provider. In this case thats  Visa. 
This means  that NatWest has no discretion and must apply them strictly.  Meaning  that 
NatWest has no discretion to change  or dis-apply the rules in any way.
The chargeback rules only apply to the debit card transactions. Meaning that NatWest had 
no discretion to chargeback the bank  transfers that Mr and Mrs G made.  So Ive only 
focussed on the remaining debit card payment in 2016.
The relevant  rule in this case is the one relating to services  not received. That rule clearly
says that a chargeback has to be raised within120 days from either the transaction date or 
when Mr and Mrs G first became aware  that the services wouldnt be provided. So Mr and 
Mrs G have made a valid point that the 120 days couldnt have started until they realised that 
there was something  wrong with the service. And I accept this. 
Ref: DRN92135742But the chargeback rule also sets an overall  maximum timeframe  of 540 days  from the date 
of the transaction. And that timeframe applies regardless  of when Mr and Mrs G say they 
became aware  of any problems. So Mr and Mrs Gs request for a chargeback  in relation to 
the 2016 debit card payment was beyond this maximum timeframe.  
For all of these reasons its clear to me that there  was only one payment that NatWest  could 
possibly have raised a chargeback in relation to and that was the 2017 debit card payment. 
So NatWest  did all that it could, within the scope of the chargeback rules, to help Mr and 
Mrs G. 
That being  said,  I think its important  to explain that the rules around when chargebacks can 
be raised is no reflection  on the merits of any claim that Mr and Mrs G may have against the 
company. So its still open to them to explore  alternative  avenues  in relation to their dispute 
should they wish to do so.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2019.
Greg Callander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9213574