K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mrs and Mr B payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2001. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr B disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Mrs and Mr Bs comments. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this 
complaint. I will explain  why:
I dont have strong evidence to show  that Bank of Scotland  presented PPI as 
compulsory, or that it didnt ensure  Mrs and Mr B freely chose to take it. Without stronger 
evidence, it wouldnt be fair for me to say that Bank of Scotland  acted wrongly in that 
way.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr B, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Being unable  to 
pay a mortgage  can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at 
the same  time as Mrs and Mr B received any employer sick pay, and potentially for 
longer. It would have  paid unemployment  benefits in addition  to any redundancy pay. 
And it would  have put off the time when they would need to fall back  on any savings  or 
other means they may have had for paying  the mortgage. This all would have put 
Mrs and Mr B in a more secure position,  if they eventually  lost income due to long term 
sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been  told anything to suggest they couldnt 
afford the PPI when  they took it out. So I think the PPI would have been potentially 
useful. 
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have 
affected whether  Mrs and Mr B took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mrs and Mr B would  have been affected  by any of these. Its likely 
they were eligible  for the policy, and theyd be paying for it monthly, so they could cancel 
it at any time without further  cost if their situation  changed.
Ref: DRN92113672my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9211367