K820x#14complaint
Ms B has complained Barclays Bank  UK PLC wont refund  her for gambling transactions on 
her current  account which  she didnt make.
background
In November 2017 Ms B complained to Barclays that there  were  a large number of gambling 
transactions on her account she didnt make. These amounted to £1,790. Barclays initially  
credited Ms Bs account with this money. After  consulting  with the gambling company, who 
Ill call M, Barclays felt the evidence pointed to Ms B having made these herself.  They re-
debited her account.
Ms B complained but Barclays wouldnt change their mind. Six months later Ms B brought 
her complaint to the ombudsman service. Shortly after this Barclays closed this one of 
Ms Bs accounts and expected her to pay what was owed. By this time there was a 
substantial overdraft of nearly £4,000.
By the time we were  able to get Barclays file on Ms Bs complaint, it was clear this covered 
gambling transactions from 1 March to 23 October 2017.
Ms B believed one of her carers, who spent considerable time with her including  staying 
overnight, had carried out this fraud using both of Ms Bs Barclays  debit cards.  
Barclays evidence included what theyd obtained  from M showing theyd had an account in 
Ms Bs name since 24 July 2015.  Numerous transfers had been made into Ms Bs Barclays  
account to always  ensure  there was enough money in there to facilitate the gambling 
transactions. M had also credited  winnings  to Ms Bs account.
Overall our investigator didnt think there was enough evidence  to show  Ms B hadnt  carried  
out these transactions herself.
Ms B disagreed and asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint. She was also 
concerned that Barclays file didnt include the crime reference she knew shed given them. 
Shed already told us that her carer had subsequently been prosecuted  but she wasnt able 
to tell us any further details, including her carers name. Ms B also made us aware she 
considered further  transactions  pre-dating 1 March 2017   were also not made  by her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same  conclusion as our investigator,  and for roughly similar 
reasons. Ill explain  why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
Ref: DRN91402782appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant law here. These  primarily 
require banks to refund customers  if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Certain other  circumstances do apply  but nothing thats had an impact on the decision Im 
making here.  So when  we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting  someones  
fraud complaint, one of the things  we consider is whether the customer made the 
transactions themselves or allowed  them to be made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund  them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Barclays and Ms B have  told us. Ive also been able to see what  M told Barclays  to 
help them make their decision in December 2017.
I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transactions were  made  
were covered in our investigators  views of 6 August  2020.  I dont  intend  to repeat everything 
that was said there. I will, of course,  refer to those aspects which  form the basis  of my 
decision. 
The issues  I have considered include:
An account was opened with M in July 2015 in Ms Bs name.  This was done with her 
correct personal details, including her date of birth and address. The email  and 
mobile phone number used first off dont match those Ms B used when she brought  
her complaint to us.
The email address used, however, is only one digit different to the one we use to 
communicate with Ms B.
Theres nothing definitive from these details that show the account was set up by 
someone else or by Ms B. Although I do wonder why someone who isnt Ms B would 
deliberately set up an email address to use for gambling which  is so similar  to 
Ms Bs.
Ms B told us when  she tried to contact M in November 2017 they wouldnt speak to 
her as she didnt pass security. Ms own records  as shared with us by Barclays  
show Ms B (or someone pretending  to be her) contacted them  on 7 November 2017 
and successfully amended the phone number and email details. The amended phone 
number is the one on our contact details for Ms B so I think Im safe to assume this 
was Ms B contacting M.
By reviewing Ms Bs statements I can see there  are transactions with M from 2016 at 
least. These werent part of Ms Bs original complaint to us or Barclays,  although she 
now disputes these  as well. I wonder  why she didnt dispute these earlier.
The value of the disputed transactions from March to October 2017 amount to 
£6,236.
Ms B has told us she didnt see the balance when she was checking  her Barclays  
account online or by mobile. She was just making a transaction. Id still have thought  
shed have noticed both the large  number of withdrawals  earlier  as well as the credits 
from M. I can see from her online and mobile banking records  that Ms B was in the 
habit of logging  on very regularly.
She also receives regular payments from the Department of Work and Pensions and 
I dont get the feeling she has lots of spare cash. So Id not be at all surprised if she 
kept a close eye on her finances.
Transfers are made  regularly from one of Ms Bs other  bank accounts  into her 
Barclays account. It is these  transfers  which top up the account and allow the 
Ref: DRN91402783payments to be made to M. I have  no evidence Ms B has disputed  these  transfers 
with her other bank  if she was saying shed not made these at all.
Ms B has serious health issues which is why she requires constant  care and support 
to do shopping  and other normal  activities. 
Ms B disputes Barclays view that gamblers dont use other peoples accounts to 
commit fraud. Its certainly less likely but I do agree that if someone is gambling 
compulsively using  someone elses account, then its not the credits that matter  but 
the gambling.  
If I was to believe Ms B hadnt made these transactions herself, Id be accepting that her 
carer had run the risk of using Ms Bs own iPad at a number of different times of the day 
when at any time Ms B could have  interrupted her. That person also ran the risk of Ms B 
never noticing what was happening with her accounts much earlier.
Id also be accepting that Ms Bs couldnt recall  any personal details of her carer.  Whilst I 
know Ms Bs illness massively impacts  her memory, Id have  expected her to have made  all 
the steps she could to provide us with the details  we need to verify her story. So for example 
shes told us her son handled all the criminal aspects of her carers prosecution  but has not 
asked her son to provide  us with the details weve requested.
Overall I believe its most likely Ms B carried out the transactions herself. I wont  be asking 
Barclays to do anything  further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Bs complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9140278