K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  about how British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) dealt with her Homecare 
insurance claim.
background
In January 2019 Miss G contacted BG as her radiators and hot water werent working  
properly. BGs contracted engineers attended several times and Miss G was told the radiator 
valves need replacing. BG gave Miss G conflicting information about  whether the radiators 
valves were covered by her policy.
BG accepted it had given poor service  to Miss G with two unproductive visits. It offered  £50 
compensation for her inconvenience. BG said it would arrange  for its engineer  to fix the 
problem but Miss G says that didnt happen.
Miss G complained to us. She wants her radiators fixed and compensation to reflect that she 
had to take four days holiday from work  for BGs engineers visits.
BG told us the radiator  valves werent covered by the boiler and controls  cover  Miss G had. 
It had given Miss G a quote for the repair cost rather than repairing under  her policy.
Our investigator said Miss G also had plumbing  and drains cover which did cover  radiator 
valves. The faulty  valves should be covered by the policy. Also,  BG should pay Miss G a 
further £50 in compensation for her inconvenience.
BG didnt  respond  to our investigators recommendation so I need to do a decision on the 
matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.
The policy documents BG sent to Miss G show she has boiler and controls  cover  and 
plumbing and drainage  cover. I've looked at the policy document  and the plumbing and 
drainage cover does  cover radiator valves. BG hasnt  given a reason why it shouldnt  
repair/replace the radiator  valves  under that section of the policy.
BG must do the necessary repairs/replacement of the radiator valves  to put the right the 
problem with the heating and hot water, subject to policy  limits.
From the evidence Ive seen the claim should have been a straight  forward 
repair/replacement of the radiator valves under the plumbing and drainage cover. Instead 
Miss G hasnt  had properly working heating and hot water  since  she first contacted BG, 
which includes over the winter months.  Although  she was always going to need  to have 
some time off work for engineer visits BG accepts two visits were  unnecessary. 
I dont generally base a compensation  award on lost holiday salary equivalent but I look at 
the consumers  overall  distress and inconvenience. Given  the above and BGs lack of 
Ref: DRN94334712response I dont think BGs  £50 compensation offer for poor service, or our investigator's 
suggestion of an additional £50, is enough for Miss Gs situation. I think  an additional £150 
on top of BGs £50 offer is more appropriate.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
do the necessary  repairs/replacement  of the radiator valves to put the right the 
problem with Miss Gs heating and hot water (subject to policy  limits), and
pay Miss G £200 compensation (inclusive  of its offer of £50) for her distress and 
inconvenience its caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9433471