K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Aviva Insurance Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably by 
failing to refund the premiums paid for their private  medical insurance policy. They want 
matters put right.
background
Mr and Mrs M had a private medical  insurance policy  with Aviva.  After  it was taken out in 
2018, Mr M was referred to a consultant to have his prostate checked in November 2018.  He 
said that Aviva refused  to pay for this to be done privately as it said it was related to a 
previous visit to a GP in February 2018  (before  the policy  had started). There was a period 
of time where if a claim was made in relation to something treated or considered before the 
start of the policy, it wouldnt necessarily  be covered  by the policy.  Mr M was dealt with by 
the NHS  but wanted all the premiums  paid to Aviva refunded and cancelled  the policy.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Aviva. It said when Mr M called to ask for a private 
consultation, he was initially told that it was related to the previous visit and was excluded  as 
a pre-existing condition.  But when Mr M explained  later that day that he was being referred 
due to a concern about cancer,  Aviva said that it agreed to send him a claim form, which had 
to be completed by both Mr M and his GP. It said Mr M was happy with this, but never 
returned the form. Aviva said the complaint was upheld as the form shouldve been sent 
when Mr M first called, but as it was sent later that day, no compensation was due.
Mr and Mrs M complained to us and confirmed that as the NHS was able to see Mr M 
quickly, they didnt  incur any private  medical  fees. The investigators view was that the 
complaint to this service  shouldnt be upheld. Having listened  to the calls on 12 November 
2018 between  Mr M and Aviva, he said while during the initial  discussions,  Aviva probably 
didnt know enough  to say the referral was linked to the previous GP visit and shouldve 
agreed then to send  out the claim form, it was fair and reasonable to put this right in the later 
discussion. This then enabled Mr Ms GP to explain if the visit in February 2018 was linked 
to the referral in November 2018. The investigator didnt  think any further  redress  was 
required in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They said the claim was dismissed unfairly and was only 
progressed once Mr M insisted on speaking to a supervisor. The investigator said Aviva  
didnt reject the claim unfairly  as there were sources of information that indicated  the referral  
might be linked to the earlier GP visit. He didnt change his view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Its fair and 
reasonable for an insurer to require the completion  of a claim form and provision of evidence  
to enable it to consider  a claim,  and the terms and conditions of the policy  makes  this clear. 
In Mr Ms case, its particularly reasonable to require  the completion  of the claim form as the 
evidence from his GP was key as to whether the claim would be accepted.
Ref: DRN91570552Theres no dispute that as Aviva  arent  medical experts, having explained to Mr M in the 
initial discussions that if the referral was linked  to his earlier visit about his prostate the claim 
might be excluded, it shouldve agreed to send him a claim form to gather the necessary 
evidence from his GP.
But Aviva put this right very shortly in a later call on the same  day with Mr M. It sent the form. 
Mr M didnt  incur any private medical  costs, so understandably chose not to return the form. 
But this means that there isnt any claim for Aviva to pay.
Mr and Mrs M want a refund of the premiums theyve paid. But as the mistake was put right 
virtually immediately and it was Mr Ms choice to use the NHS,  I dont think its fair or 
reasonable for the premiums  to be repaid. Mr and Mrs M had the benefit of the policy and 
Aviva was at risk of having to pay out money while it was in place. I thought about whether 
compensation for the trouble and upset  should be paid. As matters were put right so quickly, 
I dont think its fair or reasonable  in all the circumstances for compensation to be paid.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 20 December 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9157055