K820x#14Complaint
Mr O says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
policy.
Background
Mr O took out the PPI policy  alongside  a credit  card he applied for in March 1998.
The policy cost 77p per £100 of Mr Os outstanding monthly statement balance. And if he 
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 10% of that 
balance for up to 12 months  per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Os case.  Having done  so, Ive decided  not to 
uphold Mr Os complaint  and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr O that the policy  was optional,  and it had to get his consent 
before applying PPI to his account. Lloyds  says Mr O completed an application form and 
chose to take it  its provided a copy of Mr Os application form for me to consider. 
Looking at the application form,  there is a section about  OPTIONAL FEATURES and under 
this there  is a section  about PPI with a box to tick yes for the policy. The yes box has been 
ticked and Mr O has signed the application  form, confirming that he agrees  with the 
selections on it. So, I think Mr O was aware  he had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that 
he chose to take it at the time.
Lloyds doesnt  know whether it gave  advice or not, so its reviewed the sale as though it did. 
This puts more responsibility on Lloyds  it means it had to check the policy  was suitable  for 
Mr O. So, in fairness to him, Ive considered  the case on the basis  that advice was given.
Based on what Mr O has told us about  his circumstances at the time, the policy  appears to 
have been suitable for him. From  the information  Ive seen, Mr O was eligible for the policy  
and he doesnt  appear to have been  affected  by any of the things that might  have  made it 
harder for him to claim on the policy, such as having  unusual employment circumstances.
Although Mr O told us about  two pre-existing  medical  conditions  he had, they both occurred 
a few years  before the policy was sold, so I dont think they would have affected his ability to 
claim on the policy. I say this because the policy terms describe pre-existing medical 
conditions as any condition that occurred during the 12 months  before the policy start date. 
And based on what Mr Os told us about  his conditions   they didnt reoccur  during this 
period, so they would  not have been excluded.
Mr O says he would have  received at least three  months full sick pay from his employer if he 
was too ill to work. He also says he would have  received redundancy pay if he lost his job. 
Ref: DRN91110242But the policy would have paid out on top of anything Mr O received from his employer and 
potentially for a lot longer. Mr O also could have claimed again subject to a requalification 
period. So, I think  Mr O still could have found the cover useful if he fell on hard times, 
particularly if he was still off work  when  his full sick pay entitlement  stopped.
I also havent seen  anything to suggest  the policy was unaffordable  for Mr O.
In addition to making  sure the policy was suitable for Mr O, Lloyds had to give him enough 
information about the policy so he could decide whether to take it or not.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr O about  the terms and cost of the policy  wasnt  
as clear as it should have  been. But for the same reasons  as I think  the policy  was suitable 
for Mr O, I dont  think better information would have made a difference  to his decision to buy 
it.
Mr Os representative has raised  a number of what  I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that we are 
not correctly applying the regulators  rules  and guidance for handling  PPI complaints; these 
policies represented  poor value because  of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith 
meant Lloyds should have  disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the 
limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr Os representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Os individual  complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Os particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2021.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9111024