K820x#14Complaint
Miss T complains on behalf  her grandmother, Mrs T, about how Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) dealt with Mrs Ts Lasting Power of Attorney and credit card limit increases. 
Background
In June 2015 Mrs T obtained  a Lasting  Power of Attorney (LPA) document  which  allowed  her 
sons to act on her behalf in financial  matters.  Mrs T then visited  her local Nationwide  branch 
and took the LPA document with her. Nationwide say Mrs T didnt want the LPA processed 
at that time and so it stored the LPA in its safe.
Mrs T then took out a credit card with Nationwide in October 2015, with an initial  credit  limit 
of £1,500. And in 2016 and 2017  Nationwide agreed two credit  limit increase to £2,500 and 
£3,000 respectively. 
In October  2017 Miss T found debt collection letters from Nationwide at Mrs Ts home 
address. It transpired Nationwide sent these as Mrs T had missed several credit card 
payments. So, Miss T went  with Mrs T to her local Nationwide branch to discuss  the letters. 
Branch staff put her through to its credit card team, and Miss T told them that Mrs T was 
vulnerable due to her health issues. Nationwide then blocked  Mrs Ts credit card and 
authorised Miss T to help with the account. It also gave information about  its specialist 
support team.  Miss T also found out that the LPA hadnt been formally  registered with 
Nationwide, and it had instead been  stored  in the branchs safe.
Miss T complained to Nationwide that the LPA should  have been  registered when Mrs T 
went to the branch in June 2015. She also said Nationwide should  have contacted  the power 
of attorneys  when Mrs T had to make decisions about the credit  limit increases. Miss T 
thought it was irresponsible of Nationwide  to increase the credit  limit, as Mrs T was 
vulnerable and lacked capacity to agree to the increase. Miss T says Mrs T had arrears  with 
other credit lenders at the time of the increase which should have shown she wasnt  
managing her finances well. Miss T also complained that Nationwides  specialist support 
team hadnt  called Mrs T when it should  have  done.
Nationwide didnt agree  with Miss T. It said Mrs T asked for the LPA not to be processed  but 
instead asked  that the branch keep it safe for use in the future. Nationwide said it increased 
Mrs Ts credit limit as she was handling  her account well and making more than the 
minimum payments each month.  And each  increase  in the credit  limit was agreed with Mrs 
T. But Nationwide  did recognise that it shouldve set up Mrs Ts complaint sooner when she 
visited the branch  in October 2017,  so it paid Mrs T £50 for the inconvenience not doing so 
caused.Miss T didnt accept Nationwides response and brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. They thought that as Mrs T hadnt asked for the 
LPA to be processed, Nationwide had followed her instruction, and, as such, hadnt done 
anything wrong. He said that Mrs Ts credit card account wasnt  in arrears and hed seen 
evidence of regular  payments going in, so didnt  think Nationwide  did anything  wrong  by 
increasing her credit  limits.  He also wasnt satisfied the specialist support team  had agreed 
to call Mrs T. For these  reasons he didnt uphold  the complaint.
Ref: DRN96580452Miss T didnt accept our investigators view. She said that Mrs T wouldnt have taken in the 
LPA without wanting it to be registered. She said that Mrs T didnt have capacity to increase  
her credit limit increases due to her health  and wasnt managing  her finances well at the time 
of the increases. And she said that in October  2017 she was told that the specialist support 
team would be in contact  with Mrs T, which didnt happen.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss T has made a number of points in support  of this complaint. If I dont  refer to 
everything, its not because I havent considered them. Its because Ive focussed on what  I 
believe to be the key outstanding issues that are materially  relevant to this complaint. 
Im sorry  to hear that Mrs T has been unwell.  My role, in cases  such  as these,  is to decide 
whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably when it dealt with Mrs Ts LPA and whether 
it acted responsibly when it increased her credit card limit. Although Nationwide awarded 
Mrs T compensation for the way it recorded and handled her complaint, I wont comment on 
that aspect, as it isnt a regulated activity  that falls within  our jurisdiction. 
Nationwide says Mrs T went  into her local branch with the LPA in 2015  but that she asked it 
not to act upon it. So, according to Nationwide, it put it in the safe for safekeeping. Miss T 
thinks it unlikely her grandmother would have taken the LPA to the branch if she didnt want 
Nationwide to do something with it. Where  the evidence is incomplete  or conflicting, as it is 
in this case, I need to decide  whats most likely to have happened.
Mrs T had gone to the effort  of drawing up an LPA for her sons  and theres no dispute  that 
she took the LPA into her local Nationwide branch. Whilst I appreciate  Nationwides  point, 
that it still needed permission from Mrs T to process the LPA,  I find it unlikely that Mrs T 
would take it into Nationwide  if she didnt want it to do something  with it. And I think  it just as 
likely that if shed wanted it to take effect from a later date,  shed have taken it to Nationwide  
at some other point  in the future. So, on balance, I think Mrs T expected  something  to 
happen in response to her giving the document to Nationwide when she did. But it doesnt  
appear that Nationwide even kept a record of the fact Mrs T brought the document  in or 
where it was being stored. 
My role isnt to punish a business when  its made  a mistake. Its to put customers  back  into 
the position they would have been if the correct action had been taken. So, Ive considered  
what would  have happened had the LPA been registered  in 2015.
The LPA gave  authority  for the named attorneys  to make decisions about Mrs Ts finances. 
However, the overriding principle of the Mental Capacity Act is that attorneys must assume 
the individual in relation  to whom the LPA refers,  has capacity to make their own decisions 
until such time as thats proven not to be the case.  And its only at that point that an attorney 
would usually step in. In Mrs Ts case,  Ive seen  no evidence  to suggest Nationwide knew  
Mrs T no longer had capacity to make decisions. And, as Ill go on to explain, I think it had 
evidence to suggest Mrs T was still capable of making her own financial decisions.  
I appreciate though that Miss T doesnt think Nationwide should have increased the credit 
limit to £2,500 in June 2016  and £3,000  in June 2017, because  Mrs T lacked capacity to 
agree to those  increases. The branch manager  says she believed  Mrs T could manage her 
Ref: DRN96580453account at that time. I appreciate Miss Ts opinion that anyone who spoke to Mrs T could see 
that she was vulnerable.  But I dont  agree that automatically means  Mrs T wasnt capable  of 
making decisions for herself   particularly as people  can be vulnerable  for many different 
reasons. Ive not seen sufficient evidence, medical or otherwise, to suggest t Mrs T lacked 
the capacity to make her own decisions at the time she was offered the credit  increases. Or 
that Nationwide were aware of any such medical  conditions.
Ive also noted  that, at that time, Mrs T had been  paying off her credit card in full each month 
and so it seemed  she was handling her account  well. Nationwide say it also assessed how 
affordable the credit  increases were using batched credit data. Although  Miss T says Mrs T 
had negative information contained  on her credit file at the time, she hasnt provided 
evidence of this. And in any case,  I think it was fair for Nationwide  to rely on the information 
it had at the time it offered  the increases. 
As I cant  say Nationwide had evidence to suggest  Mrs T lacked the capacity to make her 
own decisions, it follows that I dont think it acted unreasonably  by increasing her credit  limits 
in line with Mrs Ts instruction. I say this because Nationwide had to assume  Mrs T had 
capacity to make her own decisions as it hadnt established otherwise. 
Nationwide says it wouldnt have  contacted  the attorneys even if the LPA been registered on 
the account. And given what I said earlier about  the provisions of the Mental Capacity Act, I 
dont think that response  is unreasonable. I say that in particular because  theres  no 
evidence the attorneys  had been  in touch with Nationwide  to say they were concerned about 
Mrs Ts capacity to make financial decisions.  I know this will come as a disappointment to 
Miss T, but I dont think whether Nationwide  processed the LPA or not made a material 
difference to the outcome. And I think Mrs T would still have increased her credit limit. 
It wasnt until August 2017  that Mrs T started to miss payments towards her credit  card and
Miss T accompanied Mrs T to the branch in October  2017  to ask for help. Nationwide put a 
block on the credit card and authorised Miss T to help Mrs T with her account. Mrs T may 
have also been  provided with a leaflet for the specialist support team.
Ive seen in Nationwides contact notes that the branch  manager  also spoke to Miss T and I 
think its likely Miss T raised concerns around  her grandmothers vulnerability at that point.  
The branch  manager recorded this in the contact notes on Mrs Ts file, asking her to be 
treated as a vulnerable customer. I havent  seen any evidence that Nationwide were  aware  
of Mrs Ts decline in health before October 2017.   But I can see, once Nationwide  were 
aware that Mrs T was struggling with her finances,  it took action to help which I think is 
reasonable. I also havent seen evidence that Mrs T was told to expect a call from the 
specialist support team. 
Overall, I think Nationwide acted  responsibly  when it increased  Mrs Ts credit limit and 
offered her support once  it knew her health  had declined. Although  I dont think Nationwide 
acted reasonably when Mrs T attended  the branch with her LPA, I dont think  it made a 
material difference to the outcome of this complaint. So, I wont  ask Nationwide to do 
anything more. 
Ref: DRN96580454my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9658045