K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs F says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2000.
At the time of the sale, the policy cost was no more  than £1.00 per £100 Mrs F owed on her 
store card. The policy would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each 
month if Mrs F couldnt work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The 
policy also provided life cover as well as price  and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Fs complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs F that the policy was optional  and get her consent before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Mrs F says the PPI was added to her account without 
her knowledge.
FICL says Mrs F took out the PPI over the phone.  Due to the time that has passed  since  the 
sale, FICL has been unable to provide a recording of the call - I dont think that is surprising.  
So I cant say for certain what was said to Mrs F during that phone  call. But from what we 
know about the way FICL  sold policies at the time,  I think its more  likely that FICL would 
have asked Mrs F for her agreement to add the policy to her account.  
Mrs F had already had the card for over a year before the PPI was added. So when the 
charge for the PPI would  have started  to show on her monthly statements, if she didnt know 
what this amount was for or hadnt agreed to take out the cover,  I think she would have 
raised this sooner than she did. 
So, based on what Ive seen, I think its more  likely  that FICL made it clear the policy was 
optional and Mrs F chose to take it out, knowing  she could refuse  it if she didnt want  it.
Both parties  agree that FICL didnt recommend  the policy to Mrs F and, as I havent seen 
anything to make me think otherwise, I think thats likely to be right. So it didnt have to check  
if the policy was right for her. But FICL did need to make sure it gave  Mrs F clear  enough  
information about the policy to enable  her to decide  for herself if she should  take the policy.
Ref: DRN90778542Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs F 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or a medical condition  of which  she was 
already aware.
This policy could have paid out 15% of the outstanding balance  each month until the balance  
was repaid or until she returned to work  which ever came first. From what  we have  been  
told Mrs F doesnt  appear to have  had any other  means  with which  to meet  her repayments if 
she wasnt working so I think that it could  have provided her with a useful benefit  if 
something was to have  gone wrong.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Mrs F has lost out as a 
result of anything that FICL may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.  
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9077854