K821x#15complaint and background
Mr S says Evergreen Finance London  Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) irresponsibly 
lent to him. This is a summary of Mr Ss lending history from MoneyBoat.
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 11/06/2015 31/07/2015 400
2 31/07/2015 27/11/2015 800
3 27/11/2015 09/02/2016 1250
4 15/02/2016 - 1500
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint and thought loans 1 to 4 shouldnt have been given.
Moneyboat disagreed so the complaint was passed to me. 
I reached a different conclusion - that loans 3 and 4 shouldnt  have  been  given. So in my 
provisional decision (which forms part of this final decision) I set out why I was planning to 
uphold the complaint in part from loan 3 onwards. I asked Mr S and Moneyboat to let me 
have any more information by 25 December 2019 before I made a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our general approach to complaints 
about short-term  lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice  is set out on our website. 
Mr S responded to my provisional decision saying he agreed with the provisional outcome 
and had nothing  further to add.  
Moneyboat disagreed, saying three  of the other short term loans Mr S had at the time he 
applied for loan 3 appear to have been  due to be repaid  prior to Mr S taking out his third loan 
and that this was supported by the credit report run for the fourth loan. 
But this does not change my conclusion  that MoneyBoat didnt  carry out proportionate 
checks for loan 3. I have  looked at Mr Bs bank  statements from the time he was borrowing 
from MoneyBoat  and, whilst I am not saying it needed to use bank statements, had it made 
sure it understood  all of Mr Ss short term financial commitments  it would  have seen that on 
an ongoing basis he was juggling an increasing number of loans from short term lending 
providers. 
By the time Mr S applied  for loan 3 MoneyBoat should have carried  out a fuller  financial 
review. It would have been  able to see that Mr S was most likely only borrowing to repay the 
hole repaying  previous  loan(s) was leaving in his finances, and that his indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably. At this point I think MoneyBoat ought to have  stopped lending  to 
Mr S. At least until it had evidence  his finances had stabilised. 
And as I said in the provisional decision this wasnt the case  when he applied for loan 4. He 
took out loan 4 only days after hed settled loan 3. It was for a larger amount, and 
Ref: DRN97272502proportionate checks would have shown he still had a number of other active  short  term 
loans. So I still think MoneyBoat was wrong  to give loans 3 and 4 to Mr S. 
putting things right  what MoneyBoat needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ss credit file in regard to loans 3 
and 4;
write off any unpaid interest and charges on loan 4, apply the refund to reduce any 
capital outstanding and pay any balance to Mr S*;
HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest.  MoneyBoat must give 
Mr S a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If MoneyBoat  intends to 
apply the refund  to reduce  any outstanding capital balance, it must  do so after deducting tax.
*If after taking  these  steps Mr S still owes money on loan 4, MoneyBoat  must treat him fairly  and 
sympathetically when trying to reach any agreement on how to pay the outstanding  capital due.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint in part. Evergreen Finance London Limited  (trading as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk) must compensate  Mr S as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN97272503copy of provisional decision  
complaint
Mr S says Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading  as MoneyBoat.co.uk) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about  four loans MoneyBoat provided  to Mr S between  June 2015  and February 
2016. Loan 1 had a four-month term, loan 2 a five-month term and loans 3 and 4 a six-month term.  
This is a summary of Mr Ss lending  history  from MoneyBoat.
Loan Taken  out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 11/06/2015 31/07/2015 400
2 31/07/2015 27/11/2015 800
3 27/11/2015 09/02/2016 1250
4 15/02/2016 - 1500
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Bs complaint and thought loans 1 to 4 shouldnt have been given. 
MoneyBoat disagreed so the complaint been passed  to me to make a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance  and good  industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr S could repay the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN97272504I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish  whether  
Mr S could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. And it 
follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. And Ive reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator.  Ill 
explain why.
The adjudicator said that if MoneyBoat had completed proportionate checks for loan one using  the 
information it had gathered, it would have seen that, based on his wider financial position, Mr S was 
unlikely to be able to sustainably repay this loan, or any subsequent  loans. MoneyBoat  disagreed 
saying, its checks were proportionate, particularly given  the early stage of the borrowing relationship.
I think  the checks it carried  out for loans 1 and 2 were  proportionate. And I havent seen anything  in 
the information it gathered that I think  should have led it to conclude  Mr S wouldnt be able to 
sustainably repay those  loans. The credit checks did show a substantial amount of other borrowing,  
but the majority  of it was old debt that was already repaid.   
However, I dont think MoneyBoat  carried out proportionate checks  for loan 3. Had it done so it would 
have shown that Mr S had at least four other active high cost short term loans from different lenders.  
This suggests his finances  were by then under pressure. MoneyBoat  ought to have  considered that 
he was only borrowing to repay the hole repaying  previous loan(s) was leaving  in his finances, and 
that Mr Ss indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. At this point I think  MoneyBoat ought to have  
realised Mr S was having  problems  managing  his money and stopped lending to him. At least until it 
had evidence  his finances  had stabilised. 
And this wasnt the case when he applied  for loan 4. He took out loan 4 only days after hed settled 
loan 3. It was for a larger amount, and proportionate checks  would have shown  he still had a number 
of other active  short term loans. So I think MoneyBoat was wrong  to give loans 3 and 4 to Mr S. 
Im currently  planning to uphold the complaint about  loans 3 and 4, and MoneyBoat will need to put 
things right. 
putting things  right  what MoneyBoat will need to do
refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans  3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges  from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in regard to loans 3 and 4;
write off any unpaid interest and charges  on loan 4, apply the refund to reduce any capital  
outstanding and pay any balance to Mr S*;
Ref: DRN97272505HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest.  MoneyBoat must give 
Mr S a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If MoneyBoat  intends to 
apply the refund  to reduce  any outstanding capital balance, it must  do so after deducting tax.
*If after taking  these  steps Mr S still owes money on loan 4, MoneyBoat  must treat him fairly  and 
sympathetically when trying to reach any agreement on how to pay the outstanding  capital due.
my provisional  decision
Im planning to partially uphold Mr Ss complaint. Evergreen  Finance London Limited (trading  as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk) will have to pay Mr S compensation as set out above.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9727250