K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1999 in connection with a mortgage.  The complaint is brought by Ms P1 and Ms P2 
(on behalf  of the Estate  of the late Mr P). Ms P1 says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her 
and the late Mr P PPI. Although the mortgage was in the joint names of Mr P and Ms P1, 
only Mr P was covered  under the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Lloyds made  it clear that Mr P and Ms P1 didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why Ms P cant  remember  this.    
Ms P1 says they were  led to believe that PPI was compulsory. I cant be sure of what  
was actually discussed during the sale, so Ive thought about  what Ms P1 has told us 
and looked to the documents  and other  information from the time of the sale to help me 
decide what is more  likely  to have happened. I note that Mr P completed  a separate form 
entirely to apply for PPI. There is nothing on this form which suggests PPI was 
compulsory. I also note that PPI appears  to have been taken out several  months after 
the mortgage.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr P and Ms P1 so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  
that it was. For example, Mr P wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover and he seems to have  had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr P and Ms P1 about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr Ps Estate 
and Ms P1.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr Ps Estate and Ms P1 because: 
When the policy was sold,  Lloyds got a high level of commission  and profit share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr and Ms P1 about that. Because 
Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Ms P1, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN90542472Ive thought about everything Ms P1 has said - including what  she has said about Mr P being 
self-employed at the time of the sale. But these  points  dont change my decision. While there 
are policies which would have made  it difficult for a self-employed person to make  a 
successful claim, this wasnt one of those policies and there is nothing to suggest  it would 
have been harder for Mr P to make  a claim than an employed person.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr P and Ms P1.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Ms P1 and the Estate of the late Mr P any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms P1 and Ms 
P2 (on behalf  of the Estate of the late Mr P)  to  accept  or reject my decision before 3 
October 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9054247