K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that when he transferred an amount in sterling from his Santander  UK Plc 
account to an overseas  bank he wasnt told what exchange rate would be applied to the 
transaction. He is also unhappy that there was a delay in the funds he transferred crediting 
the overseas bank  account.
background
Mr M wanted to transfer a large sum of money in Sterling from his Santander account to an 
overseas account.  So, on 6 November  2018 he attended at a Santander branch and 
instructed it to make a transfer in Sterling. This money debited Mr Ms account the same day 
via an intermediary bank  and this transaction incurred a £25 fee. But Mr M said Santander 
didnt tell him what exchange rate would  be applied to this transaction before he made the 
transfer.
Mr M said there was a delay of approximately four weeks in the overseas bank receiving the 
money he had transferred. And he said he attended the branch on numerous occasions and 
persistently telephoned Santander in order to try and establish the whereabouts of his 
money. 
Mr M said he didnt  receive a response  from Santander despite  his branch visits and 
telephone calls. And he said when  the money  credited his overseas account that bank used 
the exchange rate that applied that day. Mr M said this exchange rate was less favourable 
than the one applicable  on the day he transferred his funds. So when the money was 
credited to Mr Ms account, it was less than he expected.
Mr M wasnt happy and complained to Santander. He felt he shouldve  been given 
information about the exchange rate that would  be used  prior to making his transfer. And he 
thought the exchange  rate from the date he had transferred his money shouldve been  
applied. 
After Santander  had investigated Mr Ms complaint  it told him the exchange rate has set by 
the receiving overseas  bank because Mr M had chosen to transfer his funds in Sterling. So, 
it didnt think it had done anything wrong  in not providing information about  the exchange 
rate to him. And it also said it had contacted  the overseas bank to query the whereabouts of 
Mr Ms money but hadnt received  a response. So, it hadnt responded to any contact from 
Mr M because it had no update to give him.
Mr M wasnt happy with Santanders  response  to this complaint. So, he referred it to us. Our 
adjudicator empathised with Mr M, but thought  Santander had done anything  wrong  or 
needed to do anything more here. They told Santander had dealt with Mr Ms complaint 
fairly. But Mr M didnt accept this and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I understand that Mr M is 
frustrated by the exchange rate that was applied to this transfer.  But Im not persuaded to 
uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN97754492The first part of Mr Ms complaint is about whether Santander shouldve been  informed  Mr M 
of the exchange rate that would be applied to his transaction prior to him transferring his 
money to the overseas bank. So, Ill focus of that issue first.
Here Mr M instructed  Santander to make a transfer  in Sterling. And the money left Mr Ms 
account in Sterling on 6 November 2018.  In these circumstances, Santander  said it wouldnt 
have been able to tell Mr M the exchange  rate when  he was in the branch because  the 
exchange rate would be set by the receiving bank. 
Im satisfied that when  Mr M attended  the branch to transfer his funds the exchange rate 
wasnt known by Santander. It couldnt have  predicted what exchange rate the receiving 
bank would apply  here. And it wouldnt have had control over that exchange  rate. 
Mr M thinks Santander shouldve informed him about the exchange rate because he said it 
had informed him of exchange rates in the past when he had sent payments abroad. But 
while Mr M may have made  previous  transfers,  the issue here is what  happened with this 
specific transfer. Im not aware of the specifics of previous transactions  that Mr M may have 
made to overseas banks. And it may be that those payments were sent in non Sterling 
currency  in which case an indicative rate may have been  provided to Mr M by Santander in 
past transactions.
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I dont think Santander could have given more 
information about what exchange rate would be applied to this transaction.  I accept the 
reason why Santander couldnt give Mr M information about the exchange rate that would be 
applied to his transfer. While I can understand Mr Ms frustration, Im satisfied Santander  
didnt act unfairly in not providing  Mr M with information about  the exchange rate.
Ill turn next to the second part of Mr Ms complaint, which is about the delay in the funds he 
transferred crediting his overseas account.
Its clear that Mr M isnt happy about  this delay. And I can understand why. He believes this 
caused him to incur  financial loss as a less favourable exchange rate was used. He feels 
that had the money credited his overseas account sooner he wouldve  received  more 
money. But Santander has explained  that the rate that was applied  was because  the 
overseas bank had withheld Mr Ms funds  until 30 November 2018. And it applied  the 
exchange rate that was in force on that day. 
Im not persuaded that this delay was caused by something Santander did. And, on this 
basis, it wouldnt be fair to hold Santander  responsible for the exchange rate that the 
overseas bank applied. Ive already explained  that the rate is set by the receiving bank. And 
Im satisfied Santander sent the funds Mr M transferred  to the overseas  bank  promptly after 
they left Mr Ms account. 
Ive thought about whether Santander acted reasonably once  it was made aware  by Mr M 
that there  was a delay in his money  reaching its intended  destination.  Here,  Santander  said 
it contacted the intermediary bank on 14 November 2018 to trace  this payment. It didnt 
receive a response  so a further trace was raised  on 22 November 2018  in efforts to locate 
the missing funds. Santander  said it also contacted the overseas recipient bank on 29 
November and 6 December 2018  but didnt receive  a response from this bank either.  So, 
this explains why Santander couldnt tell Mr M why there was a delay in his money crediting 
his overseas account. I think this all goes to show that it was proactively trying to assist  Mr M 
in locating his missing money. And I think  Santander did all it could to try to trace Mr Ms 
funds.
Ref: DRN97754493It hasnt been  possible to establish why the overseas bank withheld Mr Ms funds for this 
length of time. But, having carefully  considered the evidence here, Im satisfied  that this 
delay wasnt due to an error by Santander.  So I cant  fairly conclude it was responsible  for 
what happened here. If Mr M wishes to pursue his complaint  about  the delay further he can, 
of course, raise it directly  with the overseas bank.
Overall, for the reasons  set out above,  Im satisfied that Santander acted fairly and 
reasonably and Im not going  to be asking it to do anything more.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9775449