K821x#15the complaint
Mr W complains that TSB Bank plc didnt tell him it had changed the reference numbers he 
needed to use for international payments into his TSB business account. He says this had 
an impact on payments he was expecting  from his clients,  causing extra  work  for his 
business and affecting his relationship with those  clients. He also says that some of the 
money he was expecting is still missing now, and that TSB hasnt done enough to help him 
to locate those  funds.
what happened
In April 2018 TSB upgraded its IT systems,  at the same time it made changes  to the 
International Bank Account  Number  (IBAN) and Bank Identifier Code (BIC) that its 
customers needed to use when arranging payments into their TSB accounts from overseas. 
Around the same time Mr W was making changes to his business account,  and says he 
asked TSB if he needed to change anything on the invoices he would be sending to his 
clients. He says TSB told him he would not need  to change the IBAN or BIC he was using to 
request payments from clients.  So Mr W invoiced his clients  in April, using the same IBAN 
and BIC he had always used.
Mr W didnt receive  some  of the payments he was expecting, so he contacted  TSB who told 
him the IBAN and BIC had changed. Mr W then had to re-invoice his clients  so that the 
payments could be properly processed. But unfortunately, one of the original payments had 
left Mr Ws clients  account, but not reached Mr Ws account or been returned. This money is 
still missing now.  
Mr W visited a TSB branch and spent  time on the phone trying to resolve  these issues.  And 
TSB subsequently  told him that he would  need  to ask his client  to get their bank to trace  the 
missing payment.
An investigator and then an adjudicator looked at the complaint. Ultimately the adjudicator 
decided that TSB should pay Mr W £500  for the trouble and upset caused  by the issues with 
these payments. They also recommended that TSB waive overseas charges relating to any 
delayed payments. Finally, they recommended that TSB temporarily credit Mr Ws business  
account with funds to cover the missing payment, until they were able to locate this money.
Mr W and TSB both initially  agreed to this. But TSB subsequently questioned why they were 
being asked to pay a temporary credit for the missing payment. TSB felt they had done all 
they could to try to help locate these funds,  and felt it was now down to Mr Ws client and 
their bank to take steps to trace the missing money.  As hes not received the temporary 
credit of the missing funds, Mr W also remained unhappy, so this case was passed to me to 
decide. 
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 27 June 2019.  TSB made  no further 
comments, but Mr W responded  to set out why he disagreed with what I had said.
what Ive decided and why
Ive once again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN93176182Having done so, I still think that the payment for trouble and upset weve  recommended, and 
the waiver of overseas charges, is fair. And I still dont think  TSB should make  any payment 
to Mr W to cover the missing funds from his client. Ill explain why.
In my provisional decision I explained  the following:
From my experience of TSB cases involving the changes to their IBAN,  I know that TSB did 
send out notifications of the change,  they also updated the information about IBANs on their 
website. But I accept  its also possible that Mr W may have been told something different 
when he spoke to TSB.
TSB also had an arrangement with Lloyds that any payments sent to the old IBAN and BIC 
would be forwarded  to TSB for a period after the change. But it looks like the payment 
missing from Mr Ws account wasnt forwarded.  
I can see that once  it had worked out what had happened, TSB told Mr W that he would 
need to ask his client  to contact their bank to trace  the payment. I understand that Mr W has 
provided details  of the payment from his clients bank, but from what Ive seen this isnt a 
trace, its just details  of the payment that was sent. When  a sending bank is tracing a 
payment we would  usually  expect  to see records of SWIFT messages sent between  the 
sending bank (Mr Ws clients bank) and the receiving bank (Lloyds)  trying to locate the 
payment, but it doesnt look like that has happened  yet here.
I think that the advice  TSB gave to Mr W was correct, although Im conscious that it took 
several weeks for TSB to tell Mr W this was what he needed to do. Based on what Ive seen, 
the payment never reached  TSB,  and was instead  diverted to Lloyds. This means it would 
be very difficult for TSB to trace the payment,  because they havent  been involved at any 
stage of this payment process. Generally speaking, when a payment has been sent and has 
gone missing, it is the sending  bank that should  trace the payment; because it knows  where 
the payment was sent and what reference  numbers were used. So in normal circumstances 
the sending bank is in the best position to locate the payment and to recall  it from the next 
bank in the payment chain  and to do so reasonably quickly. 
Ive also seen that TSB has made  efforts to contact  Lloyds  to see if they can help find the 
missing money, but Lloyds hasnt been able to give any information to TSB. With all Ive 
seen, I think that TSB has done enough to try and resolve the issue with the missing 
payment. And I dont  think it would be fair to ask TSB to temporarily credit Mr Ws account  
with the missing funds  until they are found, as the steps that need to be taken to find the 
money are outside of TSBs control.  I think that finding the missing payment is something 
that only the sending bank and Lloyds will be able to resolve.  TSB does  not have access to 
either banks  systems,  or details of how Lloyds returned the payment, so would not be able 
to trace  the money.
I do though acknowledge that TSB could have handled things  better here. Specifically in how 
long it took them to tell Mr W what had gone wrong  with the payment. But I think  the 
payment of £500  for trouble and upset  that we have  already recommended,  and that has 
already been paid to Mr Ws account, is fair compensation to recognise what  has gone 
wrong here.  I cant hold TSB responsible for the sending bank and Lloyds now being unable  
to locate the funds.
I understand that what has happened here will have been frustrating for Mr W, but taking 
everything into account, I think this is a fair way to resolve this complaint. It is now for the 
Ref: DRN93176183other parties  involved here  Mr Ws client, Lloyds  and the overseas sending bank  to take 
the necessary  steps to find the missing money.
In his response to my provisional decision Mr W explained that he felt we had not recognised 
the stress  caused  to him by what had happened, or the additional work he had to put in to try 
and resolve things. He also noted  that he was still out of pocket, and said that he had asked 
his client to trace the funds and they had confirmed they had been  sent to the old account 
number at Lloyds.
Mr W also reiterated that TSB had not told him about  the change  in IBAN for his account  
and had in fact specifically told him it would not be changing  and that it took them  many  
months to respond to his concerns, not weeks as I had suggested  in my provisional decision.
I dont doubt that Mr W and his business  have been inconvenienced  by what has happened 
here. And I acknowledged  in my provisional decision that it is certainly possible Mr W may 
have been given incorrect information about the change in IBAN. But even  with all this in 
mind, I still feel that the payment for £500 that TSB has already made for the trouble and 
upset caused  is appropriate in the circumstances.
I understand that Mr W is still out of pocket due to the missing payment from his client, but 
as I have explained  and as Mr Ws clients bank have confirmed  that payment went  to 
Lloyds Bank,  not to TSB.  So TSB will not be able to take any steps to trace that payment  or 
retrieve it as they do not have  access to either  Lloyds Banks systems or Mr Ws clients  
banks systems.
I also acknowledge that overall it took quite some time for TSB to fully respond to Mr Ws 
concerns. TSBs notes  do show that they told Mr W about the change  to his IBAN relatively 
quickly once he told them he was having trouble with receiving  payments.  But when he then 
told them  about  the missing payment for £560 it took TSB around six weeks  to tell him that 
he would  need  to ask the sending bank to initiate  a trace on that payment. This is what I was 
referring to when I said that TSB took several weeks to tell Mr W what  he needed to do 
about this payment.
As Ive said,  overall I feel that what TSB has already  paid in compensation is fair. I know  this 
will be very disappointing for Mr W, but nothing he has said has changed my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part. But I dont think TSB needs to 
do anything more than it has already  done to resolve Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9317618