K820x#14complaint
Mr W instructed  Quickly  Finance Limited,  trading as Fast Track Reclaim (Fast Track), to do a 
Free PPI Check for him. This check showed  he has been sold PPI, and Fast Track made  
mis-selling claims for him. Two of these claims were  successful and Mr W received 
compensation. Fast Track then invoiced Mr W for their fees.
background
Mr W is unhappy with the service he received from Fast Track. Hes complained that:
1.Fast Track  didnt call him after the Free PPI Check, so he could make the claims 
himself.
2.Fast Track  didnt make it clear  that, in completing their PPI Questionnaires, he was 
instructing them  to make  claims  for him. He doesnt  think their process was clear.
3.The fees Fast Track are charging dont reflect the work they did and he dealt with PPI 
providers directly.
4.He cancelled a claim with a PPI provider before it was successful,  so Fast Track 
shouldnt be charging their fees on this.
This complaint was originally investigated  by the Legal Ombudsman, but was transferred to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman Service) as part of the 
change in the regulation  of claims management companies. The Legal Ombudsman  
investigator found that Fast Track had provided  a reasonable service, and she didnt  uphold  
the complaints.
Fast Track  agreed with the Legal Ombudsman but Mr W didnt agree. He feels Fast Track 
didnt follow  their procedures, which caused him a significant financial loss. He also feels  it 
was impossible for him to cancel his agreement with them. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
process
Fast Track  has a two stage process  the Free PPI Check  and making the claim itself. When 
Mr W instructed  Fast Track for the Free PPI Check they wrote  and told him if your lender  
has informed us that they identified PPI on one or more of your accounts, we will contact you 
in a variety of ways.  We will email you, text you and call you to discuss the process  from 
there on.
Fast Track  emailed Mr W to let him know the outcome of the Free PPI Checks.  These emails 
told him that, to make a claim, he would have to complete  a PPI Questionnaire. The emails 
also had a link to the PPI Questionnaire. Mr W completed PPI Questionnaires and, in doing  
so, he instructed Fast Track to make the claims for him.
Fast Tracks  emails could have been  clearer. The first email  indicated that Fast Track would 
email, text AND call Mr W. Instead  they contacted  him by just one of these methods. 
Ref: DRN96547202Fast Track  accept this email could  have caused some confusion, and theyve now changed 
their wording to avoid this in the future. While Mr W may have been  expecting a call from 
Fast Track,  it was reasonable of them to contact  him by contacting him by one of the 
methods they said they would.
Fast Track  also acted reasonably by telling Mr W he could complete a PPI Questionnaire to 
start a claim through them. Mr W says he thought the questionnaire was part of the Free PPI 
Check process, and would be used as the basis for a future  conversation.  There  is nothing  in 
the emails that show this would be the case.  Mr W could have made  the claims himself at 
this stage. But, in completing the PPI Questionnaires, Mr W instructed Fast Track to act for 
him, which they did. Because of this Fast Track can charge their fees for the successful 
claims they made.
fees
Fast Track  were acting as Mr Ws representative in his claims. Because  of this, he should  
not have been contacted by the any of the PPI providers directly  - where  its clear  that a 
representative is acting,  they should  have dealt with the representative.
When contacted  by a PPI provider, Mr W had the choice to deal with them,  or ask them  to 
contact Fast Track. He chose to deal with the PPI provider direct,  knowing  that Fast Track 
were charging for their services. Mr Ws choice does not alter this fact, and I dont agree that 
Fast Tracks  fee should be reduced or waived as a result. 
Fast Track  also charged a percentage  success  fee, not a fee based  upon the amount of 
work they actually undertook. This means  that any work done on any unsuccessful claims 
would be done  for free. Where  a claim was successful, Fast Tracks fee may be more or less 
than the value of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of 
agreement. Just because Fast Tracks fee is higher than the value of the work they have 
done for Mr W doesnt make their fee unjustified.
While Mr W feels the fee is unjustified, I cant agree that the fee is a significant financial 
loss. Fast Tracks fees were charged in line with what  Mr W agreed to, and reflect the fee 
cap that is in place for PPI claims.
cancellation
Mr W was able to cancel  his claims with Fast Track. He did this in October 2018 for four 
claims against Santander. However,  he didnt cancel any of the successful claims  before  
they were successful. This means Fast Track can charge their fees for these claims.
Mr W has also raised the issue of the cooling-off  period, and he feels  the companys process 
meant this didnt apply  to him. He was able to cancel the agreement at no cost within  the first 
14 days, and whatever  work Fast Track had done  on the claims did not affect this right. 
Because of this I dont agree that it was impossible for Mr W to cancel, either  within the 
cooling-off period  or afterwards.
Ref: DRN96547203my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9654720