K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about the way in which  Society  of Lloyds handled his repatriation claim 
under his travel insurance policy following his traumatic injury  abroad. 
My references to Lloyds  include  its agents  (being the relevant  syndicate and the assistance  
company).  
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I was likely to uphold this complaint. I include an extract  from my 
provisional decision here:
Mr H had an annual  multi-trip travel insurance policy,  arranged  through an insurance broker  
that Ill call M. The policy also covers  his wife Mrs H and their young children.  The insurer is 
Lloyds.
In 2018 Mr H had an accident while on a European holiday. He suffered a traumatic injury, 
breaking a number of bones including his pelvis in three places.  He and Mrs H contacted 
Lloyds for assistance  in bringing him back to a UK hospital for further treatment. 
Lloyds agreed  to repatriate Mr H but said it would only pay for a ground ambulance (a trip of 
around 16 hours). It said it had liaised with his treating  doctors abroad and considered this to 
be the best medical option, as a direct commercial flight by stretcher wasnt available.  
Mr H strongly  disagreed with the ground  ambulance plan as the doctor treating him had 
recommended direct  flight repatriation. Theyd  been told ground  ambulance  would be unsafe 
and Lloyds should use an air ambulance. Lloyds said an air ambulance wasnt medically 
necessary. If Mr H decided on air ambulance it would pay only for the cost of the road 
ambulance (£2,850) towards the air ambulance costs (£9,950).   
Mr and Mrs H arranged for Mr H to return by air ambulance  and he claimed the costs  from 
Lloyds together  with other expenses linked  to the accident. It offered to pay most of their 
claim, except the air ambulance costs. It offered £2,850 towards  the air ambulance costs. It 
also paid him £150  for distress and inconvenience  for the poor claim handling. 
Our investigator concluded that Lloyds had made  a fair settlement and the compensation it 
offered was reasonable. Mr H didnt agree so the complaints come to me for review. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Mr H has made a separate  complaint  about M, the insurance broker. Our investigator  
explained the complaint  about the repatriation and claim should be against Lloyds and with 
Mr Hs agreement that complaint was closed. For the avoidance of doubt this decision is 
confined to Lloyds  handling of the repatriation and claim. So I dont  make  any findings  about 
M. 
Ref: DRN99333092The starting point  is the policy.  In summary, it says that Lloyds has its own doctor who is a 
medical director and travel medical specialist.  Between the medical director, the treating 
doctor and your GP, if necessary, they will agree  the appropriate course of action for you, 
taking into consideration the cover under the policy and your medical condition
Please be aware  that there may be occasions  where  [Lloyds] doctor takes a different view 
from the local doctor and in order for your policy  to respond you should take the advice given  
by [Lloyds].
Ive reviewed the entire assistance file, and Ill summarise  the points that I think are key. The 
medical evidence  is central here together with the way in which  it was explained to 
Mr and Mrs H. 
On 29 January the first medical report Lloyds received from Mr Hs doctor listed  the 
three non displaced fractures of the pelvis, a fracture of the transverse process of 
L1 (one of the wing-like bones on the side of the spinal vertebrae, with L1 being one 
of the lumbar  vertebra); a fracture  of both bones of one wrist; and a fracture in the 
knee with a possible  cruciate ligament lesion. Mr H was in a good condition,  with pain 
controlled by medicine,  the right lower  limb and wrist were immobilised with a half 
cast. He needed to be kept in a supine position  with a maximum flexion of either left 
hip or back of 30 degrees.
Following a medical review Lloyds  then began looking into a ground  ambulance  to 
bring Mr H back  to the UK. One quote said 16 hours at a cost of £2,850. Another 
quote said the transfer would be approximately 40 hours  at a cost of £2,500.
Mrs H was very unhappy with the ground  ambulance proposal. On 30 January she 
sent Lloyds a letter from a family friend,  a retired surgeon who expressed  serious  
concerns about this type of long, arduous  and unpleasant journey. This could 
present a significant risk to Mr H on such a long journey  of an unexpected  
complication such as a delayed rupture of the spleen or other internal organ. He 
supported air repatriation.
Mr Hs treating doctor also arranged to send their recommendations for Mr Hs 
repatriation. The doctor  said the only safe option  was stretcher repatriation because 
of the pelvis  fracture. 
There were  no direct  commercial flights. The only one available would involve a two-
stage journey with ground ambulances either  end (an 11 hour journey). Lloyds also 
asked for air ambulance quotes.
On 31 January Lloyds  chased the treating doctor for their recommendations, and 
was met with some concern that Lloyds would simply repatriate Mr H in its own way. 
In the meantime, Lloyds own discussion with its medical team  was that Mr H had 
uncomplicated fractures and no internal damage. Ground ambulance  is the repat 
method.
On the same day Lloyds spoke  with Mrs H to explain that ground ambulance would 
be the least stressful for Mr H, as hed be moved  only once rather  than additional 
transfers required for air repatriation.  She was very upset about  this option that she 
understood to be a medical risk to Mr H. She asked  for the email  of the medical  
Ref: DRN99333093director (understanding  that he worked  for broker M at that time). She was told 
Lloyds would find out the email address it could give.  
The treating  doctors email said that Mr H could be discharged the following day 
(1 February). The doctor said repatriation could be organised by plane  and he must 
travel lying down  with a vacuum mattress.
Lloyds maintained ground  ambulance  would be a safe option. Mrs H strongly  
disagreed and Lloyds then spoke  with the treating doctor. The note of the call says 
that Lloyds asked the doctor what she thought about moving Mr H by ground 
ambulance. She said the best option  was a direct flight because  ground ambulance  
would take a few hours. Lloyds told her that the plane journey would be a two-part  
one, with the plane landing part-way through and then take a second flight  to the UK. 
Lloyds told the doctor  this would take the same time as the ground ambulance. The 
doctor said yes of course, thats why the flight should be direct. She believed 
Lloyds should  be able to arrange a direct flight.  She said Mr H would need  a medical 
team during the transport.  After a while we agreed that there  is no difference  
between a ground ambulance and a flight with more stops. The doctor wouldnt put 
that in writing because  she said it was a decision that Lloyds should  be taking. 
Mrs H explained she was still unhappy because the treating doctor was against  the 
ground ambulance.  Lloyds then received an email from that doctor saying that for 
repatriation Mr H should travel by air preferably  by direct flight, and that the trip by 
ambulance was too long for his clinical condition.
Lloyds referred this email to its medical  director. He said the planned  ground  
repatriation was medically safe.  He said Mr H had stable uncomplicated fractures 
with no bleed  or other complicating  factors.  He explained they took responsibility  for 
planning repatriation  and were careful about  this. He said ground ambulance  was 
industry standard and had happened many  times before.  There  were definite  
advantages for Mr H, he wasnt being  put at any risk whatsoever. The ambulance 
and crew  are specifically  designed and trained for this task.
Mrs H wouldnt  accept the ground  ambulance as it went against the medical advice 
shed been given. This included speaking to trauma surgeons in the UK as well as 
the treating doctors advice.
I need to decide whether Lloyds dealt fairly with Mr H in handling the repatriation and 
whether it has made a fair offer for the claim. Ive thought  very carefully  about  all the issues 
and having done so Im likely  to uphold this complaint. Ill explain my reasons, and in doing 
so Ill focus on what  I see to be the central issues. 
I think Lloyds in consultation with its medical  director was concerned  about Mr Hs safety 
and wellbeing.  It explained the ground ambulance would  mean  only two transfers  from the 
overseas hospital  to the ambulance and then from the ambulance  to the UK hospital.  It has 
explained this type of repatriation is common and in responding  to the complaint it has used 
examples of other successful repatriations for patients with similar injuries. 
I think the medical director explained  why a patient  with stable uncomplicated fractures  could 
travel by ground ambulance and why this would be safe for Mr H. Ive seen a medical  report 
that he made, and this has since been  shared with Mr H. So I see why Lloyds argued an air 
ambulance wasnt  medically necessary. 
Ref: DRN99333094But where I think Lloyds  failed to deal with the matter properly is in its communications with 
Mr and Mrs H  particularly with Mrs H. 
Mrs H explained from the outset her concern about  ground ambulance transfer.  This wasnt  
based just on her opinion or a preference for an air ambulance. She and Mr H clearly 
thought the insurance should pay for an air ambulance but I dont  consider  this was the main 
reason for objecting  to the ground ambulance. During the telephone calls with Lloyds she 
explained clearly  that her concerns were  based on what shed been told by Mr Hs treating 
doctor, a retired surgeon and other  trauma surgeons. She and Mr H were being told it simply 
wasnt medically safe to move Mr H by ground ambulance because  of the risk of internal 
injury and that he should travel by direct flight back to the UK. As there werent any direct 
commercial flights  this meant air ambulance. 
I think Mr and Mrs H were in a very difficult position.  Their medical advice theyd received 
was that Mr H should fly home and the trip by ambulance  was too long for his medical 
condition. Theyd been  told that Lloyds medical advice  via its medical director   would be 
safe. 
Ive listened to the telephone calls. I can see that Lloyds tried to explain its position to 
Mrs H. She was upset but she wasnt unreasonable, and despite her frustration with the 
situation I think she was clear about her concerns for her husbands safety. She asked for 
the medical directors email address. I think what Lloyds failed to do was to offer her a clear 
and reassuring medical explanation for its decision that a ground ambulance would be safe 
for Mr H based on the nature of his injuries.   
When Mrs H explained her concern about  the fracture causing internal bleeding she was told 
that the medical team in the ambulance could, if necessary,  deal with this. Her concerns 
about it happening in the first place werent dealt with. The overall tone of the conversations 
wouldnt have given  Mrs H confidence that a robust medical assessment had been 
undertaken. Mrs H was told the medical directors name and that he was a doctor (not a 
paramedic as shed  understood). But as I understand it the medical  director  didnt speak with 
Mr Hs doctor to explain why a ground  ambulance  would be medically  safe. As I understand 
it there was no direct  contact by a medically trained  member of staff with Mrs H, Mr H or the 
treating doctor.  
Put another way, all the medical advice that Mr and Mrs H had received was that Mr H 
should fly back to the UK, and that if he didnt his health was at serious risk. Lloyds had 
another medical view but I dont think it explained its position  clearly  to Mr and Mrs H. That 
being so I think  they felt they had no option  but to pay for the air ambulance, as they had real 
and serious concerns that otherwise his health would have been at critical risk. And that 
information was backed up with what they were being told by their medical advisers.  
So having  considered all the evidence  I currently think a fair and reasonable outcome is for 
Lloyds to pay Mr H the full air ambulance  cost,  together with the balance  of his claim thats 
not in dispute. It seems  Mr H wasnt offered the option of accepting  a partial settlement, even 
though Lloyds accepted  it was liable to pay the equivalent of the ground ambulance costs. It 
offered the claim payment  in full and final settlement of his claim. So hes been left out of 
pocket for the full amount.  So I think its fair that Lloyds also pays  8% simple  interest on the 
total claim payment,  including the air ambulance cost, from the date of claim until the date of 
settlement. 
Ref: DRN99333095Finally, Lloyds recognised the claim could have been handled  better and I understand it sent 
a cheque for £150 compensation to Mr H which he was able to accept without prejudicing  his 
right to bring  this complaint. I think that was fair. If Mr H hasnt cashed the cheque  and its 
now out of date then Lloyds should  agree to stop it and issue  a new one.
responses
Mr H responded to thank  me for my provisional  decision. In summary he said he was hugely 
encouraged and relieved by my provisional  findings.  He thought the outcome was a fair and 
reasonable result both for his family  and himself  and more widely for other consumers, who 
might find themselves in the same unfortunate circumstances  as he did. If my decision 
followed the provisional decision it would restore his faith in the financial services industry.  
Lloyds didnt accept  my provisional  findings. In summary, it said the proposed  repatriation  
was the safest  option for Mr H with less manoeuvre and transfers. It understood Mrs H had 
been told by a friend  that air ambulance was the best option but this contradicted  the 
medical checks carried out by the underwriters. It doesnt consider it misled Mr and Mrs H 
but they were  unwilling to compromise and expected private air ambulance even thought his 
would not have been as safe. 
Lloyds went on to say that Mr H made the decision (to return by air ambulance) without 
allowing the underwriters  to explain in further detail. Mr H was told a land ambulance  would 
be provided and they chose  to travel via air ambulance and reclaim the costs, even though 
this wasnt approved. In any other insurance  policy if the policy  holder takes action without 
prior approval of the underwriters then the claim wouldnt be paid.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Lloyds  comments  but they dont change my view that this complaint  
should fairly be upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and here.
Ive already acknowledged that it was Lloyds medical directors view that a ground  
ambulance would be safe for Mr H and involve fewer transfers  than the available  commercial  
flight options. 
But I dont accept that Mr and Mrs H had based  their view that Mr H should return by air 
ambulance solely on what theyd been  told by a friend. They  had indeed  received medical 
advice from a retired consultant surgeon, whod reviewed Mr Hs medical reports. Mrs H had 
spoken to other trauma surgeons.  But importantly  the doctor treating Mr H in the hospital 
abroad had said that he should return by direct flight. The doctor  told them  that returning by 
ground ambulance  would be too long a journey  for Mr Hs clinical condition, and confirmed 
this in writing to Lloyds.
I dont accept that Mrs H refused to compromise  or was unreasonable  even if her and Mr Hs 
preference was to return by air ambulance.  Ive described the interaction with Lloyds in my 
provisional decision. She asked for the direct details  of the medical director who had made 
the decision that a ground  ambulance would be a safe option, given this conflicted with the 
medical advice given by Mr Hs treating doctors  and other doctors shed  consulted. 
Ref: DRN99333096Ive taken into account the policy terms, as reflected in my provisional findings. Ive also 
explained that I can step outside the policy terms where I consider it is fair and reasonable to 
do so. I consider it fair here because  I think Lloyds failed  to explain clearly to Mrs H why it 
was taking a different  decision from Mr Hs treating doctors to return Mr H home  by ground 
ambulance. It didnt offer reassurance to her and Mr H based on their very clear concerns. It 
didnt speak with the treating doctor directly to explain its position  and why ground 
ambulance would, in its medical directors view be safe. Had it taken these steps and Mr H 
had still decided to return by air ambulance  then my decision might well have  been  different. 
But I think Mr and Mrs H genuinely believed Mr Hs return by ground ambulance would put 
him at medical risk based on the medical  advice  theyd been given by the doctors whod 
seen and treated  him. Lloyds didnt explain clearly  or persuasively  either  to them  or Mr Hs 
treating doctor why it thought this wasnt the case. So the fair outcome is for Lloyds to pay 
the claim,  as set out below.
Finally, I should say that I make my decisions based on the individual  facts and merits of the 
individual case before me. My decisions dont set a precedent. I say this just for 
completeness, given Mr Hs comments about my findings. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision and in this final decision I uphold 
this complaint. Within  28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr H has accepted  my final 
decision I require Society of Lloyds to pay his claim for the air ambulance costs, together  
with the other elements of the claim that its offered  to pay and are not in dispute (the excess  
has been allowed  for already). Lloyds must add interest* to the claim payment at the simple 
rate of 8% per year from the date of claim to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Society of Lloyds  considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much  its taken  off. It should also give 
Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9933309