K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a re-mortgage transaction Mrs and Mrs W carried out on the advice 
and recommendation of a broker representing Stonebridge Mortgage Solutions  Ltd. 
Mrs and Mrs W say Stonebridge  failed  to tell them they needed to arrange  for completion to 
take place after the date their liability to pay an early repayment  charge (ERC) to their 
existing lender had expired.
background 
By way of a provisional decision dated 25 October 2019, I set out, with reasons, the basis  on 
which I was minded to determine this complaint, subject to the further submissions of the 
parties. Ive heard from both parties.  
Mrs and Mrs W accepted my provisional  conclusions. Stonebridges submissions were more  
detailed, and I summarise  them below, in bullet point form:
Theres no regulatory requirement for a mortgage broker to advise on when a mortgage 
should complete.  Only the conveyancer knows exactly how much the ERC will be at the 
point of completion.
Brokers dont have access to lenders information on ERCs and other  costs  of 
redemption. They are reliant on the consumer finding the information out and passing it 
on. Mrs and Mrs W did this at the outset and its implausible to think they wouldnt have 
realised theyd pay an ERC if they completed before the date theyd provided.
My provisional decision doesnt  account  for the fact that Stonebridge advised 
Mrs and Mrs W to wait until after 31 December, and they chose  to ignore that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
depart from my provisional conclusions. Ill explain why.
Its not possible for the regulatory framework to anticipate and prescribe a requirement for 
every potential eventuality. At the highest  level, though, the regulators Principle 6 requires 
businesses to pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly. Principle 
7 requires them to pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear,  fair and not misleading.
Applying those principles here, Ive explained why I consider that information on timing the 
completion correctly to ensure the ERC was avoided needed to be a documented part of the 
recommendation, as it went to the suitability of the re-mortgage transaction. Stonebridge 
says Ive ignored the fact that it told Mrs and Mrs W to wait until after 31 December 2018  to 
complete. On the contrary, I looked for evidence this had happened and didnt find it in any 
of the point-of -sale documentation
Ive already acknowledged that Mrs and Mrs W knew at the outset that they were  in an ERC  
period on their existing  mortgage. Stonebridge says its implausible that they couldnt  have  
known theyd pay it if they completed before  the end date, but again, Ive already explained 
why a lay person might not equate a re-mortgage  with redemption. 
Ref: DRN94636622Whats self-evident and obvious to a professional isnt always to someone  who isnt a 
professional. Also,  people dont always remember details indefinitely,  so whatever 
Mrs and Mrs W knew and understood when they completed the Authority to Obtain An 
Agreement In Principle,  its reasonable to conclude theyd not retained it by the time of the 
email to Stonebridge  of 18 October  2018.
Regardless of what theyd said previously, that email indicated Mrs and Mrs W were 
confused about the ERC situation and needed reassurance. Stonebridge should  have  
recognised that email  for what  it was and emphasised (having not done so in the 
point of-sale documentation) the message that the suitability of the transaction  was 
dependent on completion taking place after the ERC period ended.  Stonebridge didnt need  
access to the exact figures to provide that reassurance  and reinforcement.
I make  one final point. The redress I have decided to award requires both parties to 
co-operate  with each other in the provision and exchange of information about 
Mrs and Mrs Ws other creditors. I hope they can do this in a constructive way, without  
recrimination about  what has gone  before. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In 
full and final settlement,  I order  Stonebridge Mortgage Solutions Ltd to:
identify the difference between the combined  sums Mrs and Mrs W paid from the 
proceeds of the new mortgage to redeem their mortgage, Help-to-Buy loan and 
unsecured creditors  on 23 November 2018  and what  they would have paid if settlement 
had taken place  on 2 January 2019*;
identify the net difference between  the interest  chargeable  on the existing mortgage, 
Help-to-Buy loan and unsecured debts, and the new mortgage  between 
23 November 2018 and 2 January 2019  assuming the re-mortgage completion  had taken 
place on 2 January  2019;
reimburse Mrs and Mrs W the aggregate of the two sums resulting from the above 
calculations, along with interest at 8% simple from 2 January 21019  to the eventual date 
of settlement of the complaint **; and
pay Mrs and Mrs W £500 compensation for their time, trouble and upset.
*The first working after the New Year Bank Holiday.
**If Stonebridge considers that it should  deduct basic rate income tax from the interest  part 
of the award,  it may do provided  it then issues Mrs and Mrs W with the relevant tax 
certificates.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 December  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN94636623CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a re-mortgage transaction Mrs and Mrs W carried out on the advice and 
recommendation of a broker representing Stonebridge Mortgage Solutions Ltd. Mrs and Mrs W say 
Stonebridge failed to tell them they needed to arrange for completion to take place  after the date their 
liability to pay an early  repayment charge (ERC) to their existing lender had expired.
background
In what  follows, I have  summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, using my 
own words  to do so. No discourtesys intended  by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we 
provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because I didnt 
think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mrs and Mrs W had a mortgage  arranged through Stonebridge  with a lender Ill call N. The terms 
of that mortgage deal included an obligation to pay an ERC if the mortgage was repaid  before 1 
January 2019. In August 2018, Stonebridge contacted them to say the current deal was nearing its 
end and suggested they look for a new deal.
Mrs and Mrs W took Stonebridge  up on the suggestion; they completed  an Authority to Obtain An 
Agreement In Principle,  on which they set out personal  information as well as details of the 
outstanding balances owed on the mortgage with N, a second charge loan to a Help-to-Buy lender, 
and various  unsecured consumer debts. On this document,  Mrs and Mrs W noted that the mortgage 
was subject  to an ERC of just under £2,600 until 1 January 2019
Armed with this information,  Stonebridge completed a fact-find, on which it noted no ERC would 
apply. It then set about sourcing a lender that would take over all the existing  liabilities.  A mortgage 
application was put in to a lender Ill call L, and L issued  a mortgage offer on 18 October  2018. 
On the same date, Mrs and Mrs W emailed  Stonebridge asking  about the likely  surplus  available after 
completion and mentioning  termination fees to our current lender. Stonebridge replied  saying theyd  
need to see the completion statement from their conveyancer, whom  Ill call H, to see what  
deductions had been made. 
On 23 November  2018,  on instruction from Mrs and Mrs W, H completed the re-mortgage, which  
meant N charged an ERC. A few days later, H wrote to N asking if it would refund the ERC, saying 
the transaction had been completed early by mistake because Stonebridge had misadvised Mrs and 
Mrs W. N refused,  and so Mrs and Mrs W complained to Stonebridge.
Stonebridge rejected the complaint and Mrs and Mrs W referred it to us. One of our investigators 
looked at it, concluding  that Stonebridge failed  to make sure Mrs and Mrs W knew they needed to 
wait until 1 January 2019 to complete the transaction. He recommended Stonebridge reimburse them 
half of the ERC;  he said this was because H should also have warned Mrs and Mrs W about the ERC.
Stonebridge asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  saying  there was clear  
evidence Mrs and Mrs W knew about the ERC  and when  it expired. Mrs and Mrs W were also 
unhappy with the recommendation that only half the ERC be reimbursed.
The case has been passed  to me to review. 
Ref: DRN94636624my provisional  findings
Ill start with some general observations. Were  not the regulator of financial businesses,  and we dont 
police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. We deal with individual disputes  between businesses  and their customers. In doing  that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  on how we investigate  a complaint. We 
conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions  without interference  from anyone  else.  But in 
doing so, we have to work  within the rules of the ombudsman service, and the remit  those  rules give 
us
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. As I said earlier, if I dont comment  on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit  is to take an overview and decide 
whats fair in the round. 
I need to begin by correcting  something the investigator said in his view about  why he had 
recommended half of the ERC  be refunded;  this, in essence, was because he considered some 
responsibility fell on H to tell Mrs and Mrs W about it. That conclusion is both wrong and 
inappropriate; Ill explain why. 
The conclusion is wrong because Hs role in the transaction  was to carry  out the legal  work 
associated with the change  of lender and, if necessary, advise Mrs and Mrs W on any legal matters 
arising from it. It had no responsibility  to advise  them on the financial implications of the transaction. 
That was solely Stonebridges role. 
Meanwhile, its inappropriate because it has the potential to prejudice Hs position in any complaint 
Mrs and Mrs W might  decide  to bring  against it (and over which wed have no jurisdiction)  by holding it 
liable  even if only be implication  when it has no voice in the matter. The case  here is for 
Stonebridge alone to answer to. 
There are two things for me to decide; first, did Stonebridge do something it shouldnt  have done (or 
fail to do something it should  have done), and secondly, if yes, is that error or omission the primary 
reason Mrs and Mrs W ended up paying an ERC that could have been avoided.
On the first point,  I think  there was a very clear omission  on Stonebridges part. The re mortgage was 
an advised sale which means Stonebridge was recommending it as being suitable for Mrs and Mrs 
Ws needs and circumstances. But the suitability of the recommendation was, in my view, dependent 
on there being  no ERC to pay. So its not enough for Stonebridge just to say Mrs and Mrs W knew the 
ERC liability existed (and Ill deal with that next).  Advice on timing the completion correctly  to ensure 
the ERC was avoided needed to be a documented part of the recommendation, and it wasnt.
I dont think theres any doubt Mrs and Mrs W came into this transaction aware they were  still in an 
ERC period  on their existing mortgage  with N. Thats why they completed the Authority to Obtain An 
Agreement In Principle as they did. But theyve told us that they didnt  equate the re-mortgage 
transaction with redemption,  and so didnt appreciate  that the timing  of completion was significant. 
For someone who is experienced and well-versed in these matters,  that might  seem an implausible  
argument at first glance, but its important to keep in mind that Mrs and Mrs W werent experienced 
and well-versed.  They  were  unsure and needed clarification; I think  thats borne out by the emailed 
question of 18 October 2018  regarding termination fees.
Here I think was Stonebridges second omission;  it failed to see the question  for what  it was. Mrs and 
Mrs W werent just asking how much money theyd have left over after completion; they were asking  
what deductions they needed to account for, and they even  named the one they were  most unsure  
Ref: DRN94636625about. They might have called it a termination fee rather than ERC but Stonebridge  the expert in 
these matters, remember  must have recognised it for what it was. 
In that context, simply saying they needed  a completion  statement from H was a totally inadequate  
response, and if Mrs and Mrs W didnt  do as suggested,  thats neither here nor there. The completion 
statement is something  H would have produced only after completion had taken  place  hence too 
late  and in any event, would simply record the amount paid to redeem the mortgage with N. It 
wouldnt include a breakdown showing that the redemption amount included an ERC.
Faced with the termination  fee/ERC question, Stonebridge had an opportunity to remedy the omission 
from its suitability recommendation of advice about when  to complete. That was by providing the only 
satisfactory reply, which was to have told Mrs and Mrs W that there would be one to pay if the 
re-mortgage went  through before 1 January 2019.
Taking all of the above into account, Im provisionally mined to conclude  that Stonebridges 
shortcomings are the primary reason Mrs and Mrs W incurred the ERC. Had they been properly 
advised and informed, Im satisfied on balance that theyd have instructed H to hold off on completing  
the re-mortgage until after 1 January 2019. The offer from L was valid until 16 April 2019  so they 
could have waited without any concern  that the new mortgage wouldnt still be available.
Stonebridge needs to put Mrs and Mrs W in the same position now that theyd have been in if theyd 
delayed the completion until after 1 January 2019. This, of course, doesnt just mean  that the 
mortgage with N would have  been repaid without an ERC. It also means  the Help-to-Buy loan and 
consumer debts  would have been settled  with different  balances as well. The redress Im 
recommending will require all of those closing  balances to be recalculated, and for Stonebridge to 
reimburse Mrs and Mrs W, with interest, the difference between the actual and revised aggregate  
totals. It will also have to reflect the differential interest charged on the old mortgage and other debts  
and the new mortgage.
Working out what those  revised  figures would have been isnt something for this service to do. Its for 
Stonebridge to do, and to facilitate the necessary  calculations, Mrs and Mrs W will need to provide  
Stonebridge with the relevant information about their closed accounts  and, in all probability,  
permission for Stonebridge  to contact their former creditors for assistance with the recalculations.  It 
also means that Mrs and Mrs W are being asked to agree to their complaint be resolved by accepting 
the principle  of the redress  Im proposing, rather than by accepting  a known sum.
Im conscious  that asking  Mrs and Mrs W to co-operate with Stonebridge in this fashion may be 
upsetting for them, but I do believe it to be necessary for them to receive  fair redress.  For the ongoing 
stress, as well as the trouble and upset theyre likely already to have suffered as a result of what went 
wrong, I intend also to order Stonebridge to pay them compensation. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to the further submissions of the parties, my provisional 
decision is that I intend  to uphold  this complaint.  In full and final settlement,  I intend ordering 
Stonebridge Mortgage Solutions Ltd to:
identify  the difference between the combined  sums Mrs and Mrs W paid from the proceeds of the 
new mortgage to redeem their mortgage, Help-to-Buy loan and unsecured creditors on 23 
November 2018 and what they would  have paid if settlement had taken  place on 2 January  
2019*;
identify  the net difference between the interest chargeable on the existing  mortgage, Help-to-Buy 
loan and unsecured debts,  and the new mortgage between 23 November 2018 and 2 January 
2019 assuming  the re-mortgage completion had taken place on 2 January  2019;
reimburse Mrs  and Mrs W the aggregate of the two sums resulting from the above calculations,  
along with interest at 8% simple  from 2 January 21019 to the eventual  date of settlement  of the 
complaint **; and
Ref: DRN94636626pay Mrs and Mrs W £500 compensation for their time, trouble and upset.
*The first working  after the New Year Bank Holiday.
**If Stonebridge  considers that it should  deduct basic rate income tax from the interest part of the 
award, it may do provided it then issues Mrs and Mrs W with the relevant tax certificates.
Ill review my provisional decision after 8 November 2019,  or sooner than that if both parties  confirm 
theyve said and provided  all they wish to that is materially new.  Theres no need for either party to 
repeat anything theyve already said.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9463662