K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains that Virgin Money  plc gave her incorrect information when she tried to open 
an ISA and this led to an unnecessary delay resulting in investment  loss. She is also 
unhappy that Virgin was not able to confirm her identity even though she already held an 
account with it and feels it treated her differently from her husband.
background
An adjudicator at this service  felt her complaint should be upheld in part.
She said shed seen no evidence that Mrs Ks gender had affected Virgins  decision and she 
didnt feel her complaint  about the identity  requirements should be upheld. She noted that 
Mrs K was aware that identification  may be required and had previously opened an ISA with 
Virgin for which identification was required.
She recognised that electronic checks sometimes failed, requiring further information, and 
that not all businesses can cross reference different accounts when a new account is 
opened.
But she was satisfied that Virgin had not treated  Mrs K fairly or competently, having being 
given contradictory  information about  whether  she could and needed to fill out an ISA 
application in a branch, online or via a traditional form. She outlined what  had happened, 
concluding (in effect) that Mrs K had been given the run-around.  She also noted that when 
Mrs K made a complaint Virgin contacted during the time she had explicitly said she wasnt 
available.
She felt Virgin should compensate Mrs K on the basis that she would have opened her ISA, 
and the underlying investment, on 12 April 2018 but for its failings. It therefore needed to 
reconstruct her ISA holding adding any units which would have been purchasable on that 
date with the same investment amount.
It should also pay £100 in lieu of the trouble and upset it had caused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In this case I agree with the adjudicator about  both issues, and for the same  reasons. I 
recognise that the latest identity check requirements can seem excessive and unnecessary  
in situations like this but businesses now have  ever-more onerous responsibilities to ensure  
they meet anti-money laundering regulations and other fraud  protection  guidelines. In this 
context, I dont believe Virgins  requirements  were unreasonable.  
Virgin failed, on a number  of occasions, to address  Mrs Ks concerns and also failed  to 
provide this service  with the requested documents within  a reasonable amount of time.
Despite promising, in late November, to respond to the adjudicators view about the merits of 
this complaint it still has not done so more  than two months later.  So I cannot consider any 
of its potential arguments about  the adjudicators or Mrs Ks accounts of the various alleged 
Ref: DRN93713302misinformation. But from what Ive read I am satisfied that it did let Mrs K down and failed to 
offer clear  and accurate  information about  how to open  her ISA account.
In the absence of any evidence to the contrary,  I think it is more likely  than not that she 
would have opened her ISA account  on 12 April if the first phone  advisor  had given her the 
correct information  or the branch staff member had acted differently.
Virgin therefore needs to assess whether Mrs K suffered financially as a result of the delay in 
opening her account. To do this it needs  to calculate  how many units (if this is the correct 
way of describing the funds make-up)  her £15,000  investment  wouldve  been able to 
purchase on 12 April 2018.  If this is more than she was allocated  when  opening her ISA and 
buying into the bond on 24 April it needs to add the ,missing  number  of units  to her ISA 
holding.
If, however,  the price  of the units has fallen i.e. she wouldve been able to buy fewer on 12 
April than she actually two weeks later, then it should not make any adjustment. This is 
because I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for Mrs K to be worse  off given what has 
happened.
It should also pay £100 for the reasons outlined by the adjudicator.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Virgin Money  plc to pay compensation as outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9371330