K822xcomplaint
Miss C is unhappy with how Ageas Insurance Limited (and its agents)  have handled the 
claim she made after there was a fire in one of her rental properties. 
background 
The fire occurred  in April 2016,Ageas visited the property the following day and accepted  the 
claim a few days later.
Miss C was keen to use her own contractors  to compete the repair  work  but it was eventually 
agreed she would use one that Ageas recommended. The initial work was completed 
towards the end of 2016. But Miss C was unhappy  with the quality  of some of the work 
(including the state of the kitchen floor) and pointed out that some work had not been carried 
out in accordance with Ageass recommendation (including replacing  a radiator and 
skimming the kitchen  ceiling).
Further discussions took place, resulting  in further  repairs and agreements to cover some 
loss of rent and other payment to allow Miss C to employ her own contractors  to complete 
some work. But Miss C was unhappy with the length  of time it was taking to reinstate her 
property and made a formal complaint.
Miss Cs tenants moved out shortly after the fire and she didnt get new tenants into the 
property until October  2017.  She thinks Ageas should cover her loss of rent and council tax 
for this period.  She also thinks  it should  pay £2,000  in recognition of the trouble and upset 
she suffered while  her claim was going on.
I issued a provisional decision last month in which I explained what  I thought  Ageas needed 
to pay in final settlement  of this claim.  I said,  in summary, that:
Latterly Miss C had raised concerns about  a missing FENSA  certificate  and that Ageas 
hadnt sent the appropriate notification to her local authority to enable it to provide her 
with a Buildings Regulation Compliance Gas Safety  Certificate for her new boiler. But 
Ageas hadnt  yet completed a full investigation  into those issues. And I didnt think  it was 
appropriate for me make a decision about those elements of the complaint.
I thought the repairs  had taken  too long, so I considered all the evidence  both parties 
had provided in order to decide  what Ageas should pay Miss C. She thought  the delays 
were all Ageas fault but I didnt agree. I pointed to a couple of examples where Miss C 
hadnt always replied  promptly or when she said she would. I thought  there was fault on 
both sides  though more, overall,  on Ageas than Miss Cs  and I didnt think it worth  
unpicking each  and every delay. I thought, given whatd gone on that it was fairer to take 
a wider look at things when working out what Miss C should be paid.
18 months passed between the fire taking  place and new tenants moving in. And the 
outside estimate for how long the works should have taken seemed to be about  six to 
eight weeks. And Ageas had already agreed  with the investigators  recommendation to 
pay Miss C a total of 14 months of rent and council tax. In the circumstances, that 
seemed fair to me.
Miss Cs tenants at the time of the fire were paying £595  rent per month. But her letting 
agent took commission of £57.12 each month. So it seemed  to me that the actual 
Ref: DRN96819712income Miss C has lost out on each month was £537.88 and so I thought  it was that 
amount that should be used when assessing  her total loss. I also thought  Miss C should 
receive interest on that lost rental income  calculated at 8% simple per year. The problem 
with not specifying exactly when the four months delay occurred is that it made it difficult 
to say when exactly  interest should be calculated from. So I thought  the most pragmatic 
way to calculate the interest would be to assume Miss C wouldve received £537.88 
every month on the 25th of the month  for 14 months  from the date the first rental 
payment was lost. So, from 25 April 2016  to 25 May 2017 Miss C should  receive  £537.88 
with interest (at 8% simple per year) added from the date each monthly  rental payment 
would have fallen  due to the date of my final decision.  
When calculating the settlement  Ageas  paid Miss C in June/July 2017, it took into 
account £5,350 (or nine months) loss of rent. Ageas  didnt make the letting agents  
deduction that I mentioned, but I thought it fair to do so. I also thought it was fair for 
Ageas to offset the £5,350 when working out what remains to be paid to Miss C. 
I thought Ageas should calculate the council tax refund in a similar way to the rent. But it 
also needed to take into account that Miss C got a reduction some months. So I thought  
the fairest way to calculate  the 14-month  refund was to take the total amount of council 
tax Miss C was charged over the 14-month period and calculate an average monthly 
payment then multiply  that by 14. Given the information Miss C had provided  I concluded  
that Ageas should refund £42.10  per month  for 14 months  from 15 June 2016 to 15 July 
2017. I said interest (at 8% simple per year) should be added from the date each council 
tax payment wouldve been made (the 15th) to the date of my final decision.  
Ageas  had already agreed  to pay the re-letting fees and I thought that was fair given the 
particular circumstances of this case.  Miss C received an invoice on 11 October  2017  for 
£360 re-letting  fees. It wasnt  clear  when she paid this but I thought, in order to move 
things along, we should assume  she also paid the invoice on that date. So I said Ageas 
should refund £360 plus interest calculated  at 8% simple per year from 11 October 2017 
to the date of my final decision.
Ageas  provided  copies of two minor works/single circuit electrical certificates dated 
3 November 2016 with its file. One describes the work undertaken as to fit light fitting 
after fire damage and the other  to refit new socket fronts  in kitchen and fit fused  spur 
fronts for appliances  connect boiler. Miss C said the certificates  werent sufficient for 
her requirements as a landlady. But, despite  being asked several  times,  she hadnt 
substantiated this. So I thought Ageas has done  enough.
Miss C wanted considerable more compensation than the investigator recommended. I 
considered what  shed told us about the trouble she was caused, the way her health was 
affected and the discrimination she says she suffered.  But I also had regard to the fact it 
wasnt Ageas fault the fire occurred  and the policyholder  will always suffer  a degree of 
trouble and inconvenience  when  an event like this occurs and while the property  is 
reinstated. Also, this wasnt Miss Cs own home  so the disruption didnt affect her own 
living arrangements.  Overall, I thought an award  of £200 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss C didnt accept my provisional  findings  she pointed out what she believed to be 
several inaccuracies in my decision,  noted  that I am biased towards Ageas and said, in 
summary, that:
Ref: DRN96819713Ageas  originally agreed she could use her own contractors and there  was no problem 
with this until she submitted the estimate.  At that point Ageas decided  she couldnt 
project manage the work which is clear  sexism.
She didnt cause any delays and she chased  Ageas (directly and via her insurance  
broker) many times.  She went on holiday at one point but she is legally entitled to do so 
and it was necessary  because  of her poor health, which  stemmed  from the stress 
caused by Ageas  poor handling of her claim.
Its not right to deduct the letting agents  fee from the rent calculation. The rental  
agreement says the rent is £595  per month  and thats what she should be paid.
Its not fair to calculate the council  tax refund in the way I proposed. 
Her tenants always wanted to move back in but Ageas were not sympathetic to their 
situation. This caused her stress.
I havent had appropriate regard for her obligations as a landlady, specifically in relation 
to the necessary certificates for work thats carried out on the property.
All the stress she has suffered  relates to the poor way Ageas handed the claim. It wasnt  
caused by the event  itself or the fact she had to claim.
She wants Ageas and its builders to apologise.
Ageas provided  no additional comments in response  to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not persuaded to 
change my opinion,  but I will comments on some of the points  Miss C has raised in response 
to my provisional decision.
Some of what Miss C has said is really just a repetition of what shes said before.  She hasnt 
provided any new evidence to support, for example, what shes said about the outstanding 
electrical certificate. Ive already explained  what I think about the delays that took place. And 
Ive seen little to support what shes said about Ageas acting in an unfair  or sexist way. She 
hasnt said anything new which changes my mind about those things.  
Miss C commented specially that she was entitled to take a holiday and I completely agree  
I said as much in my provisional  decision. The point I was making  was only that the claim 
couldnt proceed while she was away, so this did delay  things.
I also agree  with Miss C that the evidence shows she chased Ageas on more than one 
occasion. But there were  also times when they were waiting  for her to get back to them  and I 
included a specific example of this in my provisional  decision.
As I said in my provisional decision,  the repairs ended up taking  18 months whereas they 
shouldve taken six to eight weeks. Overall, I still consider  that both parties contributed  to 
some of the delays but that Ageas caused most  of them. And thats why I still think its fair for 
them to contribute  to 14 months  rather than 18 months  of the associated  extra  costs  
Ref: DRN96819714Miss C incurred or revenue she lost which wouldnt have happened  if the repairs  had been 
completed in a more  timely manner.
I appreciate Miss C is disappointed  that I havent  told Ageas to cover all her losses.  But I 
remain satisfied that the calculations I set out are the most  pragmatic and fair way to 
compensate her given  the difficulty pinning down exactly the impact of each individual  step 
in the claim and repairs process. So:
Miss C says the lost rent should be calculated using the amount quoted  in the rental 
agreement  £595. But I disagree. The policy terms and conditions refer to your loss of 
rent. And what Miss C personally lost was the net rental amount, after the letting agents 
fees had been deducted. So I remain satisfied that the lost rent should be calculated on 
the basis that Miss C shouldve received  £537.88 every month on the 25th of the month 
for 14 months from the date the first rental payment  was lost. So, from 25 April 2016  to 
25 May 2017 Miss C should receive £537.88  with interest (at 8% simple per year) added  
from the date each monthly rental  payment would have fallen due to the date of my final 
decision. And Ageas can deduct the £5,350 its already paid when working out what 
remains to be paid to Miss C. 
Miss C hasnt said specifically why she disagrees with my proposal  for the council  tax 
refund other than saying the facts  Id laid down were incorrect,  shed offered to submit 
invoices and getting the discounts from the council  proved very stressful. But the facts I 
set out about the amounts charged, discounted  and actually  paid were taken from 
document she provided. And she hasnt provided anything  new which contradicts this. 
So I must rely on the information I do have. And I still think  the fairest  way to calculate 
the 14-month refund is to take the total amount of council tax Miss C was charged over 
the 14-month period and calculate  an average monthly payment then multiply that by 14. 
So Ageas should  refund £42.10 per month for 14 months  from 15 June  2016  to 15 July 
2017. And interest (at 8% simple per year)  should be added from the date each council 
tax payment wouldve been made (the 15th of each  month) to the date of my final 
decision.
Miss C wants  an apology  from Ageas  and its agents  but I can see the letter  she was sent on 
21 July 2017 said we are sorry you had cause to contact us about the way your claim was 
handled. And in accepting the investigators and my recommendations I think  Ageas has 
already acknowledged that mistakes were made. I think Ageas sincerity could be doubted if 
I were  to instruct  it to apologise  again.  But, if Miss C ultimately accepts my decision,  I would 
encourage Ageas to think about whether  it would be right to offer a further apology alongside 
the award Ive set out below. 
Ive reconsidered  everything Miss C has said about  the stress and related poor health she 
suffered while  the claim and repairs were going.  But I still think  that £200 compensation is 
fair in the circumstances.
Neither party has said anything which changes my opinion, so I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  set out in my provisional  decision  and summarised  above.  
Ref: DRN96819715my final decision
My final decision is that Ageas Insurance Limited  should:
Pay Miss C an amount equal to 14 months loss of rent, calculated at £537.88 per month 
from 25 April 2016 to 25 May 2017 along  with interest at 8% simple  per year added  from 
the date each monthly rental  payment wouldve been paid to the date of my final 
decision, minus the £5,350 loss of rent thats already been paid.
Pay Miss C an amount equal to 14 months council tax, calculated at £42.10  per month  
from 15 June 2016 to 15 July 2017 along  with interest at 8% simple  per year added  from 
the date each payment wouldve been made to the date of my final decision.
Pay Miss C an amount equal to her re-letting fee of £360 plus interest  calculated  at 8% 
simple per year from 11 October 2017  to the date of my final decision.
Pay £200 compensation to Miss C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9681971