K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy that UIA (Insurance) Limited wont pay his claim  for storm damage to his 
roof, and internal damage.
background
In February 2019  Mr J reported a claim to UIA. He had returned  from being away  to find that 
the ceiling  in a bedroom had collapsed and rain had come in through  the roof. As he thought 
the damage needed attending to straight  away he had already  instructed a roofer  to carry 
out repairs. UIA sent out a contractor  to inspect the damage.  They  concluded that the roof 
was in a poor state of repair, that some of the slates were cracked and broken, and there 
had been lead tabs put in where  the nails had failed.  They  also concluded that any repairs 
had been carried  out poorly. UIA pointed  out that there had been no storm conditions 
reported on or around the date of the claim.
In respect of the internal  damage it said that this was likely  to have been caused over a 
period of time and there was no cover for a gradually operating cause.
Mr J was unhappy with this and said that UIA had got the wrong date for the damage and 
that he had been on cover for some  time so if it was previous storm damage UIA should 
cover it. He also pointed out that the roofer who had carried out repairs had threatened him 
over payment and said that he would damage the roof. He believed UIA shouldve  
considered possible  malicious damage. He also pointed out that UIA was withdrawing the 
insurance product  so was looking not to pay the claim.
On referral to this service  our investigator  checked  the weather records for the date Mr J 
said the damage happened and found no storm conditions. That being  the case  there was 
no cover  under the policy for it. With regard  to the internal  damage  he reached the same 
conclusion. He further said that he couldnt  see that there was any evidence  of malicious 
damage.
Mr J disagreed and felt that there  had been insufficient inspection  of the damage by UIA.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should set out here what the function  of this service is. We act as an alternative dispute 
resolution service, to resolve  complaints informally.  this means  I will set out each part of the 
claim and give my view on it. I dont  intend to go through  a detailed response to each and 
every point Mr J has made in response  to our investigators view.
storm damage to roof
As has been explained, when we consider storm damage we ask three questions.  Its only if 
the answer to each  of those questions is yes that I would be likely  to find the claim should 
be covered as storm damage. the questions are:
Ref: DRN936002921 were there  storm conditions on or around  the likely date of the damage?
2. is the damage  claimed for consistent  with damage a storm typically causes?
3. were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
A storm  has to be one-off identifiable  event. That is our approach, and that of the insurance  
industry, it doesnt need to be set out in the policy as Mr J believes. And as theres no 
definition of storm in the policy our approach  is to say that a storm generally involves violent 
winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. Here there  is some  doubt as to exactly 
when the damage  took place. But from our review  of the weather records  it has been shown 
that at on or around the date in question (between  29 January and 5 February 2019) that 
there were no high winds or heavy rain in Mr Js local area. So there was no storm and the 
damage isnt covered  under the storm part of the policy. Mr J refers  to the possibility of there 
having been previous  storm damage. Im afraid its up to him to show  that this was the case  
 the storm had to be identifiable.
Given that there was some doubt, even if there was a storm, and tiles blowing  off a roof 
might be consistent with storm damage, I would still have to consider whether the storm was 
the main cause of the damage. And the evidence is that the roof was in poor condition 
before any storm may have taken place  UIAs report refers  to cracked and slipped slates  
and previous temporary repairs carried out with flashing tape. Also as Mr J had already had 
repairs carried out, it would have been difficult to see the actual damage.  I appreciate that 
emergency repairs might  have been  needed but Mr J could have arranged  to have photos 
taken.
I dont think, even if there had been  storm conditions that they were  the main  cause of the 
damage.
accidental damage
As there was no storm, the internal damage wasnt covered  as storm damage. But there  is 
the possibility  of both the external and internal damage being covered as accidental 
damage. Accidental damage isnt defined  in the policy  so our approach is to say that it 
means damage which is unforeseen and unintentional.
So both the damage to the roof and the internal  damage could fall within this definition.  But 
for the roof its been identified as due to the poor condition  of the roof, and that there were 
subsequently poor repairs.  The accidental damage  cover under the policy  has the following  
exclusion:
Damage caused  by wear and tear, depreciation, rot, fungus,  insects,  vermin,  atmospheric or 
climatic conditions or other  gradually  operating cause.
The external  damage  identified  by UIAs  contractor  was in my view wear  and tear and 
something which had happened gradually.
In respect of the internal  damage this was also said to have happened  gradually. UIA 
referred to this in its final response letter as a Gradually operating  cause. The photos show 
damp stains on the ceiling and possible fungus  growth on the walls. I think it likely that the 
damage had occurred over a period  of time rather than on one occasion. Again Mr J has 
Ref: DRN93600293referred to possible previous storms. But we cant pinpoint when or if these took place  it 
seems likely that the roof being in the condition it was that periods of bad weather had 
caused the damage gradually. So again,  because  of the exclusion Ive referred to this isnt 
covered under the policy.
I understand that Mr J objects to us considering UIAs expert  report  as it was commissioned 
and paid for by UIA. But we dont carry out such reports so its reasonable to rely on the 
expert opinion, with the reports  and photos.
malicious damage
Mr J believes  UIA should have considered malicious  damage  because of the threats made  
to him by the roofer he employed. This would be an entirely separate  claim from the original 
roof damage, and I cant  see that Mr J has ever made a claim to UIA in that respect.  If a 
consumer has a claim its up to them to show on the face of it that they have such a claim. In 
any event I cant see that any evidence has been put forward that the roofer  caused actual 
damage to the roof. The indication from UIAs report is that the repairs  were carried  out 
poorly  not that there was deliberate damage.
 
withdrawal of the policy
I understand that UIA has now withdrawn this insurance product. Mr J believes that it 
declined the claim  for that reason. UIA is entitled  to withdraw such a product as long it 
advised its customers in time. I havent  seen any evidence that this is related  any way to the 
declining of the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9360029