K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain  Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited (LV) has declined 
their claim for the theft of one of their cars.
As Mrs Y was the owner of the vehicle for ease of reading I have only referred to Mrs Y in 
my decision.
background
Mrs Y made a claim to LV under her motor insurance policy  for the theft of her car, after she 
reported it was stolen from outside her house.
LV investigated Mrs Ys claim and ultimately  declined it. LV said the evidence didnt support 
the car having  been stolen.
Mrs Y was unhappy with LVs decision to reject her claim. And the time it had taken for them 
to reach  their decision. Mrs Y was also unhappy LV had categorised  her car as being a 
category N, (non-structural damage   repairable). She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  think LV had acted unreasonably as it couldnt be sufficiently shown 
that the car had been stolen. 
Mrs Y didnt agree and feels LV has accused  her of staging the theft, inferring shed known 
her car needed a major  repair.  She has asked for an ombudsman  to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
When Mrs Y made a claim, LV as the insurer  was entitled to carry out an investigation to 
check that the claim was one it would cover under the terms of the policy.
Mrs Y said her car had been parked outside  her home and noticed  its disappearance the 
morning of 6 February  2019. She reported  the theft to the police and on receipt of the crime 
reference number,  reported the car stolen  to LV. The car was recovered  the next day.
LV in their investigation found  that the two keys needed to start the car were still in Mrs Ys 
possession. Its possible for a car to be stolen without the key being used. So, I need to 
determine whether  LVs decision  to decline the claim has been  thoroughly  considered. 
As the car was recovered and the keys have been provided, Ive considered all of the 
inspection reports.  And these reports found:
no evidence of forced entry. All locks/steering lock and door glass were  found to be 
intact. 
no evidence of the vehicles  wiring loom or OBD  port having  been tampered with or 
hotwired
a key would have been required in order to move the vehicle  
it is my opinion the vehicle could only have  been taken with one of the original keys.
Ref: DRN97883882It was also found  that Mrs Ys car needed  a significant repair.  And that this wasnt a result  of 
what had happened  but had been  caused over a period of time. 
 
LV taking all the findings from the reports concluded  a key would have been needed to start 
and move the car. And with both keys still being  in Mrs Ys possession declined  her claim. 
When a consumer makes a claim, the onus is on them  to show that, on balance,  an insured 
event caused  the loss. But, when  an insurer wants to apply  an exclusion or say a condition 
hasnt been met and so decline a claim, as is the case here, the onus is on them  to show,  on 
balance, that the exclusion or condition applies.
And in this case I dont  think  LV has been  unreasonable in its findings that the car didnt 
appear to have been stolen. So, Im satisfied LV acted reasonably in declining Mrs Ys claim.
I can see that a comment was made, on one of the engineers reports which suggested the 
theft was possibly staged as the car needed  extensive repair.  I can understand why this 
would be upsetting for Mrs Y. But LV havent  noted  her claim as being  fraudulent,  which it 
would have done if they thought Mrs Y had done  this.
And I dont  think LV caused any undue delay.  Investigating claims,  particularly where  an 
insurer has concerns  which require follow up will inevitably  take longer to deal with than a 
straight forward claim.
Mrs Y said having her car categorised as N has meant it was significantly devalued and so 
shed had to sell it for less than its worth.
Where a cars been damaged an insurer might  decide it should  be written-off (known as a 
total loss).  This might  be because of the type of damage to the vehicle or because the 
insurer thinks its uneconomical to repair. When this happens, the vehicle will be given  a 
category, according  to the severity  of the damage. This is a voluntary code agreed between 
the Association of British  Insurers (ABI) and salvage  dealers.  
Category N means  there is no structurally damage  and its repairable, but the insurer has 
decided not to. As the engineers report shows the value of Mrs Ys car, is less than the 
amount needed  to repair it. I cant say LV have acted unreasonably in categorising her car in 
this way as it falls in line with business standards.
I know Mrs Y will be disappointed with my decision.  But I think  LV has acted reasonably in 
declining her claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2020
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9788388