K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed that AXA France  IARD, as the insurer, should take responsibility for this
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.  Mr P says
AXA mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Mr P took out a store card in September 1995  and the PPI was sold at the same time. Mr P 
paid a monthly amount for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion
so the complaint has been passed to me  an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mr Ps case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr P says that the PPI was presented as part of the package and it wasnt  explained 
properly to him. Mr P took out the PPI in store. When selling the PPI to Mr P, AXA shouldve 
made it clear  the policy was optional. It also shouldve got Mr Ps agreement to take it out. 
AXA hasnt got any paperwork  from the time of sale. This is unfortunate, but unsurprising  
given how long ago the credit card and PPI were  taken out. And in cases where I have 
limited information about  a sale,  I have to decide  what I think is more  likely to have 
happened based on the information I have.
Ive considered Mr Ps comments  alongside what we know  in general about how AXA sold 
PPI at the time to decide whats more  likely  to have happened. And based on what  I know  
about how this type of PPI was sold I wouldve expected there to have been conversations  
with the representative about the PPI and paperwork wouldve had to be completed to 
confirm Mr P wanted the policy.  I wouldve expected  Mr P to read over the paperwork and 
raise any questions he had at the time before signing it.
So, based  on the evidence Ive been provided,  I think its most likely Mr P knew  at the time
that the PPI was optional and that he decided to take it. But I can understand why he might 
not recall this now, as the sale took place  many years ago.
AXA didnt provide Mr P with advice about whether to buy the policy.  So, this meant it didnt 
have to check the PPI was suitable  for Mr P. But it did have  to make sure he got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him. Although I dont know what  was said 
to him then, I think its likely that the information he received  about  the PPI could have been
better than it was. But I dont think better information would have changed  his mind about
taking the cover and Ill explain why.
Mr P says he had medical conditions  at the time of sale and these conditions were 
something that wouldve made it difficult for him to make a claim on the policy.
Ref: DRN97386462Ive thought carefully about the information Mr P has told us about his health conditions. 
Having done this, I dont have enough evidence that Mr P would have thought  this would be 
the main reasons he might have needed  to claim on the policy in the future. And the policy
wouldve covered  him for other things. I say this because Mr P has explained  how he had 
two operations and hereafter he managed his condition with his GP. I accept Mr P may have 
sometimes needed some  time off work  for his health issues. But from what hes told us it 
doesnt seem the conditions  meant  Mr P would have an extended  period of time off work  in 
one go. The policy is intended to cover  illnesses which mean  the consumer will be off work 
for at least 30 consecutive days.  So, I dont think better information  about this exclusion 
wouldve affected Mr Ps decision to take out the policy.
Mr P says he wouldve  received sick pay and a redundancy  package from his employer at 
the time.  However,  the PPI wouldve  paid out up to 15% of Mr Ps outstanding monthly 
balance, until he returned to work  or the outstanding  balance  had been paid off. And he 
wouldve received  the same  benefit  if he was made redundant. The policy  wouldve paid out 
in addition to his sick pay or redundancy pay and lasted longer.  So, I think he would have 
valued the extra security which the policy gave him if things went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr P. And as the policys premiums
were paid monthly, he could have  cancelled it if it no longer met his needs.
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said, but this hasnt changed my mind about not
upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against AXA France  IARD.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2020.
Chandni Green  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9738646