K820x#14complaint
Mr A and Mrs A complained about  Admiral  Insurance Company Limiteds handling of their 
car insurance policy.
background
In January 2016, Mr A and Mrs As car was damaged  during an accident. The car was a total 
loss. Mr A and Mrs A initially  pursued  the other drivers insurer  for their loss, but in the 
summer of 2017 they claimed  on their car insurance  policy  with Admiral.
Admiral said the cars pre-accident market value was £125,600. Mr A and Mrs A didnt agree 
with Admiral and said the cars value was around  £150,000, they complained. But Admiral 
didnt uphold  their complaint.  Mr A and Mrs A didn't  think that was fair so they brought  their 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators  looked into the complaint. She felt that Admirals  
valuation was too low. She suggested  that Admiral should increase the valuation to 
£152,965. As Admiral  didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 20 May 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mr A and Mrs A, but Im not intending to uphold  this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
In their complaint,  Mr A and Mrs A have  made  a number of detailed  points and Ive 
considered all those  carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus  on what  I consider  to 
be the key issues.  My role is to decide if Admiral  have dealt with Mr A and Mrs A in a 
fair and reasonable way.
The policy says that where the car is a total loss, Admiral must pay Mr A and Mrs A the 
pre-accident market value  of it. The starting  point  when trying to establish the market value 
of a car is to look at the industry  accepted trade  guides, and that is what Admiral  did, as I 
would expect. The guides are based on extensive nationwide research of likely selling 
prices. 
I can see that two of the guides returned  valuations of £119,060 and £125,600. There  
are four main trade guides used in the insurance  industry to value cars.  One of them  
didnt give a valuation  for the car; Admiral  got valuations from two of them;  but 
Admiral didnt get one from the fourth  guide.  When our adjudicator investigated the 
complaint she did get a valuation from the fourth guide, which returned a valuation  of 
£152,965 for Mr A and Mrs As car. 
Where a number of the guides give different valuations, the industry  practice is to 
average the valuations to find the market value.  For example, if three guides give 
valuations of £10,000, £13,000  and £16,000 the average of the three would be 
£13,000. If, however,  one of the guide valuations is significantly  out of line with two of 
the other guides,  the industry practice is to disregard  the valuation that is significantly 
out of line. For example:  guide 1 £10,000; guide  2 £12,000;  guide 3 £20,000. In such 
a case we would expect the insurer to disregard guide 3 given it is significantly out of 
line with guides  1 and 2.
Ref: DRN91958932In Mr A and Mrs As case, the three guide  valuations  available  for their car are as 
follows: (1) £119,060;  (2) £125,600 and (3) £152,965. The difference between 
valuations (1) and (2) is around 5%. The difference between valuations  (2) and (3) is 
around 22%.  So valuation (3) is significantly out of line with the other  two valuations 
so I think it should  be disregarded.
Valuing a car isnt an exact science and while we expect insurers to use the trade 
guides, they are only guides. And we do expect insurers to consider  any other 
evidence thats  available. Im aware that Mr A and Mrs A provided  a number of 
adverts for cars similar to theirs that were  priced  much higher than the valuation  
offered by Admiral. But as Mr A and Mrs A didnt claim for their car from Admiral until 
around 18 months after the accident, I think the adverts they provided werent of cars 
advertised for sale in January 2016,  when the accident happened. And the evidence  I 
have seen suggests that since  January 2016  when the accident  happened,  this type 
of car has increased in value. That would suggest  the market value of the car in 2017 
or 2018 would  have  been higher than the market value of it in January 2016.  So I 
dont think adverts from 2017  and 2018  would accurately  reflect the market value of 
the car in January 2016.
But even though they are only guides, we feel the trade guides  are reliable and find 
them more  persuasive  than the asking  price for a car advertised. The advertised  
asking price for a car is not necessarily the price  it sold for, nor is it necessarily the 
true market  value. And often the advertised  price  may be inflated  to allow for 
negotiation. The guides have expertise in this field and base their information  on 
extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices.
One of the points Mr A and Mrs A raised was that their car had specific extras that 
added value to their car over and above  similar cars without  those  extras. They felt 
that the valuation offered by the guide  used  by Admiral didnt take those  into 
consideration. But its worthwhile noting  that not all extras or enhanced specifications  
will add value to a car, and some  will actually result  in a cars  value going down. And, 
even where an extra  does increase the value, its unlikely to do so on a pound  for 
pound basis in comparison  to its cost.
The guides  allow  certain extras to be input before generating a valuation. Certain 
extras can be input that the guides feel add value to a car, whereas certain other 
extras that the guides dont feel add value to the car cant be input. Our adjudicator  
asked the guides if they could provide a bespoke valuation for Mr A and Mrs As car 
based on those  extras. One of the guides  told us that some of the extras Mr A and 
Mrs A felt added value to their car didnt  add value, which is why their system didnt 
allow those  extras to be input into their system  when generating a valuation. The 
fourth guide that our adjudicator used that gave a valuation of over £150,000 also 
didnt allow some of those extras to be input, so Im not persuaded that those extras  
enhance the value of Mr A and Mrs As car.
I therefore think the two guide valuations obtained  by Admiral for £119,060 and 
£125,600 are the correct ones for them to use because the third one our service 
obtained was significantly out of line and] should be disregarded. Admiral  could have  
produced a valuation by averaging those  two guides, but instead they used the 
highest valuation,  which I think  was fair. Im therefore not intending to uphold  this 
complaint as I feel Admirals valuation  was fair and reasonable, and they followed the 
Ref: DRN91958933industry accepted  valuation  method that our service  expects. And I havent seen any 
convincing evidence to show  that the valuation should have been higher, so Im not 
asking Admiral to do anything.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr A and Mrs A disagreed with my 
provisional decision. They provided  information  from a group buyer of prestige cars (AP) and 
a prestige car dealer  (W) in support of their complaint. Admiral  agreed with my provisional 
decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same. But Id like to address Mr A and Mrs As further comments, as follows:
the way in which the trade guides  value cars
The information Mr A and Mrs A got from AP said that the two trade  guides  used by Admiral 
get their values only from cars disposed of through auctions and the type of [cars] that are 
sent to auction  will only be the very worst  examples or cars with mechanical problems etc  
For this reason, we never take account  of published  trade guide  values  
W said the trade guides  get most of their values  simply from average values achieved  at 
auction and as very few retail condition [cars] are entered into auctions,  the trade guides will 
only reflect  the trade values of the substandard condition cars bought and sold through  there  
and not the actual retail cars available  through official [main  dealer]  outlets.  
But Admiral  dispute  what AP and W said. Admiral said that the values they got from the two 
trade guides they used werent  auction  or trade values, but retail transacted  prices which 
portray dealer selling prices. I have looked at the valuations  given  by both trade  guides  
Admiral used. One of the guides  (G) has both trade and a retail transacted (what  the car 
is likely  to sell for at a reputable dealership) values for the car and they are different. The 
trade value  is lower than the retail transacted value.  Likewise, the other guide (C) gives a 
number of different  values  for the same car, including its auction value and its retail 
transacted value.  Again,  as expected, the auction  value is lower.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  the guides  used by Admiral give values of cars 
based on extensive nationwide research  of their likely selling prices.  So not the advertised 
prices which  include a dealer uplift. Its also important  to note that the guides used by 
Admiral also allow for an adjustment in value to take account of the condition  of a car. For 
example, guide  C gives  the option to value the car on the basis of its condition  being clean,  
average  or below average. So if a car is in a poor condition its likely to be valued as 
being in below average condition which will attract a lower value than a car valued on the 
basis of its condition being clean, which reflects a car of showroom standard condition.  So I 
dont agree with Mr A and Mrs As suggestion  that Admiral based their valuation  of the car 
on trade guides that only valued cars that were sold at auction that were in poor condition.
the valuation information from AP and W
I explained in my provisional decision  that Admiral had to pay Mr A and Mrs A their cars 
pre-accident market value. As the accident happened in January 2016, the value of the car 
at that time was the amount Admiral had to pay.
Ref: DRN91958934AP specialise in sourcing and supplying  prestige  cars.  In response to my provisional 
decision, I understand that Mr A and Mrs A asked them for assistance on the issue of the 
cars valuation. But having seen the information  provided by AP, Im not satisfied that theyve 
said what they feel the value of Mr A and Mrs A car was as at January 2016, so I dont find it 
helpful. What  they told Mr A and Mrs A was if you were happy  to have a 2012/12 car today 
[June 2019] then in that specification id [sic] say a good car with maybe 3-4 owners 
maximum we could  supply for circa £155-160,000. This suggests  that a similar car to Mr A 
and Mrs As car could  be bought in June  2019  for the amount quoted. It doesnt say what  the 
value of Mr A and Mrs As car was back in January  2016. 
W deal in prestige cars. Mr A and Mrs A also asked them for assistance after I issued  my 
provisional decision. I can see from the information  provided by W that they set out to value 
Mr A and Mrs Bs car at the time of the accident two years ago and its current  equivalent 
replacement value in todays market. I understand that W provided their opinion to Mr A and 
Mrs A around mid-2019. The accident and total loss was in January 2016. Therefore the 
information provided by W was around three  and a half years after the time of the accident  
and not two years as they suggest.  This is important because the value should be of the car 
immediately before the accident. And in the case of Mr A and Mrs As car, I understand that 
that type of car appreciated in value. W concluded  by saying if youre  asking what a 
2012/12 car is fetching today [my emphasis] than id [sic] say £150-£160k is about right 
But, as Ive explained above,  the value of the car today (mid-2019) isnt relevant, its the 
value of the car in January 2016 that Admiral have to pay. It follows that I don't intend  to 
change my provisional decision findings as set out above.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 October  2019.   
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9195893