complaint
Mr O has complained about advice he received from S4 Financial Ltd to invest  in the Invicta
Film Partnership  No 22 (2004/5) in March 2005. In particular, Mr O has said that the individual 
investment wasnt suited to his balanced risk profile,  and that, in recommending  the investment, S4 
also failed to create the overall balanced  risk portfolio that was agreed at the outset. Mr O has said 
that this has led to substantial losses within his portfolio.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 21 August 2020, a copy  
of which  is attached.
In that decision,  I said that I was minded to not uphold  the complaint, for reasons which  are also set 
out in that decision.
In summary,  I concluded that S4 had demonstrated  failings in the way it had described the risk 
associated with the Invicta  investment. Although S4 had said that it was, in isolation,  suited to a 
balanced risk profile, I concluded that it was a high risk investment and that S4s description  belied 
the reality of the risks it posed.
But I was also satisfied  that Mr O was aware,  and was justified in believing,  that the investment 
formed part of an overall balanced portfolio which S4 was creating for him. Having considered the 
asset split within that portfolio, along  with specific factors which would contribute  to the creation of 
such a portfolio for Mr O, I concluded  that the investment could reasonably be described as suitable.  
S4s response to the provisional decision
S4s representative has responded to the provisional decision on S4s behalf, saying that it broadly 
accepted the outcome, but wished to add the following points in summary:  
S4s reasonable perception of Mr Os understanding
The provisional decision found  that Mr O was aware of the nature of the investment and the 
attendant risks. It also found  that Mr O was provided with clear advice about the risks and had 
been furnished with documentation which he would have read and understood. Furthermore,  
had Mr O not understood matters,  he would have raised this with S4.
But the representative asked  that I consider S4s alternative  position, which  didnt depend on 
the actual  knowledge  or understanding of Mr O. This was that S4 had concluded, and was 
entitled to conclude,  that Mr O was capable of understanding the advice given to him and the 
documents provided, and that S4 was entitled  to rely on the fact that Mr O had signed 
individual high net worth certificates.
In other words, the representative said, S4s advice and approach  was reasonable, given its 
assessment of Mr Os level of understanding. And advice ought to be given in terms 
appropriate to the recipient.
Therefore, even  if Mr O claimed  that he didnt understand the advice being given, this didnt 
mean that the advice  was unsuitable  S4 had given the recommendation in a manner 
appropriate for Mr O.
S4 was entitled to rely on Mr O querying  anything he didnt understand, and that he was a 
relatively sophisticated  investor who was capable  of making informed  choices and 
understanding formal  documents issued  to him.
To the extent that the provisional  decision  said that matters were  understood by Mr O, S4 
was also entitled  to expect that they would have  been understood and acted reasonably  in 
proceeding on that basis.
Ref: DRN9806034To illustrate the point,  the representative identified  alternative findings that it said could and 
should be made in relation to a property partnership recommended  in December 2005 - but 
said that similar findings should  be made  in the majority of the decisions:
oInstead of finding that Mr O was capable  of understanding the high net worth  
certificate, concluding that S4 was entitled  to believe that he understood it and had 
signed it, as it was appropriate for him to do so.
oInstead of finding that Mr O could fairly be described as an intelligent,  capable 
individual who had the capacity to understand what was being proposed, concluding  
that S4 was entitled  to characterise  him in this manner and propose  an investment on 
the basis that he understood  what was being  proposed.
oInstead of finding that if Mr O had not understood the investment, he would have 
raised this, concluding  that, as he hadnt  raised  any queries, Mr O had understood the 
nature of the investment.
oInstead of finding that Mr O would have  wanted  to satisfy himself  that he understood 
the proposal before proceeding, concluding that S4 was entitled  to believe that Mr O 
had so satisfied himself.
oInstead of finding that Mr O wouldnt have believed all the investments held within  his 
portfolio to carry a balanced  risk rating, concluding that S4 was entitled to proceed on 
the basis that he would have understood that a portfolio  can properly be described  as 
balanced, despite individual  investments carrying a higher level of risk.
Separation of complaints
S4s representative also submitted  further  commentary on our decision to consider seven of Mr Os 
complaints separately, saying the following in summary: 
The provisional decisions for the seven  complaints consistently approached the complaints 
on the basis that it was necessary to consider the investments as being part of an overall 
portfolio. The decisions  found that the individual investments constituted relatively  small 
percentages of the overall portfolio and that a balanced risk portfolio  need not consist  of only 
balanced risk investments. It was commonplace to diversify a balanced  portfolio using a 
range of higher and lower risk investments.
But the representative didnt agree that there were in fact seven  separate complaints here  
all seven were complaints about  elements  of a single investment  portfolio and so couldnt be 
considered as complaints about  those  elements  as if they were  standalone investments.
There was also a point of public policy here. Our scheme was designed as an informal 
dispute resolution service for dealing with relatively low value complaints. It wasnt the 
intention of Parliament  that we should, by purporting to separate complaints, claim a 
jurisdiction many times the monetary limit applicable under FSMA s.229(4). 
As set out in S4s letter of 9 April 2015,  it had asked this service to identify the source of our 
alleged power  to split complaints and for an explanation of the reasoning behind the splitting 
of the complaints, but it was unclear as to whether this had ever been fully addressed.
If the complaint  was regarded as seven separate complaints, this service would in theory 
have the jurisdiction to award  over £1m  a dispute of this magnitude would  ordinarily be 
determined in the Business & Property  Courts and was wholly contrary to our schemes 
purpose.
At the very least, Mr Os complaints about his participation in the Invicta scheme  should  be 
considered as a single complaint   the two complaints related to the same scheme. The 
representative thought that I had wrongly  concluded that the investment in 2010  was S4s 
responsibility because  it had advised on the same  scheme in 2005.
The representative said that, as the claims had failed, the issue  was academic  but S4 
wished to express the point so that it would not be thought  that the point about separating 
complaints had been abandoned.
The representative also said that S4 had noted with concern that the provisional decision 
didnt give proper  weight to the success of the Invicta investment in producing a tax 
Ref: DRN9806034advantage to Mr O. Total  tax relief of £172,644  was generated for the 2005, 2006  and 2007 
years.
The initial investment  was designed  to generate  a loss so as to produce tax relief, and this 
outcome was successfully  achieved. Mr Os complaint  was therefore that the scheme  worked 
as intended, and such a complaint was irrational. The complaints in relation to that scheme 
should be dismissed for that reason alone, or at the very least, credit ought  to be given for the 
tax advantage produced.
Mr Os response  to my provisional  decision
Mr O didnt agree with the conclusion I had reached. Indeed, he made  many  lengthy submissions on 
my previous  decision,  running to some  35 pages. It would not be appropriate to repeat each and 
every one of those points  here, but I can assure Mr O that I have considered them  all. Instead I will 
provide a summary of his points as follows: 
All S4 had done from the start was increase  the risk in his portfolio  which had been  
balanced risk in nature until the high risk investments were added.
My summary of his complaint was that which had been  used by S4 in its acknowledgement  
letter of 24 September 2013 to his complaint. S4s formal response, dated 5 December 2013, 
correctly clarified the complaint as being  that Mr O had been mis-sold a number  of 
investments, on the grounds that they were misrepresented and inappropriate for his needs.  
His complaint submitted to this service  reiterated  this.
By manipulating the grounds for complaint, I had changed the focus  of my response to 
considering the portfolio as a whole, as opposed to considering  whether individual 
investments were  appropriate  for him  and whether theyd been misrepresented.
I had agreed  that certain  individual investments were  inappropriate for a balanced risk 
investor, but in justifying my conclusion, I had followed S4s approach, whereby each 
investment is looked at individually  and said to represent a certain  percentage of the overall 
portfolio. This was not fair or reasonable  rather the cumulative impact  of the high risk 
investments needed to be considered,  as that cumulative impact was substantial.
I had said that Mr O would have  tolerated high risk ventures for a very small percentage of his 
portfolio if they were offset by lower risk investments,  but he had actually  said that this would 
be tolerable only if they were offset by very low risk investments. I had in a number of 
instances isolated only the initial part of that statement, but this wasnt  indicative of 
acceptance of a cascade of high risk investments.
He couldnt  see how I had mitigated the high risk investments with lower risk investments. I 
had significantly  understated the amount of high risk investments, whilst simultaneously  
overstating the value  of lower risk investments. This was caused by inaccurate information 
provided by S4 and my omission  of a number  of key investments which increased the risk 
significantly.
S4 had been clear  from the start that Mr Os intention was to reduce volatility and risk within  
his portfolio.  This was set out in S4s own response to his complaint. But the reality was that 
both volatility and risk had increased.
My view that it was highly unlikely that Mr O believed all of the investments to carry a 
balanced risk rating was unlawful,  as per the conclusion of a judicial review into a previous 
ombudsmans findings on these  cases. This also directly contradicted  the findings of another 
ombudsman when upholding a case Mr O brought against a different business, in which  the 
ombudsman had said that:
if the business wanted to recommend a higher risk investment for inclusion in Mr Os 
ostensibly balanced risk portfolioit was up to the business to make this clear  to Mr O when  
making the recommendation, which the business failed to do.
I had concluded  that the higher risk nature of the investments was implied  through  the 
disclosure of the risks associated with the type of scheme.  But S4 wasnt clear, fair and not 
misleading in its description of the investments, as required  by the FCA. My findings  werent  
consistent with this. The individual investments were described  as being balanced  and this 
was unequivocally  misrepresentation.  There was only one instance, which  wasnt  the subject 
Ref: DRN9806034of this complaint,  where there was evidence that an investment had been described  as being 
high risk.
Mr O then set out greater detail on the above points, as follows  Im using his own subheadings:
Lack of consideration  of the overall  cumulative  impact of high risk investments
My approach of looking at the percentage of each individual investment as a percentage of 
the overall portfolio  wasnt fair or reasonable  the cumulative impact of the high risk 
investments needed to be considered   and this was substantial.
My approach suggested  that at least £1.5m of assets which  had been individually  assessed 
as high risk were  cumulatively suitable  for a balanced risk portfolio.
I had said in the decision that, individually, the Invicta investment represented a higher than 
balanced risk, and that only by inclusion in an overall balanced portfolio could this be 
considered to be suitable for Mr O. But this approach was illogical, and not fair or reasonable. 
The individual investments  were described  as balanced, which was misrepresentation, and 
there had to be repercussions for this.
My provisional decision  to not uphold the complaint was based on the higher risk investments  
being balanced by low risk investments. But the lower risk investments didnt exist to the 
extent that an overall balanced  risk was maintained. Mr O said that, for every  suitability letter  
where the investment  was described as balanced, the recommendation had the cumulative 
effect of further increasing risk in his portfolio. This, he said,  was illustrated by pie charts he 
included in his response. Nearly of all of S4s recommendations were high risk, if not very 
high risk.
S4s own representation of the investments as balanced  risk, which Id said belied the reality 
of the situation, meant that it would  itself not have been capable of appreciating the overall 
exposure to risk in his portfolio.
I had looked  at each investment selectively, but if they were looked  at cumulatively it was 
clear that S4 didnt  create a balanced  risk portfolio.
Incomplete and inaccurate information provided by S4
S4 relied on poor information produced by its information system  this included significant  
errors and excluded many high risk investments.
No cash balances were held as investments  it just so happened that, in some  instances, 
there was cash on a particular date pending investment.
Individual investment values were  wrong  in a number of cases. In one instance,  Mr Os 
mortgage of £353,000  and a childrens account of £48,109  were  included as cash  balances. 
But the childrens  cash account never existed.
Many  of the dates  on the schedules were wrong and, with regard to the Invicta investment, 
the Venture Capital Trusts (VCTs) were established  on the same day, not many weeks later.
One of the investments, for £50,000 - included in the fixed income  allocation  - was a high risk 
investment which reduced to zero value. Another  was of a similar risk, although the money 
was returned.  But neither  could reasonably  be included in the category of low risk 
investments.
Cash calls on certain property investments were  categorised as fixed  income,  when they 
were high risk commercial property investments.
The film partnership tax liabilities hadnt been  deducted from the portfolio and the tax risk 
hadnt been assessed.
The bare trusts for the children  hadnt  been  deducted  from the total portfolio.
One investment  in particular, a tax mitigation scheme which  wasnt  the subject of this 
complaint, had a true cost of £101,015  and contained a tax risk for many years. S4 
artificially reduced  the ongoing cost of the investment  and this was the case with a number 
of investments.
A previous ombudsman had concluded  that an investment wasnt  to be assessed as less 
risky at the point  of sale just because risks havent  crystallised  and caused loss at the current 
point of assessment.  But I hadnt taken this into account.
Ref: DRN9806034The VCT paid to date  figures were net of tax relief, whilst the value and growth figures  were  
included gross of tax relief.
Certain of the higher risk investments  werent  included in the schedules I relied upon. They 
needed to be, as the tax rebates  were designed  to be reinvested  to generate sufficient  returns  
to meet  the liabilities they created. A previous ombudsman had assessed these investments 
against the portfolio. I had disregarded them,  but included the Invicta investment so that I 
could deem it to be a suitable recommendation. This wasnt a fair or reasonable approach.
PEP and ISA valuations hadnt  been  updated  between June 2009 and September  2010.
On a number  of occasions,  the date that an investment was input  into the system was used, 
rather than when  it was actually  established.
Mr O had raised discrepancies with S4 when  the reports were issued, for example in an email  
dated 14 June  2011 he commented  that investments appeared to have disappeared, others 
had changed and one was still showing when it shouldnt.
The errors meant that Mr O was unable to reconcile the analysis  I had performed with the 
facts of the situation. S4s own inability to accurately record the portfolio undermined the 
supposition that it had maintained a balanced risk portfolio. The reality, including  the true cost 
and liabilities associated with the investments, would have demonstrated that S4 was, from 
day one, creating a high risk portfolio.
No checks had been undertaken on the accuracy of the information.
Inaccurate and incomplete analysis performed by the Ombudsman
Mr O said that I had significantly understated  the amount  of high risk investments, whist 
simultaneously overstating the value  of lower risk ones.
Mr O set out a list of all new individual investments recommended  by S4, and those which  
had been recommended  by the predecessor advising firm, which  Mr O considered 
contributed to the cumulative risk rating  of his portfolio. This included  a risk rating as defined 
by Brewin Dolphin for each investment. 
With specific regard to the Invicta 22 investment, Mr O said the following:
My analysis  was that this represented around 5%, and including  the investment in the 
Chatham Leisure  property scheme, around 6% of the overall portfolio. This increased  to 8% if 
the pension assets  were  excluded.
But, Mr O said, the Bare Trusts shouldnt have  been included  in the total and the unit trust 
savings plans in the names  of the children also shouldnt  have  been  included. This reduced 
the overall portfolio value from £1.29m to £1.27m.
The Chatham  Leisure  investment was incorrectly recorded as a net amount  of £15,235, but 
the correct amount  was £101,015. No tax rebate had been  received by the point of the Invicta 
investment, and even  if it had been, the risk remained  for the full invested amount as the 
rebate was itself at risk.
The VCTs were established  on the same day as the Invicta investment. These  shouldnt  
therefore have  been categorised as cash. The total amount invested  on that day was 
therefore £167,500  or 13% of £1.27m.
Although I recorded one other  tax based scheme in commercial property held at the time, 
there were four others. The total invested in tax based schemes was £441,535. 
Id also excluded three other high risk property schemes.
Overall, therefore, the VCTs  and the Invicta  investment accounted for £167,500  so 13% of 
the overall £1.27m portfolio. And if the other tax based schemes and high risk property 
schemes were taken into account,  this amounted to £516,535 being invested   or 41% of the 
overall portfolio.  
If the pension  assets  were removed, this increased the exposure  to 54% of the portfolio.
The future tax liabilities  also needed  to be deducted to obtain a net value of the portfolio. 
These amounted  to around £456,000. S4 had included the value of the tax rebates received, 
but hadnt factored in the future  liabilities.  This would  have resulted in a net portfolio value of 
around £814,000.
Ref: DRN9806034The high risk investments therefore  represented  an exceptionally large  percentage at the 
time. No cash investments (other than small amounts in PEPs  and ISAs  amounting  to around 
£12,000, which were  left to cover  charges) were held and a very small fixed  income  
investment of approximately £19,000.  
The investment  breakdown as at 2 March  2005 was £516,535  held in high risk investments,  
£19,457 held in fixed income  investments and £12,664 held in cash. There was no mitigation  
of the high risk investments here.
Although I had said that Mr Os attitude  to risk had been described as being 
balanced/aggressive, this wasnt  the case, as evidence by the balanced  risk rating 
recorded in the suitability  letter  for the Invicta  investment.
The investment  was designed and recommended as exactly that - not a tax mitigation 
scheme. S4 had introduced  tax planning to optimise portfolio performance, as indicated in the 
commentary on its website.
Mr O then set out further points for my consideration:
In most instances, I hadnt included in my assessment the high risk investments 
recommended by the previous advising business. Given  the high risk nature of these  
investments and the stated  objective of reducing  volatility  and risk within  the portfolio, only low 
risk investments  should have  been  recommended.
But the high risk investments only increased over time,  whilst those appropriate  for a 
balanced risk portfolio didnt.
Mr O further reiterated that there were no cash investments held in his portfolio  any such 
balances were the result of the timing of investments or straightforward errors.
A cash investment was very different from cash held pending reinvestment. And the fixed 
income amount in the portfolio  never approached anything near the target  amount of 20%.
The ombudsman  who had considered complaints about  film partnership  investments 
recommended by the previous advising firm had said that they carried risks above those 
highlighted by that business.
Hed also said that an investment wasnt to be assessed as less risky at the point of sale just 
because potential risks hadnt been crystallised and caused loss at that particular point.
Mr O also provided  visual  representations of his investment portfolio over time, saying as background 
information that there had always been  three distinct parts  to his portfolio: the assets  which existed 
and continued  to be managed by him, namely  the Fidelity Unit trusts, PEPs and ISAs,  the Friends  
Provident policy and the share/fund accounts  with NatWest and Hargreaves Lansdown; the portfolio  
which S4 was creating; and the pension fund.
Mr O said that the existing assets were viewed by S4 as being higher risk due to the relatively large  
equity components.
Market definition of a balanced risk portfolio
Mr O noted my comment that that there  were  no hard and fast rules in terms of what constitutes a 
balanced risk portfolio.  But, he said, the market definition of a balanced risk portfolio was quite  
specific  it was a mix of equities and bonds  and the greater the percentage of equities, the higher 
the risk.
Mr O included risk classifications as set out by Brewin Dolphin, and said that investments  
recommended by S4 fell within risk levels  nine and ten  on a risk scale of one to ten (ten being the 
highest). It was clear  that Brewin Dolphin would not incorporate the vast majority of the 
recommended investments as suitable  for a balanced risk portfolio   and this was true of every  
provider Mr O had looked at.
Weighting of high risk investments and consideration  of latitude
Ref: DRN9806034Mr O said that any latitude which might be given to including higher risk investments wasnt borne 
out, as the high percentage  of high risk investments wasnt balanced by lower risk investments.
There was in any case no scope  for greater latitude here. Although  I had cited as a key aspect Mr 
Os acceptance of the specific  risks posed,  Mr O rejected the notion that he had accepted specific 
risks other than those  which S4 had presented  to him as being appropriate for a balanced risk 
portfolio. And a number of those risks had in any case been  misrepresented or omitted.
I had also said that Mr O accepted that commercial property would form a part of his portfolio, but 
this was presented  to him by S4 as being  part of the balanced risk portfolio. I had said that, as S4 
had been willing to commit the balanced  risk description in its own documents,  it was difficult to see 
how Mr O would be expected to form any other view. But my comments relating to greater latitude 
suggested that he should in fact have formed an alternative view.
The only evidence I had provided to substantiate  this comment was from a letter of complaint to the 
provider of property  partnerships which had been  recommended  by S4, which  had said that the 
existence of the associated  loans  wasnt an issue or concern for him. However, this was taken out of 
context and they werent his own words  but rather written by S4 in an attempt to deflect 
responsibility for the losses  he incurred. It was also made in the context of wanting assurance  that 
there would be no further losses as a result of the loans.
The loans were  in fact an issue for Mr O, given  that he was receiving threatening letters  about loans 
linked to one investment  in particular. It was therefore a leap to take this comment and apply it 
unilaterally to all of the investments.
Furthermore, although I had concluded that awareness of the additional risks wouldnt have altered 
Mr Os decision  making, in his original letter of complaint he had said that if hed been made aware of 
the significant risks, he wouldnt  have invested.
Incorrect inclusion  of pension fund monies with the other investments
Mr O said that it was correct practice  to view pension funds separately from other investments, given 
that they were  ring fenced for retirement.  Two other financial advisers Mr O had spoken  to affirmed  
this view.
But if they were to be included, Mr O said, S4 had dramatically increased  the risk to which  they were 
exposed. He said that hed incurred losses from the high risk pension investments  of around 
£169,000 as a result  leaving him with around  £170,000 (illiquid due to the nature of the investment) 
instead of the £900,000 which should  otherwise have been  expected  from typical  returns  in a 
pension fund.
Disregard of the performance aspects of the portfolio
Mr O said that the performance of the portfolio had been completely ignored. A balanced  risk 
portfolio should  have  significant growth over the relevant  period and, if a balanced  risk portfolio had 
been created,  the substantial losses shouldnt have occurred.
According to the Brewin  Dolphin Balanced Portfolios, over the 15 years from December 2004  to 
December 2019,  the return over that period should have ranged from 134.1% at risk level three to 
237.8% at risk level eight.
As Mr O was a balanced risk investor, he failed  to see how he had lost so much money. Any 
balanced risk portfolio  would have performed well over the last 15 years,  showing significant  gains  
rather than losses. But it hadnt  performed  to expectations because of the very high risk nature of the 
investments recommended by S4. Out of seven  property partnerships, four had reduced to zero 
value, three  of which were  in the pension funds.  The others  had also dropped  by significant 
percentages.
Ref: DRN9806034Misrepresentation of risks by S4
Mr O said that nearly all of the investments recommended by S4 described  as balanced and suitable 
for his risk profile were too high risk, both generally and in the context of his personal risk profile.
Mr O said that I had concluded that they were high risk and that misrepresentation had occurred  in 
some instances, but I had said that there should  be no repercussions.
However, the deciding ombudsman  in the complaints  against  the previous  advising firm had reached 
different conclusions, Mr O said. That ombudsman had said that, whilst it was permissible for the 
portfolio of a balanced risk investor to hold some  high risk investments, there was no indication that 
the business had recommended the investments  in question on that basis   rather, Mr O was entitled 
to believe that they carried  a balanced  risk rating. The ombudsman said that if the business wanted  
to include a high risk investment in an ostensibly  balanced  portfolio, it was up to the business to 
make this clear to Mr O, which it had failed to do in that instance.  
Mr Os view was that S4 hadnt  recommended  any investments to him as higher risk investments 
forming part of an overall balanced portfolio  it was unequivocal that every investment was 
described by S4 as being balanced.
Mr O said that this service was providing two contradictory conclusions. The first required S4 to 
clearly state the individual risk rating  of investments at the time of each recommendation, whereas 
the second suggested it was reasonable to recommend a higher risk product for an overall  balanced 
portfolio, irrespective of whether this was specifically stated.
I had also said that the higher risk nature of the investment was implied through the disclosure of the 
many risks associated with it, although  I had also agreed that, in a number of instances, higher risks 
werent disclosed. Mr O couldnt understand how S4 had been clear about  the nature of the 
investments when making its recommendations. The FCA requirement was that a firm must pay due 
regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate to them  in a way that is clear,  fair and 
not misleading.
Mr O couldnt understand  how the conclusion could be drawn that S4 had in this case been fair, clear 
and not misleading.  He could only conclude that the findings of the previous ombudsman were  
consistent with the FCAs  requirements, whereas my own were not. Only in one instance, which  was 
not the subject  of this complaint, had an investment been described as high risk.
I had said that S4s intention was to convey the overall risk of the portfolio when referring to 
recommendations as balanced, but S4 had specifically described one investment in 2010 as higher  
risk. It had said that, in isolation, the investment was higher risk than his stated profile  of balanced. I 
had also said that S4s assertion that this investment in isolation could be described as balanced  
belied the reality  of its features. As S4 was referring  to the investment  itself as balanced, Mr O 
queried as to how this could  not be described as misrepresentation.
Mr O also challenged my statement that it was highly unlikely that he would have believed all of his 
investments to have  borne a balanced  risk rating. He noted  that I said that this was endorsed by his 
own comments relating  to other property investments being designed to balance the more volatile 
aspects of his portfolio.  But these werent his own comments, Mr O said. Rather,  they were taken 
from the suitability  letters.
It was therefore reasonable for him to conclude  that all of the investments recommended were  
balanced in nature, and cumulatively formed a balanced portfolio. But as had been demonstrated, it 
was far from balanced.
The ombudsman does  not comply with the Judicial Review
Mr O said that the Judicial Review of the initial findings in these cases  set out the following:
Ref: DRN98060349. With respect  to the Merits Decisions, these apply to the First Claimant only. It seems  to me that it 
is arguable that the Defendant erred in his approach to whether the investment advice by the First 
Interested Party  was suitable. The first claimant  was described as a Balanced Investor or having a 
Risk Profile Balanced. There is evidence that when a riskier investment  was being  discussed, the 
First Claimant was specifically informed of its greater risk. That did not apply  to the investments 
about which the First Claimant  complains.
10. In the circumstances  and in the absence  of specific  evidence  that the First Claimant actually 
understood that the product  being advised  about  was of greater risk, it was arguably unlawful for 
the Defendant to reject  his complaints on the basis  that the First Claimant knew  or should have 
known that the risk was higher than a balanced  risk and that the advice given was therefore 
suitable. (Mr Os emphasis)
I had said in my findings that I didnt think Mr O, appreciating  the risks involved in the individual 
investments, would have  believed  all of them to carry a balanced risk rating.  But Mr O said that I had 
failed to provide  specific evidence  that he understood they would carry a higher  risk. This theme  of 
speculation was, according to Mr O, recurring  and also featured  in my conclusion that, with regard 
to a property partnership investment, knowledge of undisclosed specific risks would have altered his 
decision making. 
Mr O said that he did believe all of his investments to carry a balanced  risk rating, as this was what  
he was being  told by S4  the experts.  In the findings of the deciding ombudsman  in the cases 
against the previous advising firm, he had said that the investments were  described as balanced risk 
and it was therefore reasonable for Mr O to take that message away and rely on it.
Whilst Mr O was flattered by the description  attributed to him of being an intelligent, capable 
individual who would  have  capacity  to understand what  was being proposed, he said my conclusion 
that it was unlikely he would have believed  all of his investments to carry a balanced risk rating was 
contrary to the previous  ombudsmans findings,  and those of the judicial review.
Mr O said it was insufficient to speculate that he knew  the investments were anything  other than 
balanced risk, given how they were  presented by S4. And the judicial review had been clear  that any 
such claim was unarguably unlawful.
S4s lack of compliance  with the Principles of the Financial Conduct  Authority
Mr O set out the high level principles  as required by the FCA, as follows:
Integrity  A firm must conduct  its business  with integrity. 
Skill, care and diligence   A firm must conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence
Management and Control   A firm must take care to organise  and control  its affairs 
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems. 
Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests  of its customers and 
treat them fairly. 
Communications with clients  A firm must  pay due regard to the information  needs  of its 
clients and communicate information to them that is clear,  fair and not misleading. 
Conflicts of Interest  A firm must take reasonable  care to manage conflicts of interest 
fairly both between itself and its customers and between  a customer  and another client. 
Customers: relationship of trust  A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the 
suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions for any customer  who is entitled to rely 
upon its judgement.  
Mr O said that, to act with integrity  would have required S4 to honestly  and accurately disclose the 
true risk profile of the investments.  But Id concluded that S4 had failed, in some  instances, to 
disclose a number  of key risks.
Ref: DRN9806034I had also concluded  that the investment represented  a higher than balanced risk rating, but S4 was 
of the belief that they were balanced  in isolation. S4 couldnt therefore be described as displaying  
skill, care or diligence.
Regarding management and control, Mr O said that hed already highlighted the extent  of the 
inaccuracy of S4s information system  and in the absence of a properly functioning  system,  it 
couldnt possibly  have properly monitored his risk exposure, which  resulted in unsuitable 
recommendations.
Mr O questioned whether  S4 had any regard  to his interests, or whether it was simply driven  by a 
desire to generate revenue. It ignored  his risk profile and objectives, principally that of reducing  risk 
in his portfolio,  instead recommending high risk products.
Conflicts were  clearly  created in a number of situations, Mr O said.  Firstly,  when it asked him for a 
loan and then,  when arranging a separate investment between one of its clients  and other clients.
In Mr Os view,  the two most significant breaches in the principles were its lack of due regard to his 
information needs and communication of information  that was clear, fair and not misleading. He was 
also unable  to rely on its judgment in giving suitable recommendations.
An independent view
Mr O asked an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) to review the portfolio. His view had been that a 
balanced portfolio can be made up of low, medium and higher risk investments, but the key was to 
ensure that higher risk investments didnt  outweigh the lower risk ones.
The IFAs view was that Mr Os portfolio was very high risk in nature, with little low risk investment to 
offset the high risk schemes  and that the risk had been exacerbated by reinvesting tax rebates  into 
further non-approved tax schemes, thereby magnifying the risk and future tax liabilities. Also,  no 
account had been made  of all the higher risk equity  in the portfolio.
The IFA also commented that, when Mr O had been  planning  to use some  investment funds to pay 
for an extension on his main property,  he was advised to remortgage and invest the proceeds for the 
short term in equity  funds  and a further  high risk investment  - instead  of drawing on investment 
funds. This increased the overall risk to which he was exposed, along with increasing the mortgage 
to its maximum  amount. 
In summary,  Mr O said that it was difficult to see how the conclusions  I had reached were fair and 
reasonable. The provisional decision was driven by the figures I had presented,  but these werent 
representative of the true facts of the situation.
Although I had said that Mr O would  have tolerated high risk ventures for a small percentage of his 
portfolio, these were  never offset  by lower risk investments.
Mr O said that he was continually mis-sold  investments  which were misrepresented  and 
inappropriate for his needs. All investments were sold to him as balanced. As I had concluded that 
they couldnt reasonably be described  as balanced,  but S4 asserted that they were,  Mr O couldnt  
understand how this wasnt  misrepresentation.
In closing, Mr O said that S4 had failed to abide by the FCA principles of communicating with clients, 
along with skill, care and due diligence   and it was arguably unlawful to reject his complaint on the 
basis that he knew, or ought  to have known, that the risk was higher than balanced.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I'm required  by the Financial Services  and Markets  Act 2000 
Ref: DRN9806034(FSMA) and DISP  to determine the complaint  by reference to what  is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
When considering  what's  fair and reasonable, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators' rules, guidance, standards, and codes  of practice;  and, where appropriate, 
what I consider to have  been good  industry practice at the relevant time.
S4s responses to my provisional decision
S4s representative has asked that I consider  alternative findings  such as, for example, S4 being 
entitled to conclude that Mr O understood the investment and associated risks, rather than being 
capable of understanding them. And that its advice was therefore reasonable in that slightly different 
context.
I appreciate the point  being made here,  but I dont think it makes a meaningful  difference  to my 
overall view on the aspects for which those alternative analyses have been provided, for reasons 
which Ill explore  further below.  
Separation of complaints
Ive thought carefully about the further  representations on this, but remain  of the view that this 
complaint should  be considered separately  and on its own merits. Ill explain why.
S4s representative has said that the provisional decision has repeatedly made the point that the 
investments should  be considered as a part of an overall portfolio, and so they shouldnt  be treated 
as stand-alone  investments when thinking  about whether they are separate  complaints.
The definition of a complaint within the FCAs handbook when Mr O submitted his complaint(s) to this 
service was as follows:
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction,  whether  justified or not, from, or on behalf of, 
a person about the provision of, or failure  to provide, a financial service  or a redress 
determination, which:
1.(a) alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material  distress  or 
material inconvenience; and
2.(b) relates to an activity of that respondent, or of any other respondent with whom  
that respondent has some connection  in marketing  or providing financial services or products, 
which comes under  the jurisdiction  of the Financial Ombudsman Service .
I accept that activity  could reasonably refer to either the creation of an overall portfolio or to advice  
about an individual investment. But I think the word product would be much more closely aligned to 
an individual investment, irrespective of whether that product formed part of an overall portfolio.
But even if another interpretation was possible here,  Ive also taken into account the nature and 
timings of the activity here, i.e. the recommendations for the individual investments. This wasnt a 
situation in which a portfolio was created as a single  piece of investments advice, involving all of the 
recommended investments, and which took place  after one meeting, or even over a short period of 
time. As Ive already  noted previously, these instances of advice took place over a period of six or 
more years.
And so, whilst the continuing  objective may have been to fit the investments  into an overall  portfolio, I 
dont think they could reasonably be said to be part of a single, overarching investment plan.
They were  distinct pieces  of investment advice, with their own suitability assessments and letters  of 
recommendation. And they fulfilled quite  different  objectives within  the overall portfolio. For example, 
the tax planning schemes  (such as this) with the prospect of tax rebates were,  as I said in the 
Ref: DRN9806034provisional decision, more akin to wealth  maintenance  rather  than wealth creation through  
investment returns on the original capital. I appreciate Mr O disagrees with this conclusion, and that 
they werent designed as tax mitigation strategies, but Ill address that presently. The non-tax based  
schemes on the other hand were investments  which were expected to produce a return on those 
capital amounts. 
Ive also noted  the comment about  this being  a matter of public policy and a query as to what would 
have been intended by Parliament when setting  up this service. But Ive also thought  about  this from 
the opposing perspective. If I were to agree with S4s representative, the entirety of a consumers 
relationship with an advising firm, over a period of potentially decades,  and incorporating many 
instances of financial  advice, could be said to be the provision of an investment portfolio  by the 
representatives reckoning, a single financial service  or activity. And extending  the representatives 
logic in this way, complaints  about the provision of advice on quite different products, many  years 
apart, would also need  to be considered  as a single complaint because they were designed to create 
an overall portfolio.
I dont think this was Parliaments intention. I would also challenge this perspective on the basis  of 
the likely,  and somewhat  perverse,  result of a situation whereby a complaint was made on a single  
aspect of a firms advice,  subsequently addressed and decided by this service, which was then 
followed by a later complaint about  a different piece of advice. According to the scenario outlined  
above, this would need to be dismissed  because the overall  provision of a portfolio had already been 
assessed  on the basis that the original complaint about  a separate piece  of investment advice 
had had a determination on it.
This would surely be nonsensical,  and cannot have been the intention of Parliament. The only way in 
which this could make  any sense would be for the advising business, upon receipt of a complaint 
about an individual piece of advice, to then review every piece of advice  it had given throughout the 
relationship - as Ive said, potentially over decades - with its client. But businesses understandably  
dont do this  they restrict their consideration to the individual piece of advice in question, albeit 
perhaps against the background of a wider portfolio. 
And notably, S4 also hasnt done this here. It actively (and justifiably as endorsed  by both this service 
and the courts) sought to deem  certain of Mr (and Mrs) Os investments outside of our jurisdiction by 
separating out instances of investment advice, even before the complaints had been referred to this 
service, as evidenced by its final response  letter to Mr O  and so it was unwilling to consider the 
entirety of the investment  advice,  or the whole portfolio, given over the many years of its relationship  
with Mr O. 
It may have been the case that Mr O submitted his concerns  about  all of the investments at the same 
time. But this isnt uncommon.  A review of advice over many years can reveal in a consumers eyes  
many instances of what they consider  to be unsuitable recommendations  and so they submit  those 
concerns together.
But Mr O might just as readily have submitted these concerns separately.  And having addressed the 
individual merits of a case involving, say, a tax based scheme, I must consider whether S4 would 
then have sought to dismiss a complaint,  perhaps a year later,  about  a non-tax based property 
partnership investment on the basis  that a complaint about  the overall  portfolio had already been 
addressed. I think this is unlikely. S4 would have  addressed the individual  merits of that further  
investment  and done so on the basis that it was a separate complaint.
Mr O should not therefore  be penalised in terms of the potential scope of an overall monetary  award 
for having raised his concerns about many  investments in a single complaint letter. As such,  I dont 
think the scope  of Mr Os complaints, or our ability to consider them  individually, should be fettered  
by his decision to submit his concerns about several instances of advice  at the same time.
I appreciate the point  that this serves  to increase the potential liability of S4 if awards  were  to be 
made, but with respect, this is beside the point. Given my comments  above, I dont think  the 
Ref: DRN9806034proposition of considering Mr Os concerns  about  separate pieces of investment advice as one 
complaint is fair, reasonable  or tenable.
Specific further points  raised about  the Invicta 22 investment.
 
S4s representative didnt think that proper weight had been given to the success  of the Invicta 22 
investment. But insofar as it may have produced  a gain,  this would only really  become a 
consideration once Id determined whether it was suitable  if I concluded that it was unsuitable,  any 
calculation to determine compensation due might then produce a no loss situation.
Mr Os response  to my provisional  decision
Mr O has made specific preliminary comments in advance of more detailed  discussion under 
separate headings. For ease of reference,  Ill follow  the same format  in addressing those points,  but 
will, for reasons  which will hopefully become clear, leave my further assessment of the assets 
contained within Mr Os portfolio to the end.
Mr O has said that all S4 had done from the start was to increase the risk in his portfolio, which had 
been balanced risk in nature until those  higher  risk investments were added. But as Ive set out in the 
provisional decision, and as has been  seemingly accepted by both Mr O and the IFA from whom  hes 
sought a further  opinion,  a balanced risk portfolio may contain some  higher risk investments, which  
would be expected to be balanced  out by other lower risk investments. To the extent that this has 
been achieved  in this instance  Ill discuss later in this decision.
Mr O has also objected to my summary  of his complaint, saying that by mischaracterising this I had 
changed the focus of my response  to a consideration of the portfolio  as a whole, as opposed  to 
whether the individual  investments were  suitable for him.
But I feel I should point  out Mr Os own view on the nature of his complaint has seemingly changed 
over time. For example, in his initial complaint to S4 dated 17 September  2013, it wasnt particularly 
explicit as to whether  Mr O was complaining about the risk rating  of individual  investments or the 
alleged failure  of S4 to establish  an overall balanced  portfolio. A concluding remark towards the end 
of the complaint letter would, however, perhaps suggest the latter:
You have failed to manage my portfolio  as one of Balanced Risk Profile.
S4 acknowledged  the complaint on 24 September 2013, saying that:
It is important that we clarify your grounds  for complaint. Our understanding of your complaint in 
summary is that:
In recommending the investments detailed in your letter,  the firm has failed to create the 
balanced risk portfolio  that was agreed  at the outset  and that this has led to substantial  losses  
within your portfolio.
Mr O didnt appear to object to that description.  S4 then issued its final response letter on 5 
December 2013,  setting out its understanding of Mr Os complaint as follows:
That you were mis-sold a number of investments on the grounds  that they were
Misrepresented
inappropriate  for your needs.
Mr O then submitted his complaint to this service,  setting out the following as grounds for complaint:
It was against this (balanced) definition, which I assessed the suitability of investments that were  
recommended. Every recommendation from S4 clearly stated Balanced  and it was against the 
Ref: DRN9806034background of this that Investments were made. I expected S4s knowledge to recommend 
appropriate investments  against this Risk Profile. I would not be prepared  to tolerate anything that 
could be deemed  to be of high risk unless for a very small percentage of my portfolio which could be 
offset by a very low risk investment. If this was not the case they should have been  clearly defined to 
me as being  of high risk. Not one ever was.
On all recommendations, I relied on the knowledge and expertise of S4 to give me the appropriate 
advice against  a backdrop of a balanced  risk profile. We agreed a Balanced Risk Profile  and 
according to their correspondence every recommendation they have made clearly states the 
investment met this profile.  Balanced.
The adjudicator then assessed  the merits of Mr Os complaint, and taking his cue from Mr Os 
description above, summarised the complaint as follows:
Specifically you've complained:
S4's recommendation wasn't  appropriate for your risk profile. The investment exposed your 
capital to a greater level of risk than you were willing to take.
The investment resulted in a substantial and unexpected loss many years  later.
The investment was highly illiquid.
S4 did not undertake  sufficient due diligence and research.
S4 failed to make  clear  the associated risks.
To which Mr O later responded  as follows in his letter dated 28 May 2018:
I do not understand why he (the adjudicator) has expanded this as above  the complaint was quite 
clear - the grounds for my complaint were - from S4s letter  dated 24th September  2013 - "It is 
important that we clarify  your grounds for complaint. Our understanding of your  complaint in 
summary is that:  In recommending the investments detailed in your letter, the firm has failed 
to create the balanced  risk portfolio that was agreed at the outset and that this has led to 
substantial losses within your  portfolio." (my emphasis)
So this was the last version of Mr Os complaint  from Mr O directly - which this service  received. 
And I consider this to be consistent  with the manner in which  I too set out the grounds for his 
complaint.
Mr O has, somewhat uncharitably in my view (and Ill address some of the language used, and 
implications made, by Mr O in his response  to my provisional decision presently), contended that Ive 
manipulated the grounds for complaint and thereby changed the focus  of my response. But taking  
the above into account, I cannot agree that if any manipulation  of the complaint has occurred over 
time, this has been on the part of either this service or S4. 
It has in any case been possible for me to decide both whether the investment would have been 
suitable in isolation  for a balanced risk investor,  or cumulatively  as a part of a balanced  risk portfolio 
 and I set out my reasoning on both perspectives  in my provisional decision. For clarity, I concluded 
that in isolation  I didnt think it could be deemed suitable for a balanced risk investor  because  of the 
risks involved. But I did say that, depending on the overall asset  split, it could form part of a balanced 
risk portfolio.  I appreciate that Mr O is of the view (as described in his most recent version of the 
complaint) that he understood each investment to bear a balanced  risk rating, but Ill address this in 
further detail later on in this decision.
Mr O has also said that Ive focussed  on his statement  that he would have  tolerated  high risk 
ventures for a small percentage of his portfolio if they were balanced out by lower  risk investments.  
Hes said that in many instances  Ive isolated only the first part of that sentence.  But Im afraid  this 
isnt the case   at no point  in the provisional decision have I indicated that he was willing to accept 
high risk investments,  in isolation, without there being the balancing effect of corresponding lower 
risk investments. I dont  therefore consider that there has been any misrepresentation here.
Ref: DRN9806034Mr Os further  argument is that I had significantly  understated  the higher risk investments whilst 
simultaneously overstating the lower  risk investments. My comment on this is quite straightforward  
in reaching the conclusions  I did about  the assets splits within Mr Os portfolio at the time of the 
advice, Ive (justifiably in my view) relied upon the financial reports which were issued to Mr O on a 
yearly basis setting out valuations of his portfolio. Whilst  I can see that on occasion Mr O queried the 
content of those reports and requested more detail, I couldnt find anything approaching the level of 
detail to which Mr O has gone to in response to my provisional decision in attempting to correct those 
valuations. As such, I considered them to be a reliable  indicator of the portfolio content and valuation 
at the time.
Having reviewed the valuations further  in light of Mr Os response to my provisional decision, my 
view remains  that, albeit  with certain  amendments, they are broadly representative of the portfolio 
position at the times they were issued. But Ive left my further  assessment of the asset split to the 
end of this decision.
Mr O has then commented  on S4s statement within its response to his complaint that the intention  
from the start was to reduce  volatility and risk within his portfolio  whereas the reality was that both 
had increased. But whilst  that may have been the overall objective,  it omits the second part of the 
complaint response  which referred  to agreed target  allocations, including  a 30% target  for 
commercial property exposure.  This is in my view reasonably indicative of conversations  around a 
bespoke portfolio, which complemented Mr Os understanding of investment risk and preparedness 
and tolerance to invest higher amounts in less conventional investments. Again, I deal with these 
issues in more detail  presently.
My view as expressed in the provisional decision that it was highly unlikely that Mr O would have 
believed all of his investments to be balanced risk was unlawful, Mr O has said,  as per the 
conclusion of the judicial review. For now, Ill simply remind  Mr O that this was not a judgement  
following a judicial review, but comments made  by the judge when considering  whether to permit the 
application for judicial review. No judicial review findings were made, as the previous decisions on 
this case were quashed by consent.  But even if those comments  formed part of substantive  findings  
by the court,  a crucial  missing word here in Mr Os quote was arguably unlawful,  and only then in 
the absence of specific evidence to support the previous ombudsmans finding. For the reasons Ill 
set out later,  I consider  the situation  of supporting evidence to be quite different.
Mr O has also commented that it was my conclusion  that the high risk nature of the investment was 
implied through the disclosure of the attendant risks.  I do think  that the risks set out by S4 would, to 
an intelligent, capable  individual such as Mr O, have  suggested an investment  which  presented a 
higher risk than might otherwise be associated with balanced risk investments. For example, the 
possibility of total loss of the investment is not something which  might be expected to be associated  
with a more mainstream  balanced risk investment, where fluctuations as a result of market  
performance might otherwise be expected   along  with the safety  net of Financial Services  
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) protection if the institution providing the investment failed. 
So I dont  think that finding is unfair or unreasonable.  But it must also be read in the context of my 
other findings on this matter, which were - broadly  that Mr O was nevertheless entitled to believe 
that higher risk investments  would be balanced out to produce an overall,  balanced, but bespoke, 
risk portfolio.
As to Mr Os preliminary comments relating to S4s adherence, or otherwise, to regulatory principles 
and obligations,  Ill address these  under the dedicated subheading  below.
Lack of consideration  of the overall  cumulative  impact of high risk investments
I dont consider that Mr Os criticism of my approach is fair  I have quite explicitly considered  Mr Os 
individual investment against the backdrop  of his overall portfolio valuation,  which  has by its very 
nature included a consideration of the cumulative impact of the various investments. I may have 
Ref: DRN9806034referred predominantly to percentages, but this is in my view a perfectly  acceptable method of 
assessing an impact that this type of proportion  of particular investments would have on a portfolio.
Its Mr Os view that all high risk investments recommended, including  those recommended  by the 
predecessor advising firm, should  be included in the portfolio valuation,  which  has, certainly for 
complaints about  later investments,  resulted  in an impossible  situation portrayed by Mr O of the 
investments held exceeding  100% of the portfolio valuation. But many of the previously 
recommended investments which Mr O wanted to be included no longer held a value by that point, 
having fulfilled  the purpose of, for example,  producing tax rebates.
And whilst this makes no difference to my own ability to assess the portfolio and the proportions of 
high risk investment  contained therein, Ive also noted the way in which Mr O has taken into account  
the cumulative  effect of high risk investments in the portfolio, particularly in reducing the portfolio 
value by the amount of exposure  to potential (as yet unrealised)  future tax liabilities, whilst 
simultaneously increasing the value of the overall  investment, or exposure,  in those high risk 
schemes, even though  they no longer held a value  for the purposes of the reports.
This had the inevitable  effect of increasing  the percentage  of high risk investments in Mr Os versions 
of the valuations, resulting in the type of scenario referred to above, where a category of investments 
is said to represent  more than 100% of the valuation. Even if I were to agree that the exposure to 
future tax liabilities should be included, which Im afraid I dont, for reasons I explain below, that 
exposure shouldnt  be double counted for the purpose of increasing exposure, but then also 
reducing the size of the portfolio.
Mr O has also said that my approach  suggested that at least £1.5m  of higher risk assets  would be 
cumulatively suitable  for a balanced  risk portfolio. This was, of course, not the case. The percentages 
I inferred from the valuation reports were very different to those recently provided by Mr O, and it was 
those lower proportions  which  I deemed  to be suitable  for a balanced risk portfolio. And those 
percentages of high risk investments are discussed  in more detail in the later section relating to the 
asset splits.
I would further  provide  the same answer  to Mr Os assertion that the lower risk investments were  
overstated and that there was a failure on S4s part to properly balance the portfolio. I relied upon the 
detail contained  within the valuation reports, which I discuss in more detail later.
I do think that Mr O has a valid point  relating to S4s own description of the individual investment 
belying the reality  of the situation, and that this might mean  that it would have been incapable of 
assessing the overall exposure to risk in the portfolio. But I dont need to rely on S4s view of either 
individual or overall  risk when assessing  the actual risk to which the portfolio was exposed  and 
whether this was suitable for Mr O. The description  of the assets  held, and a determination  on the 
percentages, and cumulative exposure of/to those assets,  is sufficient for me to be able to determine 
whether it reasonably constituted a balanced  risk portfolio  which was suitable  for Mr O.
And finally, in this section,  I firmly reject Mr Os criticism that Ive looked at this investment selectively 
 Ive considered  the nature of the individual investment and then assessed whether this, in light of 
both its own value and taking into account the proportion of other higher risk assets held, was 
suitable for an overall balanced risk portfolio for him.
Incomplete and inaccurate information provided by S4
Mr O has said that S4 relied  upon poor information produced  by its information system. I accept that 
this may have been true in some minor respects, but I should also say that, just because Mr O 
disagrees with the way in which some of the information has been presented, this doesnt mean it 
was wrong. And as I set out at the end of this decision, Im afraid I dont agree with much of Mr Os 
own analysis of the valuations produced by S4.
Ref: DRN9806034As stated previously,  Mr Os position is that the film partnership tax liabilities hadnt been deducted 
from the portfolio,  but should have  been. Notwithstanding my comments above  about the double 
counting of investment  exposure and liabilities  to increase the exposure  on the one hand and 
reduce the portfolio value  on the other, the return on the reinvested tax rebates (with further tax relief  
provided by the VCTs for example), was intended  to offset any future liability  to income  tax produced  
by the film partnership. It was further  predicted  that Mr O would have retired  at around 50, and so his 
marginal rate of income tax may well have reduced  when that tax became due. As tax mitigation, or 
deferral, schemes, the expected return on the rebates needed to achieve a hurdle  rate, and if it did 
so, Mr O would have  remained in profit. 
Furthermore, any future liability to tax would have the inevitable effect of either naturally reducing the 
value of the portfolio when it became due if other investments needed  to be encashed, or being  paid 
for by surplus cash held outside of the portfolio. I therefore think it wasnt unreasonable to exclude  
potential future liabilities, before they actually became due, in the valuations. 
But importantly this doesnt mean  Ive assessed  the high risk investments as being  any less risky. 
The probability of the tax liability in the film partnerships, not to mention the possibility of future claw 
back of tax relief by HMRC, was very real  and formed part of the risks highlighted in the description 
of the product.
As regards  the reporting of the paid to date  figures  for the VCTs, this is really no different from a 
grossed up pension funds performance being  compared against the value of premiums actually paid 
by the policyholder. So I dont think the way this was presented  was necessarily unreasonable.  And I 
dont in any case think this has had an impact on the overall  valuation  of the portfolio  the grossed 
up value is the actual value for the purposes of the portfolio valuation.
Mr O has also said that certain  of the higher  risk investments werent  included  in the schedules I 
relied upon. That appears to be the case for three investments, two of which  were established just 
days before  that particular  valuation was produced  but I have in any case  added them to my further 
analysis of the portfolio where appropriate.  A further  property partnership  wasnt included  on any of 
the investments   but similarly,  I have added that into my further assessment for when that 
investments value should have become a part of the portfolio. 
Other tax based  investments  didnt feature in the valuations, but where they werent, those  schemes 
had no residual value,  having produced the necessary losses to achieve the payment of tax rebates. 
And the reason I have included an investment such as Invicta is only where  it is the subject of the 
complaint, as is the case here, and would   or should - have been counted as having a value in the 
portfolio at that point. 
It would seem difficult to me to discuss the impact  of that additional investment without bestowing it 
with a value as at the point the funds were invested. But even if I didnt include the cost or value of 
Invicta, this would simply have the effect  of reducing the amount of the high risk investments which  
Ive otherwise concluded were contained  in the portfolio.
As to the date of the input  of investments being used instead of the date that they were  established, 
S4 has said that there may have been  instances  where the start date for some  investments was 
recorded as that of the contract note rather than when the investment was actually  made. But I dont 
think this has had a material effect on either S4s ability to manage  Mr Os portfolio or my own to 
assess the suitability  of the investments,  including this one, when they were made. 
S4 has also said that, in respect of the PEP and ISA valuations between  June  2009  and September 
2010, it was reliant  upon Mr O to provide this information. Up until June 2009, Mr O was providing  a 
full breakdown of the holdings he was himself  managing, but S4 has said that after this Mr O only 
provided headline  valuation  information. By July 2009, Mr O had once again provided the relevant 
information and the valuations were  updated.  S4 has provided  copies of the interim valuations 
between June 2009 and September 2010, in which the high value ISAs were attributed  a value, but 
the breakdown  of individual shares was absent.  Instead, it described the holding as Value Only 
Equities.
Ref: DRN9806034I appreciate that Mr O may disagree  with S4s explanation, but I dont in any case  think that it would 
make a meaningful  difference to the outcome here. The breakdown of individual shares  held in the 
ISAs may have been missing for a time,  but their overall values,  which is the important aspect  in 
terms of attributing  a value to a particular  asset  class, did change  during that period. 
Mr O also said that he had himself  raised queries and discrepancies  over some of the detail 
contained in the reports in an email  dated 14 June 2011. These  errors meant that Mr O had been  
unable to reconcile  the analysis I had performed. But as I set out at the end of this decision, Im 
satisfied that Ive been able to properly assess the portfolio valuations  and determine  whether it 
enabled S4 to create the balanced risk portfolio  he was justified in expecting.
Regarding the cash  calls on certain property investments being categorised as fixed income,  I 
address those matters  in the complaints where this is a relevant consideration in those valuations.  
Inaccurate and incomplete analysis performed by the Ombudsman
As Ive said previously, Ill address the further  specific points made by Mr O regarding the asset splits 
in his portfolio  when  this investment was made  at the end of this decision. There  are, however, two 
other points  made by Mr O under this heading  which I should address here.
Mr O said that, although  I had said that his attitude  to risk had been  described as being  
balanced/aggressive, this wasnt  the case, as evidence by the balanced  risk rating recorded in the 
suitability letter for the Invicta investment. I agree  and whilst  I had also noted that 
balanced/aggressive was the categorisation attributed  to Mr O in the risk assessment conducted in 
August 2004 by the previous advising firm, I have at all other  times in the provisional decision 
referred to Mr Os assessed risk rating at that time as being balanced.
Mr O has further  contended that the investment was designed and recommended  as exactly that - 
not a tax mitigation scheme.  He said that S4 had introduced tax planning to optimise portfolio 
performance, as indicated  in the commentary on its website. 
But Im afraid that I find it highly improbable that Mr O wasnt  aware that this investment was 
designed as means  of obtaining tax rebates and ultimately, tax deferral. And indeed when the 
investment produced a loss on the initial stake of £67,500, yet generated tax rebates over the 
following years  amounting to £172,644, I havent  seen  any evidence  that Mr O queried the loss or 
reduction in value of his initial investment. Im therefore quite comfortable with the position that Mr O 
was aware of  and understood  - the tax mitigation (or deferral)  strategy envisaged by this scheme.
Market definition of a balanced risk portfolio
Mr O has contended that, contrary to my comment that there were no hard and fast rules  in the 
creation of a balanced portfolio, the market definition  is quite specific   it is a mix of equities and 
bonds. Im afraid I cant agree with Mr O on this point. A balanced portfolio can take many  guises, 
and most  certainly  would not be restricted to bonds and equities. To suggest  this excludes the 
inclusion of property, cash or money  market instruments, and several other  types of financial 
instrument. 
Furthermore, what might be an array of entirely balanced risk investments for one balanced risk 
investor in the creation of a balanced  portfolio might take the form of a range of high and low risk 
investments for another. And so I stand by my previous comment, in that there  are no set rules for 
the creation of a balanced risk portfolio.
Mr O has, with the assistance  of information  from Brewin Dolphin, said that the investment 
complained of fell within  the top two risk ratings, eight or nine on a scale  of one to ten, and that 
Ref: DRN9806034Brewin Dolphin would not in any case incorporate the vast majority of the investments recommended  
by S4 in a balanced risk portfolio.
Its unclear to me whether  this is information  which that firm has provided to Mr O, or has been 
inferred by Mr O from his own research.  But I dont think that really  matters. I would simply reiterate 
here what Ive said above. Different portfolios will have a different asset split  and on the basis  of an 
understanding of the risk involved,  high risk investments  might  reasonably  be included. The evidence 
here is that a bespoke  portfolio was being created for Mr O, with his agreement on some  target  asset 
allocations. Therefore, what I must determine  is whether the ultimate portfolio arrived  at could be 
fairly described as being balanced, and appropriately so for Mr O.
Weighting of high risk investments and consideration  of latitude
Its Mr Os view that there was no scope for latitude  in the creation of a balanced risk portfolio. He 
rejected the notion that he had accepted  specific risks other than those which  had been presented to 
him as being  appropriate  for a balanced risk portfolio.
Ill set out my further view on Mr Os likely awareness that not all of his investments carried  a 
balanced risk rating in a later section. But it was factors such as those  very risks,  of which  Mr O was 
aware by reason of them being  included in the suitability letter,  which in my view did provide greater 
latitude in creating a balanced risk portfolio.  For example, Mr O was accepting of the prospect, no 
matter how remote, of losing his entire investment, and also accepted the other specified  risks. 
As Ive said above,  a balanced risk portfolio for one person can be quite  different  to that for another. 
And my view on this is that Mr O was the type of individual  who was prepared  to accept the inclusion 
of higher risk investments  if there was balance in the form of lower  risk ones. And he has himself 
agreed with this proposition. 
Mr O was also an investor with a significant  investment portfolio and, by my understanding,  prior to 
his early retirement, a sizeable annual  income. This would ordinarily mean  that Mr O had a higher 
capacity for loss, as he had the means  of replacing lost capital through  earnings. But I also think this 
reasonably feeds into his tolerance  for high risk investments, especially those  which might have 
deferred a higher rate tax on his income to a point when his income was significantly lower.  
Moreover, Mr O was capable of appreciating and understanding the risks involved in the 
recommended investment.
Its also notable that, in his response, Mr O has referred to six different versions of a Brewin  Dolphin 
balanced portfolio, thereby perhaps unintentionally lending  credence to the notion that there are 
simply no set rules  which govern the creation of a balanced portfolio. The different levels  and 
percentages of performance over 15 years  for those different balanced portfolios must of course 
suggest differing  types and percentages of higher and lower  risk assets.
My view, and associated criticism of S4s approach as set out in the provisional decision,  is that a 
description of an individual investment being suited to a balanced  risk profile might reasonably be 
construed as it, in and of itself, representing  a moderated level of risk. And this wasnt  the case here 
 the investment in my view represented  a higher  than balanced, or moderated  risk. But 
importantly, a balanced  portfolio,  whilst moderated by way of its profile of a range of differently risk 
rated investments, doesnt necessarily equate to one which  bears an overall  medium risk, for 
example. Again, the Brewin Dolphin range of balanced portfolios bears  this out, ranging in its offering 
from a very low risk balanced  portfolio to one described as high investment risk. 
And so my view, which is wholly consistent  with this, remains that a balanced portfolio for Mr O might 
reasonably contain a greater percentage of high risk investments than might be the case,  say, for an 
investor who had none  of the characteristics attributed to Mr O above. 
In terms of Mr Os ability to understand the investment risks, Ive also noted comments such  as the 
following in an email  sent by Mr O to S4 on 4 July 2010:
Ref: DRN9806034Property  - if you take MP 40 the valuation  is flattered  by not including  the funding  hedge.  Sell 
the property  now and the valuation  is something  like 290. Lets  get something  that shows  value  
post swap  termination  and some  details  of swap  maturity.  If they have  hedged  the funding  
profile  these  will be deeply  underwater  for some  time.
This strikes me as being the commentary  of someone who is, if not a specialist, fairly well versed in 
investments generally   and therefore likely to understand the nature of the risks as described  for the 
investments complained of.
Ive also given further consideration to what Mr O would have understood S4 to mean  by a balanced 
risk portfolio it was creating for him. Given his general understanding of investments,  and his 
comments about his own management of aspects  of the portfolio, I think  its reasonable to assume  
that Mr O knew  what  a balanced risk portfolio might look like. 
As contained in the financial report of March 2004  prepared by S4s predecessor, Mr O was told the 
following:
At present,  your capital  fund (including  cash)  comprises 53% equities, 47% non-equities and 0% 
structured products & hedge funds. This compares to our asset allocation for a balanced investor  of 
45% equities, 35% non-equities  & structured  products and 20% hedge  funds. The non-equity 
element of your portfolio  consists  largely of cash and you have no exposure to commercial  property 
or hedge funds.
We recommend that a portion of most  portfolios be invested in absolute return hedge funds as they 
have both low correlation with equity  markets and low overall  volatility, with the main objective  of 
providing consistent positive returns through both "bull"  and "bear"  markets.  We also recommend 
commercial property as an essential  part of a balanced portfolio  since  performance is relatively 
uncorrelated with equities. You may also wish to consider  structured products as a replacement  for 
bonds at this stage of the fixed interest market.
This therefore compared Mr Os existing  version of a balanced  portfolio  (and one which he has 
reconfirmed by saying  that it should  be a mix of equities and bonds) with that firms  preferred asset 
split. This was, in a slightly varied form, carried over into Mr Os relationship  with S4.
And as illustrated by the six different Brewin Dolphin balanced portfolios mentioned  by Mr O, they 
can feature varying  levels of high and low risk investments, tailored to an individuals  risk profile  
which itself would be guided by factors such as risk understanding and awareness, tolerance to risk, 
and capacity for loss.
In its annual reports, S4 consistently  described  a balanced risk category as follows, or in very 
similar formats:
A Balanced Investor  is looking  for a balance of risk and reward,  and whilst seeking higher returns 
than might be obtained from a low risk investment, recognises that this brings with it a higher level 
of risk and that the value  of their investment may fluctuate in the short  term. They would feel 
uncomfortable if the overall value of their investments were to fall significantly over a short  period 
and would  be upset to see their capital significantly eroded.
This made no mention of specific  assets which might be held, or their weightings in the overall 
portfolio. Indeed, although Mr O has in his complaint said that he would only have been willing  to 
tolerate a small percentage of high risk investments if this was balanced out by very low risk 
investments, at no point  have I seen this requirement appearing in the suitability letters or the annual 
reports. Rather, specific target allocations to achieve  a balanced portfolio for Mr O were agreed.  I 
therefore need to determine whether the portfolio adhered to those target allocations, and if not, to 
what extent this might have compromised its balanced nature. And I discuss that in more detail in the 
later section relating  to the asset split.
Ref: DRN9806034Mr O has also taken out of context my comment relating to him being  unable to form a different view 
from S4 when it had committed to its balanced risk description. This was in reference to the overall 
portfolio, rather than the individual  investment, which I said Mr O would reasonably have been 
entitled to conclude would bear a balanced risk. And I stand by that finding.
Mr O has said that the only evidence I had provided (Ill comment  later on my ability to actually 
provide evidence  rather than rely upon it) to substantiate my comments  on there  being  greater 
latitude here in the creation of a balanced  risk portfolio was the letter  he had sent to the provider of 
the property partnerships  in which he had said that the existence of the associated loans wasnt an 
issue or concern  for him. Mr O said that these were  S4s words rather than his own,  in an attempt to 
deflect responsibility  for the losses incurred. It was also,  Mr O said, made in the context of him 
seeking assurance that there would be no further  losses as a result of the loans.
The comment in that letter isnt in any case the only evidence upon which Ive relied on in concluding 
that Mr O was an investor for whom some latitude could be exercised  in adding high risk investments 
to an overall balanced portfolio  as Ive said above,  Mr O has at other points  indicated  acceptance 
of high risk investments to be balanced out by lower risk ones, and other aspects  of his financial 
circumstances indicated  that he could accommodate them.  There is also the matter  of the known 
high risk investment  in August  2010   which I discuss further, along with the wider implications for Mr 
Os acceptance of risk, in a later section.
But I also find the prospect of Mr O writing  something in a complaint, on the instruction of a third 
party, which didnt reflect his actual view,  to be remote. And I have difficulty in understanding why, if 
he was seeking  assurance about  there  being  further  losses on the loans, he would  concede  that the 
existence of the loans  wasnt an issue for him. Im afraid that makes  little sense to me  Mr O simply  
had to acknowledge the existence of the loans  to seek reassurance that no further  losses  would be 
incurred on them. An admission of knowledge  and acceptance of the loans, with there  being  no 
issues or concerns  about them, wouldnt in my view have served a complaint about their effect  on the 
investment particularly well.
I note that Mr O has also said, in the context  of the property partnerships, that although I had 
concluded that awareness of further undisclosed  risks wouldnt  have  altered his decision, he had said 
in his letter of complaint  that this wasnt the case  and that he wouldnt have invested.
But whilst I acknowledge  Mr Os position  here, I need to also take into account that this was 
commentary made whilst  bringing his complaint.  I must place greater weight on what was said and 
done, and what  was more likely than not to have been the case, when the advice was given. In this 
instance, I remain of the view that awareness of those additional risks wouldnt have changed Mr Os 
decision to invest  for the reasons  already given in my provisional  decisions for those particular 
investments, and those  which I set out further below.
Incorrect inclusion  of pension fund monies with the other investments
Mr O has said that, in accordance with two other  financial advisers he had spoken to, it was correct 
practice to separate pension funds from investment funds. I think  this point is in any case arguable - 
but as Ive previously  noted, Mr Os primary aim for his investment portfolio was the prospect of 
retiring early.  
And so I think the inclusion of the pension funds in the overall portfolio is reasonable  and even if Mr 
O retired before he was able to start drawing on those funds, their later availability would 
nevertheless have likely factored  into the decision making around this.
Ive also noted  his comments on the risk to which those pension funds were  exposed, but Ill address 
the extent to which they may have been  imperilled  by this investment - or the overall portfolio - later 
in this decision.
Ref: DRN9806034Disregard of the performance aspects of the portfolio
Mr Os point about the performance  of the portfolio is valid,  but only as a rough guide  to what  might 
be expected of a balanced risk portfolio. And this would  in any case  be revealed  in the valuation of 
the portfolio from one year to the next.
I appreciate that Mr Os portfolio may have fluctuated or reduced in value after September 2010,  but I 
think its worth noting here that, between the first valuation Ive assessed  in November 2005 and that 
of September  2010, Mr Os overall  portfolio value increased from approximately £1.3m to £2.05m. 
Misrepresentation of risks by S4
Mr Os view here is that Ive said that, although  S4 misrepresented the risk level of the investment, 
there should be no repercussions. But what Ive actually concluded is that Mr O was entitled  to 
believe that S4 was creating a balanced risk portfolio for him. And if the overall  level of risk to which 
he was ultimately exposed was incompatible with a balanced  risk portfolio, then I would agree that 
there should be repercussions  in that I would uphold the complaint.
Mr O has said that my conclusions were at odds  with those  of the ombudsman who had decided  
cases against S4s predecessor firm, in that if the firm wanted to include high risk investments in a 
balanced portfolio,  it should have made this clear to Mr O. Mr Os position, which is broadly aligned 
with this, was that, with one exception, no investment had been recommended to him as higher risk  
they had all been described  as balanced  risk and thats what  he understood them  to be.
But if I accept that S4 misrepresented  the risk of the individual investment, I also have to take into 
account whether  it would actually have made a difference  if S4 had explicitly  said that the investment  
carried a high risk, but was nevertheless  compatible  with the balanced  risk portfolio. I would note 
here that, although  I acknowledge that Mr O maintains he considered all of his investments to bear a 
balanced risk rating, of the seven investments which are the subject of these complaints, there was 
only one instance   here - where  the investment itself was represented as suitable for a balanced 
risk profile, without the accompanying statement that it was suitable  as part of the portfolio being built 
for him.
In thinking about whether an explicit high risk categorisation  in the suitability letter  would have made 
a difference here, Ive given careful  consideration to what  Mr O has said about the one investment 
which was described  as exactly that and recommended to him in August 2010. This,  I think,  is a 
reliable indicator of the attitude  which Mr O might have adopted  for other  investments. And hes said 
that his attitude  to investment risk was the same at this point as it had been since the start of his 
relationship with S4.
Mr O has said that this recommendation  in August 2010 caused  him to think carefully  about  the 
investment and the overall portfolio. And to quote from his letter of 12 June  2017  in response to the 
adjudicators view, he said the following:
If S4 were providing a recommendation  to me of anything  other  than Balanced I would have 
expected them to make  it clear on the Suitability Letter. There was only one occasion where they 
deemed it necessary/appropriate to do. This was in August 2010. It was very clear on this occasion 
and it made  me consider  the investment in a very different light. I only entered into the investment 
on the basis that my entire portfolio was deemed  appropriate for a Balanced Risk Profile. (my 
emphasis)
By this, Mr O cannot have  meant that he considered  all of the investments to be balanced risk  it 
had just been made clear to him that at least one of them would  be high risk in nature. The logical 
interpretation here is that Mr O knew that there  might be one or more high risk investments in his 
portfolio, but he was willing to accept this if the portfolio as a whole was balanced  risk. And not just at 
that point  to reiterate,  Mr O has emphatically  said that his attitude to risk was still balanced, as he 
has also said it was throughout the relationship with S4.
Ref: DRN9806034The risks of that particular  investment were significant, as set out in the suitability report dated 5 
August 2010.  It was in fact described  as a highly speculative investment, with very much  a binary 
outcome  either significant gains, or a total loss, and within  a relatively  short period of time given the 
nature of the investment  - albeit S4 said that the latter could be used to recover  a proportion of the 
investment sum under cessation of trade rules for close  companies if Mr O had paid sufficient tax in 
the previous and current tax years. There was also reference in the suitability report  to an in depth 
discussion about the risks, and Mr O being  comfortable with these. 
I appreciate that it might  be Mr Os position that a series of investments described by S4 as being  
high risk, rather than one in isolation,  would have given him greater  pause  for thought  and caused  
him to challenge the nature of the portfolio being  created by S4. But these investments didnt occur at 
the same  time  they were spread  over a period of six years.  And with the generally  repeated  
assurance that they nevertheless complimented  a balanced risk portfolio, I think  Mr O would have 
accepted this, as he did with the explicitly high risk Enigma investment in August 2010.
Furthermore, by July 2010,  Mr O would  have been  unambiguously aware that a particular high risk 
associated with two property schemes had materialised and necessitated  a further  injection  of funds.
And so Ive also thought carefully  about  what the investment in August 2010,  which  Mr O has himself  
highlighted was described as being high risk, might  mean in terms of his willingness to accept high 
risk investments generally in a balanced  risk portfolio, and an acceptance that the proportion  of those 
higher risk assets  might place him at the higher risk end of a range of potential  balanced  portfolios. 
As background here,  Mr O has said that, by the time of the property  partnership  (called MPPP58)  
cash call in July 2010, he had invested  approximately £1.8m  in high risk investments, of which 
£473,000 was invested in property. And Mr O has said that this was mitigated by £23,433 of fixed  
income investments.  This has contributed to Mr Os conclusion that the portfolio wasnt appropriate  
for a balanced risk investor. I disagree with the valuation  of the high risk investments, for reasons Ive 
already set out and which Ill address further  later on. But this was nevertheless  Mr Os view of 
matters.
But by July 2010, there had also been another cash  call on a different property  partnership  (called 
MPPP62) in September 2009, in addition to the loan to value covenant  breach  which  resulted in the 
cash call for MPPP58.
There are a couple of important points to consider here. The first is that, by July 2010 at the latest, as 
Ive said above,  Mr O can have been  under no illusions as to the risks to his capital posed by the 
property partnership investments. Even if, as is argued by Mr O, he was unaware  that they carried a 
higher than balanced risk rating  when  originally recommended  to him, there was the very real 
prospect (rather than future possibility)  of a total loss of capital without the injection of further funds   
along with the possibility  that this would need  to be repeated in the future. The previously  
undisclosed risk of break costs from a swap contract  which  might arise  as a result of a loan to value 
covenant breach, and ensuing forced sale, knowledge of which Mr O has said would  unequivocally 
have changed  his view on this investment  in his own words, he would not have touched these  
investments  - had been realised.
And according to Mr O, a significant percentage of his portfolio had by this time been invested  in 
similar types of property  schemes (six in MPPP schemes alone). 
Yet Mr O was still prepared to invest approximately £25,000, with an additional geared loan of 
around £75,000, in a further, unambiguously  high risk, product recommended  to him by S4 one 
month later.
My view is that it might reasonably be expected  that, if Mr O considered either  that all of his 
investments carried a balanced risk rating,  or that a very small percentage of his portfolio held in high 
risk investments was balanced out by other  very low risk investments, given the risks he must by 
then have appreciated were posed  by the MPPP investments alone, he would at the very least  by 
Ref: DRN9806034that point have challenged the proposed  addition  of a further £25,000  high risk investment  along 
with the description  of the previous MPPP investments individually as being suited to a balanced  risk 
investor. But Ive seen no evidence that this happened.
In fact, email  correspondence  in June 2010 between Mr O and S4 relating to several of his existing 
investments could reasonably be described  as Mr O expressing  frustration  at the performance of his 
investments, but no commentary as to whether  the risks posed  by them were inappropriate for him.
Mr Os recorded risk rating had, by September 2010, increased  from balanced to balanced 
aggressive, which might  reasonably  imply a willingness to increase further  the amount of high risk 
investments held. But Mr O has disputed this  he has in fact taken  exception  to the suggestion that 
he has ever been anything other than a balanced risk investor,  including at the point when he made 
the further high risk investment in August 2010.
I think the August  2010 investment tells me three  things: firstly that, as I said in the provisional  
decision, Mr O cannot have believed all of his investments  to have carried a balanced  risk rating; 
secondly, that he was prepared for there to be higher risk investments (not restricted  to that 
recommended in August 2010) in his portfolio; and thirdly, given the proportion of MPPP investments 
by the time of the further high risk investment in August  2010,  that he was prepared  for high risk 
investments to represent a significant  percentage of a balanced portfolio  which in my view further 
endorses the conclusion that some latitude  could be applied  in the creation of that portfolio for Mr O.
And I must also question  as to why Mr O would have reacted any differently to being  told at other 
times that the proposed  investment was high risk, but nevertheless formed part of the overall 
balanced risk portfolio.  If he was prepared to accept  the reassurance that it did, as was the case in 
August 2010,  it seems  likely to me that he would still have decided  to invest on other occasions  
including this one - as well. 
Mr O has also challenged  my comment about his acceptance of property investments to balance out 
more volatile aspects  of his portfolio, saying that these werent his own comments, but rather  taken 
from the suitability  letters.
But, again, there are a few issues here.  The first is that Id query as to why, if the commentary  
appeared in suitability letters but wasnt true, Mr O didnt challenge this at the time.  And when he was 
repeating those comments in the letter of complaint, I also note that Mr O didnt say that this notion 
wasnt acceptable to him and that all investments must be balanced in nature. 
But perhaps most compelling of all in relation to my view of Mr Os acceptance of high risk 
investments in his portfolio is the presence of instances where Mr O has indicated  that he would be 
prepared to accept  this  such as the example above from August 2010.
I think it could reasonably be argued  that the above  commentary lends itself well to the conclusion 
that Mr O must have been aware,  at the very latest  by July 2010, that his balanced portfolio 
contained many high risk investments  but made no complaint on that basis, and was in fact 
prepared to invest in further high risk schemes such as that in August 2010. 
I nevertheless think its still plausible that Mr O believed that S4 was creating a balanced portfolio for 
him, albeit  tailored according to targeted  percentages of assets.  And I think  that S4, having 
committed to creating this, was dutybound  to do so.
What I conclude from the above is, as Ive set out elsewhere, that Mr O was an individual who was 
prepared to accept  some high risk investments  in his portfolio, and would most  likely have been 
aware, by July 2010 at the latest,  that some  of those which  had been  described by S4 as being 
balanced risk, such as the MPPPs, in fact carried considerably  higher  risks.  And he accepted  this.
So, as with the provisional decision,  I maintain that, in order to determine whether this investment 
was suitable for Mr O, I need  to consider whether the overall portfolio, including  this investment, was 
Ref: DRN9806034suitable for him  not whether each  investment  was either balanced risk in nature, or suitable in 
isolation.
The ombudsman does  not comply with the Judicial Review
Mr O has rejected my finding  that, appreciating the risks involved in the investment, he would have 
been aware that it carried a higher than balanced  risk rating. And he has quoted  from the statement 
made by the judge when giving permission to seek Judicial  Review  (see my previous comments on 
this  this was not a Judicial Review finding) that said, in the absence  of specific  evidence for this, 
the finding was unarguably unlawful.  
I think Mr O meant to say here that it was arguably unlawful.  But I dont think this matters, as there 
is in any case specific evidence I have  relied upon here in concluding that Mr O would have 
appreciated that the investment bore a higher than balanced risk rating. Much of that reasoning is 
contained within my provisional  decision,  and centres around the detail provided to Mr O of the risks 
themselves and Mr Os capacity to understand the nature and ramifications of those risks involved.  
For example, the Invicta investment risks, as set out in my provisional decision,  were as follows:
The recommendation  to invest in the film partnership was based upon its interpretation of 
current tax legislation, which may be subject to change by HMRC.
The assumptions relating to tax relief and taxable profit  assumed that Mr O would ordinarily  
be resident in the UK for tax purposes. If his residential status changed, Mr O may need to 
compensate the other  partners for any loss which might  result from him no longer meeting the 
required tax criteria.
If the expected income  for 2005/06  wasn't  forthcoming, it might be appropriate to elect an 
alternative tax year for relief purposes, but if this wasn't  within  the next three  years, the tax 
relief benefit may be lost.
There was currently no market or mechanism for exit from the partnership  prior to "1 day after 
the sixteenth year-end". This was restricted under the partnership agreement.
Depending upon the individual partners' tax position, the actual amount of tax relief available 
couldn't be accurately determined and the envisaged  full amount of approximately £173,000 
might not be reclaimable.
My view is that these features clearly set the investment apart from more mainstream type 
investments  and ones  with which Mr O would have  been familiar through what  he has described as 
his own management  of his share and equities  portfolio,  which formed the mainstay of his portfolio 
prior to the involvement of both S4 and the preceding advisory  firm.
And perhaps  the most  notable risks were contained in the warnings about the view HMRC might take 
on the matter of tax rebates in the future, summarised in my provisional  decision as follows:
Regarding HM Revenue  & Customs  (HMRC) approval, S4 said that clients  who had invested in film 
partnerships using Section 42 allowances (the relief  which allowed the cost of producing UK films to 
generate a loss - which could then be offset  against other income  over a three year period) had 
successfully secured their tax rebates.
It couldn't rule out the possibility that HMRC  would decide to not approve the claim, but it cited  
several factors which it considered minimised that risk; guidance from HMRC's own notes, along with 
legal opinion; a five year track record of clients successfully claiming rebates; rarity of retrospective 
legislation by HMRC;  and HMRC confirmation  that a properly established  Section 42 scheme 
wouldn't be affected by recent  press  releases or releases in the forthcoming pre-budget report.
The partnership was described as a limited  liability partnership,  with each partner being taxed on 
their share of the partnership profits, but liability not exceeding the value of the partner's initial  cash  
stake. But S4 said that partners may be at risk if they didn't adhere to
the partnership  agreement or any loan secured under that agreement.
Ref: DRN9806034As the investment was designed to create a partnership loss, as set out in the suitability  letter, 
which could be offset against tax liabilities, the prospect of tax rebates  was clearly the driving force  
behind the investment. But the possibility of those  rebates being challenged by HMRC existed  and 
therefore the scheme could fail, possibly in its entirety.
As with the general features of the investment,  I would  suggest that this type of risk, with no FSCS 
investment protection in place, would  individually be incompatible with a balanced risk rating.  
And I think Mr O would have been aware  of that. As Ive said above, in terms of Mr Os capacity to 
understand the investment and the associated risks,  Mr O has said that he also managed his own 
share and equity portfolio. I think its therefore  likely that he had sufficient  financial  awareness to 
understand the description of the investment  and that it was quite different from the features and 
risks associated with an investment which could in itself be described as balanced, or individually 
suiting a balanced risk profile. 
But, importantly, for the reasons given in the preceding section, even if a different interpretation could 
be applied  here,  and S4 needed to have been  specific about the higher risk rating  borne  by the 
investment for Mr O to appreciate this, I think its likely that Mr O would nevertheless have proceeded 
 with the reassurance that it formed part of an overall balanced risk portfolio.
S4s lack of compliance  with the principles of the Financial Conduct  Authority
Mr O has said that S4 failed to adhere  to its regulatory obligations on a number of counts. Ill address 
them in turn.
Firstly, Mr O has said that, as S4 failed to disclose a number of key risks associated with certain  
property partnerships, it failed to act with integrity. But I dont  think  that allegation  can stand here. As 
I said in my provisional decision, my view is that S4 clearly set out the key risks of this investment.
Mr O then argued that, as S4 had categorised  the investment as being suitable  for a balanced risk 
profile, it had failed to display  skill, care and diligence. Im inclined to agree with Mr O here  and 
indeed have said so in the provisional  decision. I dont think  the investment could, in isolation,  be 
said to carry a balanced attitude  risk. But I would also refer to all other commentary  Ive made  about  
why the risk of the investment shouldnt be considered in isolation.
Ive thought about Mr Os view that, due to the inaccuracies of its information  system, it couldnt have 
properly managed his exposure to investment risk. I think the omissions  in the valuations  brought  to 
my attention by Mr O were quite minor, and at least two of the three were reasonable given the 
proximity of the investments to the date of the valuation. I dont therefore agree that S4 was unable to 
manage his exposure  to investment risk on this basis.
Mr O has also said that conflicts of interest  were created in a number of situations. But the situation  
to which  I think Mr O is referring  has in any case been deemed to be one where no advice was given 
by S4. And even if it were  the case that a conflict of interest had arisen  in other  situations,  I dont 
think it impacts  on my assessment  of this particular investment, where no such conflict appears to 
have been present. 
Mr O concluded his opinion on these matters by saying that the most serious breaches had been in 
S4s lack of due regard  to his information needs and communication  of that information  he thought  
it had been misleading. He also said hed been unable to rely on S4s judgement  in giving suitable 
recommendations.
As Ive previously said, I dont think S4s description of the investment as being  suitable for a 
balanced profile, in isolation, was plausible. But this failure wouldnt mean  that a complaint  should 
automatically be upheld,  if other  conditions are present which  serve  to mitigate that failing.
Ref: DRN9806034And for the reasons given, this is my view here. The failure to accurately describe the risk rating of 
the investment  was mitigated by: Mr Os likely  appreciation  that it represented a higher than balanced 
risk; and the likelihood that, even if it had been  described as a high risk investment, Mr O would have 
in any case invested  on the basis of the reassurance that it nevertheless  formed  part of an overall 
balanced risk portfolio   as demonstrated by the investment  in August 2010.
An independent view
Mr O has sought a third party opinion from an IFA on the portfolio. Notably, that IFA has said that a 
balanced portfolio can consist of low, medium and high risk investments, so long as the higher risk 
ones were balanced out by those bearing low risk.
My comment  here would be that this is entirely  consistent  with my own view,  in that it was entirely 
possible for Mr Os portfolio to comprise of a range of differently risk rated investments, rather than 
there being a selection of, for example, only medium  risk investments.
The further view expressed  by the IFA has been  that Mr Os portfolio was very high risk in nature and 
that there  had been a failure  to balance out the higher risk investments with lower  risk ones. Tax 
rebates had been reinvested into further  non-approved tax schemes, thereby exacerbating the risks.
But if Mr O received tax rebates in cash which were then reinvested,  this would be reflected in the 
overall asset split, and risk rating, of the portfolio. And furthermore, the risks of these schemes  were  
known to Mr O, and likely understood. Additionally, insofar as its possible to have a typical 
balanced risk portfolio  - and Id refer to my comments above relating to the different guises this might 
take - I dont think that this would fit the bill of a typical medium risk balanced portfolio, to which I 
suspect Mr Os IFA may be referring. For example, as previously noted, Mr O had agreed that 30% 
would be invested  in property, including commercial  property  schemes,  the risks of which had been 
(with notable  exceptions which are covered in those  complaints) clearly set out. The issue I must 
decide is whether  the proportion of these types  of investments adhered to the agreed asset 
allocations - and was suitable in an overall  balanced portfolio structure for Mr O.
The asset split within the portfolio
Mr O has disagreed with my analysis of the asset  split within the valuation.  Ive therefore reassessed  
the valuation and its constituent parts, with further  input where necessary from S4. Im conscious  of 
the fact that Mr O may still disagree with the methodology of the valuation, for some of the reasons 
Ive already mentioned above,  but also on issues such as the inclusion of the pension  assets and 
assets earmarked  for his children. But I remain of the view that my conclusions  in those matters are 
reasonable.
But there may also remain disagreement  over the precise value of some  of the investments cited  
below, and its possible, despite  my best efforts to attribute as accurate a figure  as possible to them, 
as well as the resulting  percentages,  that there may yet be discrepancies  which  either party might be 
able to identify.  But Im nevertheless confident that these would not be so great, even  if amounting to 
a few percent  difference in the proportions of the relevant asset classes,  as to undermine my overall 
conclusions. 
So Ive firstly thought  carefully about  the inclusion of the bare trusts and unit trust savings plans  put 
in place for the children.  Mr O has said that these shouldnt have been included  in the portfolio, but 
Im afraid Im inclined to disagree. Notwithstanding that the value  of at least the unit trusts could be 
realised if the need arose, I think the portfolio was designed to meet the overall  family  objectives, 
hence my comment in the provisional decision about  this being part of a life plan for Mr O and his 
family. The primary goal for Mr O was early  retirement, hence the inclusion also of the pension  funds. 
But this could only realistically be achieved if he felt he had sufficient provision in place for his 
children, be that for funding further  education  or giving  them  a good  financial start in adult life. 
Ref: DRN9806034So I dont  think that the inclusion of both of these sets of investments in the portfolio valuation is 
unreasonable. But even if a different interpretation could reasonably be applied  here,  their exclusion 
wouldnt make  a significant difference to the portfolio valuation.
With regard to the Chatham Leisure investment, I take Mr Os point  that, as the intended rebates 
hadnt yet been received from the scheme,  the full amount of the investment should be taken  into 
account. But whilst also increasing  the exposure  to that tax based scheme, this would also serve to 
increase the valuation at that point   as Ive alluded to above, it would be unreasonable  to factor  in 
the expected loss without  also factoring in the associated tax relief (which  I understand was paid 
later). So I think the position would be broadly neutral.
I do, however,  accept  Mr Os point  about  the VCTs. These were recorded as later investments, but I 
acknowledge that they should  be included in the overall portfolio,  thereby reducing the amount of 
cash held.
Mr O has then said that the total amount  invested in tax based schemes was £441,535. But whilst 
this may have been the amount cumulatively invested, the valuation  isnt right. Two of the tax based  
investments included in this valuation, Matrix Augusta and Maybury Media, had been recommended 
by the previous advising firm and established  in March 2004.  They  no longer had a value attributed 
to them,  as they had fulfilled their purpose  of producing the required loss for the benefit  of receiving 
tax rebates.  Excluding  the VCTs, the value attributed  to non-property  tax based schemes was 
effectively the Invicta 22 investment, amounting to £67,500.
A further  £101,015 was invested  in the tax based  property scheme - Chatham Leisure  which 
increases the portfolio value to £1.37m (or a lower £15,235 investment, taking into account tax 
rebates, maintains the valuation at £1.29m). For the purposes of consistency with the provisional 
decision, Ill use the latter figure.
The Invicta scheme no longer featured in the valuation  report from November 2005, as it had 
produced the required  loss to achieve  the objective  of the tax rebates - £59,457 already received, 
with a further £113,152  expected by June 2007. If I am to add that investment value of £67,500, but 
remove the £40,000 Quorum 8 and £10,000  EIS Yelofin investment from the schedule, as they didnt 
happen until later in 2005, it would  have meant  the portfolio value  was approximately  £1.3m as at 
March 2005.
Mr O has also said that the fixed income amount was in reality just £19,457, representing the bond 
funds held in the pension.  This was because the two further pension  plans  didnt exist at the time. 
This would serve to reduce the portfolio by approximately  £207,000,  resulting in a value of around 
£1.1m.  
So tax based  schemes (Invicta and Chatham Leisure), excluding  VCTs, accounted  for £83,000,  or 
8% of the overall  portfolio  at that point.  VCTs, for the amount of £100,000, accounted  for a further 
9%, and the non-tax based property investments represented a further  £75,000  Bridgewater Place,  
MPPP40 and MPPP42  (held in the pension)   accounted for a further 7%. These  werent factored 
into the assessment  of high risk scheme valuation in my provisional decision, for which I apologise. 
So a cumulative 24% was held in high risk investments recommended by S4, rather  than the 41% Mr 
O has quoted  in response to the provisional decision. And in monetary terms this amounted  to 
£254,000.
For the reasons  already given, I dont  think its appropriate to exclude  the pension  assets,  but this 
would in any case only serve to slightly increase that percentage.
Aside from the effect of investing in the VCTs, Mr O has also said that the amounts held in cash were  
lower than those stated in the November 2005  valuation. £78,000  of this was the transfer of his 
Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme (FURBS) account which didnt exist in March 2005, 
and the remainder was held in ISAs and PEPs. 
Ref: DRN9806034I dont think its possible from the information  I have to precisely  reconstruct Mr Os cash position  at 
that particular  time.  And although  the cash investment position  at that particular point  may have  
been lower due to the investment in the VCTs, my understanding is that, based on the tax planning  
for the 2003/2004 and 2004/05 tax years, Mr O was expecting cash  rebates from HMRC, within  a 
matter of weeks, for the amount  of approximately £245,000 - £60,000 from Matrix Augusta,  £85,000 
from Chatham Leisure,  £40,000 from the VCT portfolio, and then £60,000 from the Invicta 
investment. This may have then been  reinvested, but it was nevertheless cash  which had either  
returned, or was expected to be returning,  to the portfolio as a result  of previous tax based 
investments. I dont in any case consider that cash, in its simplest  deposit  form, would constitute  a 
significant part of a balanced  investment portfolio.
And this also doesnt include any cash which Mr O might have held outside of the portfolio. My 
understanding is that Mr Os taxable income was in the region of £800,000 and that he was 
expecting to earn a similar amount in the following year.  Even if Mr Os income  wasnt quite that high 
 and Im reliant  upon information  provided  by S4 here - I think its likely  that Mr O would have had 
been able to accumulate cash  savings.  
Mr O has said that, overall, £516,535 was held in high risk investments, and that just £19,457  was 
held in fixed income funds, with a further £12,664  held in cash. For the reasons given above,  I 
disagree with Mr Os assessment of the proportion of high risk funds held  it was around  £254,000, 
or 24% - but this does  in any case somewhat disregard the remainder of Mr Os portfolio. Even by Mr 
Os numbers, there  is still approximately £585,000 which wasnt  invested in high risk schemes  
recommended by S4. With the accurate  value  of high risk investments, the remainder in the portfolio 
amounted to approximately £840,000, or 76% of the portfolio. And this was held in a number of more 
mainstream investments  which might  reasonably  fit the bill for inclusion in a balanced risk portfolio.
The IFA from whom  Mr O has sought a second opinion said that the high risk investment schemes 
excluded other high risk investments in the remainder of the portfolio. But Ive considered the actual 
asset split (on the basis of the £1.29m valuation) in November 2005,  which, other than the 
differences referred to above which were  present in March 2005,  Ive no reason to believe was 
incorrect. This was recorded  as follows:
Absolute Return £61,460 4.8%
Asia pacific  £29,128 2.3%
Cash £90,904 7.1%
Europe £18,837 1.5%
Fixed Interest  £43,438 3.4%  
Global Equity £386,851 30.0%
Property - Non Tax based £102,502 8.0%
Property - Tax based £55,235 4.3%  
Specialist Equity £283,629 22.0% 
UK - Non Tax based £96,543 7.5%  
UK - Tax based £105,825 8.2% 
US £14,695 1.1%  
Total Portfolio £1,289,047
Mr O has said that some  of the amounts of fixed income and cash were lower  as at March  2005, 
which Ive acknowledged  above, but as Ive also said, this wouldnt have taken account of, certainly  
with regard to cash, additional probable  holdings  outside of the portfolio. 
Ive therefore  no reason  to doubt that the further breakdown of the non-tax based portfolio below, as 
set out in the November 2005  valuation, was also broadly correct. And other than reducing  the fixed 
income (which includes cash) amount for March 2005, there doesnt seem  to be significant  disparity  
between the ratios held between  those  two dates. The reduction  in the fixed income amounts, due to 
the absence of the two pensions in March 2005, is likely made up for by the actual, or immediately 
anticipated, availability  of cash  for investment shortly thereafter.
Ref: DRN9806034Absolute Return £61,460 5.4%  Target 20%
Fixed Interest £134,342 11.9% Target 20%
Equity £829,683 73.6% Target 30%
Property £102,502 9.1% Target 30%
The issue  of target  percentages is somewhat complicated by the removal  of tax based schemes from 
that section. This would imply  that there was no specific target in mind for the amount which  could be 
held in such schemes, and this is consistent with S4s view that it shouldnt be considered as a part 
of an investment portfolio. But my view is that, where they retain  a value, they should  be included.  
This is aligned with what Ive said above  relating to how these schemes should be represented for 
valuation purposes.  But it remains the case that no targets were seemingly allocated  to tax based  
schemes. 
S4 was nevertheless tasked with creating a balanced risk portfolio for Mr O, and so I need to 
determine whether  Mr Os overall  exposure to high risk investments, and the balancing  effect of 
lower risk investments, was compatible with this. Ive revisited this matter on the basis  of the above  
amendments. And I consider a reasonable methodology for determining this would be to assess  any 
breaches in the non-tax based  investments  target, combined with my own view as to whether  that 
breach, and the nature of that breach (for example, was it in mainstream  funds which might not be 
categorised as high risk), in conjunction  with the amount of other high risk tax based investments 
held, and all the other  factors at play here which Ive set out above,  pushed the portfolio beyond the 
realms of what could reasonably be described  as a balanced risk portfolio. And specifically, given 
what Ive said above about the type of latitude which might reasonably  be employed in the creation of 
a balanced risk portfolio, taking account of factors such as risk awareness and capacity for loss - a 
balanced risk portfolio  for Mr O. 
So Ive thought carefully about this. In the targeted section above,  the amount held in equity was 
73.6%. This comfortably  exceeded the target  of 30%, but a significant proportion of this was made up 
of directly held shares gained from Mr Os employment. If these  are removed, the percentage held in 
equity funds was 50%.  And that was as a percentage of the portfolio  excluding tax based  
investments. Of the whole portfolio,  and also deducting those which  hadnt  yet been acquired in the 
two pensions, but including those from Mr Os employment, equities represented 57%.
So Ive also given  further consideration as to whether this percentage of equities, breaching  as it did 
the target  set for that asset class, and combined with the amounts of high risk investments held in 
various tax and non-tax based  schemes, resulted in a portfolio which  presented too much risk for Mr 
O  and therefore rendered the recommendation to invest  in Invicta unsuitable.
The Invicta investment  served to increase Mr Os overall exposure to high risk investments. And as a 
proportion of the whole portfolio estimated at £1.1m as at March  2005, Mr O held approximately 24% 
in high risk schemes,  57% in equities, and 19% in other investments, including  those representing 
lower risk.
S4 was conscious  of the fact that the equity content  in Mr Os portfolio was higher than the targeted  
percentage. And it had been tasked,  by its own admission, with reducing volatility  and risk in Mr Os 
portfolio. It viewed the existing assets  held by Mr O when the relationship  began, notably the 
significant proportion  of equities  in the portfolio, as being the higher risk and more volatile feature of 
his holding.
It sought to balance this out  and diversify  the portfolio - by investing in commercial  property and 
other types of assets. And I dont think the position  that property investments are less volatile than 
equities is unreasonable. Property prices tend to be cyclical in nature, and tend to decline in line with 
general economic  downturns, whereas equities tend to react to market  conditions, and fluctuate more  
frequently, in a more immediate sense. 
So S4 said the following in the November 2005  report:
Ref: DRN9806034Whilst your portfolio asset allocation does not closely  follow  the agreed model we should be
mindful that a large proportion of the Equity exposure is held under your ISA and Unit Trust
investments which  you self manage.
It was therefore seemingly left to Mr O to manage  that exposure to equities, and he was aware  that, 
to create  the balanced portfolio envisaged  by S4, the amount of equities would need to reduce, to be 
balanced out by an increasing  level of investment in other asset  classes, such as commercial 
property. And this is what happened over successive years. By the time of the next report in 
December 2006,  equities represented 48% of the overall portfolio, and by January 2008 it had fallen 
below 30%.  
To the extent that the overall risk was appropriately managed, as Ive said above, high risk 
investments represented  24% of Mr Os portfolio at this point, and other investments provided 
balance to this, with the proportion of equities  reducing over time. And with specific regard to the 
property holding in Mr Os portfolio, this was some way below the 30% target at this point   at 
approximately 8%. And so an overweight holding  in equities was, to an extent, offset by an 
underweight holding in property. 
summary
There was a balance  of investments here.  I appreciate  that Mr O may still consider that this was 
skewed too heavily in favour of high risk investments, and I remain  of the view that S4s description  
of the nature  of the Invicta investment in isolation as being suited to a balanced risk profile was 
misleading  it should  have identified  it as being high risk, even  if it then described  it as being 
suitable within an overall balanced portfolio being created for Mr O. For the reasons given, my view is 
that a high risk description  of the individual  investment wouldnt have changed Mr Os decision to 
proceed. But in any case,  my overall view on both the need  to take account of the investments place 
in Mr Os portfolio, along with the above  proportions of higher  risk investments within the overall  
portfolio, remains the same as that set out in my provisional decision.  
On a fair and reasonable analysis of the facts,  and in the context of all of my previous comments 
about Mr Os understanding  of the products features, his likely awareness that his investments  bore 
a range of risks, his tolerance to high risk investments  as a proportion  of his overall portfolio, capacity 
for loss, and the latitude which might reasonably be applied to the creation of a balanced portfolio on 
the basis of all of these factors, I think that 24% invested in high risk schemes, and in the context  of 
other investments held,  was an amount which might reasonably be considered  suitable for a 
balanced portfolio for Mr O.
In closing, as Ive alluded to above, Ive noted  with some dismay  some of the language and 
terminology used by Mr O in response  to my provisional decision. Mr O has, at various points said 
that Ive manipulated the complaint, speculated,  attempted to isolate investments, chosen  to ignore, 
failed to consider,  condoned and justified the business actions and provided evidence to support  
my findings.
What concerns me about  this is less the possibility that this might  undermine what  I consider to have 
been a fair, impartial and thorough assessment of the facts, but more that Mr O might himself have 
the impression  that there  has been some  kind of bias towards  the business here  and that he may 
consider that he has been unfairly treated.
As a reminder, we are a free and impartial service,  with no agenda,  bias or vested interest in making 
findings which favour either party  to a complaint. Its perhaps inevitable that the losing  party may 
feel dissatisfied with the outcome, and I appreciate that Mr O may well be frustrated with the length of 
time its taken to decide these cases - for which I apologise, but with the caveat that they have  
undoubtedly been quite complex in nature and have required some  in depth investigation and 
consideration. 
Ref: DRN9806034But I would seek to reassure Mr O that none of the above allegations made about my findings apply 
here. And as a reminder,  Mr O is entitled  to reject my findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my 
decision before  16 January  2021.
Philip Miller
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9806034COPY OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr O has complained about  advice he received from S4 Financial Ltd to invest in the lnvicta Film Partnership 
No 22 (2004/5) in March 2005. In particular,  Mr O has said that, in recommending the investment, S4 failed to 
create the balanced risk portfolio that was agreed at the outset. And that this has led to substantial  losses 
within his portfolio.
background
A suitability  report was issued in March  2005, in which Mr O's circumstances were  recorded  as follows:
He was employed by a major bank  in a senior  IT role, receiving a basic annual salary  of
£168,500, and with an "on target estimate"  elevated  salary of £330,000.
He was married, with two dependent children.
His main  residence was valued at approximately £900,000,  and at that time it had a
£300,000 offset mortgage  outstanding.  Mr O also had two properties overseas which  he was trying  to 
sell.
The existing "freestanding"  portfolio  (excluding property and share  options, was valued  at 
approximately £640,000. This was made up of ISAs, PEPs, commercial property, endowments and unit 
trusts.
In terms of pension benefits,  both Mr and Mrs O had defined benefit  schemes  with their employers, and 
Mrs O had a personal  pension plan.
An income and capital gains history  from 2001/02 to date was included, which recorded  that, in the last 
tax year they had "unplanned" income  and gains  of approximately £139,000.
S4 recommended that Mr O invest in the lnvicta film partnership - a sale and leaseback arrangement. The 
partnership would obtain the rights to films and then lease them back to the production company  to produce the 
films, with the agreement that this would then provide income to the partnership.
Investment in this scheme  was by way of the £67,500 capital contribution from Mr O, together with £382,500 
loan funding.  The loan would  be repaid  on behalf of the investors from the revenue received by the partnership,  
creating a partnership "loss" which could be offset  against M O's tax liabilities.
S4 said that, on the basis of the £450,000 gross investment, Mr O could be eligible  to claim tax relief on around 
95% of the investment over the first three years of the trading partnership. Total relief could  be expected to be 
around £60,000 by July/August 2005, a further £57,000 by July/August 2006 and a final payment of £56,000 by 
July/August 2007.
As the partnership loan amounts were repaid, the partnership  should generate taxable  profits for the sum 
invested of around £17,000 in year four to approximately  £50,000 in year 15. Income tax would  be paid on that 
profit, expected to be in the region of £7,000 in year 5, rising to around £20,000 by year 16.
S4 confirmed  that Mr O had adequate surplus cash flow to be able to afford the investment, and that the nature 
of the investment suited his balanced risk profile.
S4 included a section  entitled "Specific Risks attached  to This Investment", which included the following:
The recommendation to invest in the film partnership  was based upon its interpretation  of current tax 
legislation, which may be subject to change by HMRC.
The assumptions relating  to tax relief and taxable profit assumed  that Mr O would  ordinarily  be resident 
in the UK for tax purposes. If his residential  status changed, Mr O may need to compensate the other 
partners for any loss which might result from him no longer meeting the required tax criteria.
If the expected  income for 2005/06 wasn't forthcoming, it might be appropriate to elect an alternative tax 
year for relief purposes, but if this wasn't within the next three years,  the tax relief  benefit  may be lost.
There was currently no market or mechanism  for exit from the partnership  prior to "1 day after the 
sixteenth year-end".  This was restricted under the partnership agreement.
Depending upon  the individual partners'  tax position, the actual amount of tax relief available couldn't be 
accurately determined  and the envisaged full amount of approximately £173,000 might not be 
reclaimable.
Ref: DRN9806034S4 said that the film risk was "minimal",  on the basis that, although the tax relief  would  be dependent upon the 
films being certified by the Department of culture, Media and Sport, if that wasn't  forthcoming, the partnership  
would seek to ensure that Mr O was entitled  to sell the film or request that the partners be released from their 
obligations. As no surplus was envisaged from the sale, Mr O shouldn't  have any trading  profits  or losses, or a 
disposal of assets as a gain which he'd have  to declare in a self-assessment tax return.
The loan risk was also described  as "minimal".  The funds required to meet  the minimum rental obligations 
would be deposited  with the financial institution providing  the security for those  minimum rentals. The lender  
would also request  that additional or alternative security would be provided  if the credit standing or the financial  
institution providing  the security fell to unacceptable levels.
Regarding HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) approval, S4 said that clients who had invested in film 
partnerships using Section 42 allowances  (the relief which allowed the cost of producing UK films to generate a 
loss - which could then be offset against other income over a three year period) had successfully secured  their 
tax rebates.
It couldn't  rule out the possibility that HMRC  would  decide to not approve the claim, but it cited  several  factors 
which it considered minimised that risk; guidance from HMRC's own notes, along  with legal opinion; a five year 
track record of clients  successfully  claiming rebates;  rarity of retrospective legislation  by HMRC; and HMRC 
confirmation that a properly established Section 42 scheme wouldn't  be affected  by recent press releases or 
releases in the forthcoming pre-budget report.
The partnership was described as a limited liability  partnership, with each partner being taxed  on their share  of 
the partnership profits, but liability not exceeding the value of the partner's initial cash  stake. But S4 said that 
partners may be at risk if they didn't  adhere to the partnership agreement  or any loan secured under that 
agreement.
The complaint
Mr O complained to S4 in September 2013. The following is a summary of Mr O's submissions  to S4 and then 
to this service:
His risk profile was that of a balanced risk investor. Every  recommendation given  by S4 clearly stated 
that it was suited  to this. He would  have tolerated high risk ventures for a very small percentage of his 
portfolio, but only if they were  offset by lower risk investments.
S4 had suggested that he'd known that certain investments, including  this one, were  speculative in 
nature, but this wasn't the case - and S4 always  defined them as being  suited to a balanced risk profile.
Being  categorised as a high net worth (HNW) investor only meant that he had investible assets of 
£250,000 or more  - not that he had any understanding of the investments  recommended by S4.
He didn't have a high tolerance  for investment  loss - he had commitments to fund and was seeking early 
retirement.
The total invested through S4, including  this scheme, was in the region of £2m. Outstanding losses and 
liabilities amounted to approximately  £1.3m. Over the same  period of time, a balanced portfolio should  
have grown by about 50%.
His pension funds had also been reduced by about a third.
He'd been advised  to invest in inappropriate high risk investments, and he had no idea where he stood  
financially. This was having a significant impact on him and his family.
Most of the recommended investments outside of his pension funds, including this one, appeared  to be 
based upon tax mitigation advice  - but there were others relating  to commercial  property,  enterprise trust 
zones, and venture  capital trusts.
The investments designed to mitigate tax had been portrayed as being straightforward,  but were  in fact 
opaque and misleading, resulting  in his tax affairs being impossible to understand.
He didn't need the cash  from the tax rebates - it was at the adviser's initiation, and liabilities had been 
created with no preservation  of capital or steady growth. Rather, he'd sustained significant  losses.
As a result of some  of the tax mitigation schemes, he was receiving  demands for payment of tax rebates 
from HMRC,  for which he would  need to encash  ISAs  to fund.
S4's response to the complaint
The below is a summary of S4's response to Mr O and its submissions to this service. It includes  general 
commentary on the relationship between Mr O and S4, but also specifics relating to the lnvicta investment:
Mr O became  a client of S4 Financial in September 2004  - he had been one of 20 founding  shareholders 
in the company.
Ref: DRN9806034Before this, Mr O had been a client of a specialist  tax planning and portfolio  management firm, during 
which time he'd become  aware of tax planning strategies which could be employed to defer income tax 
he was paying.  S4 understood  that it was during this period  that Mr O first became  aware of tax planning 
initiatives such as Enterprise Zone Trusts and film partnerships.
As a result, whilst a client  of that firm, Mr O entered into two sale and leaseback  film partnerships and a 
property partnership.
Mr O was certified  as a HNW individual by the previous firm - this meant he was exempt from the 
prohibition on unregulated promotions, and by signing  the HNW  certificate,  he confirmed he was willing  
to accept  unregulated investment promotions. Mr O signed  several of these certificates over the years.
Mr O was keen to ensure that his income was dealt with in a tax efficient manner and the investment  
planning was geared toward this.
Mr O understood the nature of the schemes he participated in and he was keen to continue  with them as 
a client  of S4. And by the time he became a client, he'd already  received tax rebates amounting to some 
£300,000.
Mr O was aware of the structure  of the tax "deferral" schemes. With regard to the film partnerships, he 
knew he would start to repay the tax in the future as the loans were repaid from the film producer. He 
was never personally  liable for the loans  created,  but would need to pay tax on the income as it arose.
S4 considered  Mr O to be a financially astute and sophisticated individual. He was an active  investor, 
often offering commentary on the information and updates  which S4 provided.
Mr O's financial position meant that he was in a position to make investments and absorb  any losses 
from them - his tolerance to loss was high.
S4 provided Mr O with clear and detailed  information about  the investments  through suitability reports 
and information memoranda, which disclosed  the associated  risks.
Mr (and Mrs) 0 intended  to retire at age 55. The objective was to maximise  tax efficiency through  the use 
of ISAs and other  tax efficient schemes.
In advance of annual reviews, S4 asked Mr (and Mrs) 0 to complete annual review questionnaires which  
set out their personal and financial objectives - this enabled  S4 to update the position. S4 was unable to 
find a record of Mr (or Mrs) 0 indicating a change of approach or in their capacity for loss.
Mr (and Mrs) O's portfolio had increased in value over the period in which  they'd been clients of S4 - this 
included tax refunds  and credits  which enabled the offsetting  of income tax. The strategy  had been very 
tax efficient,  resulting in significant tax credits from HMRC.  It was S4's view that the various schemes  
had largely  met the objectives.
Many of the investments were made to make a total loss, but they were successful in achieving the 
overall objective and the tax losses had been for Mr O's benefit. Mr O had needed to pay virtually no 
income tax over a period  of ten years.
In situations  where a total loss was incurred,  Mr O's reaction was to consider  further investment in similar 
companies to ensure  the losses were offset against  his taxable income, rather than having any regard for 
the investment  itself.
Any subsequent investigations into the schemes by HMRC  were unforeseeable at the outset and were 
beyond S4's control.
Each of the investments individually and combined  were  in line with the target asset allocation agreed 
with Mr O.
S4 employed a holistic  financial planning strategy to meet Mr O's specific objectives - this entailed the 
growth of existing  capital, regular investments  into the portfolio and carrying  out effective tax planning.
The financial plan was to spread the investments across the main  investment classes with a view to 
reducing overall volatility and risk. A balanced asset allocation was agreed,  with a real return  target  of 
4% over the term of the plan.
The investment  portfolio was designed to follow the balanced asset allocation plan, but Mr O was fully 
aware that the tax mitigation schemes were by no means balanced - they were aggressive  tax mitigation  
vehicles. As such, they must be separated from the investment decisions.
Specifically in relation to the complaint about the lnvicta Film Partnership No 22 (2004/5), S4 said the following:
It recommended that Mr O invest in the scheme in March 2005 and it was clear that its purpose was the 
tax benefit  it offered.  The suitability letter said, "the full cost of the films should be capable of being 
written off against  the partners' current or past liabilities to UK income tax and/or capital  gains tax".
It recommended that Mr O invest £67,000,  topped up with a loan of £382,500 to make a total investment 
of £450,000. Mr O could expect to be eligible for tax relief on 95% of the investment over the first three 
years of the trading  partnership.
It said that, on the basis that tax relief would be claimed against income,  but would otherwise be subject 
to 40% tax, total reliefs  for 2005, 2006 and 2007 could amount to approximately £60,000, £57,000 and 
£56,000 respectively.
Mr O was aware from the outset that the partnership  needed to generate  a loss to achieve the expected 
tax benefits.
Ref: DRN9806034It was made clear that the recommendation was being made in line with current  tax legislation which may 
be subject  to change.  Specifically, S4 said that it couldn't "rule out the chance  that the Revenue may not 
approve the claim at any stage".
Mr O also signed a separate film partnership risk warning in which  he acknowledged that the scheme  
wasn't regulated and so wasn't covered by the Financial Services  Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
Mr O was also informed  that the partnership must engage in trading  activity and that "any potential profit 
share is purely  speculative and there is no guarantee that the hurdle rates may be achieved.  In the 
situation that the hurdle rates are not achieved, then the investor may lose some of all of the tax benefit 
initially granted".
S4 also considered that Mr O's complaint about the lnvicta film Partnership didn't fall within our 
jurisdiction as it was out of time. It said Mr O first made his complaint about this investment in September  
2013, almost nine years after he joined  the partnership. It was therefore more  than six years after the 
event complained of, and so failed the first limb of the test under  our rules.
It also noted that Mr O had received  a rebate  as expected from the arrangement for the 2003/4,  2004/5 
and 2005/6 tax years, amounting to a total of £172,644.  The scheme  had therefore worked entirely in the 
way that he thought it would. And having received the rebates by 2006,  he must have been aware of 
having cause  for complaint by that stage at the latest.  As this was more than three years before he did 
complain, it failed  the second limb of the test and the complaint should be time barred.
Jurisdiction
An ombudsman considered the arguments put forward by S4 regarding our jurisdiction to consider the 
complaint. He noted the argument made by S4, but couldn't see how, if the tax rebates were being received in 
the expected manner, Mr O would have had cause for complaint.
The ombudsman hadn't seen anything which  would  suggest  that Mr O knew,  or ought reasonably to have 
known, that there  was a problem with the March 2005  advice more than three  years before he actually 
complained. As such,  the ombudsman concluded that the complaint was in time and therefore  within our 
jurisdiction. I have also considered  this issue and I currently agree  with the previous  ombudsman's findings.
I note that S4 hasn't objected to this or made further submissions on that aspect, and therefore I don't intend to 
comment on this issue any further.
Separating the complaints
S4 also made representations relating to the decision of this service to consider seven of
Mr O's complaints  (which  had been determined  to be within our jurisdiction)  separately - this complaint forms 
one of those seven.
In support of its position, S4 said that the service it provided was full service  planning. It provided continuous  
investment advice on a wide range of investment opportunities and financial  planning issues - including 
pension planning,  tax mitigation and investment planning. The service  was provided in respect of Mr (and Mrs) 
O's overall portfolio and wasn't confined to individual investments or schemes.
The same  ombudsman considered the issue of whether this complaint should be considered in isolation.  He 
said in his determination on this that there was a bespoke suitability letter sent to Mr O in March 2005. It 
detailed his current circumstances  and said that Mr O had a significant opportunity to "tax plan" his income 
from the 2003/4 tax year to that for 2005/6.
The same  letter set out how this specific film partnership could fulfil that aim, along with the recommended  
investment and loan amounts. It further commented on how Mr O might receive  the associated  tax reliefs, 
along with the risks of the investment.
The ombudsman noted  that there  were separate application  forms for the investment and loan and that the 
cash subscription was drawn from Mr O's joint account.  The ombudsman concluded that this was clearly a 
discrete piece  of investment  advice, with the objective of creating tax advantages  over a specific period of time. 
He didn't consider that this formed part of a preconceived overall strategy.
He was therefore  satisfied  that this should be dealt with as an individual complaint. I note that S4 has reserved  
the right to comment further on this, but hasn't done so to date.
Therefore, in the absence of any further representations from either party  on this issue,  I don't intend to 
comment upon this further.
Our investigation into the merits of the complaint
Ref: DRN9806034Our adjudicator then considered the complaint  and concluded that it shouldn't be upheld. He said the following:
The investment  was unregulated - but he was satisfied that it was reasonable for S4 to categorise Mr O 
as an investor for whom a UCIS  such  as the film partnership  could  be deemed suitable.
In support of this conclusion, he noted that Mr O had worked for international  banks in derivative 
operations and had held a very senior role relating to this at one particular  bank - although he 
acknowledged Mr O's statement  that this had been a technical  role rather than an investment role.
The evidence didn't suggest that Mr O had dealt with UCIS investments such as film partnerships  as part 
of his job, but he did have previous experience  of that type of investment  as a client of a previous firm.
The nature of Mr O's employment would have provided him with an understanding of risk beyond  that of 
an ordinary  investor. Given Mr O's business acumen and experience with derivatives, he'd be more 
familiar than most  in dealing with complex  and detailed documents. And Mr O wouldn't  have invested if 
he hadn't  understood  the information provided by S4.
The details  recorded in the Risk Profile Assessment of August 2004 suggested that Mr O was willing  to 
take a higher than "balanced" risk with his capital. Although  the adjudicator  acknowledged that this hadn't  
been signed by Mr O, given what he decided to do later,  he felt this was nevertheless an accurate  
reflection of Mr O's attitude to risk at the time.
Later Annual Review Questionnaires in 2008 and 2010 also recorded Mr O's attitude to risk as being  
"aggressive" and "balanced-aggressive" respectively.
Additional evidence indicated  that Mr O was prepared to alter his risk profile in order to meet his 
investment objectives.  An email  suggesting  that all cautiously rated investments be relinquished in favour 
of "aggressive  growth" products sent by Mr O to S4 in January 2011  was cited as an example.
The suitability letter said that the recommended investment was appropriate for Mr O's balanced risk 
profile. But the adjudicator thought it likely that Mr O was aware that it carried a higher than balanced 
risk, especially given  the risk warnings  provided  - which  Mr O would have understood.
The levels of risk would also have become increasingly apparent as Mr O became more  involved with 
other similar  schemes - given HMRC's  in-depth investigations into them.
Mr O confirmed that he'd received the Information Memorandum  -which contained further  warnings of the 
significant risks involved.  It was reasonable to conclude that Mr O was capable  of understanding the 
information provided  and that he would  have  considered  this before deciding whether  to invest.
Mr O would have  been  aware that, in being offered the scheme by S4, it was treating him as someone 
they regarded  as being able to understand the types of risks associated with the investment.
By 2005, Mr O had already  invested in a number of similar schemes, which would have given him the 
opportunity to become acquainted with the paperwork, design and workings of the schemes.
In terms of the amount invested, whilst not unsubstantial,  Mr O would have realised how this fitted in with 
his overall financial  position. And the amount itself didn't render  his participation in it unsuitable.
Mr O disagreed with the adjudicator's assessment. He said the following, including reference to more  general 
matters relating to the relationship with S4 as a whole,  and those specifically related to the lnvicta investment:
He had never  worked in a business role in derivatives and had never been involved in areas  such as risk, 
finance, credit, legal,  documentation,  application  development, trading, marketing, sales or any other 
business role. He held a senior position in IT services with a major bank, which involved  technology 
operational roles.
His role wouldn't  have  provided him with an understanding of risk beyond  that of an ordinary investor. 
Prior to meeting with the financial adviser, his decisions had been based on articles in the financial 
media. His need for financial advice  arose as a result of share  options  coming to fruition and nearly 
doubling his wealth.
He had no knowledge of the investments  recommended  by the adviser prior to the latter introducing him 
to them.
He'd only ever had one financial adviser, who'd moved from a previous  firm to S4. Mr O had also 
complained about advice given to him whilst  the adviser was at that previous  firm, but had been told that 
he'd need to complain  to that firm.
When he first met with the adviser in early 2004, his objectives were  agreed and have broadly remained 
consistent since.  They  were to plan for retirement at age 50, have  an actively managed portfolio, invest  
in a broad range of assets,  plan income  and investments  in a tax efficient  manner and fund his children 
through school and higher education.
The total value of his and his wife's investments  when he met the adviser was approximately  £633,000 - 
this included ISAs,  shares  (from employment), unit trusts and commercial property. They  had a mortgage 
of £488,000 and two film partnership deals created  by the adviser meant that he had additional liabilities 
of approximately  £245,000. Including  their holiday  home,  they had equity in their residences  of 
approximately £760,000.
He didn't choose  investments himself - he followed the recommendations  of his adviser.
Ref: DRN9806034The investment strategy and objectives were defined in S4's response to his complaint  in December 
2013 - they were to spread investments  across the main asset  classes "with a view to reducing  volatility 
and risk within your portfolio. From the firm's records it was agreed you would follow a Balanced Asset  
Allocation to target a real return of 4% growth over the term of the plan".
S4 recommended every  investment as being suitable  for a balanced risk profile. He was aware  that all 
investments carried a degree  of risk, but he expected S4 to make appropriate recommendations based 
upon the clearly  established investment criteria.
There was only one occasion - in August 2010 - when  S4 made it clear that the recommendation being  
made carried a higher than balanced  risk rating. This description made  him consider the investment in a 
very different light - and he only entered into the investment on the basis that the entire  portfolio was 
deemed appropriate  for a balanced risk profile.
S4 determined a target asset allocation  for him, which was set out in the annual reviews. This was split 
20%/20%/30%/30% between  Absolute Return funds, Fixed Interest, Equity and Property respectively  up 
until January 2008, at which  point Fixed Interest and Property investments were to be reduced to 15% 
and 25% respectively  to allow for a 10% investment in "Private Equity & Finance".
S4 were concerned  at the beginning  that he was overexposed to high risk assets - with high levels  of 
investment in direct equity holdings and other equity funds. At the time,  this was virtually all that he held, 
and he had little or no knowledge  of other asset classes. S4 determined the asset allocation which would  
be suitable for a balanced risk portfolio. But he had no knowledge of the asset classes in which S4 was 
recommending 70% of the portfolio be invested  - these being fixed income, absolute return funds  and 
commercial property (aside from that recommended by the adviser in 2004 whilst they were 
client/adviser at the previous firm).
Although  it was the adjudicator's  view that he would have become familiar  with the paperwork design  and 
workings of such  schemes through  the investments  since 2004,  he queried as to what this would have 
told him. It gave  him no insight into the suitability  of such investments for a balanced risk portfolio.
S4 were  the experts and he followed  their advice,  and nothing went  wrong  with them until many years 
later - after he'd stopped working. As far as he was concerned, S4 was creating a balanced risk portfolio, 
and if he'd had any concerns, he wouldn't have  retired.
He wasn't a party to the "balanced/aggressive" risk profile in the Investment  Risk Profile Assessment 
which had been submitted to the adjudicator by S4. He'd not seen the document before and had no 
recollection of it being completed.  Throughout  the suitability reports, reference was only ever made  to a 
balanced portfolio.
The document was dated 31 August 2004, but as also confirmed by S4, he didn't become  their client until 
September 2004 - so it was completed  before  this.
If there  was any foundation in the content  of the document prepared in August 2004,  then it would be 
expected that this would be repeated  in suitability reports thereafter.  But there wasn't  a single mention of 
anything other  than a balanced risk profile until August 2010.
In the November  2008 annual review questionnaire, his top three priorities were school/university fees, 
financial independence  and inheritance tax planning. He ticked  the "aggressive"  box, but underneath  this 
wrote "No current  earned income".  He'd ticked the "aggressive" box as S4 had introduced a "reasonable  
overseas exposure" as per their definition of "aggressive". He wanted to ensure that S4 hadn't changed 
his risk profile without discussion  or agreement, and it confirmed that this was the asset it was using for 
the determination  of his balanced portfolio.
This was reaffirmed in the review document of June 2009, which said that his "attitude to risk could 
realistically be described as Balanced".
In the annual  review  questionnaire of May 2010,  his top three priorities were  to repay his mortgage, 
cover tax liabilities and generate adequate retirement income - with future events to plan for being  
school/university fees and a house extension costed at approximately £275,000.
In that document,  he ticked "balanced/aggressive", but the annual  review document of September 2010 
reaffirmed the "balanced"  risk profile. He wouldn't  have changed this, as at this point he had no income  
and had increased his mortgage. He considered that his exposure to commercial  property was too great 
and so wished to reduce  this and increase his holding  in equities.
In September 2009,  S4 confirmed that it considered  him to be a balanced risk investor.
His objectives from the start of his relationship with the adviser wouldn't  have allowed him to take undue 
risks, upon which  he was dependent to achieve his aim of early  retirement from a stressful IT role.
There was no mention in any suitability  reports of his risk rating being anything  other than balanced  and 
he believed that S4 was making recommendations  in accordance with that.
He sent the email  from January 2011 - cited by the adjudicator in his findings - as he wanted to increase 
his exposure  to equities.  This had nothing to do with any of the investments complained of.
In the annual  review  dated September 2010, S4 set out that, by that time, he had a 34% exposure to 
property, which  exceeded the 25% target - and he only had 25% invested in equities against a target of 
30%. Although S4 said that it would  correct this, it had failed to do so some months later.
Specifically in regard to the lnvicta Partnership No 22 (2004/5), Mr O made  the following  points:
Ref: DRN9806034This was recommended  as being  appropriate for a balanced risk profile. S4 mentioned various  risks,  but 
their assessment of these were that the film and loan risks were  "minimal" and that there were no 
expected issues  with HMRC approval  of the scheme. In terms of the partnership structure,  the maximum 
exposure for Mr O was described as being limited to his individual cash stake. So Mr O considered there 
was no cause for concern  at the time.
He didn't read the Information Memorandum when making his assessment of S4's recommendation.  He 
assumed that S4 would have extracted anything of relevance and used it in making its own assessment 
of suitability. He relied upon that assessment.
The statement of HNW wasn't completed specifically  for this investment and this wouldn't  in any case 
have been  known about in July 2004. His understanding was that this was only a confirmation  of a level 
of earnings or assets.
As stated previously, he'd never worked  in a business role - only in IT. That role wouldn't  have provided 
him with an understanding of risk beyond that of an ordinary  investor. The only prior investments were  
made when the adviser was at the previous firm - these consisted  of two similar  schemes  and a 
commercial property  investment in March 2004.
He invested  on the understanding that this was suitable  for his balanced risk profile - as stated and 
confirmed by S4 in every suitability  report.
He challenged the adjudicator's comment that he would have been aware of HMRC's  investigations into 
such schemes, saying that this wouldn't have  been  apparent in 2005.  He didn't become aware of such 
issues until many  years  later. As far as he was concerned, and according to S4's own assessment, there 
was no cause for concern  relating to this.
S4 confirmed that the investment was suitable for a balanced risk profile - this was how he viewed it and 
acted on S4's advice  accordingly.
This investment  was the largest he had ever made, and represented over 10% of his overall  assets. 
These schemes were promoted as a means of enhancing income in retirement. But cumulatively  and as 
part of his assets and objectives, it had proven to be inappropriate.
Mr O believed that S4 was primarily motivated by earning fees,  with no regard to risk or his requirements. 
He didn't  consider  that the investment had met any of his stated objectives.
Mr O made the following concluding remarks about his relationship with S4:
He'd been  saving toward his own and then wider  family objectives since he started work at 18. He'd 
considered himself  to have a balanced attitude  to risk and couldn't afford to be exposed  to anything other 
than that.
But the advice he'd received had been disastrous. At the beginning, he'd been advised  to invest 
approximately £290,000 in film partnerships, which  created liabilities of around £500,000  - leaving him 
with an overall negative asset value. This was designed to improve  his retirement  income, but the 
position would  deteriorate  due to the enquiries which  were ongoing into this type of scheme.
He'd been  advised to invest around £360,000 in commercial property, of which he'd lost in the region of 
£330,000.
A further £187,000 was then invested in film schemes, of which  around £150,000 had been lost.
Although some investments had made money, further non-mainstream schemes made  significant losses, 
to the extent that the value  of his SIPP  and other investments  had almost halved over 13 years.
He still had a mortgage of approximately  £540,000, which his investments had been designed to repay.
The only investments he'd made of his own design were in ISAs and some shares, which had been 
severely depleted to cover the losses incurred on the other investments.
Mr O queried  as to what, from the overall  portfolio of investments  S4 created, had been suitable for a 
balanced risk portfolio. Although he'd finished working at 50 as planned,  things had deteriorated  
financially since. His view was that S4 had recommended investments without  any regard for his 
objectives, overall  financial position and risk profile. But he in turn had generated fees for S4 of well over 
£100,000.
In most instances where S4 had quoted the overall  value of his assets, it had done so incorrectly, for 
example including  liabilities as assets and omitting certain liabilities altogether.
Nothing  had performed as S4 had outlined  in the suitability reports. Virtually  no positive returns  or 
income had been generated.
S4 had halved  his pension  investments of over £300,000 over the period  of advising him, and he was 
unable to draw on his pension income due to the inclusion of the recommended investments.
S4's advice had been  totally  misleading - it defined a balanced portfolio and portrayed every investment 
as being suitable  for a balanced  risk profile. He had no knowledge  of the investments until they were 
presented to him by the adviser - and he believed that certain investments had been recommended to 
generate fees and money for reinvestment.
His life and retirement  plans  had been  ruined - financially and emotionally.
Ref: DRN9806034If he'd wanted to reduce his tax liability,  he could have moved to countries with lower  tax regimes  with his 
employer. S4 introduced  the tax efficient aspects  of investing, but if this hadn't been consistent  with a 
balanced risk portfolio, it should  have made this very clear.
All the evidence indicated that S4 was investing for a balanced risk portfolio and risk profile.  He had no 
knowledge that would  have assisted him in assessing the recommendations.
As agreement  wasn't  reached,  the adjudicator confirmed  that the matter would be referred to an ombudsman 
for review.
S4's representative commented on the adjudicator's assessment, and Mr O's response, in the following terms:
It agreed with the conclusions reached - it said the adjudicator had accurately identified Mr O as 
someone for whom  this, and other, investments were suitable, given his investment  experience, HNW  
investor status and attitude to risk. And that he took an active role in choosing his investments.
S4 had correctly treated  Mr O as someone who had the knowledge  and financial  sophistication to be 
able to understand  the relevant  documents, as well as the level of risk associated  with the investments.  
That level of knowledge  and sophistication  was clear from his communications, both contemporaneous  
and current.
Although it didn't alter the experience  Mr O had with investments, it submitted a screenshot of Mr O's 
"Linkedln" page, which it said contradicted  Mr O's description of his employment role. The page 
described him as having a senior position in derivative operations. The same page also referred to Mr 
O's role since 2008 as involving a "range of consulting,  interim management. start up and investment 
opportunities".
The suitability documents signed by Mr O also demonstrated that he'd held roles with other organisations 
in which he'd been involved in venture capital and consultancy work. This contradicted Mr O's assertion 
that he had never held a business  role and worked  only in IT operational areas.
The portfolio  valuations provided  by S4 were as accurate as possible - they reflected the assets of which  
S4 was aware and for which  S4 was able to obtain a valuation.
Mr O also provided a further submission for the attention of the deciding ombudsman:
He queried the adjudicator's reliance  on the risk profiling assessment completed in August 2004, in which  
Mr O's risk profile was recorded as balanced/aggressive.  If this were true, S4 would have  stated this in 
every suitability  report - but it didn't.  On the contrary, every reference was to a balanced portfolio.
The first "statement of high net worth individual" wasn't signed  and given  to S4. It was given to a firm of 
solicitors for a very specific  purpose  and not to be applied to any subsequent investments by S4.
He reiterated  that he'd only been employed  in technical  roles. He'd never  been responsible for 
derivatives and future modelling,  or been  employed in a business role. This was borne out by the 
suitability reports.
He was confused  as to some of the wording used by the adjudicator relating to ongoing and in-depth 
investigations being undertaken by HMRC into various  schemes  - of which the adjudicator had said he'd 
likely be aware.  And the adjudicator appeared to be referencing  separate  investments within the same 
findings.
In its letter  of December 2013  to the complaint, S4 said,  in a section entitled "Investment Strategy & 
Objectives":
"According to the firm's records you were engaged with S4 as a holistic  financial planning  client. following  
a long term financial plan to meet your specific investment objectives ... The financial plan and model you 
were following was underpinned by an asset a/location, which spread  your investments across the main 
investment asset classes with a view  to reducing volatility and risk within  your portfolio. From the 
firm's records it was agreed you would  follow a Balanced Asset Allocation  to target a real return 
of 4% growth  over  the term  of the plan." (Mr Os emphasis)
S4 recommended every investment as being suitable for a balanced risk profile.
He was aware  that every investment carried a degree of risk, but the level of risk he was prepared to 
take was clearly defined against a known background and financial  position. And S4 should have made  
appropriate recommendations against the clearly established  criteria.
Only on one occasion did S4 make it clear  that what they were  recommending represented a higher  than 
balanced risk rating - in August 2010.  And even then, he only agreed to the investment on the basis that 
the entire portfolio was deemed  appropriate for a balanced  risk profile. This was confirmed  within the 
accompanying suitability report.
It wasn't tenable that S4, or this service, could  conclude that his attitude  to risk was anything  other than 
balanced.
Ref: DRN9806034my provisional  findings
I've considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I'm required by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and 
DISP to determine  the complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable  in all the 
circumstances of the complaint.
When considering what's fair and reasonable, I need to take into account relevant: law and regulations; 
regulators' rules, guidance,  standards,  and codes of practice;  and, where appropriate, what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The applicable rules. regulations and requirements
The following isn't a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied to a firm when  giving advice, 
but provides useful context for my assessment of S4's actions here.
PRIN 2.1.1R required a business to "pay due regard  to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly".  And 
in order to ensure this was the case, and in line with
the requirements of COB 5.2.SR, S4 needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its 
advice met Mr O's objectives.
It also needed to ensure  that Mr O had the necessary  experience  and knowledge  to understand the risks he 
was taking.  Broadly  speaking, that section sets out the requirement for a regulated  advisory business to 
undertake a "fact find" process.
Once the fact finding was complete, COB  5.3.16R  required a business to "explain  why
the firm has concluded that the transaction is suitable for the customer, having  regard to his personal and 
financial circumstances"  - in other words, it needed to provide its client with a suitability  report  outlining its 
advice and the reasons  for it.
In this case, S4 issued a suitability report to Mr O in March  2005, within which the rationale for investing  in the 
lnvicta scheme was contained. On the basis of this and other information  relevant to the case, I therefore 
consider in the following  sections whether S4 adhered to its regulatory obligations  and gave Mr O suitable  
advice.
UCIS promotion
This investment was an unregulated collective investment  scheme (UCIS).  Section 238 of the Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000 (FSMA) prohibited the promotion of UCIS to the general  public, unless an 
investor fell within certain exempted categories. One of these is the categorisation of the investor  as a HNW 
individual.
Mr O signed  a "Statement of Certified  High Net Worth  for Individuals" on 8 July 2004. Mr O has said that this 
was before he became a client of S4 and that it was for a very specific purpose.  However, whatever the 
purpose, I consider  it still provides a reliable testament  to his HNW  status at the time.
From the detail contained within  the suitability  report and financial valuations,  this is consistent  with Mr O's 
circumstances at the time. I'm therefore  satisfied  that Mr O was correctly  categorised as a HNW individual and 
so was eligible to receive UCIS promotions. I also think that, on balance,  Mr O was capable of understanding 
that document when he signed it.
Mr O's understanding  of the investment and the associated risks
What I need to determine next is whether Mr O was provided with sufficient information  to be able to 
understand the investment.
I've thought very carefully about the submissions made by both S4 and Mr O relating to his level of investment 
experience, business acumen, employment history and levels of participation  in directing investments - and to 
what extent this would have furnished him with an understanding  of the investment proposal  here.
Ref: DRN9806034K820x#14Having done so, my view is that Mr O could  fairly and reasonably be described as an intelligent, 
capable individual, who would have had the capacity to understand what  was being proposed. And if 
he didn't, I think  he would  have queried the nature of the investment  with the adviser.
The investment amount  of £67,500, together with the loan of £382,500 was not an insubstantial sum. 
And I think it fair to conclude that Mr O would have wanted to satisfy himself  that he understood the 
proposal before entering into the arrangement.
As it was, the suitability report set out the details of the investment. This included highlighting the risks 
of the investment, which were many  and varied, and constituted six bulleted  paragraphs within  the 
section entitled "Specific  Risks Attached  to the Investment". Another  risk - that HMRC  may challenge  
the scheme - merited its own specific "Taxation  Risk" section.
I don't think it could therefore be reasonably  claimed  that S4 sought to underplay, or otherwise failed 
to disclose, the risks of the individual investment. Moreover,  alongside my conclusion that Mr O would 
have been able to understand the workings  of the investment itself, my view is that he would  have 
been able to understand  these risks.
The agreed  risk rating for the portfolio
Much has been made of Mr O's level of financial sophistication or the experience he may have picked  
up through other investments or employment roles he held.
But it doesn't naturally  follow that he was keen to invest in predominantly  high risk products. Nor 
would it absolve  a regulated  firm of financial  advisers  from the responsibilities - as outlined above - of 
assessing his circumstances, objectives and appetite for risk (rather than awareness of risk and 
capacity for loss) and providing  suitable advice accordingly.
Furthermore, although Mr O may have had awareness  of a range of investments, perhaps including 
derivatives, if he had the levels of investment knowledge seemingly attributed to him, I would  question 
as to why he needed the services of a financial adviser  at all - services which  by his own reckoning 
had generated many tens of thousands of pounds in fees and so would have  reduced the value of his 
portfolio accordingly.
The fact is that Mr O was nevertheless seeking the advice of a professional firm, which  he was 
justified in believing had greater knowledge still. And irrespective of the provision of risk warnings,  or 
an awareness  of those  risks,  he was entitled to expect,  and to receive, suitable advice.
A key theme of Mr O's submissions has been that S4 always portrayed the investments  as being  
suitable for a balanced risk profile. But I've thought carefully about whether this would reasonably  
have been his impression  of certain  individual higher  risk investments within the overall portfolio.
My view is that it's highly unlikely  that Mr O, appreciating  the risks involved, would have  believed a// of 
his individual investments to carry a balanced risk rating. And this is a view endorsed not only by his 
own comments relating  to other property investments being designed to balance the more volatile 
aspects of his portfolio, but also by his acceptance  of higher risk investments as being  a part of an 
overall balanced  risk portfolio.
But there's  also the matter of the "balanced" risk portfolio  being  referred to in suitability reports  
throughout the period  of the investments complained  of, including this one.
If S4's contention is that Mr O was fully aware  that the riskier investments had by their nature pushed 
his overall portfolio into a higher risk bracket, I must query as to why repeated reference was still 
made to a balanced  risk portfolio. If S4 was confident that Mr O would accept  a higher level of overall 
risk, why wouldn't it have  simply acknowledged this in the suitability  reports? To have pushed the 
portfolio into a higher  risk category without referencing this in the reports would create unnecessary 
exposure for S4.
The fact that it didn't leads me to believe that, even with some higher risk investments, S4 was still of 
the view that the portfolio maintained  a balanced  risk profile. And if it held that opinion,  as the 
professional party, and was prepared  to commit to this in the documents it issued, it's difficult to see 
how Mr O should reasonably have been expected to form any other view.
Ref: DRN980603443So my conclusion here is that, irrespective  of whether  Mr O would reasonably have viewed  some of 
the individual investments  as having a balanced risk profile, Mr O was entitled to believe that S4 was 
creating an overall balanced risk portfolio for him.
But I also think that, in the creation of a balanced  portfolio, in which there are no set rules  relating to 
asset allocation, factors such as risk awareness  and specific aims or agreed percentages of asset 
allocation can come  into play. I'll discuss this further  in the next section.
Was the recommended  investment appropriate for the agreed risk profile of the overall portfolio?
As I've said above, irrespective of Mr O's investment experience or his ability  to understand and 
willingness to accept the risks of the specific investment, he was nevertheless entitled to receive  
suitable advice.
I'd firstly  comment  on S4's assertion that Mr O wasn't a passive recipient of investment advice, but 
was actively  involved in directing investments.  I've only seen one documented instance of this, 
however - the email of January 2011. Within  that email, Mr O asked when switches could be done on 
the funds he held. Mr O said that they should "virtually dump all bonds  etc and go aggressive growth".
There's email evidence within the business' files that Mr O was at various times seeking explanations 
and reassurances relating  to his investments,  but the available evidence doesn't  support the position 
that, before 2011, he was actively directing  investments.
So I'm satisfied  that, but for one documented instance, Mr O was very much reacting to the 
recommendations and "opportunities"  that were put to him by S4.
As I've said above, my view is that there  can be little doubt that Mr O was routinely described as 
holding a "balanced" risk portfolio. Mr O refers to this often, but with good reason - throughout the 
suitability report for this (and other) cases, S4 referred to the portfolio  as being  balanced.  In this 
particular case, Mr O's risk attitude  was described as being "balanced/aggressive".  But S4 
nevertheless confirmed  that it suited his balanced  risk profile.
There are other indications which also corroborate a "balanced" risk rating for Mr O, along with 
previous investment experience of only more mainstream types of investment.  For example, the "life 
plan" produced in March  2004 (when  Mr O was a client  of the previous firm) detailed his asset split as 
being 46.5% in cash  and fixed interest, and 53.5%  in a range of global equities, including direct share  
holdings. It was also noted at the time that only around 4.2% of the portfolio  was invested in managed 
funds. The overall investment fund was valued at approximately £927,000 at that time. Pension plans 
between Mr and Mrs O also accounted  for a further £218,000.
Within the non-pension arrangements, there was no investment in property,  hedge  funds or 
"structured" products. And so whilst it wasn't perhaps as diversified as a typical balanced  portfolio, it 
nevertheless had the balancing features of higher  and lower risk assets.
Mr O was then introduced  to tax mitigation schemes and other non-mainstream investments. This 
process began whilst  Mr O was a client  of the previous  firm, but notably receiving  recommendations  
from the same adviser who then became a part of S4.
S4 has said that such tax planning schemes shouldn't really be considered to form part of an overall 
investment portfolio - and in some instances they're designed to create a loss so that the tax rebates  
can be accessed.
This was certainly  not a mainstream investment and, I'd agree,  had a specific purpose - to mitigate 
the tax which Mr O would be paying over the coming  financial years. Mr O has said that this was S4's 
idea, and that he didn't  need to claim tax rebates. But he was nevertheless prepared for the scheme 
to go ahead, with what I consider likely  to have been a good understanding of what  this entailed.
I think  it's arguable that a scheme whose  primary purpose was to provide tax rebates wouldn't fit 
comfortably within an overall investment portfolio  - which  in my view would reasonably  be described 
as a strategy to provide  growth on capital, and so create wealth. Schemes which mitigate tax by way 
Ref: DRN980603444of reliefs obtained through a sale and leaseback arrangement such as this could perhaps be said to 
be wealth "protection" or "maintenance".
As such, I think there's  some merit in S4's argument here that it shouldn't be included in the 
consideration of the investment portfolio and the overall aim of a balanced risk profile. I note that, in 
its response to Mr O's complaint, it said the investment was suitable  both within the portfolio, and in 
isolation.
But I also think that argument  is somewhat  self-defeating - far from providing the safety of a scheme  
which, by being considered  in isolation  removes it from the overall balanced risk objective for the 
portfolio, it imperils S4's position. If it wasn't designed to be included  in the overall investment 
portfolio, and I consider  it in isolation outside of that portfolio, I can't  ignore the fact that S4 
nevertheless still described it as being suited to Mr O's balanced risk profile.
And this cannot fairly or reasonably be said to be the case. S4 went  to some lengths to specify  the 
many risks associated with this type of scheme, some of which might result in eventual liabilities 
outweighing the initial capital invested. In so doing, it comprehensively undermined its own description  
of the scheme itself being suited  to a balanced risk profile.
So as a stand-alone arrangement, which  was described  as being  suited to a balanced risk profile, I 
might be inclined to uphold the complaint on the basis that this risk rating was misrepresentative of 
the actual risks associated with it.
Only by inclusion in an overall portfolio - and my view is that Mr O was reasonably entitled to believe 
that the recommended investment formed part of an overall balanced risk "life planning" strategy - do I 
think that this could be said to constitute a suitable recommendation for a balanced risk profile.  And 
that would very much depend on the wider asset split of the overall portfolio  (which I assess in more  
detail below).
As a reminder  at this point, Mr O has also said that he wouldn't have objected to high risk schemes  
forming part of the overall portfolio, so long as they were small in percentage terms and balanced out 
by other lower risk investments.
And I agree  that that type of format is likely to constitute a recognisable and suitable  makeup of a 
typical balanced risk portfolio - one which  has a diverse mix of assets and so different types of 
exposure to investment risk.
A "typical" balanced portfolio  might  be expected to contain a lower percentage of investment in higher 
risk schemes, which would be balanced out by lower risk investments. But as I've said above,  there 
are no hard and fast rules in terms of what constitutes  a balanced portfolio. The actual make-up  will 
be quite subjective and rely heavily on a range of factors,  which, in this instance, would reasonably 
have provided greater  latitude in increasing the weighting  in some of the higher risk investments.
One of the key aspects  in that regard  is Mr O's acceptance of the specific risks posed (and detailed by 
S4) - and I note that in a letter of complaint to the provider of property partnerships  relating to the 
issue of undisclosed risks in separate complaints, Mr O said "although the existence of the loans  is 
not an issue or concern  for me...  ". I acknowledge that this relates to investments in commercial 
property schemes, but I do also think it's relevant to Mr O's acceptance of the particular risk 
represented by loans and gearing  in certain types of investment, including this one.
I've therefore carefully considered Mr (and Mrs) O's overall portfolio in November  2005.  I've been 
unable to locate an asset split for March  2005, but that recorded later in the same year should 
nevertheless be reliable as an indication of the types of asset held at that earlier point.
This tells me that, of the overall portfolio (valued at £1.29m), the investment complained of 
represented 5%. By March  2005, Mr O had invested in one other  "tax based" scheme (in commercial 
property) - Chatham  Maritime Trust - and so cumulatively,  including the lnvicta film partnership, as far 
as I can tell this type of tax-based  asset represented approximately
£83,000, or around 6% of the overall portfolio.
I've noted  that, by November 2005, the holdings in cash and fixed interest assets had reduced to 
around 10% of the portfolio, with the holding being predominantly in equities  at the time. But many of 
Ref: DRN980603445the investments  which appear to have replaced  those lower risk assets, including several venture 
capital trust investments, seem to have been made after the lnvicta investment was made. So the 
holding in cash, bonds and fixed interest investments would have been higher in March 2005.
Within my assessment  of the overall portfolio, I've included the pension  assets. I think this a 
reasonable approach, given that this was a "life plan"  for Mr O and his family, and the objective of 
early retirement was a very prominent feature of his financial planning.
But even if I remove the pension assets, leaving  a net portfolio of £984,000  at the time,  the overall 
commitment to the non-mainstream  schemes, including  the lnvicta film partnership,  amounted  to 
approximately 8% of the portfolio.
This was a small percentage of Mr O's portfolio at the time, and was balanced out by other lower risk 
investments held - specifically a higher percentage of cash and fixed  interest holdings.
And I'd reiterate  the potential of a balanced portfolio to take various  guises, influenced by a range  of 
factors specific  to the individual  and their circumstances.  Mr O was aware of the specific risks of the 
scheme, along with the tax advantages, and he accepted the principle  of higher risk ventures  being 
balanced out by other lower  risk investments in the creation of a balanced portfolio.
Therefore, I don't think I can fairly and reasonably conclude that the investment of 5% invested in the 
lnvicta film partnership, even with the higher  risks posed by this type of scheme, was in this particular 
instance unsuitable within a balanced risk portfolio for Mr O.
Summary
I think  S4 fairly disclosed  the specific key risks associated with the investment. S4 set these  out in the 
suitability report and they were also outlined  in the investment prospectus. So I don't think  there was 
misrepresentation here.
But irrespective of Mr O's awareness  of some of the specific risks involved,  or his experience  with 
investments, which I think has in any case been overplayed by S4 given the nature of his portfolio  in 
early 2004,  a fair and reasonable  analysis leads me to conclude that he was nevertheless expecting, 
and entitled, to receive suitable advice  from a skilled financial professional.
S4's assertion  that this investment in isolation could  be described as having a balanced risk profile 
belies the reality  of the situation. As I've said above, given  the various high risks involved, I don't  think 
this is a credible description of this type of scheme.
But I'm nevertheless  satisfied that Mr O was aware, and was justified in believing, that the scheme  
was designed to form part of an overall  "balanced" portfolio. And having  considered  the overall  asset 
split of the portfolio  at the time, along with specific  factors  which would inform  the creation of a 
balanced risk portfolio for Mr O, I'm satisfied that, on balance, the investment could reasonably be 
described as suitable.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I'm currently minded to not uphold the complaint.
Philip Miller
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9806034