K820x#14complaint and background
Miss B says Nationwide  Building Society  (trading as Portman Building Society) mis-sold  her 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on the phone in 2007 when she applied  for a 
mortgage. The policy gave her accident, sickness and unemployment cover and she paid a 
monthly amount  for it. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She said Nationwide had 
failed to show it had made  it clear  to Miss B that the policy was optional.  Nationwide 
disagreed, setting out how it felt it had made clear the policy  was optional and how Miss B 
had requested it. So the complaint was passed  to me.
In my provisional decision (which forms part of this final decision)  I set out why I was 
planning not to uphold  the complaint. I asked Miss B and Nationwide to let me have any 
more information  by 1 March 2019 before I made  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our approach to complaints about the 
sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Both Nationwide and Miss B responded to my provisional decision saying they had no 
further information to provide. So it follows I have no reason to change  the findings  or 
outcome I set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN91567072copy of provisional decision
complaint
Miss B says Nationwide Building  Society (trading  as Portman Building Society)  mis-sold  her a 
payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss B took out a PPI policy on the phone in 2007 at the same time as she applied for a mortgage.  It 
gave her accident, sickness and unemployment cover and she paid a monthly  amount for it. 
Nationwide failed to cancel the policy in January 2008 in error, but I note it has already refunded the 
premiums paid between then and the end of the policy along with the appropriate interest, and after 
deducting the total claim value paid to Miss B.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should be upheld. She said Nationwide had failed to 
show it had made it clear to Miss B that the policy was optional. Nationwide  disagreed, setting  out 
how it felt it had made clear the policy  was optional  and how Miss B had requested it. So the 
complaint was passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed it here.
Im currently  not planning to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
did Nationwide make  it clear to Miss B that the PPI was optional, and did she agree  to buy it?
Miss B says she was made to feel she had to have  PPI. I cant know how the PPI was presented to 
Miss B on the call. There is no call recording or sales  script available. But this isnt surprising or 
unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. So Ive thought  carefully about Miss Bs comments 
and looked at the paperwork  available  from the sale. 
Miss Bs mortgage application form included a section Protecting Your Repayments that opened  by 
saying it is important you consider the various protection options open to you and closed by advising  
customers to get in touch if they hadnt already received  a quote. To me this suggests  taking PPI 
through Nationwide was presented as an option.  I dont  think there was anything  in the wording that 
could reasonably have led Miss B to think it was mandatory. 
In the section  of this form that was for completion  if the sale had been in a branch, the question was 
asked Has the customer  agreed  to arrange any insurance through the Society? and the options Yes 
or No are given.  This section wasnt completed on Miss Bs application, but I think  it supports the 
argument that Nationwides standard sales process then was to present PPI as optional.  And Ive not 
been shown clearly  that it didnt follow that approach  for Miss B. 
Nationwide has also been able to show from its records that it sent a Statement  of Demands and 
Needs (SON), a Key Facts document and PPI price quote to Miss B after the call. Whilst the actual 
documents are no longer  available, it has provided samples. The sample quote  clearly sets out the 
cost of the PPI separately. So I think  its likely Miss B would have been given details of the cost of the 
PPI, in quote  like this and/or  during the phone call.  
When Miss B signed and returned her mortgage application she sent a covering letter. This included 
the instruction Critical illness and mortgage cover is required the same  as before. I think its most 
Ref: DRN91567073likely this shows she was agreeing to take out PPI. The mortgage offer she then received also said 
You are not required to buy any insurance through the Portman Building  Society  and made  clear 
only buildings insurance was a condition  of the mortgage.
So, overall,  I think Nationwide made it clear to Miss B that the PPI was optional,  and she agreed to 
take it out.
the other aspects of the sale
Ive looked at all the other aspects of the sale to check that Miss B hasnt lost out as a result of any 
problems elsewhere. I dont think she has, Ill explain why.
Miss B says Nationwide recommended  the policy  to her after it assessed her circumstances.  She also 
points to wording in the insurance information it gave her that said we will provide advice  and make  a 
recommendation to you having assessed your needs for mortgage payment protection  insurance. 
Nationwide disagrees, and says it didnt make  a recommendation. It seems  to be saying  whilst it 
agrees the leaflet said this, theres no documentation specific to Miss B to prove  it advised her to take 
out PPI. But it has evidenced that after the call it sent Miss B a SON and a price  quote. And the 
sample quote  includes  the wording after having established your demands and assessed your needs,  
we have itemised  below our personal recommendations for your insurance  cover. The absence  of 
Miss Bs SON means that we cant know what Nationwide  recommended, but not that it didnt make a 
recommendation. On balance, I think its most likely Nationwide gave advice to Miss B.
This means  Nationwide  had to consider whether or not the PPI was right for Miss B given her 
circumstances. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time I think it was right for her. I 
say this because:
Miss B was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions or 
limitations.
Miss B tells us she was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if she was 
sick. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to this and for up to 12 months. It also gave 
her 12 months redundancy cover.  Miss B told us she had around £7,500 in cash  savings but 
the PPI wouldve allowed her to use these for other living expenses  whilst not working, or to 
keep them intact for her future needs. I know she also had other investments but I wouldnt 
consider them to be suitable alternative protection as their nature meant the value could vary 
- so money may not have been  available  when  needed. 
Miss B was borrowing a large sum of money over a long time, in her sole name, secured 
against her home.  Given the consequences  of not being  able to make her mortgage 
repayments, and based on her circumstances at the time,  I think the cover would have  been 
useful for her if she was sick or lost her job.
The cost would have  been clearly set out in the quote Miss B was sent after the call, and the 
PPI was competitively  priced and apparently affordable.
Nationwide also had to give Miss B enough clear  information  so she could make  an informed choice. 
Its possible it didnt do this, but for the same reasons set out in the bullet points above I dont think 
she would have made  a different decision  with better information.
It follows I dont think Miss B has lost out because of any problems with this sale so I am not currently 
planning to uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN91567074my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not planning to uphold  Miss Bs complaint.  
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9156707