K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited (Arnold Clark) mis-sold him a 
Personal Loan Agreement as he believed he had taken  out a Hire Purchase Agreement. He 
would like the loan to be cancelled.
background
Mr F says he originally  signed a Hire Purchase Agreement  for a car in September 2015 but 
says he was then told the dealer couldnt get authorisation for the agreement. He says he 
was asked to come  in a few days time when  this would be sorted
Mr F says when  he returned he felt rushed into signing the agreement as the salesman was 
rushing to go on holiday. He says he didnt read the agreement as he was told the 
agreement was the one he had previously  discussed and he didnt need  to do so.
So Mr F says he signed  the agreement believing  it to be a Hire Purchase Agreement.
Arnold Clark provided documents confirming that Mr F signed a Personal  Loan Agreement  
not a Hire Purchase  one. So felt Mr F would, or should have been aware, of what  he was 
signing.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found that the agreement  Mr F signed and 
the order form clearly stated the agreement was a personal loan.  So she didnt  find any 
evidence of mis-selling.
Mr F didnt  accept this view. He said that if Arnold Clark sent in a copy  of the document he 
originally signed  that would show that he signed a Hire Purchase Agreement not a Personal 
Loan Agreement. He believes the salesman changed the documentation.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Fs points  but said this wouldnt change  her view.  She felt the 
onus was on Mr F to have read the final agreement before he signed  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr F signed  a Hire Purchase  Agreement with Arnold Clark to provide 
finance to buy a car in September 2015.
Mr F says he originally  signed a Hire Purchase Agreement  but says he was told that 
agreement fell through. He says if Arnold Clark could provide that paperwork it would  
confirm it was a Hire Purchase  Agreement he signed for not a Personal Loan.
He has also sent us a copy of the front page  of a Finance Pack with his signature  that of the 
dealer dated 16 September  2015.  He says this shows he had a previous agreement.
Unfortunately whilst I agree, and actually I dont think there is any dispute, that there was a 
prior agreement that Mr F signed, the page Mr F has sent us doesnt say what  the actual 
finance agreement  was. So I cant conclude from that paperwork alone  that he initially 
signed a Hire Purchase  Agreement.
Ref: DRN95286682We have gone  back to Mr F to ask for more  information as to why he wanted a Hire 
Purchase Agreement. He has told us he has had several cars  one with a Hire Purchase  
Agreement, the last two with Personal  Contract  Plans.
He says he wanted to go back to a Hire Purchase Agreement as he wanted to reduce his 
outgoings in order  to take out a mortgage.  But I think its the amount of finance  borrowed 
that would  impact on his outgoings not the contract type he took out.
Mr F says he has had mortgage applications turned down as he has a big loan and no asset.
Mr F seems to think  that if he had a Hire Purchase  Agreement that the car attached to that 
agreement would be seen  as an asset  and help with mortgage  applications.
If Mr F had taken  out a Hire Purchase  Agreement the car wouldnt have been his asset  it 
would have belonged to the finance  company not himself. So I cant see why that would 
have helped his mortgage application.
Mr F has helpfully given us a copy of his credit  file. I think there is other  information  on the 
credit file that might have  impacted  on his mortgage application
I am not persuaded by what Mr F has told us that he had specific  reasons for wanting  a Hire 
Purchase Agreement. 
But even if I were I am inclined to agree with our adjudicator that what is important is what 
Mr F actually  signed for. I appreciate Mr F says he felt rushed on the day  if thats the case  
thats unfortunate but I dont think that should have  stopped him checking what  he signed. 
And I think the paperwork is quite clear.  The vehicle order form, pre contract information and 
finance agreement  all clearly state that the finance  is a personal loan.
On the basis of everything I have seen I dont feel I have any evidence to reasonably  
conclude that Arnold Clark  mis-sold the finance agreement  to Mr F. So on that basis I cant 
reasonably ask Arnold Clark to cancel the loan as Mr F would  like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9528668