K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that a car she has on finance with Clydesdale  Financial  Services  Limited, 
trading as Barclays Partner  Finance  (BPF) has been faulty since  she took receipt of it. She 
wants to reject the vehicle.
background
In May 2017  Miss C took receipt of a used  vehicle. The car had completed just over 55,000 
miles at that point and Miss C financed the deal through a conditional  sale agreement with 
BPF. 
But in December of that year Miss C reported  a problem  with the car not starting  properly. 
So in March 2018 a garage, appointed by the dealership, took a look at the issue. They 
suggested a replacement fuel pump  may be required  and they cleaned  the throttle body. 
They said if there was a problem with the fuel pump it was due to general  wear and tear and 
BPF therefore refused to replace it.
Miss C disagreed that the problem was due to wear and tear. She said shed only had the 
car for a short time and had completed  just 2,000 miles, so she thought it was most likely the 
fault was there from the inception of the finance  deal and BPF should  therefore repair  the 
fault.
BPF arranged an independent inspection  of the problem in May 2018 but the engineer said 
there was nothing wrong with the car. At that point the car had completed over 4,500 miles 
since the start of the agreement. The engineer  said there were no problems with the fuelling 
system and he couldnt find any fault codes. So he suggested the car could be returned to 
normal service.  BPF said, as there was no fault with the car, there  was nothing for them to 
repair.
Our investigator agreed with BPF. She noted that the garage who looked  at the car in March  
hadnt made a definitive diagnosis. Theyd  said there was a possible fault with the fuel pump 
as they couldnt hear it engaging but they said further tests were  required, and these tests 
hadnt been completed. She said, as the most up to date information she had was from the 
independent engineer who said there was nothing wrong, she was persuaded this was the 
case and BPF didnt need to take any further action.
But Miss C disagreed and she asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will be disappointing  for Miss C so please let 
me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN98621932board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss C acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. The relevant law says that the 
car should have  been of satisfactory  quality when supplied. If it wasnt  then BPF are 
responsible and I may ask them to take some further action.
However, Ive not been provided  with any information to suggest the car is now faulty.  The 
most recent investigation  was by an independent  expert engineer who confirmed there were 
no problems with the fuel system and who couldnt find any fault codes. The original 
investigation in March 2018 appears to have been  limited. The throttle body was cleaned  
and there  was a suggestion that the fuel pump  may need replacing but the garage was clear 
that further work would  be required to check if this was the case. And, as no further work 
was carried out and the car has been checked  now and cleared fit for service, it wouldnt 
be reasonable for me to find theres  anything wrong  with it.
I know this has been a long standing issue and Miss C has not had the car in her possession  
for some time but I dont  think theres  enough  evidence to suggest the car has a fault that 
was there  at the point of supply and I therefore  dont think  BPF need to take any further 
action.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9862193