K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Canada Square  Operations Limited, trading as Egg, mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I set out the full background to this complain in my provisional decision which I issued in 
November 2018.  It is attached here and forms part of my final decision.
Both parties  were invited  to make further comments. Neither party had any further comment  
to make.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Neither party had anything further  they wanted  me to consider. Mr Ms representative 
pointed out that the commission payment has already been made. I acknowledged this 
clearly in my provisional decision so it does not affect the outcome.
In the absence of any further information  I see no reason  to change my provisional decision.  
So I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint and so Canada  Square Operations  Limited does not 
need to pay any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Copy of Provisional  decision
background
Mr M took out a credit  card with Egg in 2003. At the same time he was sold a PPI policy which 
wouldve helped cover  his repayments on the card for up to 12 months at a time if Mr M couldnt work  
due to an accident, sickness or redundancy.
Mr M says he felt pressured to take the PPI and that it wasnt clear the PPI was separate  from the 
credit card. He says the suitability of the policy  wasnt discussed with him.
The adjudicator thought that Egg hadnt explained the costs properly to Mr M. The adjudicator thought  
if the costs had been  explained then Mr M wouldnt  have taken the policy because  he wouldve 
thought his existing  means wouldve been enough  to cover him if he wasnt  working. The adjudicator 
thought Mr Ms complaint  should be upheld. 
Egg disagrees, so the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
Ref: DRN93596082my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not currently intending to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision, and also what evidence Mr M could provide if he 
would like me to reconsider the outcome.
Mr M doesnt suggest  that he didnt  agree to take the PPI, but he says that he felt pressured to take it. 
But Mr M applied online for the credit card and PPI, so he didnt have any contact with anyone  from 
Egg who could have  pressured him. And looking at the pages  Mr M wouldve seen when he made his 
application I cant see anything to suggest pressure  wouldve been applied  there either. He was asked 
to make a choice whether  to take the policy and couldve  chosen either yes or no. He couldnt have 
progressed through the application without making a choice, but I cant see any evidence to suggest  
he was unfairly persuaded to select it.
Egg didnt  give Mr M a personal recommendation to take the PPI, so it only had to make sure Mr M 
had all the information he needed to make  his decision about buying it. 
I dont think Mr M got all the information he needed from Egg. I dont think  it was clear  enough, 
particularly in relation to how much it would cost him.
But this doesnt  mean I should automatically  uphold Mr Ms complaint. Instead,  I need to think  
whether he would act differently if he had received all the information. And this is where my decision 
differs from that of the adjudicator. 
Looking at Mr Ms circumstances at the time I dont  think  more information wouldve  changed his mind  
about taking the PPI. Ill explain why.
Mr M was eligible for the policy and wouldnt  have been affected by any terms which mightve  made  it 
more difficult for him to make a successful claim,  such as those related  to existing medical conditions  
or self-employment. So if those terms had been made clearer I dont think it wouldve stopped Mr M 
buying the policy.
Mr M has told us about  his circumstances at the time of sale, but his testimony had changed  during 
the course of his complaint,  so I cant be sure which applied at the time of sale.  
Mr M first told us that his employer wouldve paid him more than six months  sick pay, but less than 12 
months sick pay and that he didnt  have any other means to make his repayments. However  at other 
times hes told us that he did have savings  (although he also restated later that he didnt), and that his 
sick pay was either  12 months  full sick pay, or 12 months full sick pay followed by half sick pay at his 
employers discretion  for an indefinite period. 
I think  if Mr Ms full sick pay lasted for less than 12 months that hed still have had a need for the PPI, 
and so the poor information provided on cost wouldnt have made such  a difference to him. And I also 
have to consider that Mr M wouldnt have been likely  to have received much redundancy  pay as he 
hadnt been with his employer for very long at the point of sale. So if he didnt have much in the way 
of savings hed have struggled to meet his credit card repayments as well as paying all his other 
uninsured expenses without the PPI if he lost his job.
It is very unusual to receive 12 months full sick pay from an employer; even more  so to have sick pay 
extend beyond 12 months. So I dont think I can accept that Mr M wouldve  been received full pay for 
as long as the policy wouldve paid out without seeing evidence of this, especially  as Mr Ms 
recollection of his benefits has changed during the course of his complaint.   
Ref: DRN93596083The cost of the policy  was comparable to other similar  policies available at the same time. It was 
flexible, because it could  have been  cancelled at any time without financial penalty. And I havent 
seen anything  to suggest  the policy  was unaffordable  for Mr M.
So on the information I have at the moment, I dont think Mr M wouldve acted differently  and not 
bought the policy if hed had all the information about cost. However,  I would encourage  Mr M to seek 
confirmation of any savings he had, and the sick pay he was entitled to, if he would like me to 
consider this further. 
So, on the information available to me I dont think Mr M lost out as a result of anything  Egg did in 
relation to this part of the sale. So Egg doesnt have to pay any compensation for this. 
But Egg has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
When the policy was sold, Egg expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. 
Because Egg didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
Im am currently intending  to not uphold  Mr Ms complaint. I dont think the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold 
 so Canada Square Operations Limited, trading as Egg, does not have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr M.
But Canada Square Operations Limited, trading as Egg, does have to pay back  to Mr M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand that this 
payment has already been made, so if my decision  becomes final I will make no further award.
I will consider any further information either party wishes to submit before  28 December 2018, before I 
make my final decision.  
Ref: DRN9359608