K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A through their relative Mr W complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
mis-sold them a lifetime mortgage  by not explaining  it properly.  They want matters put right.
background
Mr and Mrs A took out a lifetime mortgage with Aviva in 2001, and borrowed more money 
under the mortgage in 2006.  Mr W said that Aviva didnt explain the mortgage properly to 
them or consult  the family. 
Mr W complained  to Aviva. It said that Mr and Mrs A were  made  fully aware  of how the 
mortgage worked through meetings with advisers  and in documents  sent to them; in 
addition, they received  independent legal advice.  Mr and Mrs A wanted to go ahead, despite 
the likely  effect on what they could leave  for their beneficiaries to inherit  being  explained.  
Aviva pointed out that each year Mr and Mrs A were sent statements setting out the debt 
and said that the mortgage had been  suitable  for their needs.
Mr W complained  to us. The adjudicators  view was that Aviva wasnt at fault. She said that 
the mortgage was properly explained to Mr and Mrs A both in 2001 and 2006. The 
adjudicator said that the mortgage met their needs  at the time as they wanted the money 
and the lifetime mortgage meant that they could borrow the money  without making monthly 
payments. She pointed  out that all the risks and consequences  were explained and legal  
advice given.
Mr W disagreed.  He said compound interest wasnt explained to Mr and Mrs A and that he 
believed the mortgage had been  mis-sold as a loan wouldve  been  cheaper.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs A wanted money  to be used for spending. They were retired and its clear  from 
the fact find that their income was very limited. A normal loan in my view is unlikely to have 
been available to them as they wouldnt  have  been able to afford the monthly  payments. 
This is why lifetime mortgages are attractive as no monthly payments are required  the 
interest payment  is postponed until the property is sold (usually  either on death or when 
long-term care is required). As theres a guarantee that there wont  be any negative  equity 
(the lender  wont  claim more than the property is worth when sold),  and interest payments 
delayed, lifetime mortgages are riskier from a lenders  perspective and tend to charge a 
higher rate of interest than other  loans.  This isnt unfair or unreasonable.
But such  mortgages have  to be explained clearly  and carefully to consumers to ensure  that 
they understand the consequences and the terms of the mortgage.  This is why legal advice 
is required and everything is explained both in person and in writing, with a period given for 
the consumer  to reflect. This is what happened  in Mr and Mrs As case  in both 2001 and 
2006 (when theyd  spent  the original money borrowed and wanted more) according  to the 
evidence before me. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs A were told clearly  by both Aviva and their 
independent solicitor about  how the mortgage worked. And I note each year the interest to 
be charged was set out to them in a statement.
Ref: DRN95997572And I think the lending  met their needs as it was an appropriate way for them  to borrow 
money, which was their goal. Its relevant for me to note that Mr and Mrs A were repeatedly  
warned that taking the maximum borrowing and putting it in their savings would earn them  
less than the interest being charged by Aviva, but it was their choice  to go ahead.
I also thought  about other  issues. Mr W says that the family shouldve been  consulted.  This 
isnt legally the case. Consumers are entitled  to leave  nothing to their relatives  and use their 
assets as they see fit. And from the documents  written  at the time, Mr and Mrs A told Aviva 
that theyd told their relatives with whom they were in contact about the mortgage  it 
wouldnt have been fair or reasonable for Aviva to challenge Mr and Mrs As word. 
Mr W suggested to Aviva that Mrs A mightnt have had capacity when the mortgage  was 
taken out, but he didnt  mention this to this service. Theres no reference  at all to any health 
issues when the mortgage was taken  out. And the solicitor didnt flag up any health issues,  
though I accept solicitors  arent medical  practitioners. There was nothing  to warn  Aviva at 
the time that there was any issue  with Mrs As mental health.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to accept or reject my decision 
before 15 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9599757