K820x#14complaint
Mr H1 and Mr H2, as executors of their late fathers estate, complain about an Extra Income 
Plan (EIP) - a type of equity release - that hed held. Although the EIP was originally taken 
out with a different business Ill just refer to Phoenix Life Limited  in this decision, but that 
should be taken  to mean any previous  business  name where applicable.
background
Mr H took the EIP out in 2001 with his wife, Mrs H. They received a £17,000  lump  sum 
payment plus a £1 monthly income. The fact find records they wanted the money  to replace 
their car and fund a private medical procedure. 
Under the EIP, the title to their house was transferred to Phoenix, and Mr and Mrs H were 
given a lease  that gave  them the right to live in the property for the rest of their lives 
rent-free.  The house would then be sold after both Mr and Mrs H had died and Phoenix 
would receive 41.94% of the proceeds  and the estate of Mr H or Mrs H (whomever  died last) 
would receive 58.06%.
In 2005 Mr and Mrs H borrowed a further £20,000  and this changed the percentages to 
60.33% to Phoenix and 39.67% to the estate.
Mrs H died first, and then Mr H died in February  2017. I wont lay out the timeline of whats  
happened since then as its extensive  and isnt in dispute. The key event is that the 
leasehold title was closed on 4 July 2017. This means that any costs incurred before that 
date were the sole responsibility  of the estate,  whereas any costs  incurred on or after that 
date were to be split on the same percentage basis as above.
The property sold for £290,000 on 27 November  2017 and the funds were distributed  to the 
estate and Phoenix by the management company on 2 January 2018 once all the 
calculations were completed and verified.
Mr H1 and Mr H2 complained to Phoenix. They said the EIP had been  mis-sold and complained  
about what happened after Mr H died, saying there were delays and mis-calculations.  Phoenix 
admitted some things  had gone  wrong but because it waived the estates liability  for a council tax 
bill it said the estate  was actually better off. It also offered £100 compensation.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H1 and Mr H2 didnt agree and so its been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr H1 and Mr H2 wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal 
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because  Ive not considered  
it but because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Under our rules,  we can consider a complaint  from a consumer. Initially,  Mr and Mrs H were 
the consumers  and then Mr H became the sole consumer when Mrs H died. When  Mr H 
later died the right to complain passed to his estate. But I must explain that, although Mr H1 
Ref: DRN91043732and Mr H2 are representing the estate, theyre  not Phoenixs customers. Mr H1 and Mr H2s 
role is to bring the complaint  on behalf of the estate, in the same way that a person might 
instruct a solicitor or other professional  to represent  them in a complaint. 
I dont have the power to look at a complaint from Mr H1 and Mr H2 in their personal  
capacity or look at how this matter  has affected them personally. In saying this I understand 
the points theyve made and its clear that this matter has been  difficult and frustrating for 
them to deal with, but thats  just not something Ive got the power to consider.
the original sales
Mr and Mrs H wanted to raise a lump sum to replace their car and to pay for a private 
medical procedure.  Whilst they had some  savings and income, it was recorded that they 
wanted to keep those for emergencies, which is understandable.
Mr H1 and Mr H2 have  said Mrs H was profoundly deaf and that she and Mr H didnt seem  
to have a need for the money as Mr H had £55,000 in savings  when he died.
Having looked  at everything I can see nothing  that would make me think Mr and Mrs H were 
unaware of what they were doing.  Mr and Mrs H had independent legal advice and I would 
have expected their solicitor to have refused to sanction the EIP if there were any concerns 
that they didnt  understand  the nature of the contract they were entering into. 
All the paperwork was clear and in line with what was required at the time. I cant comment 
on what Mr and Mrs H did with the money  once theyd borrowed it as that was out of 
Phoenixs control. But I can see that Mr and Mrs H requested the extra  money they borrowed 
in 2005 as by then Phoenix didnt have a sales force, so the extra  borrowing was completed 
on an execution-only basis; that is, Phoenix  simply processed Mr and Mrs Hs request.
I recognise Mr H1 and Mr H2 feel that the EIP was unsuitable, but I have to bear in mind that it 
provided Mr and Mrs H with the lump sums they wanted. Given  that Mr and Mrs H had 
independent legal advice and dont appear  to have  complained about  the EIP in their lifetimes,  it 
seems that they were  willing  to exchange a percentage of their equity for the benefit it brought.  
I dont consider the EIP was unsuitable and so I cant fairly uphold  this part of the complaint.
2017 onwards
Mr H1 and Mr H2 have  raised various concerns  about what  has happened since  their father  
died. These  broadly fit into two categories; delays and money.
Whilst I understand Mr H1 and Mr H2s concerns about the time it took to settle matters Im 
satisfied this wasnt unduly delayed and was within  what Id class  as a normal  timescale  for a 
transaction like this. Having reviewed  everything I cant  see Phoenix dragged its heels in 
selling the property, or that it delayed in moving matters forward.
Under the terms of the EIP the estate was liable for all the costs until 4 July 2017,  and from 
then the costs would be split in line with the percentages I set out in the background above. 
Mr H1 and Mr H2 have  said the costs have been  split 50/50 rather than about 60/40, but 
thats not right. I can completely understand why they think that though as the figures  
provided by Phoenix  havent been  clear.  The actual figures involved are:
sale price £290,000
Ref: DRN91043733asset managers fee £6,168.00
solicitors fee £1,467.00
electricity bill £44.12
gas bill £23.39
council tax £588.00
The electricity bill was incurred before 4 July 2017  so the entire  cost of that is passed to the 
estate. So taking this out of the equation  the proceeds should  have  been  split:
£169,981.95 (60.33%)  to Phoenix
£111,771.66 (39.67%)  to the estate
But then the £44.12 electricity bill should  have been  deducted from the estates share, giving 
an amount due to the estate of £111,727.54.
Instead what happened is that the estate had already  pre-paid £75 towards the council tax 
bill, and Phoenix said it would waive the rest of the council tax bill due from the estate, a 
gesture that saved  the estate £158.26 and meant the estate actually received £111,885.80.
So its clear from this that the estate hasnt been  financially disadvantaged  by the way the 
costs were split and so I make no order or award.
Mr H1 and Mr H2 have  queried the level of the fees, saying We believe fees have  been  
uplifted due to possible later rebates given to Phoenix. That is a very serious  allegation on 
the part of Mr H1 and Mr H2 and one that is tantamount to accusing Phoenix  of fraudulent 
accounting. Having  considered everything  I can see absolutely nothing to support that 
allegation. It may be Mr H1 and Mr H2 could have found cheaper  providers, but that doesnt 
mean Phoenix did anything wrong  in using the providers it selected.
Having very carefully  considered everything  Im satisfied Phoenix  needs to do nothing further 
to resolve this complaint. I see Mr H1 and Mr H2 have mentioned  not receiving the 
compensation they were expecting from Phoenix. Thats  not something we can get involved 
with as thats not compensation weve ordered Phoenix to pay so I can only suggest  they get 
in touch with Phoenix  directly to discuss that.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of the complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H1 and Mr H2 
(on behalf  of the estate of Mr H) to accept or reject  my decision before 23 January 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9104373