K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) gave him loans that he 
couldnt afford.
background
Mr A took out a total of four loans  with Cashfloat in 2017.
Loan Date borrowed
Amount Date repaid
Number of 
repayments
1 17.01.17 £400 28.04.17 3
2 02.05.17 £500 31.07.17 4
3 27.10.17 £400 22.12.17 3
4 26.12.17 £500 3
Mr A paid the first loan on time,  and he repaid  loans  2 and 3 early. But he was unable to 
keep up the scheduled repayments on loan 4. In February 2018 Cashfloat  agreed to allow 
Mr A to repay loan 4 in monthly instalments  of £50.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary,  she 
thought that the checks Cashfloat did before making the first loan went  far enough. But she 
didnt think it had carried out adequate checks before making the other  loans. And she 
thought that proportionate checks when Mr A applied for loans 3 and 4 would have shown 
that he wasnt borrowing  sustainably. So she recommended that Cashfloat refund all interest 
and charges that Mr A paid on loans 3 and 4, with interest  on the refund. And she said it 
should remove all entries about those loans  from Mr As credit  file.
Cashfloat disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN93817732the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish  
whether Mr A could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Cashfloats  lending history with Mr A, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen  that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, so that Cashfloat should  have  realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr As case, I think  this point was reached by loan 3. 
I say this because:
Loan 3 was Mr As third loan from Cashfloat  in just over nine months. And between 
loans 1 and 2, hed had loans outstanding  with Cashfloat pretty much continually for 
more than six months. Its true that there  was then a gap of nearly  three months before 
Mr A applied  for loan 3. But the loan wasnt for a significantly lower amount than loan 2 
had been. And I think this should have put Cashfloat on notice that, although he was a 
relatively high earner, it was likely that Mr A was having problems managing his money. 
So I think it should have been  concerned that he wouldnt be able to repay the loan 
sustainably.
Mr A applied  for loan 4 just a few days after repaying loan 3. And the amount he applied  
to borrow increased.  As with the previous loans, Mr A provided details of his regular 
monthly expenditure, other monthly credit commitments and payments due on short-term 
loans. When he applied  for loan 4, both his monthly  credit commitments and the 
payments due on short-term loans  had increased significantly from the level theyd been 
at in Mr As previous  applications.
Ref: DRN93817733I think that Mr A lost out because Cashfloat continued to provide borrowing from loan three 
onwards. This is because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr As indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number  of loans, combined with the total length of time Mr A had been  borrowing 
from Cashfloat, was likely  to have had negative implications on Mr As ability  to access  
mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 3 and 4. And Cashfloat should  put things 
right.
putting things right  what Cashfloat  needs to do
Cashfloat should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr A paid on loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans Mr A had taken with Cashfloat and the total length  of time hed been 
borrowing from it means any information  recorded about loans 3 and 4 is adverse. So all 
entries about loans  3 and 4 should be removed  from Mr As credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat  to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
**If after taking the above steps there is still a principal balance  due, I remind Cashfloat  of its 
obligation to treat any repayment offer that Mr A might make,  sympathetically  and 
reasonably.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Western Circle Ltd (trading  as 
Cashfloat) to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9381773