K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  that Car Giant Limited  mis-sold his mechanical breakdown insurance 
policy.
background
Mr L bought his policy for £849 from Car Giant, at the same time as buying a car. Mr L and 
his wife, Mrs L, picked  their car up on 23 December 2017. On 5 December  2018  Mr L 
claimed on his policy  however,  the insurer turned down his claim because he hadnt met the 
servicing requirements of the policy. 
Mr L said the car hadnt been serviced  since 2015  so he would never have met the servicing  
requirements. And he thought Car Giant should  have known that and not sold the policy.    
Mr L said hed assumed that the car needed servicing annually and thought that would be a 
year after hed bought it. He said he wouldnt have  bought the car without the warranty.  
Mr L brought his complaint to us. He said hed had to pay £1,000 to have the problem with 
the car diagnosed as well as other costs. 
Car Giant  said the insurer would have considered the claim if Mr and Mrs L had their car 
serviced within a reasonable time.  It said its representative checked they planned to have 
their car serviced in line with the manufacturers  requirements. And it was their responsibility 
to check when that was. It didnt  think  it was reasonable  that Mr and Mrs L hadnt had their 
car serviced  during the 11 months they owned their car before  making  a claim. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ls complaint  be partly  upheld. She thought            
Car Giant  should  refund the cost of the policy, plus interest as she didnt think the policy was 
suitable for him. She didnt think Car Giant  needed  to refund the £1,000  diagnosis  fee 
because she didnt  think Mr L would  have been  able to get a policy  elsewhere.
Car Giant  didnt agree.  It said it was Mr Ls responsibility to check when his car needed 
servicing. And that the insurer  would have  considered the claim if hed had it serviced within 
a reasonable amount of time. It asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr L is also unhappy  with the car he bought from Car Giant. However,  in this 
decision I can only consider the sale of his mechanical breakdown insurance policy.
Car Giant  sold Mr Ls policy in an advised sale. This means it had a duty to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the suitability of its advice. It also had to provide information that was clear,  
fair and not misleading.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ls policy say the policy  isnt invalidated by a lack of 
servicing. But the policy wont cover claims that have been caused by a lack of regular 
servicing. 
Ref: DRN98967972Ive listened to the recording where  Car Giant  sold the policy. It asked demands and needs 
questions which included  asking  Mr and Mrs L if they intended to keep their car serviced in 
accordance with manufacturers recommendations. Mr L answered yes to this. Car Giant 
said if hed said no it wouldnt have sold him the policy.  The advisor then told Mr and Mrs L 
that their car needed to be serviced  every year. 
I can understand why Mr L assumed that meant  a year from the date theyd bought  the car. 
But I dont think Car Giant led them to believe that. I do however, think  Car Giant should 
have let Mr and Mrs L know  how long they had to service their car, given  that it hadnt been  
serviced for two years.
Car Giants said the insurer would have considered the claim if Mr and Mrs L had their car 
serviced in a reasonable amount of time.  The insurer hasnt confirmed what  length of time it 
considers reasonable, but I think Car Giant should  have let Mr and Mrs L know  what  that 
was.
In not doing that I dont think Car Giant  took reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its 
advice. Im satisfied if Car Giant  had let them know this Mr L wouldnt have bought the policy 
as hed have known there might have been problems meeting the servicing requirements.
So, to put Mr L back in the position  he would have been in I think  Car Giant should refund 
the £849 he paid for the policy. Due to the time hes been without the money, it should also 
add interest at 8% simple per year from the date he paid for the policy to the date it makes 
payment.
I understand Mr L said hed never have bought the car without  the warranty, but I dont think  
this was the case. Thats because when listening to the recording where Mr and Mrs L 
bought their car and policy, theyd already agreed to buy the car and had some  discussion 
about whether  to buy the warranty or not. So, I dont think  its something  they always  
intended to buy.
Mr L is also unhappy hes had to pay for the problem with their car to be diagnosed. But he 
would always have  had to pay this, as I dont  think its likely he would have been able to get 
a policy  to cover him elsewhere in the same circumstances. And I dont think Car Giant  is 
responsible for Mr L not getting the car serviced,  as he assumed it had been  serviced  before 
the sale and had access to the service booklet.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I partly  uphold this complaint and 
require Car Giant  Limited to pay Mr L £849,  plus interest at 8% simple per year from the date 
he paid for the policy to the date it makes  payment.1
1 If Car Giant considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr L how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr L a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN98967973Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9896797