K820x#14complaint
Ms P says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Ms P bought the policy  in 1998 at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  She applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  in a branch.
At the time,  Ms P was employed  in a retail business. She has told us she was entitled to at 
least 3-months sick pay and also had some savings in a bank account. Ms P has said she 
was in good health at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment, together  with some life 
insurance  subject to its exclusions and limitations.  It offered  to repay 10% of Ms Ps credit 
card balance in the event  of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 76p per £100 of the 
monthly outstanding  balance.  The premium  would continue to have to be paid during  a 
successful claim  and it did attract interest.  
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account closed in 2002.
Ms Ps representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Ps representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Ms P wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms Ps 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Ms P about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Ms P and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and 
The information Ms P received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Ref: DRN98647572As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ps. I dont intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ps complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI Code and these  
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Ms Ps case.  
 
Ref: DRN98647573Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the 
Banking Ombudsman  might have been  expected to reach in relation  to an equivalent 
complaint. I note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any 
applicable rule of law or relevant judicial  authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
BoS was required  to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Ms Ps complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Ms P with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Ms P sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms P, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms P suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms P and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below.
Did Ms P know  she had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
BoS has provided a copy of the credit agreement  which Ms P signed when she took out her 
credit card. I can see that a pre-printed cross  has been placed in the box to show  that PPI 
was required.  And I can also see that the box to select the card protection offered has been 
left blank. 
Ref: DRN98647574From what  we know about BoSs normal sales process for credit card PI sold in branches at 
that time,  I think its most  likely that this cover  was discussed with Ms P and she agreed to 
take it knowing she could  choose not to. The agreement  would then have been printed  out 
for Ms P to sign, with the PPI shown as having been  chosen  by Ms P. 
So, on the limited  information available to me and taking everything into account, I think its 
most likely that Ms P knew the policy was optional and she agreed to take it out without 
undue pressure. But I can understand why Ms P might not remember  this now, as the sale 
took place a very long time ago.
Did BoS provide advice?
Ms P doesnt think BoS gave her advice during this sale. But it doesnt look as if Ms P has a 
good recollection of how this sale took place. BoS say advice was given and from the 
evidence Ive seen,  I think this is most likely  to have been the case.
This means  BoS had to advise  Ms P with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Ms P. It seems Ms P cant remember  clearly  what  happened  and there  
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Ms Ps 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Ms P would have been  caught  by the significant exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example,  there  is 
nothing to suggest BoS considered whether Ms P had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that BoS did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Ms P given her circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded BoS advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Ms P, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Ms P met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Ms P had a need for the policy  it seems  likely  that Ms Ps ability  to continue  to meet 
her credit  card repayments  would have been  put under strain if she was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for the employee  benefits and savings 
she says she had at the time. And the policy would  have paid out in addition  to these, 
giving her some additional security  which I think she would have been likely to value.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Ms P. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Ms P. There was 
nothing about  Ms Ps employment or occupation which  would have made it more 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical 
Ref: DRN98647575conditions that could affect her ability to claim. There  were  also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Ms Ps 
circumstances and the fact the policy could have cleared her outstanding card 
balance.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Ms P sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  BoS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Ms P was given a very broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  Ms P would  have been  told this  at the very least  during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Ms P would have taken out the policy without 
any sense of what the policy was for.
I am also satisfied Ms P would have realised  the policy  wasnt  free and its likely  she would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Ms P 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary 
Ms P might  have  been given, I think its more  likely  than not that she based  her decision on 
the things she was told, rather than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied that the policy  was a suitable recommendation for Ms P, Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Ms P. Im not persuaded  that BoS gave Ms P all of the information  she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Ps representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Ps. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Ps representative considers to be poor  
Ref: DRN98647576value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms P about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Ps representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms P has suggested.  And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Ms P? To what  extent did Ms P suffer loss or 
damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Ms P. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms P suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Ms P would have 
still taken out the policy,  had BoS done things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded that BoS took the steps  it should have done  to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Ms P, Ive found that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Ms P has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, 
Ms P would  have acted  differently,  or whether she would have taken out the policy  in any 
event.
Ms P says she would not have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Ms P had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised her that there was a suitable  product 
she could buy that would  protect her credit card payments in the event she was unable  to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Ms Ps circumstances  at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
Ref: DRN98647577In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Ms P ought reasonably  to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But I accept that BoS didnt  make  clear the on-going  cost information. So, while  Ms P didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what she would reasonably have thought from the information she based her decision to 
take out the policy on and found  acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms P thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Ms P knew about  or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy  and which recurred  
within 12 months of its start date;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Ms P 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Ms P be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Ms P pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the 
policy wasnt as good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms P from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Ms Ps circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she would  have been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Ms P didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Ms P would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Ms P had known she could only claim for disability  if she was unable to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers view she might reasonably be 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Ms P was unable  (through disability) to carry on her own 
occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Ms P would still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
Ref: DRN98647578difficult time, notwithstanding her employment  benefits and other  means. And in those 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not that she would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
Ms Ps representative says the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. It says we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Ms P would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Ms Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms P 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ms P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms P in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Ms P compensation, as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Ms P thinks  BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of BoSs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to act fairly  
and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  
but because the overall  information BoS gave Ms P, in the way it did, was insufficient to 
meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 1998 when 
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
Ref: DRN98647579Ive also thought about the approach Ms Ps representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract  to Ms P and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Ms P in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 September  2020.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9864757