K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that they were  mis-sold  a mortgage by an appointed representative 
of Legal & General Partnership Services Limited  (L&G). Theyre  represented  in bringing 
this complaint by a claims management company (the CMC).
background 
Mr and Mrs L were  given  advice by an appointed representative of L&G when they 
remortgaged in 2007. They refinanced their existing mortgage with a new lender and 
borrowed some  additional funds to consolidate an existing  unsecured  loan.
The CMC complained that the advice was unsuitable   and in particular, that Mr and Mrs L 
wouldve been better off taking  a further  advance with their existing lender rather than 
moving elsewhere. They also said that Mr and Mrs L were mis-sold a will and estate 
planning package  and a legal administration service.
L&G said the advice  was suitable.  It said that the consolidated  loan had a higher interest  rate 
than that of the mortgage  and had been  due to run for the same term. It didnt agree that 
the legal  administration service had been  mis-sold, as Mr and Mrs L were charged this fee 
for various  administrative tasks carried out by the broker. And while  it didnt think  it was bad 
advice to take out the will package, it accepted that the cost for this shouldnt have been 
added to the mortgage. So it offered to refund  the interest that this fee would incur over the 
term of the mortgage,  along with £150  compensation for the inconvenience caused.
When our adjudicator reviewed the complaint, he thought L&Gs offer was a fair way to settle 
things. But the CMC didnt agree. They said it wouldve been cheaper  and quicker for 
Mr and Mrs L to refinance with their existing  lender.  And they maintained that the broker  had 
coerced Mr and Mrs L into taking out the will package  and legal  administrative  services   
which had been  charged at inflated  fees.  So they asked for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint, and it was passed to me.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Ls complaint last month, setting out why I 
thought L&G had made a fair offer to put things right.  
In respect of the mortgage advice, I said:
The CMC says that L&G should  have  recommended  that Mr and Mrs L contact their 
existing lender to restructure their mortgage.  I dont think there was any general 
obligation on it to do that. 
More importantly, I cant see that it was bad advice  for Mr and Mrs L to move  to a new 
lender, given their stated  preferences. The fact find noted that Mr and Mrs L wanted to 
have stability of payments  over a term of seven years or more.  I cant see that their 
existing lender offered any products that wouldve met this preference (with  deals  only 
running for up to five years). So I dont think its advice to remortgage elsewhere  was 
unsuitable.
In respect of the will and estate planning  package, I said:
Ref: DRN90424052I understand from the CMCs response  to our adjudicators view that they accept the 
value in making a will. Theyre more concerned that the broker unfairly influenced  
Mr and Mrs L to use a particular firm to provide the will package   and at an inflated 
cost. 
In this respect, I note that the broker  and the will provider  had directors in common. 
But I dont find it inherently wrong that the broker would introduce Mr and Mrs L to a 
particular company, even  if they share  (some)  directors. Theres  no evidence of any 
commission or other incentive  as was allegedly paid from one to the other.  
The CMC says that Mr and Mrs L were led to believe that they had to take out the will 
package for the mortgage to go ahead. But Ive not seen  anything to support that. 
Given the prolonged timescale over which a mortgage will take to complete and then 
for a will to be drawn up (and charged  for), it seems  to me that Mr and Mrs L will have 
had ample time and opportunity to decline the will package  if they hadnt  wanted to 
proceed. 
The CMC considers the cost to have been over the market  rate. But as the will 
package itself was provided by a third party, the question as to whether it provided 
value for money  isnt something I can hold L&G responsible for. If Mr and Mrs L are 
unhappy with the cost (or quality) of the will package,  they ought to refer those 
concerns to the provider. 
I agree  that theres little to show  adding  the cost of the will package  to the mortgage 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs L. But L&G has already recognised that wasnt suitable 
and offered to refund  them any interest theyll have to pay over the life of the 
mortgage. they wont have lost out financially as a result of this. L&G has also offered 
them £150  compensation,  which seems  reasonable for any upset or inconvenience  
theyve been caused.
Given this, Im not intending to require L&G to take any further  action in respect  of the 
will package.
And in respect  of the legal costs,  I said:
The CMC complains that some of the costs in respect of the legal work were charged  
by the broker  rather  than the solicitor  in the form of a legal administration fee. I dont 
find anything inherently unreasonable  in the fee itself: there are a number of 
administrative procedures that need  not have been  carried out by a solicitor.  
The CMC says that Mr and Mrs L were also led to believe  that the legal administration  
service was a pre-requisite  of the mortgage  and that they werent given the option  of 
appointing their own solicitors. But Ive not seen any evidence  of that.  
Mr and Mrs L signed a Solicitors Form of Authorisation, which confirmed their 
instruction to pay £250 plus VAT to the broker in respect of legal/administrative 
costs  in addition to the fee they were  charged  for the mortgage  advice. So I think 
this fee was clearly  set out to Mr and Mrs L, who agreed to pay it. As a result  and 
while I appreciate  the CMC questions the amount of the fee for the minimal level of 
work it believes  wouldve  been necessary  I dont think  theres any basis on which  I 
could fairly  require L&G to refund any of it. The price  of its services was a matter  for 
Ref: DRN90424053the broker to decide,  and Mr and Mrs L werent misled or misinformed  about what  
theyd have to pay.
The legal costs  were  added to the mortgage balance. Its not uncommon to add the 
costs associated with a mortgage to the balance. The fact find recorded that 
Mr and Mrs L preferred to add fees to the loan in order to keep their outgoings down 
(and this was reiterated in the record of suitability provided to them at the time). As I 
cant see that Mr and Mrs L wouldve preferred to pay these costs  upfront, I dont  think 
it was unsuitable  to consolidate  them into the mortgage.
The CMC has also raised concerns that the broker received commission  for 
recommending the firm of solicitors used for the conveyancing work. But while the 
complaints been  with us, L&G has made an offer to resolve that aspect of the 
complaint which  the CMC  has accepted.  So I make  no finding on that matter  here and 
understand that L&G will settle the issue directly with the CMC.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision with any additional  comments  or 
evidence for me to take into account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with neither party having  sent me anything further to take into 
consideration, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So this decision confirms my 
provisional findings, as summarised  above.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint in part and require 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited to honour its offers  in respect of the will and 
estate planning  package and the commission paid by the conveyancing solicitors.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9042405