K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  the way that The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB)  has managed 
their mortgage account. 
In summary,  their complaint is that TMB:
-led them  to believe that the interest  rate charged  on their mortgage  would  never be 
higher than 2.5% above Bank of England base rate and that theres  documentation  to 
prove this;
-has applied an incorrect interest  rate to parts of their mortgage; 
-caused them distress  by its treatment of them  when they were in financial difficulty;
-set its Standard Variable Rate (SVR) unfairly  high and in breach  of legislation  and 
regulation. They  say the high level of TMBs SVR has worsened their financial 
difficulties and led to their mortgage  being  in arrears;
-made a decision  not to offer new mortgage  interest rate products which  has made 
them mortgage rate prisoners;  and
-made an error when  calculating whether  their mortgage was in arrears in 2013
Mr C has managed the complaint throughout. 
Mr C wants TMB to recalculate the mortgage  payments using the rate he considers was 
originally agreed,  from September 2012. Hed also like compensation for the stress he says 
TMB has caused him and Mrs C during a very difficult  time.
background 
In 2006 Mr and Mrs C remortgaged with TMB having received advice from a broker.  They  
borrowed around £250,000 over a 12 year term on an interest only basis. The loan was on a 
tracker rate over the whole 12 year term.
In May 2007  Mr and Mrs C took out a £50,000  further advance  on an interest  only basis  over 
11 years.  The additional  borrowing was taken  out on a tracker  rate over the 11 year term. 
In June 2007 Mr and Mrs C moved  all £300,000 of their mortgage  borrowing onto a new 
discounted tracker  rate that ended in August  2012.  After that date the borrowing would revert  
to TMBs  SVR. 
In 2008 Mr and Mrs C borrowed a further £50,000  on an interest  only basis  over 10 years. 
This borrowing was to be on the same terms as the June 2007 advance.
In 2012 Mr and Mrs Cs tracker rate expired  and all their mortgage borrowing reverted to 
TMBs SVR. 
In 2013 Mr C approached TMB as he and Mrs C were experiencing some financial 
problems. Mr Cs business was having  difficulties and Mrs C was unwell. Mr C complained  to 
TMB soon after. He was unhappy about a number of issues  to do with the mortgage. TMB 
offered Mr and Mrs C £75 for mistakes  it had made managing their mortgage account.  Mr 
and Mrs C didnt accept  this.
By 2014 Mr and Mrs Cs financial difficulties had worsened and Mrs C was very unwell. Mr C 
complained again to TMB about  the interest  rate applied to his mortgage  and the way his 
account was being managed. TMB didnt  uphold his complaint but it said it would honour the 
Ref: DRN92011042£75 it had previously  offered  in 2013.  It also offered a further £75 for delays in its complaint 
handling. Mr and Mrs C were still unhappy with TMBs response and brought their complaint 
to us.
TMB didnt want us to look at the issues Mr and Mrs C complained about in 2013.  It thought  
these parts of the complaint had been brought  to us too late. I issued a provisional decision 
setting out why I thought we could look at all parts of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. TMB then 
gave its consent  for us to look at these issues too. 
While Mr and Mrs Cs complaint has been with us, it has evolved.  Mr C is unhappy that he 
says hes a mortgage rate prisoner and that hes is trapped on TMBs SVR, which he 
considers is unfairly  high.   
I note that Mr and Mrs Cs interest  only mortgage has now reached the end of its agreed  
term. Mr and Mrs C are trying to sell their property and plan to repay  the mortgage loan in 
full in the short term. Mr Cs has not complained to us about  TMBs  actions at the expiry  of 
his interest only mortgage. 
An adjudicator looked at Mr and Mrs Cs complaint some time ago. She upheld  the part of 
the complaint  about Mr and Mrs C having  been mis-sold a discounted tracker rate. Since 
then Mr and Mrs Cs complaint has been considered again  by another  investigator.  Our 
investigator looked at the merits of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. He thought  that part of Mr and 
Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. He thought TMBs communication  had been poor and 
that it had caused trouble and upset  to Mr and Mrs C by the way it had handled  their 
mortgage account. He recommended that TMB pay Mr and Mrs C £600 for the upset it 
caused them  by its administrative failings and poor communication.  
Mr C disagreed with the investigators assessment of his complaint. He asked that an 
ombudsman consider their complaint again and reach a final decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs C that Ive read all the evidence  surrounding  their 
complaint. This complaint  has been with us for some time and the file of information is 
lengthy. I have  read the file and all comments made by Mr C, including  his response to the 
investigators view, before  reaching my decision. I appreciate Mr Cs strength of feeling 
about his complaint and how important this issue is to him and Mrs C.
A number  of issues have  been raised with us over the years.  I think its fair to say that over 
time the emphasis of this dispute has moved between  different complaint points. Im going  to 
focus on what I consider  to be at the heart of this complaint rather  than address each and 
every point thats been brought  to us in turn. Were an informal dispute resolution service, 
set up as a free alternative to the courts. Its my role to establish what I consider to be 
central to a dispute.  I dont mean  any discourtesy to Mr and Mrs C by doing this and it 
doesnt mean that I have ignored parts of their complaint. It merely reflects the informal  
nature of our service and my role within it.
did TMB  lead Mr C to believe  that the interest  rate charged on their mortgage would never 
be higher than 2.5% above Bank of England base rate?
Ref: DRN92011043The central point  of this complaint is what Mr C was told by TMB in 2007. Many of the other 
issues flow from this issue.
Mr C complains that when he took out a new interest rate product in 2007, he was given 
misleading information by TMB.  Ive looked  at the evidence from the time to try to establish  
exactly what was said to Mr C. Ive tried to get call recordings so I can listen  to the 
conversations between Mr C and TMBs call handlers but these are no longer available.  I 
know Mr C is very unhappy about  this. He hoped these calls would  prove that he was given 
misleading information. Mr C also suspects TMB deliberately destroyed  the call recordings to 
make sure there wasnt  evidence  that it had verbally  agreed a different reversionary rate for 
his mortgage.
I dont think theres anything untoward  in these call recordings not still being available 
bearing in mind how long ago the conversations took place. Theres  not a regulatory 
requirement for a business to keep call recordings of every discussion that long after the 
event. In my experience  of such matters, I actually think it would quite unusual for a business 
to still have call recordings from as long ago as 2007.
In 2007 Mr and Mrs C moved their mortgage borrowing onto a five year discounted tracker 
rate, a product called TBE883. This meant  that their mortgage interest would be 1.040% 
above Bank of England base rate until 31 August 2008, then 0.740% above Bank of England 
base rate until 31 August 2009, and finally 0.440% above Bank of England base  rate until 31 
August 2012.  This discounted  tracker  coincided with a fall in prevailing interest rates,  and it 
meant Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage payments fell significantly  over the five year tracker  term, to 
as little as £250 per month.
Before taking out this product Mr and Mrs C had their mortgage  borrowing on TMBs tracker 
rate of 1.49% above Bank of England base rate for the entire 12 year term of the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs C clearly benefitted  from taking out this tracker  product during the products  
term. Mr C hasnt complained that the product was mis-sold to him or that the discounted 
tracker wasnt to his benefit. Mr C is unhappy  about  what happened to his mortgage once 
the tracker expired. 
Mr C says he specifically asked questions  about what  would happen at the end of the 
products term. He says TMB told him that its SVR would always be 2.44% above  Bank  of 
England base rate (or less) and that the SVR sort of tracked  Bank of England base rate. 
I note that there have  been times that TMBs  SVR has operated at a differential  of around 
2.5% above Bank of England base rate. However, the gap between  the Bank  of England  
base rate and TMBs  SVR has widened as base  rate has fallen to record  low levels  following 
the financial crisis. This is what  Mr C is unhappy  about and thats why he feels  TMBs SVR 
has been unfairly high.
Having looked  at all the evidence from the time,  I cant find any record that supports Mr Cs 
recollection that such a guarantee of the SVR tracking Bank of England base rate by a 
given differential  was given by TMB.  
TMB and Mr C agree  that five different product illustrations were  given which  set out the 
choice of products  Mr and Mrs C could take out. But TMB says it didnt  give Mr C any advice 
Ref: DRN92011044about which of these products he should choose. It says it gave information  from which  Mr 
and Mrs C could make their own choice about  which  rate to take out. 
I dont doubt that Mr C recalls asking  this question about what happens after the discounted 
period expires.  I also dont question the sincerity  of his recollection  as to TMBs response. 
Theres no dispute that these discussions happened  around 12 years ago although I am 
mindful of the passage  of time that has passed  since the conversations were held and the 
impact that can have on the accuracy  of memory, even memory thats strongly  held. 
Mr Cs retrieved his call history from the time to show us how many conversations he had 
with TMB  but we havent been able to establish  the exact content of these discussions as 
call recordings  and detailed call notes or transcripts arent available. Mr Cs also said that he 
spoke to his broker  whod  sorted  out his mortgage years before  to talk through  his options 
and what he might do next. I think it was clearly  a decision that Mr C took seriously and that 
he explored thoroughly  over a period of weeks if not months before  deciding what product  to 
choose.
TMBs said it would be highly unlikely that a member of its staff would have  said that there  
was a fixed margin between the SVR and Bank  of England base rate, or that there would 
never be more than a 2.44% differential between the two rates.  
Mr Cs said that he knew that his mortgage  was going to revert  to the SVR after the end of 
the product term. And he knew that the SVR wasnt another  tracker product.  Thats  why he 
was asking for reassurance from TMB  as to how different the SVR could be to the Bank  of 
England base rate. This was clearly a factor that he considered. 
Where theres a dispute about whats happened, Im able to determine what I think is most 
likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities. Im persuaded that Mr C did query 
how much  the SVR could  vary from Bank of England base rate. And I think  he was probably 
told that the SVR was likely to be around 2.5% above Bank of England base  rate. But, even  
if he was, I dont think that this verbal discussion or understanding would have become part 
of the mortgage  contract with TMB,  or that there  was any guarantee that would always  be 
the case. 
The mortgage agreement  set out how what the SVR was at the time the interest rate product 
was entered into, and that I note at that point it was 2.44%  above  Bank  of England  base 
rate. I know Mr C has queried which documentation  should apply  to his mortgage and 
whether this is legally  enforceable.  Ive looked at the mortgage offers he and TMB have sent 
to us. I dont consider that theres any documentation or any other  evidence  that shows its 
more likely than not that TMB  guaranteed that Mr Cs mortgage  would revert to a specially 
arranged rate that would  track  the Bank of England base rate by a set differential after the 
five year discounted tracker expired. 
Ref: DRN92011045Mr C had previously had a life time tracker  that ran over the entire term of the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs C had understandably wanted to explore better, more  competitive rates  that 
would save them interest and they found  that in the discounted tracker  deal they took out. 
This gave  them a significant  interest saving for a number of years until it expired.  Overall, I 
dont think theres evidence that the interest  rate product was mis-sold or misrepresented  to 
Mr and Mrs C. And, I also dont think it was clearly unsuitable for Mr and Mrs Cs needs and 
financing objectives  at the time. With the benefit of hindsight, I can understand why Mr and 
Mrs C may regret coming off their lifetime tracker product.  But I dont think theres evidence  
that supports  they were misled into doing so by TMB.
is TMBs  SVR unfairly high? 
In August  2012  Mr and Mrs Cs tracker  rate expired. The mortgage  reverted at that time to 
TMBs SVR (also referred to as its Homeowner Variable Rate  or HVR). 
Ive looked at TMBs SVR,  and Ive considered whether it is broadly in line with other SVRs  
set by comparable  lenders  since  2012. Im satisfied  that this rate is broadly comparable  with 
similar lenders  SVRs. Overall, in all the circumstances, I dont think TMB has treated Mr and 
Mrs C unfairly  with respect to this part of his complaint.
is it fair that TMB arent offering any new interest rate products?
Typically if Mr C was unhappy with the level of TMBs SVR hed be able to apply for a new 
interest rate product  with his lender or remortgage  elsewhere. Im aware  there wasnt  an 
early repayment charge  that would have  prevented  him moving his mortgage. However, Mr 
C couldnt get a new rate with TMB  as it became a closed book lender in 2008 which  meant 
it no longer offered any new interest  rate products or lending  from that date. Mr Cs said he 
couldnt move his mortgage to another lender because  of the arrears that had been 
incorrectly recorded on his credit history by TMB. Mr Cs said because of TMBs mistakes  he 
became a mortgage rate prisoner, trapped on TMBs unfairly high interest  rate.
Because Mr C couldnt go elsewhere, hes complained that TMB hasnt made  any new 
interest rate products  available to its customers. TMBs said it withdrew from offering new 
interest rate products  or lending to customers in 2008. This was as a direct result of the 
financial crisis  and the problems that Lloyds Banking  Group experienced in 2008  and 
subsequent years. TMB stopped being  an active lender, and it didnt want to attract any new 
customers (or retain existing customers) through offering low rates. To that extent,  its not 
treated Mr C any differently to any of its other customers. 
Its common for borrowers to take a fixed or tracker rate product  and then, at or shortly 
before its expiry, take another  rate rather than revert to their lenders  SVR.  Sometimes they 
may take out a new product with their existing  lender, or sometimes  its with another  lender. 
Ive looked carefully  at Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage agreement. Theres  nothing  in the 
mortgage agreement  that says Mr C was entitled to a new rate once the discounted tracker  
expired  and thats also true of most other  lenders mortgage  agreements too. Theres also 
nothing in the regulators rules that requires TMB to offer new interest  rates. 
Ref: DRN92011046Thats not the end of the matter though  my role is to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  I do that by taking into account the law, regulators rules  and 
guidance, and good industry  practice   but ultimately Im not constrained  by them  if I think  
fairness requires me to do something else. Ive thought  carefully about whether its fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances that TMB  wouldnt offer Mr C a new interest  rate thats 
lower than its SVR.
In 2007, when Mr C took out the new interest  rate product, he says he was told that new 
interest rate deals  would  always be available at the end of the products term. He says he 
was also told that hed always be eligible for a new interest rate product.  I can believe that 
Mr C was given these  reassurances. I think its fair to say that in 2007 TMB couldnt have 
known what would happen in later years  as a result  of the banking  crisis. It wouldnt  have  
been able to foresee the nationalisation of banks, and subsequent shift in mortgage 
regulation and lending appetite. In any event, I dont  think TMBs  reassurances at the time 
meant that it was contractually obliged to always make further  products available at a later 
date to Mr C. 
While TMB wasnt offering any new interest  rate products, it did say that Mr C was able to 
apply to another lender  within the Lloyds Banking Group instead when his interest rate 
product expired. Mr Cs interest rate product expired in August 2012. Mr and Mrs C could 
have applied  for another product with Lloyds Banking group in the run up to their discounted 
rate expiring.  
In this case, Mr C didnt apply for a rate. I appreciate from what Mr Cs said that he thought 
he had a special  rate agreed so he wasnt concerned  about  moving  his mortgage to another 
lender. Within the months and years  that followed Mr and Mrs C were in worsening financial 
difficulty and they were in dispute with TMB. Their  financial situation would have affected 
their ability to remortgage elsewhere  or take out a new interest rate product  with a new 
lender. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs C were trapped with TMB because it wasnt offering new interest  
rate products,  or because  of TMBs actions. I think, all things being equal,  they could have 
tried to transfer their mortgage to another part of the Lloyds banking  group. I think  they 
struggled to move their mortgage because of the change in Mr and Mrs Cs position - which 
couldnt have  been foreseen or avoided by Mr and Mrs C or TMB when the tracker in 2007  
was entered into. I understand what a difficult time this must  have been for Mr and Mrs C 
and Im very pleased to hear that their situation  has now greatly  improved. 
In conclusion, I dont  think its unreasonable that TMB took the commercial decision not to 
offer new interest  rate deals or further lending to all its customers. I think  it was fair that it 
redirected Mr and Mrs C to apply  to another active part of the Lloyds Banking Group  if they 
wanted to sort out a new interest rate product  and get a more competitive rate of interest. Mr 
and Mrs C chose not to do that when their tracker expired.  According  to Mr C, he and Mrs C 
then fell into financial difficulty  for a number of reasons. It seems  to me that TMB werent  
responsible for the change in Mr and Mrs Cs situation. I dont uphold this part of the 
complaint against  TMB.
Ref: DRN92011047did TMB  make an error  when  calculating whether  the mortgage  was in arrears in 2012?
Mr Cs said that TMB made a mistake  in the administration  of his mortgage  account in late 
2012 and 2013. Our investigator has made a detailed exploration  of exactly  what happened 
and whether TMB were at fault. I find myself  in broad agreement  with our investigators  
findings on this issue.
I do think TMB could  have made  it clearer to Mr C what his payments would have been once 
his discounted  tracker rate expired and exactly when this new payment was due. There  
seems to be a genuine misunderstanding between the parties about what should  have  been  
paid in August  and September  2012. 
However, I think it is important to consider that Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage  fell further into 
arrears in 2013 as his and Mrs Cs financial  situation  worsened. Mr Cs said it wasnt a 
priority for them to sort out a new interest  rate deal in the summer of 2012 when their tracker  
expired. Hes said this was because he was under the impression that he had a special rate 
that tracked  Bank  of England base rate for the rest of his mortgage.  So Mr C didnt try to 
take his mortgage elsewhere.  For this reason, I dont think this mix up over whether  the 
mortgage was in arrears  was what prevented  Mr C from taking out a new product elsewhere. 
Overall I think  this poor communication would  have led to Mr C being inconvenienced. He 
needed to contact TMB a number of times to try and sort out what  needed to be paid and 
when. TMB has offered  £75, plus an additional £75 for delays in its complaint handling for 
this part of the complaint.
Mr C still disputes the amount  he should  have been  paying in interest each month from the 
expiry of his product. I think that dispute,  compounded by Mr and Mrs Cs subsequent 
financial difficulties, is what led to their mortgage falling into arrears.  I dont think  the poor 
communication with TMB in the run up to the tracker product expiring was the reason Mr and 
Mrs C later fell into significant arrears.
did TMB  treat Mr and Mrs C unfairly  during  a period  of financial difficulty
Mr Cs said that TMB didnt do enough to help him and Mrs C when they were  in financial 
difficulty. Hes said Mr and Mrs C were having a really difficult time and TMB did nothing to 
help them. They asked for a payment holiday and TMB refused this. Mr C complains that 
TMB sent a field agent to their property without  giving them notice  of this first and this really  
upset them.
I think TMB could  have done  more  to help Mr and Mrs C at the time. In 2013 Mr C had called  
TMB to explain  the difficult financial situation that he and Mrs C had found  themselves in. 
Mrs C was very unwell  and they were also caring  for an ill relative. Mr Cs business  was also 
struggling. 
TMBs said it determined  that Mr and Mrs C werent  eligible  for a payment holiday but it 
doesnt strike me that it really explored what else could be done  to help them  at that time. I 
accept that the options are more limited  for an interest only mortgage (when compared to a 
capital repayment  loan) but I think it still merited further discussion about  how TMB could 
help.
Ref: DRN92011048It may be that a reduced payment plan for a period of time would have helped Mr and Mrs C 
through this difficult  period. I think it would have  been better for Mr and Mrs C to have had an 
agreed plan to pay reduced monthly payments for a period of time rather  than fall further and 
further into arrears. I can see by 2015 arrears had reached around £6,250 but the loan to 
value on the property was relatively low which should have given TMB some comfort. 
As it is, Mr and Mrs C did recover  from their financial difficulties and Im really  pleased to 
hear that things have  got much better for Mr and Mrs C. Mr Cs said he has plenty of equity 
in their property and he estimates  theyll still have more considerable equity once they sell 
their home and repay TMB in full. It strikes  me that there was more  that TMB could have 
done at the time to help Mr and Mrs C. 
Our investigator agreed that more  could have been done by TMB to improve  communication  
with Mr and Mrs C and that its customer service was found  lacking. He thought TMB should  
pay a further £600  compensation to Mr and Mrs C for mistakes in communications about 
them being  in arrears and general  mishandling  of their queries about the mortgage account.  
I agree  that this is fair and reasonable to settle  this part of their complaint. To be clear, this is 
in addition to the £75 initially  awarded  by TMB,  and the further £75 awarded for delays in 
complaint handling. 
what happens next?
I know Mr C will be disappointed with the outcome of my decision. Im conscious that Mr C 
considers that the interest rate that has been  applied by TMB for years is not what  was 
agreed with him and that it should  not be legally binding. 
Our powers  are different  to a court. Im not able to determine the enforceability  of a 
mortgage contract.  That is a matter for the courts to decide. If Mr C does want  to take this 
matter to court he should choose  not to accept my decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of this complaint against The Mortgage Business Plc.
I direct  The Mortgage  Business  Plc to pay Mr and Mrs C £600  for the trouble and upset  
caused by shortcomings in its customer service  and mistakes in the way it administered this 
mortgage account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9201104