K822xcomplaint
Mr W has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited failed to tell him he was 
driving uninsured  for two days  because it cancelled  a multicar insurance policy.
background 
Mr Ws daughter  bought a car insurance  policy under Admirals multicar discount.  In 
September 2018 Mr W was to be added to the multicar policy  once his existing policy  lapsed 
at the end of October 2018.  
However, in October  2018 Mr Ws daughter was involved  in an incident and as a result, 
Admiral settled her claim as a total loss and cancelled her car insurance policy. But it failed 
to tell Mr W this meant it wouldnt automatically  provide  continued cover  when  his existing 
policy lapsed at the end of October 2018. As a result, Mr W unknowingly drove his car 
uninsured for two days. 
Mr W was very upset  when he discovered  this and complained to Admiral. Admiral 
apologised for its error and paid Mr W £50 compensation. 
Mr W remained unhappy. He said he understood the error wasnt  deliberate.  But he didnt  
feel the compensation Admiral had paid was enough  when  considering what  could  have 
happened. He asked  us to look at his complaint. He wanted  Admiral  to pay a much higher  
compensation sum and pay it to charity. 
Our adjudicator explained that we dont punish businesses and that our role is to informally 
resolve complaints  on their own merits. She thought Admiral should increase the 
compensation it paid to £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience  it had caused Mr W 
as the error was potentially serious. 
Mr W didnt agree. He feels the compensation award should be in the thousands to reflect  
the seriousness of what could have happened. 
Admiral didnt agree. It believes  it dealt  with Mr Ws complaint reasonably. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Theres no dispute that Admiral made an error  here. I understand how strongly Mr W feels  
about what might have happened  during those two days. Hes right.  The consequences of 
driving uninsured  are potentially serious. 
However, when things go wrong  we look at what happened and not what might have 
happened. We consider the impact  of the error  and whether an insurer  has done enough 
to put things right. 
Ref: DRN90693492Ive taken an even  handed and proportionate  approach and considered similar  
compensation awards which  we give and which examples are available on our website. In 
this case, fortunately there were no consequences  as a result of Mr W unknowingly driving 
uninsured for two days. Clearly  if there  had been, we would consider what  the impact was 
and what Admiral had done to put things right. 
I think understandably Mr W was upset when he discovered that hed been driving uninsured  
for two days. I have  to consider that Mr W was unaware during those two days and so wasnt 
put to worry or upset  during this time.  But once  Admirals  error was discovered, Ive no doubt  
Mr W was shocked at the thought of what might have happened. As the insurer I think 
Admiral should have let him know in good time that he would no longer be added to a 
multicar discount policy because his daughters  policy was cancelled.   
Theres no dispute that Admiral made a mistake and its error caused Mr W some  distress 
and upset. Admirals apology and compensation award of £50 in this case goes some  way to 
putting things  right. 
I appreciate both Mr W and Admiral will be disappointed  with what Ive said.  But based on 
what Ive seen  and in line with our approach  I think a fairer  outcome is for Admiral to 
increase the compensation it pays Mr W by a further £150 to £200. I think the impact of 
discovering Admirals error  was significant  for Mr W. But Ive balanced that with the fact that 
the length of time and the consequences were fortunately minimal.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. I 
require Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  to pay Mr W a further £150 compensation in 
addition to the £50 its already paid him. 
Admiral must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr W 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr W how much  its taken off. It should  also give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9069349