K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about U K Insurance Limited.  He isnt happy that it turned down a 
claim under his travel insurance policy.
background
Mr H had a travel insurance policy with UKI. Unfortunately he fractured his hip while away  on 
holiday so he made a claim under his travel insurance policy.
UKI set up the claim while Mr H was in hospital but decided that it wouldnt pay the claim. 
This was because Mr H had just turned 75 years old and he needed  to gain an additional top 
up policy at a cost of £50 before he went on holiday.
Mr H wasnt happy about this so he complained to this service.  Our investigator looked into 
things for him and upheld his complaint. He thought that as UKI didnt advise Mr H that he 
needed to upgrade his policy around the time he was 75. And he thought  that as Mr H had 
broke his hip (his claim wasnt  likely to be connected to a pre-existing medical condition) that 
it should screen him as it would have done  if he had of applied  when he was 75 a few weeks  
earlier. It should then look to provide cover if Mr H would have been  eligible for the additional  
policy at that time.
As UKI didnt agree the matter has been passed  to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
Mr H had just turned 75 years of age when he made his claim. His policy  renewed when he 
was 74 and the cover provided was for the year. UKI says that it is clear  in its policy  
documentation that a consumer has to apply for an additional policy,  and be medically  
screened, once  they turn 75.
While I accept UKIs position, this is a significant  clause and so I need to consider if it has 
done all it can to draw it to Mr Hs attention and I dont think it has. I say this as the actual 
clause is tucked away on page 8 of the policy documentation. And the key facts  document, 
which is meant to highlight significant  and unusual clauses to consumers, has it tucked away  
on page 5. Plus, it is highlighted  alongside  a number  of other insurance products in small 
coloured print and seems  to suggest  that there  is only an additional payment as opposed to 
any screening. So Im not satisfied that this was brought to the consumers attention  in a 
clear way.
Indeed, Ive listened to a call were an advisor  says that it should be highlighted at the actual 
time someone turns 75 years of age but unfortunately it isnt. They say that it would be a 
nicety as opposed  to being  a requirement. And Mr Hs daughter said that she was told Mr H 
wouldnt have been sent a reminder at the time he was 75 when the claim was first made. 
Given the significance  of the additional  top up policy and the fact that Mr H wouldnt have 
any insurance in place at that time.  I wouldve expected this to be flagged  to Mr H in the lead 
up to him turning 75.
Ref: DRN94362432All this leads  me to believe that the clause, and additional policy requirement, wasnt clearly  
brought to Mr Hs attention at the time the policy renewed or at the time he turned 75.
So, the fair and reasonable  thing  to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is for UKI 
to screen Mr H now in line with if he had applied for the additional policy a few weeks before 
he went on holiday when he was turning 75. And if it wouldve provided cover it should  
reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. If Mr H 
qualifies for the additional policy then it is only fair that he should pay the cost of the 
additional policy.    
I know UKI has provided details about  other  cases that have  been  looked at previously by 
this service. But I must highlight that this service looks at the particular circumstances of 
every case  afresh. And Ive outlined what I believe to be a fair and reasonable approach  in 
the particular circumstances  of this case.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance  
Limited to undertake the medical screening  that Mr H should have undertaken just before he 
was 75 years of age. If it would have  provided  the additional cover it should  consider Mr Hs 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9436243