K821x#15complaint
Mrs K has complained that Ageas Retail  Limited (Ageas) unfairly  charged  her an additional 
premium for her motor  insurance policy.
In bringing this complaint Mrs Ks been helped by her son. But, for ease, Ill refer to his 
comments as being those of Mrs K.
background
After Mrs K had taken out a policy through Ageas it contacted her and said it had found  out a 
about a previous claim she hadn't told it about.  It said if it had known about the claim then it 
would have charged her more for her policy.  So it said she should  pay that sum which was 
around £315 or otherwise  cancel her policy. Mrs K paid the sum while pursuing her 
complaint about  it. 
Our adjudicator didn't think  Ageas had dealt  with Mrs K fairly.  So he said it should refund  the 
additional premium  and add simple interest to the refund. He added  that it should pay her 
£100 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Ageas didn't  agree so the complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
Mrs K had previously had an Ageas policy. While that policy was running  another driver 
made a claim against it, although Mrs K said that she had no knowledge of the incident and 
didn't make a claim herself. That policy was later cancelled.  
Mrs Ks husband, Mr K, contacted Ageas on her behalf about taking out a new policy.  Ageas  
asked Mr K if Mrs K had suffered a loss or made  a claim in the last 5 years. Mr K answered 
no to that question.  Ageas says that as a claim  had been made against Mrs Ks previous 
policy he should have  answered yes to its question. So it said that as Mr K answered the 
question wrongly  that led to it charging an additional  premium.  But I don't think  thats  fair.
At the time Mrs K bought her new policy Ageas was aware of the previous claim, as it had 
dealt with it. Ageas told us it was Ageas Insurance Limited who dealt with the claim rather 
than itself - Ageas  Retail Limited - which was responsible for selling the policy  and 
calculating the premium and doesn't deal with claims. But I don't think  thats reasonable. 
When responding to her concerns Ageas has referred to talking to its own claims department  
(Ageas Insurance  Limited) and has used  terms like we and us when referring to it. So I 
think Ageas  had information about the claim available to it. So it could have used that when 
calculating Mrs Ks premium. 
Ageas added that Mrs K took out the policy  as a new customer. So it was required to ensure 
the risk was acceptable  and to see if there were other changes  of circumstance since her old 
policy ended.  But I don't think  the fact that this was a new contract  meant that it couldn't use 
information it already  had. And any new circumstances wouldn't have affected claims that 
had previously been made, and which it was aware of. So as it already  had that information 
Ref: DRN95051402when it calculated her premium initially I don't think it was fair for Ageas to charge Mrs K an 
additional premium  later on. 
It follows that I think it should refund the additional  premium Mrs K paid, which  I understand 
was £315.40.  It should  add simple  interest  to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date 
Mrs K paid it to the date it pays the refund. Also, as this complaint has been a source of 
distress and inconvenience for Mrs K it should pay her £100 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Retail Limited  to:
Refund Mrs K the £315.40 additional  premium  it charged her. It should  add simple interest to 
that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date Mrs K paid it to the date it makes the refund.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Ageas considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs K how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs K a certificate showing this 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN9505140