K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a payment 
protect insurance (PPI) policy alongside their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Nationwide  in September  1995 and at the same  time 
bought a PPI police to cover only Mr B. The policy was paid for by a monthly  premium.
Mr and Mrs B have  now complained that the PPI was mis-sold as they were made to feel 
they had to have the PPI but also because in 1998  Mr B became self-employed. Mr B says 
he spoke to Nationwide in 1998 about his change in employment  and was encouraged to 
retain the PPI which he did. He now feels  he would  not have been able to claim on the 
unemployment aspect  of the policy after this date.
Nationwide did not agree the PPI was mis-sold  in 1995. It also said the fact that Mr B later 
became self-employed did not affect  his right to be able to claim on the policy  as the 
conditions for unemployment  claims were  not restrictive for those who were  self-employed.
Nationwide has paid a small refund  of the PPI costs for a time when the cover  was higher 
than the borrowing.  And it has also paid back to Mr and Mrs B an amount for some  excess  
commission that was paid as part of the PPI premiums.
Mr and Mrs B were  not happy  with what Nationwide had said and done  and brought their 
complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator said they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs B didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsman to look at their complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
Mr and Mrs B took out the PPI at the same time they took out their mortgage. The policy  only 
covered Mr B for repayments  in the case of a successful  claim for accident, sickness, or 
unemployment.
I have taken into account the policy benefits, cost of cover,  and Mr and Mrs Bs broader 
financial circumstances at the time of the sale in 1995. Having done  so I am not persuaded 
that I can safely conclude  the policy was unsuitable  for them  even if there were any 
shortcomings in the way Nationwide sold the policy. So I do not think that Mr and Mrs B 
would likely  have acted  differently (that is, not taken out the policy) had they been  properly 
advised and informed.
As the cover was only for Mr B I have focussed more  at his circumstances at the time Mr B 
was working full time when the policy was sold to him and would have been eligible for the 
cover that the policy provided. I have not seen any evidence that Mr B would have been  
Ref: DRN92306432subject to any of the limitations or exclusions of the policy  such as pre-existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment  terms.
Mr B has indicated  he had been  working for his employer  for around eight months in 1995, 
so he would only have  received a redundancy settlement of some sort after a further period 
of service. Mr B has indicated he had a collection of instruments that would have been worth  
around £10,000 in 1995. However, there is no information that he had any other savings or 
other insurance policies  he could rely upon  to replace his income  if he were unable  to work 
due to sickness or unemployment.  
Given all these circumstances I consider that Mr and Mrs B would  have found  the policy 
benefit to be useful.
The policy cost was indicated in the documents at the time and Mr and Mrs B should  have  
been aware of the cost and benefit  that would  be paid from the information  presented  to 
them. I havent seen  any evidence that the cost was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs B. 
Its possible there were some shortcomings  in the information given to Mr and Mrs B at the 
time they bought the policy. But even  if they had been given full details, they were not 
affected by any of the restrictions,  so I dont think that full information would have caused 
them to act differently  and not take out the policy. 
So at the point of sale in 1995 I can see no reason to uphold the complain that the policy 
was mis-sold. 
I have then considered  Mr Bs arguments  that in 1998 he became self-employed.  He 
believes this would have  meant he would have  lost all rights to claim on the policy  for 
unemployment. 
However, the terms of the policy were such that the requirements relating to unemployment 
were no more restrictive on someone  who was self-employed.  Unemployment was not just 
about losing  an employed job, but about  not being  in work, whether that work was as an 
employed person  or a self-employed  person. Unemployment in the policy  was defined as 
being when the person was no longer in employment, was available for work and had signed 
a Jobseekers Agreement. So the fact Mr B was self-employed  did not prevent his claiming 
for unemployment if he was no longer working and was seeking  new employment.  
Mr B says he did talk to Nationwide when he became self-employed  and he says it told him 
all the benefits  of the policy still applied.  There was no reason why it should have said 
anything different because his change  in employment didnt affect his right to claim for 
unemployment under  the policy terms and conditions.
When considering  Mr Bs complaint Nationwide has identified a short  period when Mr B had 
PPI cover for more  than he needed  under the policy  as he had overpaid some of his 
mortgage amount.  So it has refunded the extra  he paid for excess cover.
Nationwide has also said it will pay back some  of the costs  of the PPI for any time that it 
received a commission and profit share of more than 50% of the PPI premium. As it hadnt  
told Mr and Mrs B about this high commission level it was unfair.  So Nationwide has paid 
back the amount  of commission and profit share  above 50% of the PPI premium. And I think  
that the offer paid for this is fair. 
Ref: DRN92306433my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold so Nationwide  
Building Society doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission  
and profit share it received  that was more  than 50% of the PPI premiums, which it has done. 
So Im not asking it to do anything  more.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 March  2020.
Christine Fraser
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9230643