K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about ten high-cost short term credit loans that Sunny provided to Mr B 
from June 2015  onwards.  Mr Bs last loan was provided in March  2016. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint and thought that he shouldnt have been provided  
with any of his loans. Sunny didnt accept our adjudicators assessment in full. So the 
complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the circumstances,  I think  that Sunny should reasonably  have seen that Mr B was 
unlikely to have  been able to sustainably repay  any of these loans.  
I say this because  the information Sunny itself gathered showed that Mr B was unlikely to 
have been able to sustainably make  the payments to loan one. For loans 2 to 5 it quickly  
became clear that Mr B was taking  out a loan at the time of repaying a previous  one. And 
this ought to have shown  Sunny that Mr B was borrowing to cover the hole repaying 
Ref: DRN97179622previous loans had left in his finances. Im not persuaded that the expenditure assessment 
can reasonably  be taken at face value given Mr B supposedly had an increased  disposable  
income yet still needed further loans. 
Sunny continued  lending  to Mr B even when  this pattern was repeated and in circumstances 
where it ought reasonably to have realised  that any further loans were more likely than not 
unsustainable for him. 
Mr B had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny  shouldnt  have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on his loans;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
all adverse information about loans  one to five should be removed from Mr Bs credit 
file;
the number  of loans provided means that any information recorded  about loans to six 
to ten on Mr Bs credit file is likely  to be adverse. So all reference to these  loans 
should be removed  from Mr Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Bs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Mr B compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9717962