K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained that Calpe Insurance Company Limited unfairly  cancelled  his car 
insurance policy and looked to recover third party claim  costs from him. 
background
Mr D bought a car insurance policy with Calpe. In March  2018 Calpe received a claim from a 
third partys  representative (TPR). They said that on 17 March 2018  Mr Ds car collided with 
the TPs car while being pursued by police  and failed to stop at the scene. 
On 23 March 2018 Calpe wrote to Mr D and asked him to provide an incident report form as 
well as other verification  documents within seven  days. It warned that if he failed to provide  
the documents, Calpe  would instruct the broker to issue a seven day cancellation notice.
Mr D provided  the verification documents in time but explained that he hadnt  completed the 
incident report form as he said the incident didnt happen. He said he was concerned  that his 
registration plates  may have been  cloned  or the incorrect registration details had been 
recorded by the third party. 
Calpe instructed an engineer and an investigator  to contact Mr D to arrange an inspection 
and to interview him. The engineer inspected  Mr Ds car on 1 May 2018  six weeks after the 
incident took place. He said there were no signs of impact  damage or repairs. He 
recommended Calpe obtain further  information from the police  to support the third partys 
account. 
The investigator made three attempts to meet Mr D for an interview during April 2018.  On 
1 May 2018  an investigator met with Mr D. But they told Calpe  Mr D only attended  for half an 
hour and then left. They  made a number of attempts to arrange to meet  him again,  but they 
said they werent successful. 
Calpe forwarded  the engineers report to the TPR to dispute liability on 11 May 2018.
However, the TPR said that as the inspection  took place six weeks after the incident, it 
believed this gave  more than enough  time for Mr D to have had his car repaired.  They  then 
provided photos of a car with the same number  plate,  make and model as Mr Ds car parked 
on a street  near the incident location  - showing  heavy impact damage  to the front nearside.  
They said these photos had been  taken  the day after the incident. 
Calpe decided to settle the third partys claim. On 4 July 2018 it wrote  to Mr D to tell him. It 
said the reason  was because the TPR had provided photos of his car damaged at the scene 
of the accident.  It therefore concluded  that it would have no case to defend in a court  of law 
 and said it would write  to Mr D to request  the excess sum of £3,000 from him upon 
settlement of the third party claim. 
On 8 October 2018 Calpe  wrote to Mr D and requested  he pay the full claim  costs  which  
came to £18,534.28 within  14 days.
Mr D complained. But in November 2018  Calpe  didnt uphold  his complaint. It said Mr D 
didnt give a statement  as he didnt allow enough time when he met with an investigator in 
April 2018. Hed agreed to meet again  at a later date - but this didnt happen despite the 
investigators attempts.  
Ref: DRN95599122On 20 June 2018 Mr D sent images of a parking ticket (dated 25 April) linked to his car 
which was addressed to another  person. On 26 June 2018 Mr D told Calpe  hed sold his car 
on 4 May 2018.  Calpe asked Mr D to report any concerns he had that his car plates had 
been cloned to the police.
On 4 July 2018 Calpe said it wrote  to Mr D to remind him of his excess and stated it had 
images of his damaged vehicle at the scene of the accident.
On 8 October Calpe  settled the claim for £18,534.28 under the Road Traffic Act.
It quoted from its terms and conditions the following:
If we are obliged to settle any claims had it been for the provisions of the Road 
Traffic Acts in the United  Kingdom or corresponding legislation elsewhere or by 
reason of our participation in the Motor Insurers Bureau arrangements we will require 
you or the person who made the claim repay all such monies to XS Direct.
Calpe said it didnt receive a police report to say that Mr Ds car was cloned.  And without this 
information or any evidence to support  his version of events, Calpe settled the third party 
claim on a Without  Prejudice basis. Calpe said it acted in accordance  with terms of the 
policy and dealt with the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. So it said Mr D correctly 
owed Calpe £18,534.28 as its excess request.
Mr D asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our investigator thought Calpe hadnt done  enough to properly investigate the claim. He 
could see that the engineer reported no evidence  of damage or repairs  to Mr Ds car. He 
thought the photo of a car with the parking ticket penalty notice Mr D provided in June 2018  
showed a different car to his. He thought this supported Mr Ds view that his car plates may 
have been cloned. 
Since the TPR had alleged  there  was a police chase involved, he expected  Calpe to have 
requested a police  report. And as photos had been provided allegedly showing Mr Ds car 
near the scene,  he thought it unusual that the police  didnt proceed to recover the car  or at 
least carry out enquiries as to the identity of the car in question. 
So the investigator didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show Calpe that Mr Ds car 
was involved in the alleged incident. He didnt agree that Mr D had failed to co-operate with 
Calpe during its investigation. So he didnt  think Calpe had fairly cancelled  his policy. 
The investigator recommended  Calpe do the following:
remove the claim that has been  recorded against Mr D
remove the record of cancellation if this has been recorded
refund  any cancellation  charge applied and any time on risk which  Mr D has lost
out on due to the cancellation
reinstate any no claims discount  which Mr D held
award £350 for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to Mr D.
Ref: DRN95599123Calpe didnt agree.  It said Mr D caused  delay  in arranging to inspect his car. When the TPR 
disputed the engineers findings in May 2018, Calpe wanted to inspect Mr Ds car again to 
carry out a paint sample test - but by then Mr D said hed sold his car and refused to tell it 
who to. 
It said the photos of Mr Ds car (taken  the following day) show  it wasnt causing an 
obstruction. So its not unusual that the police didnt proceed to recover the car. 
Calpe doesnt  agree that the parking  ticket  shows a different car to Mr Ds. And even if it did, 
this doesnt therefore mean that Mr Ds car wasnt involved in the incident.
So Calpe wants an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide  liability. This is the role of the courts.  But we can look at whether an insurer  
has properly investigated  a claim and reached  its decision reasonably.  
Calpes policy says it has the option  at their discretion to defend or represent  Mr D in the 
event of a claim. This is a very common term which Ive seen in most  if not all motor 
insurance policies.  We dont disagree  with this term in principle, provided the insurer can 
show it treated its customer fairly  when  applying it.
The third partys allegation was that Mr Ds car collided with theirs  while  being  pursued  by 
police. I think it was reasonable for Calpe  when Mr D denied his involvement  to request  
further evidence  from the TPR to support  their claim.
On 11 May 2018 Calpe wrote to the TPR and said Mr D denied involvement. It asked the 
TPR to provide further evidence by way of a police report, witness  statements or CCTV. It 
wrote: 
If this vehicle had been chased by the Police,  there would be records  and charges 
made by the Police, I would suggest  enquires made in this direction.
I think Mr D caused delay  in arranging to be interviewed and have his car inspected.  
However, I dont think the delay has prejudiced  the case  because  the engineer  reported 
that there  was no evidence of damage  or repairs. I cant criticise  Mr D for deciding  to sell his 
car after the inspection took place. He wasnt to know that Calpe would ask for a second 
more detailed inspection.  
I dont think the photos  provided  by the TPR which they said were  taken the following  day  
are enough  to show causation and for Calpe to decide to settle the third partys claim.  Given  
the circumstances of the incident as described,  from my experience if a car is involved in a 
police pursuit  even  if the police werent involved  in a collision, the police will write  up a 
collision report. And if the TPR reported sight of Mr Ds car to the police  as I would  have 
expected  the following  day when  it was discovered  the police would have recovered the 
car, would have been able to quickly identify whether it had cloned plates, and investigate 
the identify of the driver and whether the car had been stolen. In any event, a report  would 
be available to the TPR. 
Ref: DRN95599124But I cant see that Calpe made any enquiries  beyond the photos provided by the TPR. And 
given its own engineers report along with Mr Ds version of events, I dont think  Calpe 
properly investigated  the claim. I therefore cant conclude that its decision to settle the third 
party claim  based on what it had - was reached  in a reasonable way. 
I dont think Calpe acted  reasonably in cancelling Mr Ds policy. I can see that he provided 
the verification  documents promptly to Calpe. He explained why he didnt complete the 
accident report form as he said he wasnt involved  in the accident.  When  he did complete it 
for Calpe in May 2018, he answered  N/A  to all of the questions  about the accident. 
Im more persuaded  by the delay  I think Mr D caused in arranging to have his car inspected. 
Its possible that due to the time that passed his car was repaired. But as the engineers  
report supports his account, I dont think overall  that its fair for Calpe to rely on any delay 
here to justify its decision to cancel  Mr Ds policy. 
Its possible that Mr Ds car was involved in the incident. That isnt for us to determine. As I 
said, we dont decide liability. But I think Calpe has failed to properly investigate  the claim.  It 
knew from the outset  the alleged  circumstances  of the incident  and so it was in a position to 
seek further evidence  from the TPR in order to support their allegation  the allegation being 
that Mr Ds car was involved in a criminal  act. I dont think  Calpe received sufficient  evidence  
from the TPR to reach the decision it did reasonably. 
So I agree with the investigators recommendations to put things right and I uphold  this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe Insurance  Company Limited 
to do the following:
remove the claim that has been  recorded against Mr D
remove the record of cancellation if this has been recorded
refund  any cancellation  charge applied and any time on risk which  Mr D has lost
out on due to the cancellation
reinstate any no claims discount  which Mr D held
pay Mr D £350 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused
provide a letter to Mr D confirming its removed the recording of the cancellation  of 
the policy and the claim.
Calpe Insurance  Company Limited must  pay the compensation  within  28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr D accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must  also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Calpe considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN95599125Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9559912