K820x#14complaint
Miss L is unhappy with the level of customer service provided by Bank of Scotland  Plc 
(trading as Halifax) when her father wanted to pay money into an account  she holds on 
behalf of her daughter. Miss L wants more compensation  than Halifax has paid so far. 
background
Miss L holds  a bank  account with Halifax on behalf  of her daughter. Her father, who Ill refer 
to as F, went to a Halifax branch to pay some money into this account. It seems  this was 
made up of £40 in coins. The money  was deposited into the account and a receipt  was 
issued. 
F then asked  about paying a cheque into the account. Miss L told us he asked who to make 
the cheque payable to, and was given her full name by the Halifax  adviser. It seems that F 
went away and returned with a cheque from his own bank. But when he tried to deposit the 
cheque into Miss Ls account,  the same adviser told F there was a deposit limit of £100  a 
month. The cheque  he had was for more than this.
Miss L told us that F then asked if he could deposit a cheque  for £100 that same day, as it 
was the last day of the month, and then £100 the next day  the first day of the following 
month. The adviser told him he could. Miss L also told us that during this conversation,  the 
bank adviser turned  his compute screen round to face F, who could then see all her account 
details. She says this is a breach of her personal  data.  
F went  away  again. When he returned  this time, he had two cheques from his bank, each for 
£100. He again saw the same adviser. But again he couldnt deposit a cheque  into Miss Ls 
account. This was because the type of account  Miss L held for her daughter  only accepted 
deposits by standing order. 
When F questioned how the same adviser had already accepted  a cash  deposit  earlier  that 
day, another branch  adviser returned the £40 of coins  to him. Miss L says the adviser  threw  
the coins across a desk at F. Halifax denies  this. It says the coins were  handed to him. 
The adviser also amended Fs receipt to show the deposit had been reversed. Miss L told us 
that during this exchange, the second adviser  swung  the computer screen around so once 
again F could see all her account details. Miss L says this is a further breach of her data, 
and also that the reversal  of the £40 deposit  was an unauthorised withdrawal by someone 
not connected to her account. 
Later that same day, when F told Miss L what had happened, she called Halifax to complain. 
The next day, Miss L and F went back to the branch. They wanted to close Miss Ls account. 
But it seems  the branch  staff wrongly assumed  they were there about the complaint that had 
been made. Miss L says the attitude  of the branch staff was exceptionally aggressive until 
this misapprehension  was cleared up. Miss L went ahead and closed her account. 
Halifax upheld Miss Ls complaint.  In brief, it accepted that F shouldnt  have been shown any 
details about Miss Ls account. Nor should the deposit have been reversed. Halifax 
apologised for the way the whole experience made Miss L and F feel. The banks also said 
feedback would be provided  to the branch advisers involved. Halifax  also sent Miss L a 
cheque for £364.  This was to cover  the cost of Miss Ls telephone calls, her travel,  and to 
compensate her for the inconvenience she experienced. 
Ref: DRN90154142Miss L wasnt  happy with this, so she brought her complaint  to us. She said she wanted 
increased financial compensation  and that a data breach is £75,000 alone. One of our 
adjudicators looked into these issues. In short, she though Halifax had dealt with the 
complaint fairly and didnt need  to do anything else. 
Miss L didnt  accept the adjudicators view.  So, her complaint has been passed  to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
But first, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly  and in my own words.  No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think is the key issue  here:  
did Halifax act fairly  and reasonably in dealing with Miss Ls complaint?  
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  point or argument  to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Its also important to make clear that its Miss L who is the eligible complainant  here, not F. 
While she holds this account on behalf of her daughter, she is the account  holder and 
Halifaxs customer. F isnt the complainant.  This means I can only deal with how Halifaxs  
actions affected  Miss L and the upset she was caused. I cant look at any distress F may 
have suffered, although I have taken into consideration how this, quite understandably, 
would have affected Miss L. 
Similarly, Im aware that F has a medical  condition. Ive not gone into the details of this to 
protect his privacy. Miss L says that Halifax didnt take account of his needs. But as Ive just 
said, F isnt the complainant here  Miss L is. So I cant look at how Halifax  treated F and I 
wont comment on this issue further.
Ill now turn to the issues with Miss Ls account.  I can see there  are discrepancies  between  
what shes told us and Halifaxs  version of events. Miss L has asked why we contacted  
Halifax to get its side of the story,  but havent  contacted F. I would point out that its for our 
service to decide what information we need  when looking  into a complaint. But I would add 
that Miss L had already provided us with a very full account of these events. I see no reason 
to doubt what  shes told us. 
Its clear that Halifax didnt get things right here. It said sorry to Miss L for the way this made 
her and F feel. The bank  also agreed that the deposit F made shouldnt  have  been  reversed. 
It also agreed that F shouldnt have been shown  any of Miss Ls details. As Halifax  has 
accepted all this, what I need to decide  is what it should do to put things right.  
Ill start with the data breach.  As above,  theres  no dispute that F saw some of Miss Ls data. 
So, Ive considered the impact this had on her. The available evidence doesnt  show that 
Miss L suffered a financial  loss because of this breach. I know she disputes  this, and Ill deal 
with that further  below.  
Ref: DRN90154143I do accept that Miss L would have been  distressed by this breach. But Ive borne in mind 
what data F actually saw. Miss L told us this was her and her daughters  full names,  their 
address, and details  of the account, including the account balance. Given that F is Miss Ls 
father, and that she gave him the account details and the £40 to pay into it, Im satisfied that 
he would  have known  their full names,  their address and already had the account details. I 
accept he wouldnt have  known the account balance.  While I accept this breach would have 
caused distress to Miss L, Im satisfied the amount already paid to her by Halifax sufficiently 
covers this. 
Ive noted that Miss L says that a data breach is £75,000 alone. Indeed,  Ive seen 
businesses fined this amount,  and more, for data breaches. But those are fines  imposed by 
the relevant regulator, the Information Commissioners  Office, for significant data breaches. 
Theyre not compensation payments  to individual consumers. 
I would also point out here that We are not a regulator. We have no power  to fine or take any 
disciplinary action against Halifax. Nor can we tell it to change  its systems and processes. 
Our service is here to resolve  individual  complaints.  Taking into account the individual details 
of this breach,  as above, Im satisfied the total amount already paid to Miss L is sufficient to 
cover any distress she suffered because of it. 
Miss L says she did suffer  a financial loss. As she hasnt provided  any other details of this, it 
seems to relate to the £40 that was removed from her account when the deposit was 
reversed. I dont accept  this happened  as a result of F seeing her account details. 
Instead, Im satisfied this happened because Halifax realised  that it shouldnt  have  allowed 
the deposit in the first place. I dont  need to decide  whether this was an unauthorised 
withdrawal. Thats because the bank accepts it shouldnt have reversed this deposit or 
returned the £40 to F. So, Ive thought about what should have happened,  and if Halifax 
needs to do anything more to put things right. 
If the first mistake  hadnt happened, Halifax wouldnt have accepted the £40 deposit.  This 
means F would still have  had the money,  and presumably returned the money  to Miss L. The 
account balance  would  have been  exactly the same as it was after the deposit  was reversed. 
While Halifax  shouldnt have reversed the payment, it seems to me that the account balance  
was what it would have  been if the first mistake hadnt happened.  In any event, if F didnt 
then give the £40 back to Miss L  and she therefore did suffer  the loss of £40  Im satisfied 
that the total amount  already paid by Halifax more than covers  this. 
Halifax accepts this was a mistake by its adviser. The bank has told us that this person was 
new to the role. While  this doesnt  excuse the poor service or the incorrect information given  
to F, it does provide  some  context. I can see from Halifaxs records   that the adviser was to 
receive further coaching  and guidance  in light of these issues.  
Ive also taken into account how Halifax dealt with Miss Ls complaint. As above,  the bank 
has said sorry, it accepted  that mistakes  were made, it committed  to providing feedback,  
coaching and guidance to the adviser, and it sent Miss L a cheque for £364. This all took 
place within  12 days of the issue arising. 
Taking all this into account, and the nature of the data breach, if Halifax hadnt  already paid 
anything to Miss L, I would have  been minded to make an award in the region of £200 to 
£250. Given that Halifax has already paid Miss L in excess of this, Im satisfied its dealt with 
Ref: DRN90154144her complaint fairly  and reasonably. Theres no basis  for me to direct  Halifax  to do, or pay, 
more than its already  done. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
This decision marks the end of our consideration of this complaint. This means  well be 
unable to enter into any further discussion  about  its merits.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9015414