K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Skrill Limited wont refund £3,200 to his account. He received this 
amount into the account, transferred from someone he knew, but all the funds  were  then 
transferred to a gambling company on the same  day. Mr I says he never made  those 
transfers out and Skrill  should  credit his account  with their full value.  
background
Mr Is account was credited with £3200 on 10 July 2018 and by the end of that day, eight 
transfers out had cleared the account.  There were four payments of £450  and four payments 
of £350. All eight  payments were  online transfers made to a gambling  company.  
Mr I opened his Skrill account on 7 July 2018  and he called Skrill to check his balance  soon  
after. He says he then discovered thered been  the unauthorised transactions. The funds he 
received, he said were from a friend and were  intended  to be used forex trading. 
Mr I said that someone else made  the transfers out while he was on holiday.  He said he 
doesnt have an account with the gambling  company and when he contacted  that company, 
it said the account details werent in his name and it had been  frozen
Mr I admitted to having his Skrill account access details recorded  on his laptop, which  he 
said wasnt with him on holiday,  but he also said he was the only person who had access  to 
the laptop. Mr I said his laptop was password protected  in any event  and he hadnt given his 
Skrill account details  to anyone else. 
So, for a third party to have been  able to access  Mr Is Skrill account, and make the disputed 
transactions, theyd  have  needed knowledge of his email address, account password and 
additional authentication. But Mr I could offer no possible explanation  for how someone  
could have accessed these details or his password protected laptop and therefore his 
account at all. These were also the first transactions completed on the account so there  
wasnt any apparent  point of compromise  for the security details. 
The investigator also noted that Mr I hadnt been  entirely consistent in what  hed said when 
addressing what  had happened. Mr I had initially said he knew  of the disputed  transactions  
when he contacted Skrill and it advised him of the activity on the account. But in a later email 
Mr I said he was unable to login  to his account  so he called  Skrill and they confirmed all of 
his funds were deposited  to the gambling  company.  
However, there is also a call recording of Mr I phoning Skrill where he asks for the account 
balance. But to get through security, hes asked what the last transaction  on the account is 
and he correctly answers that it was to the gambling company and he knows  the value. He 
then asks the advisor to check whether he received  £3200  and then he asks which email 
address it was received from. 
He then goes  on to say that while he was on holiday someone spent his funds  on 
transactions made to [the gambling company] and thats the reason hes calling.  He then 
asks how he can retrieve the money from the gambling company. Mr I said he discovered 
the disputed transactions on 16 July 2018  and he was unable to login to his Skrill account.
The investigator considered it evident  that Mr I was already  aware of the disputed  
transactions before he called which is inconsistent with other testimony from him. There was 
Ref: DRN99190272a question raised for the investigator  of how Mr I became aware of the transactions  to 
complete Skrills security  questions if he then went on to say his account was hacked to 
carry out the transactions and he only discovered them in his call to Skrill.
Given the pattern  of the transactions, whoever made the disputed  payments would also have 
seemingly known exactly how much  was going into the account and when. Mr I has said
no one else was aware of the payment going  into the account. So the investigator thought 
the likelihood of a third party being aware of the deposit being made  also,  the exact  
amount of the deposit was spent   along  with the need for the third party to have gained 
access to Mr Is Skrill account credentials without him realising, was low.
That is all against a background,  confirmed  by Skrill, where  there were no failed login 
attempts before the disputed transactions and that the device used to complete the disputed 
transactions was one which  was never  used  before   and in order  to register a new device, 
Skrill required their customer to enter a PIN for that also. 
Given everything, the investigator was persuaded Mr I authorised  the transactions  and he 
didnt recommend that Skrill  needed  to refund the value  of the disputed transactions to Mr Is 
account.
Mr I has asked for his complaint to be reviewed but hes given no rationale as to why he 
disagrees with the view of the investigator. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, in summary, I agree with the findings  and conclusions of the investigator and I have 
very little to add to what she said previously although I have, of course,  looked  carefully  
through all the evidence  that both Mr I and Skrill have provided. 
The investigator has set out in a fair bit of detail, and Ive repeated that detail  in background, 
the reasons why she believed it was more likely than not that Mr I made the disputed  
transactions himself  rather  than he was a victim of fraud and the transactions were  made  by 
a seemingly unknown  third party. And in that situation, Mr I could clearly not expect Skrill to 
refund to him the value  of the disputed transactions  made to the gambling company.
Put simply, in light of any kind of explanation as to how the security credentials of the Skrill 
account were compromised  by an unknown third party, or Mr I being  able to explain at all 
how someone close to him may have accessed his laptop and then his account, I cant  fairly 
and reasonably conclude that the transactions were  made by anyone  other  than Mr I either.     
I say that also taking account of the evidence in this matter relating to how the disputed 
transactions were  identified and referred to in various calls and emails;  and also given the 
nature and pattern of both the credit and disputed debits  and whats  been said there.
In conclusion, Im afraid that I dont consider theres  any basis  for me to say it would be fair 
and reasonable to require  Skrill to reimburse Mr I with the monies he says hes lost.     
Ref: DRN99190273my final decision
My final decision that I dont uphold this complaint and Skrill isnt required to take any action 
to resolve its dispute with Mr I. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Ray Neighbour
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9919027