K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Barclays Bank  Plc mis-sold him a credit card payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr S took out the PPI in April 2004 at the same time as applying  for the credit  card online.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagrees with the adjudicators view and 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  . Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr S thought  he had taken out the card and PPI by post. Hes said that he thought  it was 
mandatory, which is why he never  questioned it when he saw the PPI on his credit  card 
statements. But hes also said that he never knew that he had the PPI. These two 
statements are clearly  at odds with each  other.
Although Mr S thought hed made a postal application, in response to the adjudicators 
assessment which  explains that it was done over the internet, Mr S has said that the PPI 
wasnt mentioned  as part of the online application process. But it seems  clear that Mr S 
doesnt have any recollection of the process  at all, which isnt surprising given how long ago 
the sale took place.
From what  we know of Barclays online process, someone had to choose  Yes or No to PPI. 
If someone clicked Yes then the credit agreement that was sent out afterwards included 
wording to reflect that, which is what happened in Mr Ss case. Mr S could  have clicked  No 
if he didnt want the policy, in which case the credit  agreement wouldnt have mentioned PPI. 
Overall I think  that Barclays made  it clear  that the PPI was optional.  It seems to me that Mr S 
decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even  if he no longer remembers doing so.
Barclays didnt advise  Mr S to buy the policy, so it didnt  need  to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide Mr S with enough information for him to make an informed 
choice about whether  or not the policy was right for him.
Mr S wouldnt have  received any sick pay from his employer. And he didnt have any savings 
to fall back on. So it seems that Mr S had a need for the policy  and could have benefitted 
from it at what  would have  been a difficult time.
Its possible that Barclays didnt provide  as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr S wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that Mr S had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  him to change his mind.
Ref: DRN95085952This means  that Barclays  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:  
When the policy was sold,  Barclays expected  to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr S about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9508595