K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that NewDay Ltd didnt close his credit card account when he asked it to.
background
Mr S asked NewDay to close his credit card account  in late 2018.  In early 2019  he received 
a letter  from NewDay referring to his old card and saying  his credit limit was being  reduced 
due to inactivity.
Mr S said he found this letter very upsetting.  He thought his account had been  closed for 
some time, and getting a letter about an open  account made him fear hed been a victim of 
fraud. He wasnt able to speak to NewDay about it for a few days afterwards and says he 
was worried in the meantime.
When Mr S spoke  to NewDay it realised while his account was closed (no transactions 
would have been able to be made) it hadnt  been removed from its systems due to a hold 
placed on the account following a previous  complaint.  It apologised to Mr S for the error,  
closed his account and informed the credit referencing agencies that closure should be 
backdated to 2018, when  Mr S had first asked  for it. It also offered Mr S £20 to say sorry.
Our investigator looked into things and thought the way NewDay had handled Mr Ss 
concerns was fair. She acknowledged a mistake had been  made in not closing the account. 
But she thought  the prompt closure  once it had been  highlighted, the apology and the offer 
of £20 was a fair way to resolve  things.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. He said NewDays offer 
didnt take into account the worry hed experienced and the inconvenience of having  to sort 
things out. He thought it should pay him substantially more compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that NewDay made  a mistake here. It should have closed Mr Ss credit 
card account  when he asked it to in 2018. And I dont underestimate Mr Ss strength of 
feeling about his complaint, or the worry he says he suffered  when he found out his account 
was still open  and thought  he might have been a victim of fraud.
But, while I know it will be a disappointment  to Mr S, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to tell NewDay  to do anything more to put things right.  The starting point when  
somethings gone wrong should be for the business to put its customer  as close  as possible 
into the position theyd have been  in but for the error. Sometimes  that will involve a payment 
of financial compensation, but that isnt always  the fair or reasonable remedy.
In this case, NewDays error meant  Mr Ss account was showing as open when it shouldnt 
have. So to rectify that, Id have expected it to correct its records  and update  the information 
held by the credit referencing  agencies. And for it to do all that swiftly, and to apologise to Mr 
S for what had happened.
Ref: DRN90053632Im pleased to see NewDay did all those  things  with all records updated within a few days 
of Mr Ss call. It wrote to him to explain what happened, apologised and offered him £20 to 
say sorry. 
Taking all the circumstances into account  I think  that was a fair and reasonable way for 
NewDay to have resolved things following its error, so I wont be recommending it do 
anything further.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9005363