K821x#15complaint
Ms P complains  that Santander  UK Plc has repeatedly blocked her account  because she 
has a deep voice.  She complains that this has had a significant impact  on her, and that 
some of the solutions  Santander UK Plc has suggested have been offensive.
background
Ms P has a current account  with Santander into which, amongst other things,  DWP 
payments are made.  Ms P is female and also has a deep voice. Ms P holds a gender 
recognition certificate.
In April 2018 Ms P says she started  having  problems  with Santander. She says that she 
called them about a transaction which Santander needed to check was genuine and, despite 
passing security successfully, was told that shed have to go to a branch  with ID in order to 
get her account  unlocked.  Ms P says that this was because the member of staff to whom 
she spoke thought she sounded  like a male  on account of her deep voice. Ms P says shes 
had multiple transactions blocked  since then,  and had problems with her card working, and 
has been told on another two occasions at least  to go to a branch with ID. Ms P complained  
about the way Santander  was treating her, saying she now feared using her account  in case 
she got blocked again. Ms P said that Santander was in breach of the Equality Act and the 
Gender Recognition Act. Ms P also complained about staff at Santander referring to her as 
Mr and a member  of staff changing  her title  without her agreement  to Mx.
Santander investigated Ms Ps complaint and said that its staff hadnt done  anything wrong 
as they were following the normal  process  for completing security. Santander said that it was 
important its staff made sure that they were speaking to a genuine customer.
Ms P complained to us, and also asked why Santander couldnt let her use its voice  
recognition system which, at the time, it was piloting. Whilst we were investigating Ms Ps 
complaint, she said that she had further problems with Santander.
One of our investigators  looked into Ms Ps complaint and said that whilst Santanders staff 
were following the normal process for completing security,  Santander should have done  
more to come up with a solution as Ms P was clearly  being caused significant distress. Our 
investigator recommended that Santander  pay Ms P £200 in compensation and put 
arrangements in place  with Ms Ps consent  to help avoid her account being blocked  
again on account of her voice. Ms P was unhappy  with our investigators recommendations, 
saying that they hadnt  understood the law properly and that the compensation suggested  
was inadequate. Ms P was, however, happy  to be enrolled onto Santanders  voice 
recognition system. I was, therefore,  asked to look into this complaint and issue  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander, like other  businesses, has to have robust  procedures  in place to make sure that 
theyre talking to their customer. Thats become even  more important in recent years given 
the rise of scams. Those procedures protect  both the customer and the business. Those 
procedures include staff looking out for any signs that might suggest that theyre not talking 
to the genuine customer. There are lots of potential signs  a caller struggling to answer 
Ref: DRN99226052security questions, a person prompting  the caller in the background and a callers voice not 
matching their profile.  The last of these can come  in a number of forms  for example, a 
callers voice sounding  much younger or older than their profile would otherwise suggest or a 
callers voice sounding  higher or lower than their profile would otherwise suggest. 
Sometimes, for a range of reasons,  that means a genuine customer  can fail security. Ive 
spoken to Ms P on a number of occasions and Ive listened to calls shes had with 
Santander. Her voice is quite deep.  So I can understand why Santanders staff have 
sometimes questioned  whether theyre  talking to Ms P when shes called  or someone else. 
The difficulty  I have here, however,  is that once this had happened and Santander had 
satisfied itself that it had blocked Ms Ps account  because her voice sounds deep, and 
particularly when this had happened  more than once,  I would have expected Santander to 
have recognised that something was going wrong. In other words, I would have expected 
Santander to have started to think about a solution   not least  because  the issue  is 
particularly sensitive for Ms P as shes transgender.
I dont think Santander  recognised there was a problem early enough, and more importantly 
I dont think its responses  were always appropriate  or sensitive. A branch member, for 
example, no doubt  trying  to help, changed Ms Ps title on her profile to Mx from Ms 
without even asking  Ms P. Ms P is a woman,  and proud to be so. She had made it very clear  
to Santander that she wants and expects  to be treated like any other woman, as is her right. 
So Santander should, at the very least,  have asked Ms P if changing her title would help  
given that titles are first and foremost very much about preference  but more importantly 
questioned whether suggesting whats normally a gender neutral title to a customer who has 
made it clear  that they want to be treated as a woman, was appropriate in the first place. The 
suggestion caused Ms P considerable offence,  predictably so.
Im satisfied that having her account  blocked  on several occasions has had a significant 
impact on Ms P. Shes told us that she now fears every interaction with Santander.  Shes 
also told us that the blockages  have  meant  shes not had money to buy food or other  
essentials, and at times has had to borrow from others. The problem has also been ongoing 
for a very long time. To make matters  worse, Ms P has had problems following her 
enrolment to voice recognition  despite  passing  this shes  still being told to go to branch 
with her ID. Ms P has got to the point that shes seriously considering  moving her account, 
despite the difficulties that this could cause. Following the most  recent  problems, Ms P told 
us that she considers £1,000 to be an appropriate  level of compensation. Santander, on 
reflection, has agreed to offer Ms P £1,000  in full and final settlement.  I think thats fair. But I 
also think that its important both parties do what  they can to minimise future problems.
Our investigator suggested that Santander  add a note to Ms Ps profile saying that her voice  
doesnt match her profile.  I think thats a sensible suggestion as people  transgender or 
otherwise  do sometimes have voices that dont match their gender,  age or region amongst 
other things.  Ms P wasnt willing to consider that at the time. Ive spoken  to her, however, 
about this case  on a number of occasions  and having reflected shes now willing  to do so. I 
dont think this will guarantee she has no further problems  particularly if she has to make  
calls to, for example, Santanders fraud department  where security is especially strict. But I 
do think it will help,  particularly now shes also enrolled on voice recognition. Santander has 
suggested, to that end, that an alert also be put on her account to say once shes  passed  
voice recognition  no further questions need be asked when shes dealing with departments  
where security doesnt need to be as strict  as it is with fraud. Santander has also suggested 
that Ms P has a single point of contact in its executive team should she have  further 
problems. I think all of these are sensible suggestions.
Ref: DRN99226053Taking everything into account  that Ive just mentioned, Im satisfied  that the £1,000 
compensation Santander has offered and the other steps it has agreed to take are a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. So thats the award Im going  to make.
my final decision
My final decision is that I require Santander UK Plc to pay Ms P £1,000 in compensation and 
to add a note to Ms Ps account  agreed  with her  to help minimise future problems.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9922605