K820x#14complaint
Mrs A and Mrs F complain that Landmark Mortgages Limited (the trading name  now for 
NRAM plc) has set too high an interest rate on their mortgage. 
background
Mrs A and Mrs F complained when Landmark increased the standard variable rate on their 
mortgage from 4.78 to 5.03 per cent per annum. It has no other mortgage interest rate 
products to offer them. And the high loan to value (LTV) ratio on their mortgage means that 
theyve not been able to move the mortgage  to another financial business.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
-Landmark had taken over their mortgage from Northern Rock which had stopped  
trading.
-The interest rate was being applied in line with the mortgage offer. The recent 
increase they complained about  had followed an increase in Bank  of England  Base 
Rate.
-She could see that Mrs A and Mrs F had already had discussions both with 
Landmark and mortgage brokers about moving the mortgage. Different financial 
businesses would  apply their own lending criteria.
Mrs A and Mrs F said that they wanted  their complaint to be reviewed. Theyd  heard  that the 
regulator was consulting on proposals to help borrowers in their position.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the frustration of Mrs A and Mrs F. Their payments on the mortgage are 
increasing and they feel they cannot  do anything about it. They  think that the interest rate 
they are paying  is unfair.
But Im afraid that I dont  have a basis to require  Landmark to change  the interest rate. Its 
entitled to use its commercial discretion to decide on the interest rate. And also here its 
decided not to offer any new business  or alternative interest  rates. Landmark has not made  
any commitment  that the standard variable  rate, which now applies to their mortgage, will 
move in line with Base Rate. But the adjudicators said that the last increase followed an 
increase in Base Rate. And so that does appear to be what was behind that change.
I appreciate that the LTV on their mortgage  is high. And Mrs A and Mrs F have said that this 
will stop them moving to a different financial business and reducing their payments. I dont 
think thats something Landmark is responsible  for or can give them  advice about. At this 
time there havent  been any regulatory changes that would help them access  any other  
options.
I know Mrs A and Mrs F are not going to be satisfied  with my conclusion here which is that I 
dont think Landmark  needs to do anything  further.  
Ref: DRN99516842my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A and Mrs F 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9951684