K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about how Santander UK Plc handled his section 75 claim for holiday 
accommodation that he purchased on his credit cards.
background
Mr B used his Santander credit cards to purchase a weeks holiday accommodation during 
August 2018.  He was unhappy with the accommodation upon his stay so he complained  
about this to the online company he booked it through, as well to the owner of the property 
directly. But when he couldnt resolve  the matter with them,  he contacted  Santander about 
the matter.
A section  75 claim was subsequently raised, with Mr B setting out the particulars of his claim 
to Santander in writing  on 24 September 2018.
Santander contacted Mr B on 13 November 2018  to let him know that section  75 didnt 
provide cover for him for in this instance. They explained that, as he paid a third party  who 
wasnt linked  to the supplier (owner)  of the property,  there was a break in the debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement. They sent confirmation  of this to Mr B in writing on 
15 November 2019.
Mr B complained about the service he received in respect of his section 75 claim. He thought 
Santander shouldve  told him sooner that his purchase wasnt covered under section 75. 
And he was also unhappy  with how the Santander  adviser spoke to him during  the 
13 November 2018 call.
Santander wrote to Mr B on 16 and 21 November 2019. They  explained that they werent  
able to consider  a claim until it had been  reviewed  by their section 75 team. And that after 
doing so, theyd concluded  the purchase  wasnt covered. They  did however apologise for 
any upset caused  by the adviser in the call as this wasnt her intention. They confirmed  
feedback would be provided  to her and, in light of any inconvenience this matter  had caused, 
they credited his account with £50.
The complaint was brought to our service. Our investigator looked in to it but he didnt think  
Santander had to do anything further.  He said there  wasnt a time limit for Santander to 
consider the section 75 claim and he thought it was reasonable  for them  to source  the 
information needed to make an informed  decision.  And so he didnt think the amount of time 
Santander took was excessive or unreasonable in the circumstances.  He also though the 
£50 compensation  Santander paid was fair for any inconvenience that had been caused.
Mr B disagreed and so the matter has been  passed to me to review.
Before I go on to explain my findings  on this complaint,  Id like to clarify that Ive only looked 
at the service Mr B received in respect  of his section 75 claim. I understand Mr B hasnt 
disputed the outcome Santander reached on his claim and so I wont be considering this as 
part of my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN96408372I appreciate Mr Bs dissatisfaction with whats happened and the frustration of being told his 
purchase wasnt covered  under section 75 given  the time he spent raising  the claim. I realise 
that he couldve spent  this time differently,  such as taking  the matter  to the smalls claim 
court which I understand he is now doing.  But what Ive looked at is whether Santander 
acted unreasonably when handling  the claim and, although I know this wont  be the outcome 
Mr B was hoping for, I dont think they did. Ill explain  why.
The Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA) doesnt  provide  a time limit in which a creditor  has to 
consider a section  75 claim. In this case,  it took Santander about two months  to consider 
Mr Bs claim and tell him that his purchase  wasnt covered. I know Mr B thinks  he shouldve  
been told much sooner  but I think it was reasonable for Santander to obtain and review  the 
relevant information  before making their decision.  
As Santander has explained,  for a purchase to be covered under section 75 of the CCA 
there has to be debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (chain). And when there  is an additional 
party involved, such as online agent thats paid for the goods/services rather  than the 
supplier, then this can result in the chain  being  broken. I understand  why Mr B feels 
Santander couldve told him this sooner  even  at the point of his initial  enquiry  - as he 
purchased his holiday accommodation through an online third party company. But I think it 
would be helpful  to explain that there are some  circumstances in which the chain isnt broken 
when an additional  party is involved. And this is because  the companies can sometimes  be 
considered linked  - due to for example, and among others, the companies having  the same  
ownership.
The CCA and what is covered  therefore  isnt always straightforward. So I think it was 
appropriate for Santander to look in to Mr Bs purchase fully before determining whether it 
was covered as a result of the chain being broken. Because  of this I dont think  they acted 
unreasonably when considering the claim.
I understand Mr B is also unhappy with how the Santander adviser spoke to him on 
13 November 2018. Ive listened  to this call and although there were moments of tension 
between the adviser  and Mr B, I dont think she was overly rude or deliberately tried to speak 
over him. The adviser also apologised  to Mr B for how the call had gone and if he felt she 
was being rude, as she wasnt trying to be. So I think the £50 Santander has paid, along with 
the apology from the adviser,  is sufficient in the circumstances and I wont be asking them to 
do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9640837