K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the settlement offered by Lloyds Bank  General  Insurance Limited after 
he made a claim under  his home insurance policy for water damage. Hes also complained 
about the service  he received.
background
In early September 2018 Mr M made a claim to Lloyds for water  damage caused by a leak 
under his bath.  The bath and bath panel were  taken out to repair the leak.
Lloyds sent a contractor to inspect the damage about a week later. The contractor said Mr M 
was renovating the property. The hallway underneath the bathroom had recently been 
replastered and decorated. Its surveyor said he couldnt tell whether that had been done as 
part of the renovation works or because of water  damage.
Lloyds offered Mr M a cash  settlement for the repairs  of £346.31 less the excess  payable 
under the policy.  It said that was based on the cost to it of repairing the insured damage. It 
offered alternatively  that its contractor could carry out the works but it would only repair  what  
it thought had been damaged by the water leak. Mr M sent Lloyds a quote to replace his 
bathroom.
Mr M complained to Lloyds. It didnt  change its offer of settlement  but in January 2019 it 
offered him £100 compensation for delays and poor service  on its part.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He thought 
Lloyds had acted  reasonably in relying  on its contractors assessment as to the amount of 
damage caused by the leak. He also thought the compensation  offered by Lloyds was fair.
As Mr M didnt agree, the matter has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy covers  the cost of repairing damage to his home  caused  by a water  leak. The 
dispute in this case is about the extent of that damage. Mr M sent Lloyds a quote  of just over 
£5,000 for a new bathroom, including items such as a new fan, mixer shower, radiator and 
mirror. I need to decide whether Lloyds treated him unfairly in just allowing for the cost of a 
new bath, bath panel and one row of tiling around  the bath.
When Mr M first notified Lloyds of the claim, he reported damage to the following areas:
Floor boards;
Walls where  tiles had to be removed;
Bathroom carpet; and
The hall ceiling.
Ill look at each of these in turn.
floor boards
Ref: DRN95851682Lloyds surveyor said that when he tested the moisture levels in the floor boards and tiled 
walls, the readings  were sufficiently low to suggest that these areas  were  dry. These 
readings were taken on 10 September, not long after the leak had been  repaired.  Theres  no 
obvious damage to the floor boards in the photos.  I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
that the floor boards need  to be repaired or replaced.
walls
Although the emergency plumber removed a row of tiles around the bath, other  tiles were 
removed by Mr M. He said there  was a tiled timber wall around the bath which  had become 
rotten, so hed had it taken down. The power and water supply for an electric shower were 
positioned in that wall. 
But the leak was under the bath where  the floor boards appear to have dried in a relatively  
short time. Lloyds  contractor noticed black mould on the wall where the bath sealant would 
have been and thought  the sealant  might have failed, causing water to get into the timber 
walls. Ive seen the black mould in photos and think thats a more likely explanation for the 
damage to the walls.
carpet
Mr M said this was badly water-marked. Ive seen a photo of the bathroom  carpet  which 
shows a distinctive black mark  as though  something  had been  spilt on it. Its contractor  said 
there was a similar mark on the carpet in the landing  and stairwell. Apart from that mark the 
carpet doesnt look in bad condition. I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds  to say that 
the carpet didnt look water damaged.
hall ceiling
This had been  replastered  and redecorated  by the time Mr M notified Lloyds of the claim.  So 
Lloyds couldnt  tell whether that work needed  to be done as a result  of the water leak.  There 
arent any photos recording the damage.  Its up to a policyholder to prove that damage  has 
been caused by an insured event, in this case the leak. Unfortunately  for Mr M he hasnt  
been able to do that. So in my opinion Lloyds acting  reasonably in saying that it wouldnt pay 
for this damage.
Overall, I appreciate that the amount offered by Lloyds is much less than Mr M will pay to 
replace his bathroom. But Im not persuaded that it was an unreasonable amount to repair 
the insured damage.
Mr M has said hed like a breakdown of the costs showing how Lloyds  reached  the figure 
which it offered him. Insurers  dont  usually provide this information to policyholders as the 
rates charged by their contractors are commercially sensitive. Im satisfied that the total 
amount is in the region  of what Id expect it to pay for the work in question.
Ive also looked  at how Lloyds handled  Mr Ms claim. Mr M contacted  Lloyds on a number of 
occasions regarding  the quote  for the works  that hed sent it. It took Lloyds a few weeks  to 
review that with its contractor and respond  to Mr M. I appreciate that the delay would have 
been frustrating  to Mr M. But I think the sum of £100  is fair and reasonable to compensate 
Mr M for the trouble and upset caused  by that.
my final decision
Ref: DRN95851683I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9585168