K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complained  about the settlement  they were offered for stolen items of 
jewellery by their contents insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA), after they made a claim on 
their policy following a burglary at their house. 
All references to AXA include  its agents.  
background
Mr and Mrs Gs house was burgled in November 2018. During  the burglary a number of 
items were taken including cash and jewellery. AXA paid a settlement for some of the items  
but there were still some items  of jewellery  that there was no agreement on. These items 
were a gold necklace,  a gold bracelet and three  gold bangles. Mr and Mrs G said the items  
had been purchased 35 years prior to the claim and they were  from abroad.  As a result,  they 
no longer had any receipts  but were able to provide a photograph  of Mrs G wearing all the 
items in question.  
AXA appointed a representative to validate  the jewellery and find replacements  if possible or 
otherwise offer a cash or cash equivalent settlement (like a voucher or store  card).  If an 
equivalent replacement  could be found but Mr and Mrs G preferred cash, the award would 
be discounted. 
The dispute  had been going on for some time, with both parties  disagreeing on issues  like 
the weight or size of the items as well as on whether an equivalent replacement  was 
available or not. Mr and Mrs G said the policy  says that the replacement  must  be 
equivalent to the item stolen but doesnt  define what  equivalent  is. 
The necklace
In relation to the necklace, Mr and Mrs G said they were  able to find a necklace they 
considered to be suitable but they didnt consider it to be a match or equivalent to the 
necklace that had been stolen. They also said that AXA provided them with details of a few 
suppliers but some  of them were  quite some distance away. They said it shouldnt  be for 
them to have to search  for another equivalent  replacement but it should  be for AXA to 
provide one. For that reason they felt they should be offered the full valuation for it rather 
than the discounted one. 
AXA said that an equivalent replacement was available  through its preferred suppliers and 
for that reason a cash payment or a voucher could be offered at the discounted value.
AXA valued  the necklace at £4375 but Mr and Mrs G thought the value should be £5500. 
They said that offering them the store card to be able to buy something similar but for a 
lower price of £4375 means they are limited as to what is available. And as the cash  
alternative is £3412- which is a 22% discount- they dont accept that an equivalent 
replacement is available.  
The bracelet
AXA thought  that an equivalent replacement was available through  its suppliers but 
Mr and Mrs G disagreed.  They accepted AXAs valuation of £1900  for the bracelet but as 
Ref: DRN99771372they didnt think  an equivalent replacement was available they didnt think that a reduced 
cash settlement of £1482  was fair.
The bangles 
Mr and Mrs G also disagreed with AXAs valuation for the bangles. They  said they were able 
to find similar bangles but they were nine instead of 18 carat  gold which is what the lost 
items were. They said each replacement bangle was priced  at £384 by AXA who had 
originally offered £900 for all three. They  said after they complained  AXA offered £1350.  
AXA said the valuation  was based on a weight of nine grams for each bangle.  Mr G queried  
this again and the valuation was increased  to £3150 and, according to Mr G, AXA said this 
was because the original valuation was only for one bangle. Mr and Mrs G said they were 
told that the weight estimate had been  reduced to seven grams  instead of the original 35. 
They said at that point they lost faith in AXA and its agent and complained.  
Mr and Mrs G said two months  after the £3150 valuation they were offered a cash  settlement 
of £1650. They said the valuation was based on bangles that were two millimetres wide 
whereas they believed  theirs were four millimetres wide.  
Ultimately AXA offered a cash settlement of £2652  for the three  bangles  and said this was 
based on a similar example which was 18 carat gold, 3 millimetre wide and weighed 16 
grams. Mr and Mrs G disagreed and felt they were four millimetres wide and weighed  22 
grams which  they found on one of AXAs suppliers website. Mr and Mrs G valued all three  at 
£3597. 
The complaints to AXA
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with AXA and its agents overall service and felt it had 
undervalued their jewellery by £3500.50 as it paid the reduced cash settlements  of £4894.50 
for the necklace  and the bracelet and £2652  for the bangles.
Though originally  rejecting it, AXA upheld Mr and Mrs Gs first complaint about  the service  
they received  from its appointed agent and agreed  that the information Mr and Mrs G had 
been provided with was confusing. It offered them £150 compensation. 
But AXA didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about the valuations. It said its valuations 
were done  in good faith and based on the information available  to it which in this case was 
photographs and Mr and Mrs Gs description.  It said it would review its offers further it they 
could provide further proof of purchase or valuation for the items. 
However, after further complaints from Mr and Mrs G it said that its service  and 
communication wasnt always of a standard it would expect so it offered Mr and Mrs G a 
further £200 in compensation. 
The complaint to us
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with AXAs response  and complained to us. They  reiterated 
that they believed AXAs offer was around  £3,500.50 lower than it should be and that though 
the offer for the bracelet  was reasonable they didnt accept that it should be discounted  as 
AXA said.  They also said they didnt agree with the valuations for the bangles and the 
necklace or that the cash equivalent offers  AXA had made for them should be discounted. 
Ref: DRN99771373The first investigators view
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  and said it should be upheld. He said AXA 
should pay the full valuation for all the items without any reduction for the cash settlement as 
equivalent replacements werent available. He said the overall valuation should have been  
£9,425 compared to AXAs offer of £7,546.50  and so it should pay a further £1,878.50 plus 
8% simple  interest.  He thought AXAs total offer of £350 for its service was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with our investigators valuation for the necklace  and the bangles.  
They provided photographs of other items  that Mrs G was wearing in the photograph theyd 
already provided  along with the items  that had been stolen. They  measured those items,  an 
earring which was about seven millimetres wide and a watch strap which  was about 13 
millimetres. They said by comparing these to the lost items using the photograph of Mrs G 
wearing all the items, it is evident that the necklace was about  five millimetres wide and the 
bangles at least four each. 
They said theyd found a close match to the bangles  using one of the providers AXA 
recommended which  was 18ct gold, four millimetres wide and worth £1199  which  had 
increased to £1429 per bangle  since  their claim was made. 
They also said theyd found  a similar but shorter chain which was 75 centimetres long 
compared to theirs which was 80-90 centimetres. They  also said the new necklace was 
slightly thinner than theirs at 4.52 millimetres when theirs was five millimetres. They said the 
necklace they saw weighed about 44.4grams  and that AXA didnt explain why it valued theirs 
at 35 grams. They said AXAs valuation was based on £125  per gram and, therefore,  for 
44.4 grams the offer shouldve been £5500.  
They provided an email  from a jeweller  who said a four millimetre D shaped  18 carat gold 
bangle would weigh about 24 grams. They said this was similar to what  they found in one of 
the jewellers AXA had recommended. 
AXA also disagreed with our investigator. It didnt  think Mr and Mrs G had made enquiries 
with all its suppliers to see if there  were equivalent replacements.  It also said that its agent 
was able to find an equivalent replacement for the bracelet and also that the items have 
been valued on a new for old basis so that Mr and Mrs G would be able to find replacements  
with the offers AXA made. It also said the dictionary definition for equivalent  was 
something that has the same amount, value, purpose, qualities etc as something else 
which doesnt mean it has to be of the same age and country of origin which  is what  the 
investigator had said.  AXA also said the items were not bespoke  and that its settlement was 
based on the specifications for each item. It said the bangles  were subject to a greater 
discount because  it was able to make  an exact replacement for them. 
AXA also said that Mr and Mrs Gs bangles are likely to weigh less than the example that 
Mr and Mrs G found  online.  It maintained that the necklace would weigh up to 35 grams.
Mr and Mrs G continued  to look online and said that the prices they have been finding from 
AXAs suppliers have  been £2995 or £1800 per bangle and therefore increased  their claim 
by £690 to bring it to a total of £4287 for the three bangles. 
AXA didnt agree and said the bangles are flat and arent as deep as the examples 
Mr and Mrs G had provided- based  on the photo it had seen of Mrs G wearing  the items. 
Ref: DRN99771374The second  investigators view
Another investigator reviewed the complaint afresh. He said based on the photographs  
Mr and Mrs G provided, including the measurements for the earring, he felt the necklace was 
at least 4.5mm wide. He thought AXA should  value it based  on a weight of 44.4 grams, 
same as the necklace  Mr and Mrs G had seen online. But he thought that AXA was able to 
show that an equivalent  replacement was available and so a discounted cash settlement 
was fair.
He didnt think the comparison with the watch strap  and the bangles  was as persuasive as 
the earring and the necklace because the strap is further away from the camera than the 
bangles. He said as the bangles are closer to the camera he couldnt conclude they were at 
least four millimetres wide each. He felt AXAs  last valuation  of £3150 was fair and 
reasonable. And that the discount should  also be applied as equivalent replacements were 
available. 
In terms of the bracelet where both parties agreed to the valuation  but not as to whether 
there should be a discount, he had to decide whether the replacement found  was 
equivalent. He felt the discount should  apply as AXA was able to locate similar 
replacements. He also felt the £350  compensation was reasonable. 
AXA agreed with our investigator  but Mr and Mrs G didnt and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. They said AXA didnt provide evidence for its valuations  and that the distance 
between the bangles and the watch strap  in the photograph wouldnt make any measurable 
difference. They said our investigator should  compare the earring with the bangles instead  
as they are the same distance from the camera and that this would show  they were four 
millimetres wide. They said he had ignored a statement from one of the jewellers  that two 
millimetres is the smallest thickness jewellers  can do per bangle and that each would weigh 
22 grams. They said they accepted the discounted settlements for other items but AXA didnt 
agree to the equivalent replacement they had found  online  for the bangles.  They  didnt feel 
AXAs replacements were  equivalent and of equal in value, amount and importance etc. 
and therefore  that a discount should be applied.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided to uphold  it 
in part. 
Mr and Mrs G have raised a number of points  with us and with AXA and I see how 
passionately and strongly they feel about their complaint. I assure them that I have read and 
considered all their points but in this decision I will focus on what I consider to be the main 
ones. 
Mr and Mrs Gs policy says that AXA can choose to repair, reinstate or replace lost property 
but policyholders  can decide to have a cash settlement  or cash  equivalent including  a 
voucher or store card instead. It also says where AXA can repair or replace an item through 
a preferred supplier  but agrees to pay cash or a cash equivalent  the amount it pays  will 
reflect any discounts  it may have received if it had replaced the item or the amount  it would 
have cost it had it repaired or reinstated it. The policy goes on to say that if no equivalent 
replacement is available  it will pay the full replacement cost of the item in cash or if the 
policyholder agrees, cash equivalent like a voucher or store  card without a discount applied.  
Ref: DRN99771375As equivalent isnt defined in the policy we would take the ordinary meaning for it. There  
are various similar dictionary definitions including that for something to be equivalent to 
something else it should be equal in value, meaning or purpose  to something else. This 
definition is along  the same lines as what the parties  have  said.  
Ill now go on to consider how AXA dealt with each  item and whether a discounted value  
should have been offered. 
I note that Mr and Mrs G have said that the items  were purchased a very long time ago from 
a different country.  They  said they dont have  any receipts and also that they didnt have 
valuations for each of them as each  items  value  didnt  exceed the limit in their policy that 
would require them to be specified items. In addition to their own description, the only other 
evidence in relation to the ownership and nature of the items that Mr and Mrs G were  able to 
provide was a photograph  of Mrs G wearing all three  items along with the earring and the 
watch that Mr and Mrs G later provided separate photographs for (containing 
measurements). 
AXA accepted the photograph as proof  of ownership and also used it in order to value the 
items. I think this is fair and reasonable bearing  in mind the limited evidence  Mr and Mrs G 
have provided. 
The necklace
AXAs final valuation for the necklace  was £4375 with a cash  equivalent of £3412.50. 
Mr and Mrs G believe  this should be £5500. They said the necklace would have been about 
75 centimetres long and about five millimetres wide. They compared it with the earring 
Mrs G was wearing  with the necklace, which  she still owns. They  said they would agree  to it 
weighing about  44.4 grams.
Our second investigator said AXA should increase its valuation  and value the necklace as if 
it weighed 44.4 grams  as Mr and Mrs G argued. AXA has agreed to this and I think  this is 
fair and reasonable. I have also looked  at the photograph of Mrs G wearing the necklace and 
the earring. The two items are close to each other on the photograph and at a similar 
distance to the camera  so I think  a comparison can be made between them. And if the 
earring is seven millimetres wide I dont  think its unreasonable to assume  that the necklace 
is around 4.5 millimetres wide as Mr and Mrs G argued, and therefore  around 44.4 grams in 
weight.
Though Mr and Mrs G have themselves argued that the necklace  should  be valued  based on 
a weight of 44.4 grams they dont agree that AXA should offer them  the discounted cash  
settlement and say there isnt an equivalent  replacement. 
Mr and Mrs G say that the necklace they found online and whose specifications  they 
provided in order  to make a comparison and show that theirs  was also weighing at least 44.4 
grams (which was from one of AXAs suppliers), is unlike the one that was stolen and so is 
not an equivalent replacement. I have looked  at the photograph or Mrs Gs necklace and 
also the photograph of the other  necklace  carefully.  Having done  so, I think its fair and 
reasonable for AXA to have offered it as an example of an equivalent replacement,  for the 
purposes of the policy. Both necklaces have  the same meaning and purpose and look very 
similar. And so I think its fair and reasonable for AXA to apply a discount on the cash  offer.
Ref: DRN99771376The bracelet
Mr and Mrs G also relied  on the photograph to estimate the length and weight of the 
bracelet. They said they believed it was 21 centimetres long and about 13 grams heavy. 
Mr and Mrs G agreed with AXAs  valuation  for the bracelet (£1900) but didnt agree that the 
discounted offer should be made.  For the same reasons as I gave in relation to the necklace 
I think AXAs offer has been  fair and reasonable. I note that the necklace and bracelet seem 
to be a set or a match so if an equivalent  can be sourced  for the necklace  I believe the same  
applies as far as the bracelet is concerned. And so a discounted offer is fair and reasonable.
The bangles
AXAs final offer was for £2652 and was based on them being 18 carat gold,  3 millimetres 
wide. Mr and Mrs G disagreed and believe the bangles are four millimetres wide. 
Mr and Mrs G provided an email  from a jeweller  which said that the bangles couldnt  be less 
than two millimetres deep or thick for 18 carat  gold as they would bend more  easily  as they 
are softer than nine carats. They  also provided  a quote which says an 18 carat gold bangle  
which weighs approximately 22 grams and costs £2995.
Like with the other  items I have looked  at the bangles using the photograph provided. 
Mr and Mrs G said they should  be compared  with the watch which is 13 millimetres wide.  
Like our investigator I also dont believe that a useful comparison  can be made  using this 
method. This is because  the bangles are closer to the camera than the watch and would 
therefore look bigger  by comparison  even  if they arent. Having done  so I think AXAs  
estimate of three millimetres  is fair and reasonable as I dont think that the three bangles and 
the watch are, on balance, near enough the same width which  wouldve been  the case  if 
they were four millimetres wide. 
Furthermore, Mr and Mrs G said I should  compare the earring with the bangles  instead, 
using the photograph, as they seem to be about  the same distance from the camera.  I have 
done so and, though  I dont think that an accurate comparison can be made, the bangles  
seem to be slightly wider than the earring. If the earring is seven millimetres wide then this 
supports AXAs estimate of the bangles being about  nine millimetres wide overall.  
AXA said the bangles  were subject to a greater discount as they could also be made for 
Mr and Mrs G. Having looked  at the bangles and also online they seem to be of a fairly 
standard design so I think this is fair and reasonable.
AXA also checked  with a jewellery specialist  who said that the crisp lined edge  of the 
bangles as seen  on the photograph provided  by Mr and Mrs G suggests that the bangles are 
thinner than what Mr and Mrs G claim them to be. It said the bangles  come in various  depths  
and provided an example  of a thinner bangle that would  weigh  approximately  8.7 grams. 
I note that Mr and Mrs G provided emails from jewellers who said a four millimetre D 
shaped bangle  would  weigh 22 grams but bearing  in mind that the jeweller was commenting 
on the specific example  Mr and Mrs G had found online, and not on Mr and Mrs Gs bangle 
from their own photograph, I dont think I can take this evidence  into account. Also AXAs  
jewellers have  examined the photograph of the actual bangles and reached their valuation 
based on that. I find this evidence  more  persuasive.
 
Ref: DRN99771377Nevertheless, I also note that AXA said that it had found an equivalent bangle online which 
was three  millimetres wide, 18 carat gold and weighed 16 grams.  It said three of those 
bangles would weigh 48 grams and would cost £2652 which  is why it increased its previous 
offer of £2,503.85. Bearing  in mind the available  evidence  and the evidence  of AXAs 
jeweller who said Mr and Mrs Gs bangles were  more likely to weigh  8.7 grams  each,  I think 
AXAs final offer is fair and reasonable. 
The service
AXA has acknowledged  that its service wasnt always  up to the standard  it expects.  I have 
seen that Mr and Mrs G had to go back to its agent  a few times  questioning its valuations 
and that this resulted in its offers being  increased  significantly. I think this would have  
caused Mr and Mrs G a certain amount of inconvenience but I think AXAs offer of £350 is in 
line with what I would  have awarded.  
Rise in the price of gold
Mr and Mrs G said that since they made  their claim the price  of gold has increased  and that 
this should be reflected  in AXAs valuation. We brought this to AXAs  attention before I 
issued this decision and it said it would consider increasing its valuations based  on the 
current price of gold, but not for items  it has already settled and only for items it has agreed 
an increased settlement  on. Mr and Mrs G pointed out that they settled on five items fairly 
promptly and it was the remaining three  that the dispute was on. I also note that 
Mr and Mrs G said that AXA has already paid the settlements for all the items, including the 
ones in dispute and that they came  to us for the additional £3500.50 they believed the items 
were worth.
As I think  that AXAs valuations for the bracelet and the bangles was fair and reasonable I 
will not ask it to increase  its valuations for those two items. However, as I think  the value of 
the necklace should be recalculated I think this should be based on the value  of gold at the 
time of settlement. But as I think that an equivalent replacement is available,  I think AXA can 
still apply a discount to any cash or cash equivalent  offer. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G will be very disappointed with my decision, particularly as they 
invested so much time in their complaint and also bearing in mind the circumstances that it 
came about.  But, for the reasons I have given Ive decided  not to uphold their complaint  in 
full.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im upholding this complaint  in part. AXA Insurance UK Plc must 
update its valuation for Mr and Mrs Gs necklace  based on a weight of 44.4 grams. Any 
settlement should  be based on the price  of gold on the date of settlement.  
Any payments AXA Insurance  UK Plc has already made in relation to this item can be taken 
off the final payment. And as I think an equivalent  replacement is available  it can apply a 
discount to any cash or cash  equivalent settlement. AXA Insurance UK Plc must recalculate 
the value of the necklace as above  and pay this part of the claim within 28 days  from the 
date we tell it Mr and Mrs G accept my decision.  If it pays later that this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount thats outstanding from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple*. 
Ref: DRN99771378I think AXA Insurance UK Plcs offers in relation to the bangles and the bracelet are fair and 
reasonable as well as its offer of £350 for distress and inconvenience.  I note these  payments  
have already been paid to Mr and Mrs G so I will not ask it to do anything further in relation 
to those items.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2020.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
* If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  
tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs G how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr and 
Mrs G a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9977137