K822xcomplaint
Mr Ls complaint is about how Future  Life Wealth Management Limited (FLWM) dealt with 
the transfer of ownership of a property  held within his self invested personal pension  (SIPP). 
Mr L says he wasnt  given  important  information  about the transaction  and hes lost out 
financially as a result.
background 
Mr L and four others purchased  a commercial property using their combined pension plans. 
At the time they all worked  for the same employer who was renting the jointly  owned 
property. Mr L and another colleague had left that company. They intended  to transfer  their 
pensions to new arrangements and to facilitate that had agreed to transfer their shares of the 
property to two other investors. Initially it appears a third member  had agreed to sell her 
share but that didnt happen.
FLWM agreed  to act on behalf  of all five property owners  both buyers and sellers. In a 
revised information document dated  22 January 2015, FLWM set out details of what would 
need to happen. It also set out that FLWM  would  receive a total fee of £750 (payable  from 
the pensions) for dealing with the reorganisation. It was clear  from the outset that FLWM  
would not be involved in any onward pension transfer as a new financial adviser  would be 
brought on to do that.
As the transaction  involved  the transfer of property it was necessary  to determine the market 
value of the property. That required a valuation from a surveyor. FLWM was going to instruct 
the appointment of a particular surveyor but, because the transaction  involved borrowing, the 
mortgage lender  used  a different company.  
FLWM asked Mr L and his former colleagues to sign a property reorganisation sheet in 
June 2015. At that point the expected  value  of the property was about £510,000 in line with 
the figure shown  on the pension statements.
In July 2015 a surveyors  valuation was sent to FLWM  and the potential property buyers.
That showed  a value of £210,000. Mr L wasnt sent a copy  of this valuation  and says he 
wasnt made aware of it until after the transaction had gone  ahead.
In August  2015  a new financial adviser  was appointed to take the transfer  process forward.
Later a third adviser was subsequently  appointed  to facilitate the transfer. However,  after
the appointment of a new adviser  FLWM  continued to act for Mr L and his colleagues on the 
property transfer.
Once that had happened  a complaint, on behalf of all five property owners,  was made  to
the pension provider. It decided to commission a new valuation  from a new surveyor but that 
provided an unchanged valuation. However, the provider put forward  a potential  solution  to 
reverse the property  sale and reinstate the original  ownership percentages. This would 
require the consent of all the owners (past and present). Consent wasnt given so the 
transaction wasnt reversed and the property has since been  transferred to a new pension 
provider.
The adjudicator upheld Mr Ls complaint against FLWM but only in part. She recognised Mr 
Ls concerns about FLWM  having  a conflict of interest. And that Mr L hadnt been provided  
with the valuation FLWM  had received from the lender  the adjudicator said Mr L should 
Ref: DRN99018842have been informed and FLWM hadnt explained  why it hadnt passed  the information  on to 
him.  
But that didnt  mean Mr L should be compensated for the difference between the value of his 
share of the property  and what he expected to get based on the value shown on the 
statements  which unfortunately wasnt the true value.  And, on balance, the adjudicator 
thought Mr L would still have gone  ahead with the sale of the property even if hed known its 
true market  value. But hed suffered  significant  distress and inconvenience as a result of 
FLWMs failure  to give him that information.  The adjudicator suggested  a payment of £750. 
FLWM didnt agree with the adjudicators  findings.  But to bring the matter to a conclusion it 
was prepared to offer £750 plus a refund of the costs associated  with the transaction.
Mr L was pleased that wed agreed  that FLWM hadnt acted fairly but he didnt think  the 
compensation offered was sufficient. He said that in the three year period after hed left his 
employment he hadnt considered or made any enquiries about  leaving the SIPP until he 
was approached by FLWM. The figures  were a key consideration in his decision making.  If 
hed have known  the true value he wouldnt have left. He referred to the minutes of the 
trustees meeting  held on 1 October 2014  at FLWMs offices and which record his comment 
that hed need to see all the calculations before agreeing to the transfer. 
Mr L said hed been approached by FLWM.  The adviser said she was advising the buyers on 
potential inheritance issues to do with the SIPP. Mr L now found that difficult to accept. It had 
transpired that the buyers had sold the company shortly after the transfer was complete to a 
very large  corporation. Mr L suspected that information, which  would have influenced his 
decision, had deliberately  not been disclosed. The owners of the property have benefited 
from an increased share of the rental income being paid into their SIPPs. 
In the three years  since  the transfer was completed  Mr L has lost out on rent payments 
totalling £4,793.27 which would have  been paid into his SIPP.  And the SIPP  provider has 
continued to charge a management  fee of £666  pa.  Hed initially  claimed  losses  of 
£16,129.66 (the difference between the value shown in the allocation document hed signed  
and the actual transfer value based  on the revised  valuation) plus all fees associated with 
the transaction. Taking into account  the loss of rent (£4,793.27) and potential  future  rent 
(£26,096) gave a total loss of £30,889. So his claim of £16,129.66  was fair. 
Mr L later added that FLWM was supposed to acting in the best interests of all parties.  If 
there was a conflict of interest this should  have been made known  to all parties so they had 
an opportunity to appoint their own adviser.  The conflict of interest was a very serious issue.  
FLWM hadnt provided  any explanation  or mitigating evidence as to why it allowed the 
transfer to proceed  knowing  the valuation (and so the fund value) was significantly less. Mr L 
said he was increasing  his claim to £30,899 to reflect the true loss to his pension  had he 
stayed in the SIPP and continued to receive  rent to his (assumed)  retirement age of 65.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Initially FLWM  said we couldnt  look into Mr Ls complaint.  One of my colleagues considered 
that. He decided we could  consider the complaint. Were required to keep jurisdiction under 
Ref: DRN99018843review until a final decision is issued.  Ive considered what  my colleague said and I agree 
that the complaint is one we can investigate. 
In looking at the merits of the complaint Ive taken particular account of Mr Ls comments  in 
response to the adjudicators view and why he doesnt think FLWMs  offer was sufficient. 
Appointing a single adviser to deal with the transaction on the basis that all parties were in 
agreement and had a common aim in adjusting the ownership of the property may have 
seemed sensible  and cost effective.  But differences  could later arise  and interests  diverge. 
Because FLWM was acting for both buyers and sellers there was potentially  a conflict of 
interest. FLWM  needed to recognise  that. FLWM had to treat Mr L, its customer, fairly and 
that included properly managing any conflicts of interest, including those between him and 
other clients.
I agree  with the adjudicator that there were shortcomings in how FLWM  treated Mr L 
alongside FLWMs other clients involved as part of the same transaction. In particular, 
FLWM failed to share the new (and significantly lower) valuation with Mr L. 
It seems  that initially Mr L was somewhat undecided as to whether to transfer and he wanted  
to think about  it further, with sight of the figures.  So I can understand what he says about 
FLWM failing to share  a significant  in fact central  piece of information. 
Because he didnt  see the valuation Mr L was understandably  very disappointed with what 
he got for his share in the property and which meant that the value of his pension fund was 
much less than hed thought from the statements hed received. But it seems  the value of the 
property was overstated in the statements. Thats unfortunate  and created expectations as 
to what would be realised  if the property or a share in it was sold. The payment of £750  is to 
compensate Mr L for the disappointment  hes suffered and which could have  been  avoided if 
the valuation had been shared and hed been  made aware earlier  of the true market value of 
the property.
But the property  was independently valued  (by two different surveyors who valued the 
property at the same amount). Theres no suggestion the valuation was other  than a correct,  
up to date, market value. (Even if that was the case that wouldnt be something we could 
look into.)  I dont think its the case that the buyers benefited from the lower  price. They paid 
less than they might have  anticipated (and by the same token Mr L got less than he was 
expecting) but the property wasnt sold at an undervalue   the buyers  paid what  it was worth 
and Mr L received fair value for his share  of the property. So I dont think the buyers have 
benefited or that Mr L has lost out financially as such. 
But Mr L has said that he wouldnt have gone ahead if hed known that the property had 
been valued at a lot less than hed thought. I have to decide that sort of issue  what  might 
have happened  if things had been done  differently  on the balance  of probabilities, that is 
what I think is likely to have happened   taking into account such  evidence  as may be 
available and without  using the benefit of hindsight. 
I dont regard what Mr L has said as other  than a genuine belief as at to what  hed have 
done. But, on balance,  and looking at his then situation, I dont  think  I can say he wouldnt 
have gone ahead if hed have been  aware  of the lower valuation. All in all I think hed 
probably have  come  to terms with the lower price  and gone  ahead with the sale as planned. 
Ref: DRN99018844I note what Mr L has said about  continuing  to receive rental  income. But hed decided  (albeit 
after some hesitation) that he wanted  to sell his share in the property and he knew  that hed 
be giving  up that rental  income. He was no longer working for the company that was renting 
the property. I dont see there was any real benefit to him in retaining a share  in a property 
let to a company he no longer had any interest  in (other  than as a tenant) and when he had 
no knowledge of and no control over its finances  or future plans. 
And I note what Mr L has said about  the company being in the process  of being sold to a 
much larger entity. But I dont see that he should have been told about that. He was no 
longer involved  with or employed by the company. It was the tenant of a property that he had 
a share  in. But it didnt have  to share  information about its business  and future  plans with 
him.  
Mr L may have found that sort of information as useful  I can see hed be interested in the 
companys continued ability to pay the rent and issues such  as whether it was likely to 
remain in the property (and so avoid the need  to find a replacement tenant). But I dont think 
he had a right to that sort of commercially sensitive business information.  So his decision 
would have been based on what he knew at the time. All in all I think hed still have gone 
ahead with the sale of his share of the property. 
Mr L suggests his loss is some £30,899. Thats based on lost rental income from when the 
transfer took place up to his assumed retirement  at age 65. Given that I think hed have gone 
ahead with the sale I dont think hes entitled to lost rent. 
Since the transfer was completed, Mr Ls had the money for his share in the property to 
invest elsewhere. And I cant see a claim for loss of future rent  over the next sixteen years 
 could succeed in any event. Its dependent on too many assumptions,  including  that the 
property wasnt sold in the future and continued  to be let throughout (whether to the same or 
a different tenant) with no rent voids and no missed  payments. I dont think thats  realistic.  
I acknowledge that Mr Ls pension fund is worth less than hed expected. But I dont  see 
thats a loss as such or that FLWM is responsible. Rather its a reflection of the fact that the 
property (and so Mr Ls fund) wasnt worth as much  as the statements indicated  and Mr L 
had hoped. As Ive said theres  nothing  to suggest  that the property was actually worth more.  
Nor can it be assumed  that, if Mr L hadnt  sold his share when he did, hed later have been 
able to sell at a higher  price.  
In the light of my findings I agree that a payment  of £750 plus a refund of the costs 
associated with the transaction is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
Future Life Wealth Management Limited  is prepared  to offer Mr L £750 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its poor handling of the matter. In addition  it will 
refund the costs  associated with the transaction. 
So my decision is that Future Life Wealth Management Limited  should  pay £750 to Mr L and 
make that refund  to him.  
Ref: DRN99018845Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9901884