K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that the used car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement with Blue 
Motor Finance Ltd was mis-sold to him and that it wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.
background
In July 2018 Mr G acquired a used car via a five year hire purchase agreement  with Blue 
Motor. Mr G says that before he signed the agreement he had discussions  with the dealer 
and was told the car had a full service  history. He says there wasnt  a service history book 
but he was assured the car had a computerised record of its services  which  he could  obtain  
from the manufacturer. He says he was also told the car came with a manufacturers 
warranty.
Mr G was aware that there were repairs required to the cars seats and to the boot lining and 
the dealership  agreed to undertake these. 
In August  2018  Mr G visited one of the manufacturers dealerships to obtain a service book 
and proof  of the cars service history.  He was told there was no service history available.  He 
contacted the dealer who had provided the car. The dealer offered to stamp the book when 
he brought it in. The dealer also offered to repair the seat and provide the locking nuts for 
the wheels which were missing.
Mr G complained to Blue Motor about the lack of service history.  Blue Motor said there 
wasnt any written  evidence  that the car came with a full service history  as this hadnt  been 
included in the cars advert.
In September  2018 the car passed  its MOT.
In October  2018 Mr G arranged for a manufacturers dealership to carry out a health check 
on the car. This revealed that the car had been  modified. Mr G says he wasnt  aware  of this.
The car was taken to a Performance Centre  for testing. This revealed that the car had a 272 
BHP and not the 320 BHP that had been advertised and that the cars  Engine Control Unit 
(ECU) had been modified and the silencer  removed. Mr G complained again to Blue Motor. 
Blue Motor  re-opened  Mr Gs complaint about the car. It said that as Mr G and the owner  of 
the dealership  were  friends it believed Mr G wouldve  been  aware  of the modifications made  
to the car. It also said that the dealer had agreed to repair the cosmetic issues with the car 
as well as cover the cost of the cars next MOT and service. Blue Motor said it wasnt  
upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G complained to this service. He said the car was now in limp mode and couldnt be 
driven. 
Our adjudicator said looking  at the evidence he wasnt able to say the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality.  He said the faults  with the car were serviceable  items which  were  
things a car owner would  expect to have  to pay for and the dealership  had offered to put 
these right but hadnt an opportunity to do so. Our adjudicator also said he thought the 
modifications to the BHP wouldve been something that Mr G wouldve been aware of.
Ref: DRN99096542Our adjudicator also said he didnt  think  the difference between the BHP in the advert  and 
the cars  actual BHP,  although misleading, had been  a deciding factor in Mr G going ahead 
and buying the car. But he said that he did think that Mr G had been misled  about the car 
having a full service  history and that this information had induced Mr G to enter into the 
financial agreement.  
Our adjudicator said he thought it would be fair for the agreement to be cancelled  and the 
car returned. He said looking  at the cars mileage it appeared  Mr G had had little use of it 
and so he recommended  Mr G should  be reimbursed all of his monthly  payments save  one. 
Our adjudicator also said that Mr G should  receive £450 compensation for his loss (cost of 
the MOT and obtaining the service  book)  together  with the distress  and inconvenience 
caused by having to have  the car investigated.
Blue Motor  disagreed with the view of our adjudicator. It said there  wasnt any evidence  
Mr G had been induced  to buy the car by believing the car had a full service  history.  The 
advert for the car didnt  include  any reference  to a service  history and if it had been so 
important to Mr G then he shouldve checked one was available  before he agreed to take the 
car. 
Blue Motor  said that the dealership had said Mr G was aware the car didnt have  a service 
history and that was why a health  check had been carried  out on the car at the point of sale. 
The dealership told Blue Motor it had offered to carry out a service  on the car before he took 
it but Mr G had been keen to take the car straight away and had said he would return it later 
for the service.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has raised  a number of issues about the car he acquired via a hire purchase 
agreement. These issues concern both the quality of the car and that he was mislead about 
the service history and BHP. Mr G has provided a copy of the cars advert and texts between  
him and the dealership.
cars quality
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  a car must be of satisfactory quality  at the point of 
sale. And satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect taking  into 
account all the relevant  circumstances such as age, condition and mileage of the car. 
Durability is also part of satisfactory  quality as, although no one would expect all the 
components of the car to last forever they also wouldnt reasonably expect issues to arise  
with the car for a period  of time.
If faults arise  that were either  developing or present at the point of sale then the seller  
must have  one opportunity to repair. Here Mr G was aware  that the car had faults with its 
seats and the boot liner which were to be repaired by the dealership. However Mr G also 
later found  that there were other issues with the car including  missing  wheel nuts,  a 
missing spare wheel and some other  maintenance issues.  Ive seen that the dealer did 
Ref: DRN99096543offer to replace these items and undertake the repairs. As it hasnt had the opportunity of 
doing so I dont think that I can reasonably  say wasnt  of satisfactory condition.
Ive seen that Mr G says the car is currently in limp mode and photo  hes supplied  of the 
dashboard shows that it needs Adblue. This is a serviceable item and the car isnt new but 
a used one with a mileage  of around  40,000, so maintenance  issues  would be expected to 
arise. I dont  know if this has been raised  with the dealer and again I cant say that this item 
means the car isnt of satisfactory condition
modifications
Ive seen that the advert says the car has a BHP of 320 but in reality  this is 272. However 
this make and model of car should have a BHP of 272. Checks on the car revealed that the 
ECU had been  modified. Modifications  of the ECU are carried out to improve a cars 
performance so I think its more likely than not that Mr G wouldve known the car had been  
modified in an effort to increase its BHP. 
misrepresentation 
Mr G says he was misled  about the car having  a service history  and about its BHP. 
Ive seen that Mr G has said he doesnt  know much about  cars and that he didnt buy the car 
because of its BHP.  For a misrepresentation there has to be a false statement of fact that 
induces someone to enter into the contract.  Here I think its more likely than not that Mr G 
wouldve gone ahead with the financial agreement for the car even if hed know the car had 
a lower BHP than the one that was advertised.
Mr G says the service history was very important to him and that he discussed this with the 
dealership. He says he was assured  the history was computerised  and there wasnt a paper 
copy. He says he wouldnt have bought the car if hed known there was no service history. 
Blue Motor  says Mr G was always aware  the car hadnt been serviced.
Mr G agrees he and the dealer knew each other but disagrees this meant he knew  about the 
lack of servicing. He says this was more of a reason for him to trust what he had been told. I 
dont know what was said at the time Mr G agreed to purchase  the car so where evidence is 
missing or contradictory I must decide what I think is the most likely thing to have  happened.
Looking at the evidence Ive seen  that Mr G acquired the car in July 2018  and in August 
2018 he bought a service history book. Shortly afterwards Mr G sent the dealership  a text 
expressing his disappointment  at the lack of history and he followed this up with his 
complaint to Blue Motor. 
Looking at the texts  Ive seen that the response from the dealership  to Mr Gs complaint was 
needs  1stamp  that I can do in 2 minutes its not due another service until 40k.   The dealer 
then goes on to say hed already told Mr G he would give him a dealers parts service. 
I think this text shows that its likely Mr G had been  told that a service had been carried out 
but Ive seen that later checks with the manufacturer showed there was no record of the car 
being serviced at any of the manufacturers dealership network.  Ive seen no evidence  that 
theres a recorded  service  history for the car.
Ref: DRN99096544Mr G has been consistent with what he says he was told by the dealership and why he made 
his complaints. And it isnt unusual for a consumer to be concerned that a car has a full 
service history as this shows the car has been  properly  maintained.  It may also affect the 
value of the car. So taking this into account,  together with the amount Mr G paid for the car, I 
think its more likely  than not that had Mr G known the car didnt have  a service history  he 
wouldnt have gone ahead with buying  it.
This means  that Mr G relied on what the dealership  had said and this was a 
misrepresentation of the actual position. Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 
a finance company, in this case Blue Motor, can be found liable for the misrepresentations 
made by the seller.
So Im satisfied that the car was misrepresented to Mr G in respect of its service  history.
remedy
When a misrepresentation has occurred the usual remedy is to put the consumer back  in the 
position they wouldve been  if there had been no misrepresentation. So I think its fair and 
reasonable for Mr G to reject the car and for the agreement  to be cancelled.
Although the mileage  of the car isnt clear  it doesnt  appear from the evidence  that Mr G has 
been regularly  using the car. So it would be unfair for Mr G to pay for usage  when he hasnt 
been driving the car. I agree with our adjudicator  that Mr G should be reimbursed all his 
monthly payments  save one.
Mr G has spent money and time sorting  this matter  out and has suffered distress  and 
inconvenience as a result. I again agree with our adjudicator that £450 compensation is 
reasonable to reflect  the impact this has had on Mr G.
So for the reasons given above  Im upholding Mr Gs complaint.
my final decision
As set out above Im upholding  Mr Gs complaint. Im asking Blue Motor  Finance Ltd to do 
the following:
To end the agreement  with nothing further  to pay.
To collect  the car at no cost to Mr G.
To reimburse Mr Gs monthly payments  save one.
To pay Mr G £450 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
To ensure there is no adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit  file about this 
agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9909654