K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc wrongly advised him to invest  £4,000 in a UK FTSE 
tracker fund in 1999  as this was too risky given his situation and objectives. He surrendered  
this in 2005 with a modest loss.
background
An investigator was not convinced that this complaint  should  be upheld,  particularly as there 
was virtually no contemporaneous evidence from the sale.
Mr Gs representative didnt agree, and said:
Mr G had no prior investment  experience
The fund had an almost 100% exposure  to equities and is rated as medium to high 
whereas Mr G ought to have been  considered a low risk investor
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to explain that my role, when considering a complaint, is to decide  whether 
there is sufficient evidence to safely conclude that a business clearly did something wrong;  
in this case whether  Santander did offer advice (this was an advised sale)  and that the 
advice was manifestly unsuitable.
I simply do not believe there is sufficient evidence  to safely  conclude  that the advisor did 
offer and that it was poor or unsuitable advice, given the absence of key evidence such  as a 
fact find or suitability letter. It is not even clear whether Mr G was working at the time with his 
recollection being that he was in work, according to his representative,  whereas  the 
application form stating  that he wasnt
I have dealt with a number of cases where, usually due to the date of the sale,  these 
documents were  absent where I still felt able to say, on the balance of probabilities,  that the 
advice was clearly wrong - often because of the customers circumstances, the nature of the 
recommendation or the very obvious  drawbacks to the advice.  But while I have some  
concerns about  Mr G being advised  (if that is what happened) to invest in what  I feel is a 
broadly medium risk fund,  I dont  think there  is enough to be certain about this.
Mr Gs representative refers to this fund being  classified  at the high end of medium, which 
appears to tally with the current independent  classification I have seen. But this rating is 
significantly shaped by the recent  volatility in the FTSE, volatility being  a key ingredient in 
many current risk ratings.
This may not have been true in 1999.  A fund which tracks the UK FTSE has, by definition,  a 
very wide diversification and is rooted in UK equities (as opposed to foreign stocks  with 
additional risk factors). As such, I suspect this fund would have been considered a fairly 
average medium/balanced risk product at the time.
Ref: DRN99305942It might still have  posed a higher risk to Mr Gs money than he might have wanted to take but 
I dont think I can be more  certain  than might  have, and that is not sufficient to uphold  this 
complaint.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
 Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9930594