K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complained because Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA)  declined  her 
buildings insurance  claim.
background
Mrs R has a rental property that she insures with RSA. Towards  the end of October 2018 a 
neighbour noticed damage to the roof of Mrs Rs property. A local repairer  inspected  the 
damage and said the lead parapet  flashing was loose and damaged. He couldnt say for 
certain how the damage was caused, but he thought it was most likely due to high winds.
Mrs R made  a claim under her policy for the damage but RSA declined it. In summary, it said 
there hadnt been a storm around the time the damage was noticed. Mrs R referred RSA to 
storms in September,  but also said the damage  could have been  caused earlier   she 
referred to the Beast from the East earlier in the year for example. But RSA maintained its 
position.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld as he didnt think it had been 
shown that a storm in September 2018 had caused the damage. Mrs R disagreed. Amongst 
other things,  she said:
there had been a storm
it had been  shown that the damage  had been caused by high winds, and
the damage (which  couldnt be seen from ground level)  was noticed about a month after 
the storm.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only expert evidence  Ive seen regarding the cause of the damage is what  the local 
repairer said. So I think its fair to conclude  that high winds  most  likely caused the damage 
claimed for. But that in itself isnt enough for me to make RSA pay the claim. Thats  because  
Mrs Rs policy provides  cover if her property is damaged  by storm  and high winds  arent 
necessarily storm.
For her claim  to be covered  its a requirement in the first instance for Mrs R to show  on the 
balance of probabilities that a storm occurred and that it was that storm that caused the 
damage she is claiming for. Until she does  that, RSA isnt required to settle a claim. For 
clarification, it must be shown that a specific storm, or storms, caused  the damage   it isnt 
necessarily enough  to point to a storm and say that must have caused the damage;  or to say 
that some  random storm at some  point in the past caused the damage.
The first thing I look at in complaints like this is whether a storm occurred  on or shortly 
before the damage was said to have  occurred. Thats important because if it cant be shown 
that a storm occurred, then the damage couldnt possibly have been caused by storm. 
A problem  Mrs R faces here is that whilst the damage was first noticed towards the end of 
October 2018, she doesnt  know when it was caused  it could have been the previous 
Ref: DRN98379522week, the previous  month or the previous year. On that basis RSAs  decision to decline the 
claim would be fair because Mrs R couldnt show that a specific storm caused the damage.
However, I think its more likely  than not the damage  was caused relatively recent  to it being 
discovered, as opposed  to it being at some  point in the distant past.  Although the damage 
couldnt be seen  from the ground, there might have been other factors that might have led to 
it being noticed if it had been  caused many months earlier.  Indeed, when responding to our 
investigator about the possibility of the damage  being caused by the Beast of the East RSA 
said that if the damage happened then it would expect it to have  been  visible  before it was 
actually noticed.  So I think its fair in this case to give consideration to October 2018 being 
around about the date the damage might have been  caused.
The weather  records Ive seen show that there  were  storm force  winds in the vicinity of the 
property in September 2018. I therefore conclude that there was a storm shortly before the 
damage could  be said to have occurred.
Having decided that, the next things I look at are whether the damage  claimed  for is 
consistent with the type of damage  storm might typically  cause,  and whether the storm that 
occurred is the dominant  cause  of the damage.
As the local repairer said the lead parapet flashing had become loose and the most likely 
cause was high winds getting under the flashing, Im satisfied the damage  is consistent with 
storm. However, theres nothing, in my opinion, to sufficiently say that the high winds  in the 
storm in September  caused the damage. It could have been. But it could equally have been 
previous high winds (that werent strong enough  to be storm force) that caused the damage 
 and the storm force winds in September didnt have any real effect.
As Ive said above,  its for Mrs R in the first instance  to show  on the balance  of probabilities 
that a specific storm caused the damage she is claiming for  its not for RSA to show  the 
opposite. I think  shes shown that the storm in September might have caused the damage, 
but thats not enough. Because its equally possible in my opinion that it might not have 
done, and that the damage was caused  by some  other inclement weather.
So overall, whilst this is a finely  balanced  case, Im not persuaded that Mrs R has overcome  
the first hurdle  of showing that storm caused the damage she claimed for. I therefore  
conclude that RSA treated her fairly when it declined her claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9837952