K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained that Capital One (Europe)  plc mis-sold her a credit  card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs B took out the card and PPI by filling out an application  form and returning  it by post in 
2000.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs B says she was told shed have a better  chance  of getting the credit card if she took out 
the PPI. But Mrs B applied for the card and PPI by post, with no input from any Capital One 
staff. Shes also said that shes  unhappy that the policy was added  without her knowledge. 
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mrs Bs recollection of 
the sale has faded.
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Bs application form.  There is a separate section for PPI and Yes 
and No options to either accept or decline the policy.  Both options  are given equal 
prominence. Mrs B has ticked in the Yes  box to request PPI. Looking at the wording and 
layout of the form I think that Mrs B would have known that she didnt have to take out the 
PPI if she didnt want to. It seems to me that she decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt 
have to, even  if she no longer  remembers  doing so.
Capital One didnt advise Mrs B to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her 
needs. But it did need to provide her with enough  information for her to make an informed 
decision about whether or not the policy was right for her. 
Mrs B wouldnt have  received any sick pay from her employer. And she didnt have any other  
means, such as savings, to fall back on. So I think she could have found the policy  useful at 
what would  have been a difficult time.
 Its possible that Capital  One didnt provide as much information about  the policy as it 
should have, particularly about  the things that it didnt  cover.  But Mrs B wasnt affected by 
any of those things.  As I think  that she had an interest in the policy  and decided  to buy it, I 
dont think that further  information would have caused her to change her mind.
This means  that Capital One doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
Ref: DRN91707612When the policy was sold,  Capital One expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about  
that. Because Capital One didnt  tell Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mrs B any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9170761