K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
Mrs S has been represented  throughout her complaint.
background
Mrs S was sold PPI in February 2004  when she called Capital One to activate her credit 
card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
PPI was added when Mrs S called  through to activate her card about two weeks  after she 
had taken out the credit card.
Capital One no longer  has a recording of the call, but this isnt surprising given the sale 
happened around 15 years ago. But Ive seen copies of Capital Ones sales  scripts which 
were in use around the time. These documents show that the optional  nature of the PPI 
would have been made clear to the customer by the adviser. And the adviser would have  
also had to get consent from the customer before PPI was added.  Ive no reason to think 
that Capital One didnt  follow its usual  sales process in Mrs Ss case. 
So, I think its most likely Capital One made Mrs S aware that she had a choice about buying 
the PPI, and that she chose to take it out. Although I can understand why she cant  
remember this as it was a long time ago and buying insurance isnt typically a memorable 
experience.
From what  I know about Capital Ones sales process and from looking at the copy  of the 
sales script, I dont think Capital One recommended  the PPI to Mrs S. So it didnt have to 
check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs S got the information she 
needed to decide if it was right for her.
 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But overall  Im satisfied that Mrs S chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  
like she wanted this type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like the 
PPI was affordable.  
Ref: DRN97108602Mrs S says she received  around three months  sick pay from her employer if she was unable 
to work and could  have  met her card repayments.  
But the PPI would have paid 10% of the outstanding  monthly balance at the date of a 
successful claim  for accident,  sickness or unemployment per month. And this would have 
continued to be paid until either  Mrs S returned to work, or for up to 12 months. The benefits  
would have paid out on top of any employee benefits Mrs S received. The policy also 
included life cover.
So all things  considered I think  the PPI provided a useful benefit  and I dont think better  
information about the policy would  have put her off taking out the cover.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mrs S 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said. But for the reasons given above these points 
dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mrs S any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9710860