K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that Society of Lloyds  wont accept  her motor insurance  claim  for 
indemnity against  a third party claim in relation to an accident when she was driving her 
friends vehicle. 
For ease, whenever I refer to Society  of Lloyds this also includes the actions of the 
underwriters. 
background
Mrs C has a motor insurance policy provided by Lloyds. Part of the cover allows  her to drive 
other cars in certain circumstances. In August  2018  Mrs C borrowed her friends  van. She 
was relying on her cover with Lloyds to provide her with third party insurance when doing 
so. 
While driving her friends van Mrs C was involved in an accident.  As she was reversing out 
of a parking space there was contact  between the van she was driving and a pedestrian. 
The pedestrian started  a claim for his losses  and for personal injury. 
Mrs C made  a claim for indemnity under her policy, which  Lloyds declined.  It said her policy  
only covers her to drive other cars and not vans which  are commercial vehicles. The van 
owner had his own insurance  with another business; who Ill refer to as N. N accepted the 
pedestrians claim. But they say they will seek to recover  any costs directly  from Mrs C. 
Mrs C complained to Lloyds as she doesnt  think her claim for indemnity has been  fairly  
declined. She also brought a complaint to us. One of our investigators thought the complaint 
should be upheld.  She thought the policy  conditions  werent clear enough. And thought  the 
fair and reasonable outcome would be for Lloyds to accept Mrs Cs claim and provide her 
with indemnity in respect of the third party claim. 
Lloyds didnt agree.  It said the policy is clear that Mrs C is only insured to drive  other  cars 
and Mrs C was driving  a van, which was a commercial vehicle. So it asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that Lloyds  should provide Mrs C with indemnity for essentially  the same  
reasons. Let me explain why. 
In the Liability to others section of Mrs Cs policy it has the heading Driving other vehicles. 
Under that heading it says:
We will also provide  the cover shown  above  (if this is shown on your certificate of motor  
insurance), to drive any private car that you do not own and have not hired under a hire-
purchase or leasing agreement  as long as you have the owners permission to drive the 
car.
You are not insured  against:
 Any loss or damage to the vehicle you are driving
Ref: DRN90294222 Any event which happens outside  of the United Kingdom
 Any legal  responsibility  if you no longer have the insured vehicle
 Any event which happens when this insurance  is not in the name  of an individual person
 Any legal  responsibility  unless the vehicle  is insured against third party road risks,  in its 
own right or
 Securing  the release of a vehicle that has been  seized  by or on behalf of the police or any 
public or local authority 
I accept that the vehicle  Mrs C was driving was a van. Ive seen pictures  of it and it has two 
seats with a cargo area in the rear which has been  converted for use as a campervan. The 
rear doors  have no windows and having  checked the manufacturers website its clearly 
marketed and described as a van. It is however a small van and is of a weight that can 
legally be driven  on a normal UK driving  licence. And it wasnt  being used for business 
purposes by either its owner or Mrs C. 
Insurers are required to present information  in way thats clear, fair and not misleading. I 
understand Lloyds point  that a private  car is referred to in the wording. I also accept  that a 
van presents a different risk profile  due to the size of the vehicle and visibility from the 
drivers seat. 
But I also have to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
individual complaint. The potential consequences of driving while  uninsured are particularly 
serious. So I think an insurer needs to make it explicitly clear  exactly what  vehicles 
policyholders are entitled to drive under the terms of the policy.  For that reason Ive thought  
about whether  the average  consumer  would know that they werent able to rely on the policy 
to drive their friends van that was used  as a private  vehicle.  
Mrs C says she checked her policy documents before driving her friends van and she 
thought she was covered. Im persuaded by this. The word vehicle is used alongside  car in 
both the heading Driving other  vehicles  and in the section that lists whats  not covered. 
Theres no explicit exclusion of private  vans or similar.  And, while I appreciate  that Lloyds 
isnt required to list every vehicle that isnt covered, I think the effect overall is that the policy 
terms werent clear enough to enable Mrs C to understand  that a privately  used van isnt 
covered in the same way a private car would be. 
Lloyds has made  the point  that motorcycles and lorries arent covered, but also arent 
excluded. But each  of these vehicles requires a different  licence to drive. So I dont think this 
is enough to persuade me Mrs C should have  known  she couldnt drive  her friends van
So, in light of what Ive said, I dont think it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome in 
this particular case if I allowed Lloyds  to refuse  Mrs C indemnity under  her policy  on the 
basis that she wasnt covered to drive her friends van.
My understanding of the current situation is that the pedestrians claim isnt currently  
progressing. But in the event that the pedestrian restarts his claim, I think Lloyds should  
deal with the claim against Mrs C on the basis that shes covered for driving the van. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require 
Society of Lloyds to deal with Mrs Cs claim for indemnity  as a result  of the accident she had 
while driving her friends van in line with the remaining terms and conditions of her policy.  
Ref: DRN90294223Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN9029422