K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr G says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has said that he cant remember how the sale took place. Halifax has said that this was 
a meeting sale where they made a recommendation to take PPI. Based on what Ive seen, 
this seems likely  to be correct.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr G didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he may not remember  this.
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mr Gs credit card application form. This form 
has an option for PPI. An X has been  typed  next to the option for PPI. 
As this sale took place  in a meeting where Halifax  were making a recommendation to 
take PPI, I think that its more likely  than not that a discussion  took place about PPI 
and the X was added  by the Halifax adviser to reflect what  Mr G had decided. Some 
of Mr Gs other personal details have  also been  typed on the form.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr G so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr G about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said - including  what hes said about not needing 
PPI. Mr G has said that he had six months half pay. But this PPI policy could have paid out 
for up to 12 months for an accident or sickness claim. This would also allow  Mr G the option 
of not needing to rely on his sick pay to make his credit card repayments and instead hed 
have the option of using  his sick pay to help pay for other living  expenses  that he may have 
had.
Ive also noted  that Mr G has told us about accident  cover that he had through his employer. 
In my opinion, the accident cover isnt directly  comparable or a direct replacement for PPI.    
I say this because,  based on what Mr G has told us, the accident  cover would potentially pay 
out if Mr G experienced  a work place accident or was off work because  of that. PPI on the 
Ref: DRN94426792other hand would  pay out if Mr G was unwell and unable to work whether it was because  of 
something that happened at work  or not. So these  points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr G paid for it. But Halifax  has already  offered to give Mr G back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr G now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9442679