K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Vanquis Bank Limited was wrong to reject  her chargeback request.
background
In July 2017 Mrs H contacted  Vanquis  and said she wanted to dispute two transactions  on 
her credit card account. Mrs H had made  payments of £288.04 on 11 May 2017 and 
£1134.16 on 3 July 2017 to a retailer in respect of the supply of a new carpet.
Mrs H told Vanquis  she was disputing the transaction because the carpet she received was 
different from the sample she had been provided  with.
Vanquis assessed Mrs Hs claim but decided  that it couldnt proceed with the dispute. It said 
that Mrs H hadnt provided evidence that the carpet  she received was different from the 
sample. Vanquis also said that Mrs H had accepted  the carpet  at delivery  and had allowed it 
to be laid. Vanquis concluded  that it couldnt  raise  a chargeback with the merchant because 
there was a lack of information to support Mrs Hs claim.
Mrs H wasnt happy with the response so she complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint.  She thought that Vanquiss decision not to 
pursue the chargeback was reasonable based on the evidence  available. The investigator 
also said she didnt think there was enough evidence to support a Section 75 claim.
Mrs H didnt agree. She said it wasnt acceptable to give a worn  sample  to a customer in 
order to make a decision  about whether to purchase  a carpet. She said shed provided 
evidence to Vanquis that the carpet she received  wasnt the same as the sample. She also 
said that Vanquis had told her not to obtain  an independent report.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs H but I think Vanquis was right to reject  her chargeback  request.  
Ill explain  why.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment is made in part or in full with a credit  card,  it 
might be possible to recover the money paid through  a chargeback.
A chargeback is the process by which payment disputes are resolved between card issuers 
and merchants. 
What this means here is that Vanquis can, in some circumstances,  ask for a transaction  to 
be reversed if theres  a problem with the goods or services supplied  by the merchant. But 
there have  to be grounds to proceed  with a chargeback.
Ive looked at the available evidence to see whether it supports what  Mrs H has said about 
the carpet being  different  to the sample.  Mrs H has provided a photograph  showing the 
carpet supplied  and the sample. The colour  is the same but it looks as if the carpet has a 
longer pile.
Ref: DRN93443742The merchant has inspected the carpet  supplied  and the sample. It says the carpet  is the 
same.
Mrs H has said that with a period of use, some  parts of the carpet have begun to look more  
like the sample.
On balance, I think its likely that the carpet and the sample are the same. The sample 
appears to have shorter pile as a result of wear and tear, which  is what  has now started  to 
happen to the carpet.  
Ive noted Mrs Hs concerns about  being told not to obtain an independent report. I wasnt 
party to the conversation between Mrs H and Vanquis so I cant  be certain  of what was 
discussed. Ultimately, its up to Mrs H to provide evidence that theres  something  wrong  with 
the carpet.  I havent  seen anything to suggest  that she was prevented from obtaining an 
independent report.
Based on the available evidence, I havent  seen enough to persuade me that there is 
something wrong with the carpet.  So I dont  think Vanquis acted unfairly  in telling Mrs H that 
it couldnt proceed with the chargeback due to a lack of information.
Ive also considered whether Mrs H might be able to pursue a claim under section 75. Under 
section 75 a consumer  has a like claim against a credit provider as against the supplier of 
goods if theres been a breach of contract  or a misrepresentation. 
In order to succeed under section 75, Mrs H would  need to show that the carpet she 
received wasnt what  she ordered (a breach of contract) or that it wasnt the same  as the 
sample she was given (misrepresentation).
Having considered the available  evidence, I dont think theres sufficient information to show  
a breach of contract.  Mrs H has been supplied with the carpet  she ordered. Nor do I think 
theres been a misrepresentation,  because  the sample shows what the carpet would look 
like after a degree  of use. On her own evidence, this is what Mrs H;s carpet  is beginning to 
look like now.
Taking all of the evidence into account, and for the reasons Ive given, I dont think  that 
Vanquis has acted unfairly  in not progressing a chargeback dispute or a section 75 claim. So 
I wont be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Emma Davy
Ref: DRN93443743ombudsman
Ref: DRN9344374