K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr R says Bank of Scotland Plc (Bos) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Rs credit application.  On it is a section related to PPI where  Mr R 
has ticked to say he wanted the policy. He has also signed this form so I think its likely 
to reflect  what he wanted. On balance I think its likely that BoS made it clear that Mr R 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose  to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant  remember  this.
BoS didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr R got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  Mr R says he wouldve received some  sick pay. 
But the PPI paid out in addition  to any sick pay he wouldve received  and for up to 12 
months in the event  of accident,  sickness or unemployment. It also looks  like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R. 
But BoS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr R about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr R, that was unfair.  
To put that right, BoS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
BoS has to pay back  to Mr R any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  BoS should also pay back to Mr R any extra  interest he paid because  of 
that.
Ref: DRN91450062BoS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr R the difference between 
what Mr R owes  and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. BoS should also pay Mr R 8%* simple  interest  if he 
paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr R can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr R. 
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9145006