K820x#14complaint
L, a limited company, complains about  the way that GPUK LLP (trading as 
Global Payments) dealt with card payments  that were subject to a chargeback request.
background
L has a merchant  processing agreement with GPUK.  L took two card payments from the 
same customer  one for £3,400 on 26 December 2018 and the other  for £4,000  on 29 
December 2018.  The payments were  recorded  as being keyed into the card terminal.  On 1 
March 2019 these payments were challenged by the cardholder as being not made  and 
authorised. A chargeback request was raised.  L provided the information it had to defend 
this which  was put forward to the card issuer. But this was not accepted and L could not 
provide any more information. L is unhappy  that his bank account  was originally debited by 
the amount by GPUK. And that when this was reversed GPUK  was holding  further  payments 
against this amount and did not deal well with calls from its director.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
-GPUK had defended the claim using the information that L had provided and had no 
other control over the outcome of the chargeback. 
-GPUK had said that, as these  were card not present (CNP) payments, then L was 
responsible for the additional  risks involved.
-The nature  of such payments was set out in the terms and conditions and merchant 
operating instructions.
-Although L said that the card involved was swiped the receipt it had for the payment 
of £3,400 showed that the card information  had been keyed in. GPUKs records 
showed that the second payment was keyed too.
-He thought that L was fairly responsible  for paying the amount  back.  And that GPUK 
could, under the terms and conditions of its agreement with L, retain further 
payments in a reserve to offset  the amount L was liable to pay it back.  
-Hed listened to the calls with L and did not agree that GPUK had provided poor 
customer service  or acted unfairly.
L did not agree. There were hundreds of pages of instructions. The director  said that he 
should have been specifically warned about  the risks of the transactions  being keyed in. He 
had not had this problem  in the time hed been dealing  with card payments. He said that this 
was a professional  fraud and L should  be refunded. It was having a significant effect on its 
ability to operate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that when  the director  of L spoke with this service he explained  that he thought  the 
card had been swiped. But that it seems that he gave the terminal to the customer  and he 
thought a code was typed  in. He now thinks that it was his customer that keyed in the card 
details. So on his account it does seem that L was the victim of fraud here.
However, I think L was fairly responsible  for the way these payments were taken and for how 
the card terminal was used. I know that the operating  instructions  are long and detailed. But 
it was Im afraid  up to L to understand the risks it assumed when it took payments - 
Ref: DRN92646182especially ones of a type it seems  it was not used  to. And those risks were  highlighted both 
in the terms and conditions and merchant  operating  instructions. For such key entered  
payments the requirement was also to take an imprint of the card and to complete a 
voucher. And then for the cardholder to be asked to sign this. This was to provide evidence 
that the cardholder was present and authorised  the payment. As this did not happen GPUK  
treated these payments as CNP ones.
But the key issue  was that L was also fairly subject to the rules of the relevant card scheme  
when accepting a payment from a card. Those  allowed  for the possibility of chargeback  for a 
period after the payments were made. And if a chargeback request was successful  GPUK  
had to pay the money back  to the card issuer. Here I consider GPUK went  through  the 
correct steps. It asked L for information to support the payments irrespective of it considering 
them to be CNP ones. It defended them with the card issuer using the evidence it was given. 
And when  this wasnt accepted it asked L for anything further to show proof  that the genuine 
cardholder participated and had received the goods. L had nothing  more to provide and so 
the chargeback  succeeded.
GPUK was entitled to debit  L with the full amount which clearly caused difficulty  when it was 
taken from Ls bank  account. The bank reversed  the entry. But that then left L owing GPUK 
£7,400. And under the terms and conditions GPUK could create  a reserve  account  to use to 
offset any further payments it processed  for L.
Im not persuaded that GPUK has made  any mistake or acted unfairly.  Im afraid that it 
seems L has lost money due to the actions  of a customer  who was not the genuine 
cardholder here.  But GPUK had not guaranteed the payments L had taken. And L had the 
opportunity to defend the chargeback. Its ability to mount  a successful defence  was affected 
by the way in which  the payments were taken as effectively CNP ones. GPUK had paid the 
money involved back to the card issuer. And it is now looking to L to pay it back this money.  I 
dont have a reasonable  basis  to say that GPUK is wrong to do so.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019. 
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9264618