K820x#14complaint
Miss Ks complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) turned down her home  
insurance claim. 
background
Miss K had a policy with RSA that included contents insurance and home emergency 
insurance. She returned home one day and was unable to open  her door due to a problem 
with the lock. Miss Ks battery on her phone was running low so she got her neighbour to call 
out a locksmith. She then phoned RSA.
From her call with RSA Miss K understood that her claim for the locksmith would be covered. 
The locksmith accessed her home, breaking  the lock in the process  which meant it needed  
replacing.
A short while later RSA called Miss K and said she wasnt covered by the policy.  It said there 
was no cover for this situation on her home emergency policy. And while the contents  policy  
provided cover for accidental damage  to locks it specifically excluded damage  caused by 
wear and tear. It said this applied in this case because the locksmith  had said the lock was 
old. 
Miss K was unhappy  with this as she said shed  only asked the locksmith  to go ahead as she 
thought she was covered. She brought  her complaint to us. She said she had to get into her 
home as she needed  to take medication.  And if RSA hadnt told her she was covered she 
would have shopped around for a cheaper  locksmith.
Our investigator thought RSA had turned down Miss Ks claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. She didnt think RSA told Miss K she would  definitely  be covered 
and she also didnt  think Miss K would  have done  anything differently as she needed to get 
into her home. 
Miss K didnt agree and asked  for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Miss Ks policy covers  insured perils. This means the policy  sets out exactly what  it will cover  
and not all circumstances a policyholder might think of as being  an emergency are covered. 
Ive looked at the home emergency  policy and can see that it doesnt provide cover  for the 
situation Miss K was in. So Im satisfied it was fair for RSA to not cover  her under that policy.
I can see the contents policy covers accidental damage  to locks or the outside door. But it 
also has a general  policy exclusion for any damage caused by wear and tear. The 
locksmiths invoice says the lock was old and needed replacing.  I appreciate  Miss K said she 
doesnt know why he wrote that as the lock was new but I havent seen anything other than 
her comments to support  that. So, Im more  persuaded  by the locksmiths information and 
think it was fair and reasonable for RSA to turn down her claim on that basis.
Ref: DRN94073932I understand Miss Ks frustration as she thought  her claim  was covered after speaking to 
RSA on the phone. However Ive listened  to the call and I dont think  RSA told her it would 
be covered. He said its definitely something we can look at under home  emergency  but 
also said Ill need  to confirm withhome emergency that thats something they would 
cover. Miss K told the call handler she had very little battery  and I think  that meant  the 
conversation was quicker than it would usually have been as he was trying to help her. 
Im also not persuaded that Miss K would  have done anything differently if RSA had told her 
the claim was definitely not covered during  that call. Her neighbour had already  called  the 
locksmith who arrived  while she was on the phone to RSA. Miss K said she would have 
shopped around for a cheaper quote but I think this is unlikely as the locksmith was there 
and shes told us she needed to get into her flat to take medication. She also told RSA she 
knew she should have  called it before calling a locksmith but she had no option . As Miss K 
would have always needed to get into her flat Im not persuaded RSAs caused  her a loss. 
And it called her back soon afterwards  to confirm that it wasnt covered. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Miss K was hoping for but Im satisfied RSAs made a fair 
and reasonable decision  thats  in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN9407393