K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with the service  provided by Aviva  Insurance Limited (Aviva) 
when they made a claim under their boiler breakdown  cover. 
Aviva is the underwriter of the policy and ultimately responsible for the claim made  on this 
boiler breakdown  policy. Homeserve  administers  the policy on behalf  of Aviva. As such, I will 
refer to Aviva mostly in my decision rather than Homeserve.
Background
On the evening of Wednesday  6 February  2019,  Mr and Mrs G called Aviva to report a 
problem with their boiler. An appointment was made  for an engineer  to visit the following 
morning between 8am and 1pm. The engineer didnt arrive on the morning  and Aviva  hadnt 
made Mr and Mrs G aware of any delays so they contacted Aviva to get an update. An 
engineer arrived  later that day. He looked  at the problem  and said the potential cause of the 
breakdown was a part that needed  to be replaced.  On Friday 8 February,  another  engineer  
came and replaced the printed circuit board (PCB) and the flame sensor for the boiler but 
these new parts didnt  resolve the issue. The engineer rang the manufacturers  helpline  for 
advice and was told one of its own engineers would need to visit. He attended on Monday 
11 February and fixed the boiler by replacing  the boiler fan. 
Mr and Mrs G made a complaint to Aviva that it hadnt provided the service they expected. 
Aviva looked  into it and agreed it could have done  better in communicating  the delay of the 
engineer arriving.  It offered to pay Mr and Mrs G £60 to reflect the failings in the service 
provided. 
Mr and Mrs G felt the amount awarded  by Aviva  wasnt enough to reflect  the fact they were  
without heating for five days  and brought their complaint to this service. They said the Aviva 
engineer should have  been able to fix the boiler  without  the need  to call out a manufacturers 
engineer. 
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. He said the award Aviva made was 
reasonable and he hadnt seen any evidence to indicate that Avivas engineer had done 
anything wrong  in attempting to repair the boiler  first.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the investigator  and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.  So 
the complaint  has been passed to me. 
They say the investigator didnt consider their reasonable expectations and he should  have 
sought independent advice in relation  to identifying the problem with the fan. Mr and Mrs G 
think that had the Aviva  engineer actually  come out in the morning and recognised  the fan 
needed to be replaced during their visits, they wouldnt have been without heating  for the 
weekend. They didnt  agree that £60 reflects the inconvenience caused to them  and think 
£250 is a more reasonable amount that should be offered.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim itself is not in dispute  as Aviva accepted the claim and the boiler was repaired. 
Ref: DRN92919972As Mr and Mrs G are unhappy  about  the amount of compensation Aviva offered to them,  the 
key issue I need  to decide is whether I think that amount offered is reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. To consider this, I also need to decide  whether I think  Aviva  
should have repaired  Mr and Mrs Gs boiler sooner than it did rather than having to rely on a 
manufacturers engineer  to replace  a part the following week.  
Mr and Mrs Gs policy provides cover in emergency  situations, when customers  are left 
without heating and/or  hot water. So Id expect Aviva to try to repair Mr and Mrs Gs boiler as 
quickly as possible.  Aviva recognised it didnt provide the level of service Mr and Mrs G 
expected by sending an engineer on the afternoon of 8 February, rather  than the morning, 
and for not updating Mr and Mrs G of any delays. 
Aviva has already taken  responsibility for this delay and the lack of communication for that 
delay. After this I think Aviva followed appropriate  procedures to repair Mr and Mrs Gs boiler  
in a timely manner. It sent an engineer out later that day, and again to fit parts.  
Mr and Mrs Gs boiler  still didnt  work after the new parts were  fitted,  so the engineer 
contacted the manufacturer for advice. I think these timescales are reasonable, particularly 
given that it looks  like Mr and Mrs G had their own heaters and a separate  immersion heater 
for hot water. 
While I accept that Aviva could have sent an engineer in the morning rather  than the 
afternoon, I dont  think that of itself is enough  for me to say the boiler would have been 
repaired and working before  the weekend. I can also see that other parts  were  replaced with 
the aim to get the boiler back in working order. And its unfortunate this didnt further  fix the 
boiler and instead required the manufacturers own engineer to eventually  sort out the 
problem. 
Im satisfied Aviva took responsibility for its failings and once it became aware of this, it did 
make the necessary arrangements to repair the boiler albeit through  needing the 
manufacturers engineer  to resolve the issue. It followed the steps as expected and in total it 
took four working days to fix the problem. I dont think thats unreasonable. I understand 
Mr and Mrs G were left without heating for those  days  and also over the weekend.  But the 
information provided confirms they did have alternative heating  and an immersion heater 
which were accessible to them.  
In response to the investigators assessment, Mr and Mrs G say that as an impartial 
organisation, we didnt  seek independent  advice about how easy it is to identify a faulty 
boiler fan. They say the fan is a fundamental safety feature in all boilers and faults with fans 
are not uncommon.  They  say the Aviva engineer shouldve therefore  been able to identify 
the fault without  the need of the manufacturers  engineer to resolve  the issue  in the end. 
The investigator did respond to the above comments but Id like to reiterate the point here for 
completeness. I confirm that its not our role to seek independent evidence but rather to 
consider all of the evidence  provided by each  party  in support of their position and to make  a 
decision based on that evidence provided. 
Overall, Aviva offered  Mr and Mrs G £60 for its failings. It also fixed the problem  with the 
boiler in a reasonable amount of time and in line with the requirements of the policy. In the 
circumstances of this complaint, I think the offer is fair and Aviva doesnt need to do anything  
further. 
Ref: DRN92919973Mr and Mrs G have recently  raised  an issue of an invoice being  sent to them  by the 
manufacturer asking  for payment for the work done on the boiler. This is a separate  issue to 
the complaint  here and so I wont be commenting further on that in this decision. I 
understand the investigator has however been in touch with Mr and Mrs G to inform them of 
any next steps. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint against 
Aviva Insurance Limited and I think the offer of £60 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 November  2019.
Nimisha Radia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9291997