K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly  a claim under her home insurance policy 
for storm  damage to a door.  
background
In September  2018 Ms R made a claim for damage  to the lower  section of her door, which 
she thought had been caused by a storm. She also reported the lock would no longer work  
so the door wasnt secure.
Ageas declined the claim as it didnt think there had been storm conditions where Ms R lived 
during the time she said the damage had happened. So it didnt agree to cover  the claim 
under the storm  section  of the policy. It also looked at whether  Ms Rs claim could be looked 
at under a separate part of the policy, which was accidental damage.  But it thought  the door 
was in a poor condition  and had likely failed over a period of time. As it didnt  think  it was a 
result of a one-off  event, it didnt agree to cover  the claim  under this part of the policy either.
Ms R complained to Ageas about its decision to decline the claim. She said the door wasnt  
very old so the damage couldnt  have  been  from general wear and tear. She also 
complained about how Ageas had handled her claim, and the length  of time it had taken to 
reach a decision.
Our investigator didnt  think Ageas had acted  unfairly in declining the claim under the 
relevant sections of the policy. He also noted  that making a claim can be a stressful process. 
But in total Ageas was able to inform  Ms R of the outcome within  three weeks of the issue 
being reported. So he didnt think Ageas had caused any unnecessary  delays.
Ms R didnt agree with the outcome and so the matter has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator. Ive explained  why below. 
When we look at storm damage cases we ask three  questions:
has it been proven,  on balance, there were storm conditions on or around the 
date the damage  occurred?
is the nature of the damage consistent  with that typically caused by a storm?
were the storm conditions the main or dominant cause of the damage?
If the answer  to all of these questions is yes then we say the claim should succeed.  But, if 
the answer to any of the above  questions is no  the claim wont  succeed under  this 
section.
Ms Rs policy  defines storm conditions as a weather event where  winds reach a gust 
strength of 47 miles per hour or greater. 
Ref: DRN94305722Ive looked at the weather  conditions  from the time Ms R says the damage happened.  I note 
there were strong winds at the time, but the reports from the weather stations show the wind 
speeds werent high enough to meet the definition  of storm under the policy. I think  the 
weather station is sufficiently close to Ms Rs property for Ageas to rely on it. I havent seen 
any other weather  related information which makes me think  the weather was worse  in      
Ms Rs local area than where  the weather station was.
So because the answer to the first question  is no, Ageas is reasonable in declining the claim 
under the storm  damage section of the policy. But insurers should consider whether any 
other part of the policy  could  apply,  which Ageas  did in this case.
Ageas considered the claim under the accidental damage section. Accidental damage is 
defined as damage caused  as a direct result  of a single unexpected event. But the report 
from the surveyor who attended the property  noted  the condition  of the door as being poor; 
parts of the door had decayed due to absorbing water over a long period  of time. Ive looked  
at the photographs provided  with the report and based on these and the comments; I dont 
think Ageas  was unreasonable in relying  on the surveyors  opinion.  The damage  isnt 
consistent with what youd expect to see as a result of a one-off event, and so Ageas 
decision that its not covered under the accidental damage section of the policy is fair and 
reasonable.
I realise Ms R has been upset by the handling of the claim. I want  to reassure her that 
neither Ageas nor our service is accusing  her of submitting a false  claim by saying the 
damage isnt covered.  Her insurance policy will only cover her for certain  insured  events.  
And Ageas has shown  why it doesnt think the damage was caused by any of them. Based 
on everything Ive seen, I dont think theyve acted  unreasonably in reaching that conclusion. 
Ms R has said she felt uncomfortable with some  of the questions  asked by the surveyor 
when he attended  the property. But I havent  seen anything to suggest  Ageas  asked  
anything other than questions relevant to assessing the claim. From what  Ive seen the 
surveyor asked for an invoice for the door as Ms R has said it was only a year old. She 
declined to provide it which she is entitled to do, but as I think its relevant to Ageas 
assessment of the claim I dont think it was unreasonable to ask for this. 
In total it took around three  weeks  for Ageas to give Ms R a decision on her claim.  It accepts 
this was a couple of days longer than usual, due to bad weather at the time increasing 
demand on its service. But I dont think Ageas need  to pay any compensation for this. Ms R 
did have to call to chase  Ageas  but any claim will by its nature cause inconvenience. And I 
dont think the delay was so significant that Ageas treated her unfairly. I understand she was 
concerned about  the security of the door, but as I think Ageas acted fairly in not covering the 
claim, I dont  think it needs to do anything more. 
Overall based on everything  Ive seen Im not going  to ask Ageas to do anything differently.
Ref: DRN94305723my final decision
My final decision is Im not going to ask Ageas Insurance Limited to do anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9430572